# Site: https://www.gre.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 496
# --------

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk:
We'd love to welcome you on one of our open days - you'll meet our expert tutors and fantastic support teams, explore our campuses and facilities, and chat with current students and discover the Greenwich experience.
We welcome students from all over the world.
You'll find plenty of courses to choose from, historic campuses, and fellow students from more than 150 countries.
Find out how we can help you join our friendly community.
Our research provides innovative solutions that benefit business, industry and communities in the UK and across the world and has won a series of awards.
Funding is available for postgraduate research studies.
Through partnerships we create opportunities for our students to thrive, and for organisations to benefit from our people, research and leading-edge facilities.
Join our growing community of supporters who empower and enable our students to seize every opportunity possible.
Whether you're looking to study in London or just expand your knowledge, come and join us in-person or online and see what the University of Greenwich has to offer.
Clearing is now open: Get ready for your next chapter
Congratulations on GCSE results : Browse our Clearing courses
Join Greenwich Business School in Clearing: Apply Now
Where new adventures begin: book now
Browse by subject Postgrad courses Request a prospectus
Find support as a new and returning student
Got a question?
AskUoG!
Talk to our expert tutors and explore our courses, campuses, facilities, accommodation and student support services.
You’ll also get the chance to learn more about the application process, student finance and the range of financial support available.
Book now
We are an ambitious community of students and academics with no limits on where you come from and no limits on what you can do next.
Our three campuses in London and Kent are where minds meet, ideas spark and new adventures begin.
Why Greenwich?
Study at the top modern university in London and Kent for graduate prospects.
With over 200 courses to choose from, it’s easy to find one that’s right for you.
We offer flexible learning options such as online and part-time study.
Explore our 150+ postgraduate courses and learn more about fees, funding and the bursaries we offer.
We are a diverse community with students from all over the world, so you’ll feel at home from the moment you arrive.
Explore our courses and all the ways we support you.
You'll soon feel at home within our diverse and super-friendly community.
Our campuses are the perfect blend of old and new.
You'll enjoy state-of-the-art teaching spaces set within splendid historic buildings and grounds.
Have a look at our scholarships and bursaries and see if you’re eligible.
They include a £4,000 Commuter Bursary, an International Scholarships Award and many more.
Our apprenticeships let learners combine studying with practical training in their dream careers.
We are thrilled to have received Gold in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023.
This recognises our outstanding performance in student experience and outcomes.
Find more courses
Discover all of our work on sustainability as we launch our university-wide transformation for a Greener future.
The University of Greenwich has extended its partnership with Charlton Athletic Football Club (CAFC) and Charlton Athletic Community Trust (CACT), reaffirming a shared commitment to education, community, and equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI).
The review panel brought together leading Landscape Architects who have experience working in the Royal Borough of Greenwich and on the Thames riverfront
The show will be hosted at the University's Stockwell Street building
The Business School have been awarded five years with all 28 dimensions that where applied for.
New study finds that loneliness is more likely to be associated with the use of specific media platforms, not social media in general.
More news
More events
Coming to university is about much more than getting a degree.
Explore our campuses, which all have a lively Students’ Union presence, and find out about our support services and fantastic facilities.
Take a 360º virtual tour of our campuses to see what our learning facilities, accommodation halls and social spaces are like.
There are many ways to make your money go further.
Find out more about tuition fees, student living costs, and the bursaries and scholarships we offer.
The University of Greenwich is based in London and Medway.
You can reach our campuses by car or via public transport (including bus and rail), with easy connections from airports in London.
The largest of our three campuses, Greenwich Campus sits on a World Heritage Site on the banks of the River Thames.
It is centered on three baroque buildings designed by Sir Christopher Wren for the Royal Navy at the end of the 17th century.
You can find out more about it in our campuses section .
Excellent transport links provide a 10 minute train journey to Central London.
Situated either side of Avery Hill Park in Eltham, this campus combines the grace of a Victorian mansion with modern living and teaching facilities.
Excellent transport links provide a 29 minute train journey to Central London.
Medway Campus has a rich naval history.
Its red-brick buildings were previously a Royal Navy base.
Nelson's flagship HMS Victory was built at Chatham's Historic Dockyard.
Excellent transport links provide a 45 minute train journey to Central London.
The University of Greenwich is a charity and company limited by guarantee, registered in England.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/faculty:
We help students achieve academic excellence in a diverse range of disciplines and fields – through our excellent faculties.
Our undergraduate and postgraduate business programmes combine teaching with work placements, business simulations and guest lectures.
We are dedicated to inspirational learning, combining teaching with work placements and impactful research.
We have a wide range of partners to support our teaching initiatives to ensure that you have an experience that is academically challenging and gives a sound foundation for practice.
Home to a highly research-informed range of subjects of professional and academic interest - spanning architecture, creative arts, computing and digital arts, mathematics, history, law, politics and humanities.
Academic Learning and Enhancement Team provides a central hub for fostering learning and teaching excellence across the university.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni:
Empower our students to seize every opportunity possible: Become a supporter
Support and inspire the next generation of students and graduates: Give back your time
Join Ask Alumni+, an online community for making industry connections: Get started today
As a Greenwich graduate, you will always be part of our diverse, global alumni community.
From here you can learn more about your benefits, update your details and donate to our good causes.
As alumni, you are an integral part of our rich history and enduring legacy, and we would love to get to know you again.
Explore the latest news from the alumni community and around the university.
We showcase a wide range of talented members of our alumni community.
Read the stories that illustrate our past and present.
A digital showcase highlighting the extraordinary impact that our alumni, supporters, and friends have on our community.
We are working with the Stephen Lawrence Day Foundation to honour Stephen’s life and legacy by establishing a new scholarship programme in his name.
Find out how you can obtain copies of certificates and transcripts.
Discover upcoming alumni events as well as public events from around the university.
Contact the Alumni & Fundraising team or browse our frequently asked questions.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/study:
We'd love to welcome you to Greenwich and our diverse, friendly community - where there are no limits on your future.
With great bursaries, funding, and support, we'll help you every step of the way.
The University of Greenwich is a place with no limits.
No limits on where you come from and no limits on what you can do next.
Browse by subject Request a prospectus More courses
We're here to help.
Explore our range of support packages available to students.
In 2024-25, we have more than £3.3 million available in financial support.
UK undergraduates should apply through UCAS for full-time courses and directly to us for part-time courses.
For most postgraduate taught courses, you apply directly to us.
A small number of courses have other routes.
Find out more.
If you are from outside the UK, you can apply to us directly, via the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS), or via one of our in-country representatives.
If you are interested in a research degree (MPhil/PhD), you can contact a potential supervisor or a research office.
If you are interested in a course offered by one of our partner colleges, please contact the college directly.
From day one, we're here to support your career aspirations with one-to-one guidance, skill-building assistance, and support for students looking to kickstart their own businesses.
Plus, you can build your workplace skills through internships and placements while you’re studying.
We received Gold in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023.
This recognises excellence in student experience and outcomes.
Less than a quarter of the universities and colleges that were assessed attained this top rating overall.
Apprenticeships at the University of Greenwich offer a blend of hands-on experience in your favourite filed and academic learning.
Choose a flexible course that fits around your work and daily life, meets industry standards, and is taught by professionals with extensive experience.
Foundation degrees equip you with the skills for career advancement, better job opportunities, and also, the option to progress to a full honours degree.
Short courses provide an opportunity to develop new skills, enhance your knowledge, and apply what you learn directly to your career.
The University of Greenwich is regulated by the Office for Students (OfS).
The OfS exists to protect the interests of students by supporting a diverse and independent higher education sector.
It aims to ensure that students from all backgrounds are able to access, succeed, and progress.
By protecting their interests and guaranteeing that they receive excellent information and guidance and a high quality academic experience, they will be prepared for the future.
More information can be found at the OfS website .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/events/opendays:
Events
Whether you want to find out more about the university or learn more about the world, our events are a great place to start.
Open Days give you a great sense of what it’s like to join our student community.
As well as exploring our historic campus, you’ll get to take part in exciting taster sessions.
These give you an idea of the style of learning you can expect once your course begins.
The university is a big place.
Make sure you don't miss a thing by downloading our Open Day timetables.
We look forward to welcoming you to our Open Day, to assist in planning your day please find our frequently asked questions and helpful information here.
Take a guided tour of our campuses and accommodation and find out from our students what it's like to live and study at the University of Greenwich.
From taster days to subject open evenings, find out more about what you'll study, where you'll study it and perhaps even meet who'll you'll be studying with.
Whether you are a teacher or parent, we offer a range of events designed to assist you in helping others make life choices.
Learn something new or join the discussion at one of our many public lectures, seminars and events, covering everything from education to foreign policy and current affairs.
Take an audio tour of Greenwich Campus.
We'll introduce you to the university campus and the historic town centre.
The staff have definitely been helpful and I've been able to learn a lot about the course and the uni itself.
- Harry, Prospective student
Open Day is where you can get to know the campus, see accommodation and do some workshops for the course you're interested in.
- Roberta, Student Ambassador
Our Greenwich Campus is open to surrounded by historical landmarks, as well as Greenwich Park and a selection of bars and restaurants.
Discover our facilities.
Surrounded by green spaces, Avery Hill Campus is located in Eltham, south-east London.
Explore our renowned teaching and sporting facilities across the site.
Take a look at our engineering and science labs, along with our student hub facilities, across this historic setting in Chatham Maritime, Kent.
Take a virtual tour

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/undergraduate-courses:
Study for an undergraduate degree at the University of Greenwich.
Find your ideal course and discover more about the student experience and how to visit us.
Discover and experience everything Greenwich can offer you.
Decided on the type of course you want to study?
Now find out how to make your application and get in contact with us.
Come and experience life at Greenwich
020 8331 9000 • Course enquiries
The lecturers are fantastic, they offer so much support and guidance both personally and professionally and really get to know each student.
I learned so much.
- Chloe Tebbutt, Forensic Science graduate
The University of Greenwich played a big role in where I am today.
I learnt a lot of the necessary skills that I needed in the workplace.
- Alex McGrath, BA Hons Accounting and Finance
Over a third of our students commute to university.
Find out more about how we support you to make commuting easy.
Discover how our Careers Service can support you throughout your degree and give you the foundations to build your future career.
We provide around 2,400 places in halls on or near our campuses.
To start with, we’re a place where you can belong, learn, be supported, and thrive.
A leading international law firm's youngest-ever managing partner and named "Financial Services Leader of the Year" at the Black British Business Awards 2015.
Read more from our successful alumni on how the employability service helped develop their career.
Discover how the university helped three Greenwich students land their first graduate roles.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/postgraduate-courses:
Most of our postgraduate courses offer flexible learning options such as distance learning or part-time study.
Find your ideal course and discover more about our facilities and subject experts.
Browse all courses
Life at University of Greenwich was hectic but exciting.
Apart from academic life, there was an enjoyable social life full of adventure.
- Sydney Sename Kwedeha (Ghana), MA International Business Graduate
All of our programmes have a September start available, with additional starts for some programmes in both January and April.
International students can apply directly to the university.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/campaigns/cross-faculty/elevate:
Upskill yourself with our Higher Technical Qualifications or Elevate courses.
Gain the knowledge and practical skills sought by employers in today's dynamic marketplace.
If you are a professional looking to upskill while still working, the elevate courses are a great solution.
With only one day a week on campus, Elevate courses offer the power of flexibility.
Designed to help you balance work, life, and education.
We offer a range of events to support your application including finance, personal statement writing and taster lectures.
Find out how to apply for undergraduate and postgraduate courses at the University of Greenwich.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/apprenticeships/learners:
From Apprentice to Master.
Take your next step, apply for an apprenticeship through the University of Greenwich.
Charlie Bishop talks about how his apprenticeship at Greenwich helped supercharge his career at United Living.
We can help you talk to your employer about studying a University of Greenwich degree apprenticeship as part of your career progression.
Apprenticeships at the University of Greenwich let you combine practical training in your dream career with studying.
As an apprentice you will:
Email us at apprenticeships@gre.ac.uk .
3rd best university in London
#2 in London for sustainability
Greenwich wins TEF Gold
Our Apprenticeships are rated Good
We offer a range of support services to help you make the most of your time whilst at university.
Including local health service information, counselling, disability and dyslexia, mental health & psychological wellbeing support.
1.
Recruitment
Before you are admitted on an apprenticeship programme with us, we will check that:
2.
Initial assessment
Before your apprenticeship begins, you will take part in an initial assessment with us and your employer.
This will ensure you understand your apprenticeship standard and will help us create the individual learning and training plan you need to achieve it.
Any learning needs or other requirements for additional support will also be addressed at this stage.
If necessary, we will put in place a Greenwich Inclusion Plan, which supports students with a disability or other condition that might impact on their ability to learn.
3.
Induction
At the start of each degree apprenticeship, we host induction sessions for learners and their employers.
This is our chance to:
4.
Studying
Depending on your programme, you will study with us via face-to-face and online teaching, learning through our virtual learning environments as well as via seminars.
You will also participate in work-based learning with your employer.
Your employer must also make sure that you have everything you need to complete your off-the-job training.
If you have specific learning needs that require adjustments, additional funding is available to ensure that they are supported for the duration of the apprenticeship.
5.
Ongoing progress reviews
You must be assessed formally at regular intervals through both academic and work-based assessments.
You will attend progress review meetings with your employer and apprenticeship skills coach.
Your skills coach will give you advice and guidance on how to develop and evidence the knowledge, skills and behaviours needed as part of your programme.
6.
The end-point assessment
The final stage of your apprenticeship is your end-point assessment.
This establishes whether you have achieved the knowledge, skills and behaviours outlined in your apprenticeship standard.
You must pass this to successfully complete your programme.
7.
Completion and graduation
Completing your apprenticeship is something to celebrate.
We will invite you to a graduation ceremony, where you can mark this important life event in style.
You will also become part of our vibrant and diverse alumni community.
Download our handy apprenticeship journey map for learners.
You can also read the journey steps below.
Discover how our apprentices have balanced learning with hands-on experience, unlocking new career opportunities and achieving their professional goals.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/study/student-experience:
And, with a range of bursaries and funding and fantastic support services, you can count on us to be by your side every step of the way.
Be part of our diverse, welcoming community at Greenwich, where there are no limits on your future.
We have three campuses, two in south-east London in the Royal Borough of Greenwich and one in Kent.
All three have a village-like vibe as teaching and socialising spaces and student accommodation are on-site or only a short walk away.
Greenwich Campus sits in the middle of the historic town centre of Greenwich – a major tourist destination with royal connections.
Everything you need is on your doorstep – shops, bars and cafés, plus major attractions including the Cutty Sark and Royal Maritime Museum, Greenwich Market and Greenwich Park, as well as being close to all the action in central London.
Avery Hill Campus is a leafy campus in Eltham, south-east London – just a short journey away from Greenwich campus on our free eco-friendly buses.
Teaching spaces and halls of residence are all on-site and, if you’re into fitness, you’ll love our great sports facilities.
You can grab a bite to eat and enjoy the chill-out areas in the Dome, which is at the heart of the campus.
Medway Campus is a beautiful redbrick campus in Medway, Kent.
Everything you need is on-site, so you don’t have to venture far for anything.
The Hub building is home to the Students' Union.
It’s where you'll find the Deep End, which has places to eat, lots of theme nights and a bar.
Just 45 minutes away from Greenwich with our regular inter-campus bus service.
Discover new passions, make new friends - get the most out of your new life at university.
You’ll have a great time exploring who you are and what matters to you in life.
Travel to all our campuses is supported by excellent transport links, making it easy to get to university if you’re commuting.
Our dedicated university bus services offer seamless connectivity between our three campuses.
Travel between the Greenwich and Avery Hill campuses on our zero emission buses is completely free of charge, providing added convenience.
There is a regular coach service between our Medway campus and our two London campuses.
From day one, we're here to support your career aspirations with 121 guidance, skill-building assistance, and support for students looking to kickstart their own businesses.
Recent data shows that University of Greenwich graduates earned more on average than other London graduates five years after graduation
- Save the Student analysis, 2024
You can build your workplace skills through internships and placements while you’re studying.
You’ll also have the chance to take on paid part-time work at the university through our Student Ambassador Scheme and JobShop.
Want to become an entrepreneur?
The Generator is the place for all things enterprise at Greenwich University.
We're here to help students start, scale and grow their businesses from the ground up.
I find myself supported and confident to do and aim for things I would have never thought myself capable of achieving.
- Maria Lupi Jimenez, engineering student
You can find out a lot about a university online, but to really get a feel for what it's like to live and study here you should come and visit.
Please come take a look at our historic campuses in London and Kent.
To find out more about our Open Days and Campus Tours or if you need any assistance, please email opendays@gre.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/accommodation:
You can live in halls on or near our campuses and stay in student accommodation every year of your course.
We also run buses between campuses, including a free service between Greenwich and Avery Hill.
Our student accommodation is safe and secure with 24/7 support.
You’ll also pay less than you would at other London universities.
Our student accommodation is the second cheapest in London (The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2023).
Facilities include an on-site gym, café, shop and laundrette.
Includes free on-campus gym membership (Avery Hill and Greenwich) and access to ActiveGRE activities.
Security staff on site.
Throughout the day (Monday to Friday) between Avery Hill and Greenwich.
Residential support staff on-call for advice and welfare.
Living in University of Greenwich halls is a great way to make friends, build your independence and get the most out of student life.
To apply, simply go to our online portal.
Special circumstances for disabled students, students with medical conditions, students leaving care, and students on short courses, teaching or placement.
Find out when and how you can move in to student accommodation at the University of Greenwich.
Dates, directions and tips for moving in to your new place.
The university is signed up to the National Code of Standards and is committed to being a good landlord.
Telephone: 020 8331 8272
Email: accommodation@gre.ac.uk
Aragon Court, Student Village Southwood Site
Student Centre, Dreadnought Building
Room 050, Blake Building

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/careers:
You’ll get much more than a degree with us.
We’ll help you build the workplace skills and experience you need to achieve your career ambitions.
Finding a job isn't just about the work experience that you’ve done and we understand that.
Our team offers you every support we can to get started in your career and can support you in the application and interviewing process so your best self shines through.
How studying International Business helped Maddy land a career she actually cares about...
With career-focused degrees, connections with employers, work placements and a mentoring scheme, you can start building your skills from day one at the university.
Our services are free and tailored to ensure you have access to the best career opportunities.
Learn more about yourself and build confidence through tailored career advice
Discover the benefits of placements and internships
Get noticed and receive valuable insights through events, mentoring and discovery days
Join our award-winning Student Ambassador scheme and discover job opportunities
Find out how you can get job application support as a care leaver or disabled student
Target Connect is your one-stop shop for accessing GEP, 1-2-1 appointments, events, workshops, jobs and more!
Watch the video to learn more about its main features.
We provide a range of high quality and cost-effective services to employers and organisations, that meet business needs.
We support and build relationships with local, national and international employers to develop talent pipelines.
Get involved in Career Fairs and Pop-Ups to meet with our students directly on campus
Educate the next generation through discovery days, mentoring and skills sessions
Hire top-quality talent into placements, internships, graduate schemes and more with our expert support
Institute for Fiscal Studies, research report, Nov.
2021
The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2022
2023 Student Crowd Awards
RateMyPlacement's Top 25 Universities for Work Experience Awards 2024-25
Career mentoring is a valuable opportunity to gain industry experience and insight from those currently in your industry of interest.
As a team, we support mentors and mentees to build relationships that can excel students' career potential.
- Richard Harris, Career Mentoring Manager
Placements, internships and insight days are valuable opportunities to gain real-world experience that give you a competitive edge in the graduate market.
It is an opportunity to gain networking connections, develop your skills, solidify your degree knowledge and discover what career suits you.
- Jessica Keeling, Placements & Internships Manager
The Student Ambassador Scheme is a great way to gain paid flexible work experience to gain invaluable employability skills.
Plus, through various professional development opportunities, you will learn how to truly stand out to employees in order to get that dream graduate job.
- Natalie Turner, JobShop Manager
Greenwich campus
Room 040 Queen Mary Court
Centre opening hours 09:00-17:00
Greenwich campus map
Medway campus
Room 014 Blake building
Centre opening hours 09:00 – 17:00
Medway campus map

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/for-schools:
We work closely with schools, colleges and education partners across London and the South East to support academic attainment and progression to higher education.
Activities designed to give students a chance to experience university life and support their applications.
Working together to meet the Careers Strategy requirements and Gatsby Benchmarks.
Our free resources can be used by teachers and careers advisors in the classroom.
Find out about the team, what we do and the schools we work with.
You can contact us by e-mail, telephone or by completing the contact form on this page.
To get in touch, simply complete the contact form or use the contact details below.
Email: esu@gre.ac.uk Telephone: +44 (0) 20 8331 9000
Contact form

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/welcome:
We'll help you get ready for university, get registered, and get the latest updates on events that will help you settle into university life.
Our events begin on 15 September and continue into term 1 to set you up for success in your studies.
You will be invited to register when your course opens.
All students must register online each year.
New students must also provide a set of documents to complete registration.
To help you on your Welcome journey, we've created a few helpful resources that will help get you settled in.
You can also visit our Welcome Hubs to get all the information you need this September.
Our Welcome to Greenwich course will help you build your knowledge and skills as you prepare to begin your studies with us.
Find out how to access your timetable and all the welcome week activities from your faculty.
These events and activities are designed to help you meet new people and get used to your new environment.
Set yourself up for success; download our free software before you arrive, find out how to connect to our campus WiFi, and more!
We are here to support you with any questions you have until you're underway with your studies.
Ask us about accommodation, how to register, getting to campus, part-time jobs, and more.
Our online international student welcome programme is specifically designed for international students and will help you prepare for student life in the UK
Our teams have prepared lots of events for you to attend during Welcome and into your first term to help you get settled in and find out everything you need to know about university life.
You can find the full programme of weekly events below.
Get a taster of what’s to come with GSU's amazing line-up of Welcome events, across all three campuses.
Come along to meet your Students’ Union, make new friends, and see what awaits you this year.
We offer advice and counselling, online mental health support from Spectrum Life, and support for disabled students and care leavers.
We're to support you to succeed in your studies.
Our teams can help you navigate our key attendance policies and expectations so that you make the most of your time with us from the start.
During your time at university, the connections you make could turn into lifelong friendships.
Join our peer mentoring scheme - Greenwich Mentor Mates - to connect with other students.
Find out more about tuition fees, living costs, bursaries and scholarships, and how to manage your finances while at university.
Develop your essential skills for university, complete our short courses, attend our workshops and book in with our Academic & Digital Skills team for personalised support.
We provide around 2,400 places in halls on or near our campuses at Greenwich, Avery Hill and Medway.
We also run bus services between campuses, including a free shuttle bus between Greenwich and Avery Hill.
Get free and confidential advice from your Students’ Union.
They offer help in a crisis as well as support all the year round.
You can use AskUoG on our knowledge base to browse our catalogue of questions and answers on everything to do with university life.
Our student ambassadors support us in all sorts of ways.
The work is designed to fit around your studies and is a great way to boost your finances.
A placement is a great way to gain industry experience with an employer
Look out for part-time, temporary and seasonal work on the Students’ Union JobShop.
Keep checking it regularly for the latest vacancies.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/study/apply:
Call: 020 8331 9000 | Open Live Chat
There are several routes into higher education for mature students or those with relevant learning or career experience.
Your previous qualifications or experience may exempt you from modules of a degree or allow entry with lower requirements.
Learn more about Recognition of Prior Learning .
For entry onto courses starting from September 2023, we are offering special consideration to applications from care leavers of 16 UCAS points, equivalent to 2 A Level grades, lower than the advertised entry tariff for all undergraduate programmes on our website (including those provided by our partner college franchise).
For further information, eligibility criteria and how to apply visit our Contextual Admissions page.
Depending on how you applied to the University of Greenwich, there are different ways you can check on the status of your application.
Applicants to the University of Greenwich can appeal an admissions decision , or submit a complaint about the admissions process by completing and submitting the relevant form.
For more information, visit the Admissions feedback, appeals and complaints page.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/clearing:
Congratulations to those receiving GCSE results!
This might mean that you now have what you need to apply to university.
We still have spaces open through clearing, so give our team a call today on 020 8331 9000 and start your journey with us this September.
Still searching?
You’ve come to the right place.
If life has thrown you a plot twist and you didn't get your clearing choice, call our friendly team today.
Join one of our upcoming events and webinars.
Find out what you can do to help on results day.
Discover our new AI search.
Here to help you explore our resources including societies, commuting and events.
Clearing is how universities advertise courses that still have spaces.
If you don’t have a university place yet, this gives you a chance to find and apply for a course.
The Clearing process runs from 1 July until September 2025.
There are many reasons you may be applying through Clearing.
It could be that you didn’t meet the conditions of your offer, haven’t received any offers or have rejected your offers.
Maybe you’ve changed your mind about where you want to study or have found a course that you prefer.
Whatever the reason, you can apply through Clearing if you’re not holding an offer.
When Clearing opens on 1 July, you can look for university courses that have vacancies.
If you already have your exam results, you can apply for a place through Clearing as soon as it opens.
If you don’t have your results yet, you need to wait until you receive them before making an application through Clearing.
Check out our comprehensive guide.
It has everything there is to know about Clearing and how to prepare yourself so that you can make the most of it.
Clearing guide
Tuesday 1 July Clearing opens
Sunday 6 July International Baccalaureate results
Thursday 14 August A Level, T Level and BTEC results
Thursday 21 August GCSE results
End of September Clearing continues until our courses are full or the academic year begins.
If you need to contact us, please fill in this form , and we'll get back to you as soon as we can.
Hear from our students Bruno, Dan and Josephine about their experience of joining the University of Greenwich through Clearing.
Once you’ve secured your place through Clearing, we’ll make sure you have all the information you need to get a great start to university life.
Find out more about student loans and our scholarships and bursaries.
There is additional support of £5,000 a year for healthcare courses.
Find out about our support, our commitment to safety and security, and what you can do to help on results day.
Our team will be happy to help you with any questions you have.
Come and meet us on Live Chat.
Most courses are available through Clearing, as long as there are places available.
Give us an idea of what you want to study, and our Clearing advisers will help to match you to a course.
Clearing opens in July .
You can get in touch as soon as you have all your results.
Most Clearing activity takes place around A-level results day.
Other qualifications, such as BTEC, SQA and QCF & RCF qualifications, will also be released on this day.
We'll be available from 8am on results day to support you with your applications and enquiries.
However, you can beat the rush by signing up for a priority phone number.
Clearing is usually open until the end of August and often continues into September.
We cannot say exactly when it will close.
Yes!
Clearing allows you to change your mind about where or what you study.
What's more, you can call us and discuss your options before you make any final decisions about an offer you have already accepted.
If you decide you want to come and join us at Greenwich, our teams will guide you through the process of selecting our offer.
If you have a confirmed place at a university but you decide to study somewhere else, you must release yourself before you can apply to another institution.
To release yourself, log in to UCAS Hub and follow the instructions.
Once you do this, you lose your secured place and enter the Clearing process.
You can only release yourself if you have a confirmed place (i.e.
once you have received all your results) - not while you hold a conditional offer.
If you need to know more, contact our Clearing advisors on live chat.
Once you've done this, we will work on setting up your student profile and send you the information you need to register as a student.
We'll introduce you to our Welcome Team, who can help you through these steps.
Yes.
We would recommend that you use our online application form to do this.
You will need to create an account by creating a login and PIN.
Once you've done this, just fill in the application and upload your documents onto the form so our admission tutors can review in detail.
Student loans are available for any eligible students accepted through Clearing.
You should apply as soon as possible to avoid delays to your first payment.
If you've applied late to Student Finance England and won't receive your first loan payment by the start of term, we can provide short-term loans of up to £500.
Pick up a form from your local Student Centre on campus.
If you've already applied for a loan but changed universities during Clearing, you will need to notify your loan provider (Student Finance England or similar).
We also offer a range of scholarships and bursaries that may be of benefit to you.
Some of these you could receive automatically when you join.
You may be able to get a place in university accommodation if you apply through Clearing.
Speak to the university to learn more about how to apply for accommodation and whether there’s availability.
Most students experience some anxiety as Results Day approaches.
For practical Clearing support, try these two helplines.
It’s also important for you to feel supported, so turn to a trusted friend or family member or reach out to one of the support services below.
Get answers to your queries on the technicalities of Clearing or any issues using UCAS Hub.
0371 468 0468
Speak to a knowledgeable adviser on the free telephone exam results helpline.
Lines are open from 8am on Results Day.
0800 100 900
Get mental health and wellbeing support through one of the services below.
Check out our guide to learn more about Clearing and how to prepare yourself so you can make the most of it.
Learn more about key dates and open hours on and around A-Level/BTEC results day.
If you've got a question about Clearing, find your answers here.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/finance:
Find out more about tuition fees, living costs, bursaries and scholarships, and how to manage your finances.
We advise students to keep on top of their finances and to plan carefully before joining us.
We also offer support and advice wherever we can.
Find out more about your tuition fees and how to pay.
Find out more about the bursaries and scholarships available, including teacher training and NHS bursaries.
Find out about the support we offer concerning student fees and funding.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/finance/funding-your-studies/scholarships-and-bursaries:
More than £3.3 million available in financial support in 2024-25 & 2025-26.
Jump to full list of Scholarships and Bursaries
Students from lower-income households can get up to 50% towards their monthly commuting costs, worth up to £1,000 per year.
Power up your future and reach your potential through postgraduate study.
Up to £3,000 bursary for eligible students and alumni.
We are committed to supporting students from a variety of backgrounds.
This bursary offers up to £700 – a 10% discount on first-year accommodation fees.
Available to Black students for Architecture Part 2 MArch.
Honouring Stephen Lawrence's legacy, this scholarship aims to increase Black representation in architecture, remove financial barriers to education, and fostering a more equitable industry.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/study/after-you-apply:
We'll help you follow all the next steps you need to take, from tracking the progress of your application and interviews to accepting your offer.
Our status tracker will help you find out if we have reached a decision on your application.
(This service is not available during the UCAS embargo, 4-10 August.)
Some courses in education, health and the liberal arts will invite you for an interview.
Find out how to accept your offer and when you need to decide by.
Applicants can appeal a decision, or submit a complaint about the admissions process by completing and submitting the relevant form.
020 8331 9000 •
Explore frequently asked questions received at the live webinar for applicants and offer holders on 5 February 2025 or watch a pre-recorded version of the webinar.
You can find out the progress of your application by using our application tracker .
Depending on your course, we may invite you for an interview before we make our decision.
If you’re registered on a full-time course, the time you spend studying each week should be roughly equivalent to a full-time job.
This covers lectures, tutorials, workshops and time for independent study.
Some courses (e.g.
nursing and teaching) will have work placements built into the course.
If you are studying part-time, your hours should reduce in proportion with the number of modules you are studying.
To see how your course is split between taught hours and independent study, visit the course page on our website.
You can fund your studies in several ways.
If you are a UK student, you will probably be eligible for a student loan .
International students may be able to access a loan in their home countries.
For example, students from the USA may be eligible for Federal Loans .
We offer scholarships and bursaries , from support with travel costs and equipment to awards for elite sportspeople.
Eligible new EU students will receive a discount on their first-year fees with our new EU Bursary .
There are lots of opportunities for paid work in London and Kent.
We recruit student ambassadors and offer opportunities through our Students' Unions and the Charlton Athletic Community Trust .
You can apply for your visa as soon as you have a Confirmation for Acceptance of Studies (CAS) from us.
To issue you with a CAS, we need you to accept your offer and pay the deposit on your course.
You can submit your visa application online up to three months before your course starts.
You will need to visit your local Visa Application Centre to submit your documents.
(This may be in a neighbouring country.)
You may be invited to an interview to discuss why you wish to study in the UK.
You will also be asked to submit evidence that you meet the financial requirements to study in the UK.
Visa applications from overseas
If you meet certain conditions, you will be able to apply online for a Student Visa from within the UK.
As part of this, you will need to scan and upload some supporting documents and pay the relevant fees.
(We can assist with scanning if you do not have access at home.)
If you have not provided biometric ID before in the UK, you will be asked to book an appointment at a UKVCAS Service Point.
Visa applications from the UK
If you are an EU, EEA, or Swiss national, and you were living in the UK before the end of the transition period, you will need to apply for the EU Settlement Scheme to stay in the UK.
You can pay the pre-registration deposit (£3,000) by Convera GlobalPay or by bank transfer.
You’ll be sent a receipt from Western Union GlobalPay, and you can track the payment on the payment portal using the 'Track your payment' tab.
Once this is paid, you can begin the process of getting your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) number, which is required for your Student Visa application.
You must pay your deposit by certain deadlines to get your CAS in time to begin - usually 2-3 weeks before your course starts.
We publish these dates a few months before the start of each intake.
More about how to pay
When you select the university as your firm choice or accept your offer, you'll get access to our Portal.
From here, you can apply for accommodation in our halls.
If you apply for accommodation by late August (usually a week after results day), we can guarantee you a place in university halls as long as you meet some basic criteria.
If you book accommodation for the 2021-22 session, you can cancel for any reason up to three weeks before your contract begins, and your deposit will be returned in full.
If the university becomes a completely virtual campus, you won’t need to pay for your room - provided your keys are returned and your room is vacated.
We will hold your room exclusively for your return.
If this occurs after 1 May, you can terminate your contract permanently.
Our accommodation promise
The University of Greenwich has three campuses in south-east London and Kent.
An intercampus bus service provides free travel between Greenwich and Avery Hill and low-cost services to Medway.
Greenwich Campus is home to our Business School and Faculty of Law, Arts and Social Sciences, as well as some of our education and health courses.
It sits on a UNESCO World Heritage Site in the heart of Greenwich town centre, 10 minutes by train from central London.
Avery Hill Campus is home to our Faculty of Education, Health & Human Sciences and our student village.
It is located in Eltham which is 30 minutes by train from central London.
Medway Campus is home to our Faculty of Engineering & Science and has great facilities, including first-class laboratories.
It sits by Chatham dockside in Kent, 45 minutes by train from central London.
You can join one of our exclusive events for offer holders, which take place throughout the year.
As your start date approaches, visit our Welcome area for updates on your next steps, such as:
We look forward to welcoming you when you join us as a student.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/support:
We offer a range of support services to help you make the most of your time with us.
These include health and medical services, a chaplaincy, disability and dyslexia support, and mental health & wellbeing support.
Find out how we support our disabled students, students with specific learning difficulties, mental health conditions and long term medical conditions.
My First-Class Honours degree would not have happened without the unfaltering and incredible support STAART has offered me.
It means I can continue my career with no academic boundaries.
- Ryan, BA Creative Writing & English Literature, 2020
The best thing about Greenwich is the people of STAART, who always made me feel welcome and accepted.
Also my tutors, who were very understanding and went the extra mile to help me succeed.
- Nathalie, BA Animation, 2020
We offer exclusive access to Spectrum Life, a student program for wellbeing and lifestyle support.
University of Greenwich applicants can enjoy special benefits.
Download the app for rewards, resources, and guidance to help you thrive.
There is a Student Wellbeing Coordinator (Disability & Dyslexia) on each campus for advice on individual, reasonable adjustments during your time with us.
From confidential one-to-one counselling to motivational and self-development group workshops, the Student Wellbeing Service (Counselling & Mental Health) is here to help and support you.
STAART (formerly the *AccessAbility Project) supports students with a disability, long-term health condition, neurodivergence (autistic and dyslexic spectra), and/or mental health condition to thrive at university.
Support for children in care, care leavers and care experienced students from application through to graduation and finding a job.
As a student at Greenwich, you’ll want to know that if you fall ill, you will receive immediate help and support.
Register at a local medical centre for added peace of mind.
The Chaplaincy at the University of Greenwich offers help and guidance to all students and staff regardless of individual belief.
If we can help, we will.
If we can’t, we will find someone who can.
The Student Wellbeing Hub exists to provide you with wellbeing and mental health-related information & resources in one place.
We recognise that the needs of each transgender person are different.
We aim to act sensitively and supportively, and to provide commitment, support and understanding to all individuals who transition whilst at university.
We provide support for health issues that may arise during your time as a student.
Find out about our services for sexual health, alcohol and drug consumption, and addiction.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects:
Choose from a broad range of subjects at foundation, undergraduate and postgraduate level.
Find out more about what we offer and why it’s great to study at Greenwich.
Our degrees include a number of courses accredited by leading professional bodies, making them the perfect launchpad for a lucrative career with job opportunities worldwide.
Study architecture in a building with 14 landscape roofs.
The building also won a RIBA London Award and was shortlisted for the 2015 RIBA Stirling Prize.
Take inspiration too from the stunning historic architecture of Greenwich Campus.
Study a course that will prepare you to enter a profession very relevant to today.
Learn from experts whose research is changing lives around the world and gain a solid foundation in the subject.
Explore how organisations really operate, make decisions and grow.
If you’re looking to learn about management, leadership, marketing, finance or entrepreneurship, and develop business skills employers want, we have a course for you.
Study on our Medway Campus, where you’ll benefit from our long-established reputation for excellence in teaching.
You can pursue an apprenticeship or a research degree, tailored to your career goals.
Our computer science and computing degrees prepare you for a high-powered career in data science, software development and everything in-between.
Our courses blend innovation with real-world application.
Study a subject area that covers a range of fascinating topics.
Explore aspects of crime and the causes of crime with one of our courses in this exciting discipline.
Develop your creative and professional abilities on one of our design courses.
Study in a building purpose-built for our creative courses in the heart of vibrant Greenwich.
Make your world a stage with one of our Drama degrees - join a university-based course and hone your craft in our own 100-seat theatre.
Or choose to study dance and musical theatre at our partner, Bird College.
Study how young children develop, learn and think, and find out how to give them the best start in education.
You’ll gain an array of practical skills, both on placement and in the classroom.
Gain an understanding of some of the most challenging issues of our time with our Economics courses.
You will take a real-world approach to the subject and learn from academic staff who are leading the way in which economics is taught at universities
Are you passionate about education?
Whether you’re working in the field or looking to start your career, our award-winning lecturers will help you get the best from your studies.
Gain a solid foundation in all aspects of engineering in specialist labs on our Medway Campus and choose the area you want to specialise in later in your studies.
Whether you’re studying great works of literature, the language itself or are being inspired by great writing to find your own creative voice, you’ll learn on a UNESCO World Heritage Site in one of the world’s great cultural capitals.
Study the major issues facing the planet, from climate change to sustainability, and explore the solutions.
You’ll get to put your knowledge into practice with field trips in the UK and overseas.
Develop your skills and knowledge, shape your creative future, in great facilities appropriate to your course - purpose-built film, TV and sound studios, edit suites, and more!
With consistent high ratings for student satisfaction over the years, our courses are diverse, student-centred, and are keeping pace with constantly changing developments and employment requirements in the world of forensics.
Our courses will help you to develop the skills you need for a career in the thriving games development industry.
You will benefit from access to high-spec labs and facilities including Virtual Reality headsets and Motion Capture equipment.
You’ll learn from our expert, research-active tutors and be well supported during your work placement.
You’ll benefit from great job prospects thanks to our strong links with NHS trusts and social care providers.
Immerse yourself in the past in an inspiring and historic setting – a royal birthplace and UNESCO World Heritage Site – and learn from our experienced history subject specialists.
Explore the link between nutrition and health, and find out how you can contribute to improving people’s wellbeing.
Your studies will open up careers in a variety of sectors, from the food industry to healthcare and research.
On our exciting BA or MSc in Human Resources, you’ll learn what's needed to manage people effectively - skills and knowledge vital to the success and growth of any modern organisation.
Gain an understanding of how international relations shape our world view and enjoy our great location within London – a global city and one of the world’s great political, trading and cultural centres.
Learn in an award-winning building which includes 14 landscape roofs and let your surroundings – a Royal Park, a vibrant neighbourhood and historically important architecture – inspire your studies.
LLB students can take advantage of employability events and mentoring programmes with law firms and criminal justice organisations and students can also investigate potential miscarriages of justice with the Innocence Project London
Build skills to manage supply chains and keep goods moving efficiently and sustainably.
Learn the essentials of procurement, logistics, SCM, and explore how the logistics sector - from transport to last-mile delivery - powers international business.
From taking your first steps in marketing as an undergraduate, to building your digital marketing or marketing management skills at master’s level, we’ve a course for you.
Taught in the heart of historic Greenwich, our mathematics courses blend theory with its practical application and have a particular focus on careers and employability.
Start your journey to becoming a registered midwife and find out why our award-winning midwifery team is rated so highly.
Additional support of at least £5,000 a year is available, and you won’t need to pay this back.
Our nursing degree provides the essential knowledge and abilities to become a skilled nurse.
You’ll benefit from our excellent links with health service providers, and you could get support of at least £5,000 a year, which you won’t need to pay back.
On-campus study and work placements will give you the right mix of academic and hands-on learning to join the front line of emergency care.
You could get extra support of at least £5,000 a year, which you won’t need to pay back.
Are you interested in teaching or coaching sport?
We stand out as one of the few London universities with sports pitches on campus, plus we’ve got a new strength and conditioning lab and great links with Charlton Athletic FC.
Our courses explore the essentials of pharmaceutical science, formulation science, pharmacology, biology, biochemistry, chemistry and drug discovery and delivery.
Students will gain practical experience through labs and final year research projects.
Our courses run on Medway Campus and cover all the essentials from biological science to drug delivery and patient care.
They include a four-year MPharm, which will enable you to apply for training that can lead to registration as a pharmacist.
Gain an understanding of human behaviour and mental processes and develop your research skills.
Many of our courses are accredited by the British Psychological Society and some include study in fields related to psychology, such as counselling.
These courses are perfect if you’re passionate about helping people and want a career improving the health and wellbeing of individuals and their communities.
Our research-active academics will support you throughout your studies.
Whatever subject you’re into, from human health to climate change, our supportive learning environment will prepare you for your future career.
Many of our courses are accredited by professional bodies.
Strength and compassion are only part of what it takes to excel as a social worker.
Study with us and you’ll gain knowledge, skills and experience to improve people’s lives and succeed in a field that has excellent job opportunities.
Study sociology at Greenwich and you’ll find yourself exploring a range of important topical issues, such as inequality and social change, and gender, race and crime.
We’ve over a century of experience training excellent teachers and strong links with schools and employers.
Our courses are also rated good by Ofsted for our Early Years, Primary, Secondary, and Further Education and Training teaching (Ofsted, 2023).
Our events courses will help you learn how to plan and deliver great events and our tourism and hospitality courses will give you the skills needed to thrive in these exciting sectors.
Join our next Open Day to chat with staff and students and find out more about studying at Greenwich.
Looking for CPD/Short courses?

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international:
Study abroad at the University of Greenwich in London and Kent and earn an internationally recognised education.
Study at our historic campuses.
International students can apply directly to the university, with multiple entry points throughout the year.
Our programmes have a September start available, with additional start dates in January and April for selected programmes.
Let us help you navigate the process of applying to study at Greenwich from abroad.
We welcome applicants from all over the globe.
Find out more about applying from your country, and our entry requirements.
Ready to apply to the university?
See what documents you need, and the application procedure.
Expert advice on everything from applying for a visa before you start studying to finding work after you graduate.
Greenwich is more than a collection of individual students and staff, it is a community of people united by their passion for learning.
Details of tuition fees as an EU or international fee paying student
We have a range of scholarships available, including the International Scholarship Award, open to all offer holders.
Are you ready to make your deposit or pay your tuition fees?
Find details of how to make a bank transfer to us.
Take a virtual tour of Greenwich, watch webinars, and on-demand content.
We offer a number of different options to students looking to study at Greenwich through means other than direct entry.
An embedded college offering an exciting range of courses for international students, located at the Bounty House near the Greenwich campus.
For some international students, a Pre-Sessional programme at University of Greenwich is suggested.
Learn how this preparation course assists your study.
The chance to go abroad during your Greenwich degree course, or to study abroad at the University of Greenwich and experience a different culture.
University of Greenwich is committed to the UK Agent Quality Framework (AQF) and pledge to create and maintain the highest standards of agent management, ensuring the UK remains leading study destination for international students.
Moving to the UK to study at the University of Greenwich will be an exciting experience.
But you will have so much to do and think about when you arrive that it may at first seem overwhelming.
Our team of international advisers will give you all the help you need to adapt to life in England, and will be able to advise you on everything from personal and welfare matters to immigration issues.
The staff in our Student Centres will also be able to give you information and advice on a wide range of issues, from opening a bank account and registering with a doctor to adjusting to local customs and finding your way around.
Whether you want to find out more about studying at Greenwich or have a query about your eligibility for studying in the UK, we can help.
You can contact us by e-mail, telephone or on Facebook.
Email: international@gre.ac.uk Telephone: +44 (0) 20 8331 8136

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/living:
There's so much ahead for you to do and enjoy when you get there.
Useful Tips (Before you Arrive) What you can expect life to be like in the UK.
Arriving in the UK Getting ready for life in the UK.
The student experience Hear from our students about life at Greenwich.
Medical services How to register with local doctors and dentists.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/study-abroad:
Find out how to study or work abroad during your degree.
Studying abroad is more than an academic opportunity — it’s a life-changing experience.
At the University of Greenwich, we offer a wide range of international opportunities that let you gain global experience, grow your confidence, and develop new skills.
Whether you’re interested in a full year abroad, a short summer programme, or welcoming students to Greenwich from around the world, this page will guide you through your options, testimonials and how to apply.
Discover where Greenwich can take you!
Study at the University of Greenwich for a term or an academic year as an exchange student or a fee-paying study abroad student.
Learn about our global summer programmes funded by the Global Greenwich Scholarship.
The Global Greenwich Summer School offers an exciting and immersive international experience set in the heart of historic Greenwich, London.
For any enquiries about studying abroad through the University of Greenwich or joining us from another institution, please contact:

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/greenwich-in-my-country:
We welcome students from all over the globe looking to study in London and the United Kingdom.
We offer a wide variety of courses and ways to study for those coming from abroad.
Select your country from the list below to find out how we can help you.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/support-and-help:
Our international team are here to help you with your journey to Greenwich.
We have composed this helpful guide to cover all the steps to becoming a student with us.
We know that for an International Student it can be quite daunting at first, but we will ensure that you are being supported throughout your studies at Greenwich.
Alternatively, you can also visit the Student Support and Service page for more information about any issues or problems you encounter.
See our step-by-step guide to studying with us.
We accept students from over a hundred countries each year.
Select your country to find out about entry requirements and contact local representatives.
You can accept your offer by paying a deposit, or (if a sponsored student) emailing us directly.
If you applied by UCAS, you can accept your offer there.
Find out more about how you
can pay tuition fees.
We also offer a limited range of partial scholarships.
The visa process can feel overwhelming, but we've gathered all of the information you will need to make the process as easy as possible.
Arriving in a new country might feel like a big change.
To assist your transition, we've prepared helpful guidance to cover what we believe will be valuable for your first days, allowing you to embrace and enjoy this exciting journey!
We can also help with the final steps of becoming a student at Greenwich.
Read below for information on accommodation and living in the UK.
Find out when and how you can move in to student accommodation.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research:
Building trust between communities and police: Explore our €3M EU project
How Greenwich research is shaping the future of cyber security: Explore our cyber security research
Revitalising Sustainability: Discover how we're reimagining sustainability
Exploring the human digital twins: Could you have digital twin?
Our faculties run award-winning research programmes that make valuable contributions to business, industry and the community.
There are a number of types of funding available for postgraduate research studies.
Research and Knowledge Exchange; informative and impactful
Explore our key research themes.
As well as providing a rich and fulfilling experience, research programmes at Greenwich are at the leading edge of progress in a range of industries
Dedicated researcher support teams encourage researcher excellence and development guidance throughout your research journey.
Our policies and procedures of governance ensure that the university delivers its goals within a transparent set of fair and ethical guidelines.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/about:
Greenwich Research and Innovation is the University of Greenwich’s central unit providing high quality support to the research community.
Greenwich Research and Innovation (GRI) delivers the University’s ambitious Research and Knowledge Exchange (R&KE) sub-strategy , as part of Strategy 2030 .
GRI supports the University achieve its ambition in terms of research, knowledge exchange and postgraduate satisfaction, underpinning the University’s submission under the Research Excellence Framework (REF), Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF) and Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF).
GRI supports the University’s Research Centres and their members at every stage of the project cycle, including:
Key contact points within GRI are provided below.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/disciplines:
Our faculties run award-winning research centres that make valuable contributions to business, industry and the community.
Find out how we can help you tap into our world-leading research, industry expertise and specialist knowledge.
Whether you are a career researcher or a business looking for solutions our base of experts, dedicated facilities and specialised training can help.
We've done a lot of research so you don't have to.
Tap into our world-leading research, industry expertise and specialist knowledge.
Access university facilities and specialised equipment ranging from medical diagnostics to computational modelling to industrial bulk solids handling.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/governance-and-awards:
Our policies and procedures of governance ensure that the University delivers its goals within a transparent set of fair and ethical guidelines.
The university recognises its obligations to uphold the integrity of academic research, and is committed to ensuring and supporting research integrity (2012).
Find out more
The University has a research ethics governance structure to ensure that research requiring ethical approval is reviewed by the appropriate ethics committee.
Overseeing the registration, progression and recommendations for the award of research degrees for research students in Schools and Institutes comprising Faculties.
Responsible for the strategic development of the research and enterprise environment and activities of the University and the delivery of research degree provision.
In preparation for the Research Excellence Framework (REF) the university is undertaking an annual cycle of assessment entitled Greenwich REF Assessment Trials (GREAT).
The University is accredited by the European Commission HR Excellence in Research Award.
Greenwich complies with Vitae's Researcher Development Concordat, a set of principles that underpin support for researchers.
Find out more about the Researcher Development Concordat Find out more about Vitae Principles of the Concordat

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/study:
As well as providing a rich and fulfilling experience, research programmes at Greenwich are at the leading edge of progress in a range of industries.
We provide the nurturing, lively study environment that is essential to postgraduate student development, and one that enables a rich and fulfilling experience.
Postgraduate programmes at Greenwich are at the leading edge of progress in a range of industries.
Our staff and students contribute significantly to developing knowledge and understanding that improves business practices, influences policymakers, and sets standards in the wider community for the UK and worldwide.
Find out what life at Greenwich is like, how we support our international students visit us on one of our open days .
Browse our taught postgraduate programme prospectus
If you are interested in a research-only postgraduate programme, explore our webpages for areas of interest and make contact with the academic leading that area of work.
Then follow the steps here.
If you are applying for an advertised position, please follow the Research studentships and scholarships link .
The University of Greenwich's preferred route to a doctorate (PhD) is, in the first instance, registration for an MPhil/PhD.
Based on your progress at the MPhil stage of the programme, you can then apply to transfer to a PhD.
Throughout the research project, we'll assign you a supervisory team, who will guide and advise you, help you shape ideas, and support your progress.
You can take up to four years full-time or seven years part-time to complete a MPhil/PhD programme with us.
More information about postgraduate research degrees
Studying can be expensive, and finding the right plan and support structure is essential.
View the university's course tuition fees, as well as our postgraduate research funding options, bursaries, studentships/scholarships and financial support services.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/support:
Supporting our researchers effectively is essential to the university's research mission; to inspire society and the world through the discovery, application and sharing of knowledge.
We actively encourage the development of our researchers, from NEWI to Early Career Researcher (ECR) and throughout their research journey.
The Researcher Development Framework (RDF) identifies the different areas of expertise required and supports the training and development of our researchers.
The University of Greenwich holds the European Commission's HR Excellence in Research accreditation, which shows our commitment to continuously improving researchers' working environments and supporting their career development.
Click here to view the Researcher Development Concordat
Click here to view the Researcher Development Schedule
Our aim is to support our researchers' development throughout their career, continually improve the quality of our research and increase the impact it can have, be that within a research field, industry-wide or for society as a whole.
Our support teams help nurture and develop essential skills, identify and successfully attain funding for projects and then help completed research ideas be commercialised.
The University of Greenwich has a strong commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion and meets requirements of the Horizon Europe's Gender Equality Plan through Athena Swan, broader equality, diversity and inclusion work and other activities.
Please see the University's Gender Equality Plan for further information.
Provides information and resources to support staff and postgraduate research students to access and use systems supported by GRE ( e.g.
RADAR, PULSE)

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/study/research-studentships-and-scholarships:
The university supports postgraduate research opportunities with a range of scholarships and studentships.
If you are interested in applying for a scholarship please follow to the guidance on the advert and refer to the information on our how to apply and application process pages.
Please note EU applicants may be eligible for Home fees, if holding EU settled/pre-settled status along with meeting other additional criteria.
Guidance on how your fee status is determined can be found here .
Further information can also be found on UKCISA .
For information on external funding please visit our funding opportunities page.
For information on the wide range of research programmes available please visit our programme information page.
For information on applying for a research programme please visit our how to apply page.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/partnerships:
Partnering with us is made simple.
Our Partnership Hub Team are your open door to access infinite possibilities and a wealth of talent to help you build your workforce, drive growth and deliver impact.
Discover how you can benefit from our people, research and leading-edge facilities when you partner with us.
As experts in research and education, we have the people, modern facilities, and rich campus environments to enhance your business -and supply the workforce you need.
Working with schools and further education partners, we're creating new ways for people to benefit from what we offer -giving more students clearer careers choices and pathways.
Find out more about our international education partnerships, including overseas collaborations and Study Abroad, Erasmus and exchange programmes.
1st class in the People & Planet University League
A workforce and skills partnerships can help you to:
Our Partnership Hub Team is your open door to access infinite possibilities and a wealth of talent to help you build your workforce, drive growth, and deliver impact.
Placements allow you to bring in talent for a low-risk trial period before offering students a full-time position.
Interns can bring a fresh perspective and new ideas to your organisation, which can lead to increased productivity and efficiency.
Offering internships demonstrates your commitment to investing in the development of young professionals and can help enhance your reputation as an employer.
We will provide you with all the support you need to advertise and recruit to the role to secure our best talent.
We’ve done a lot of research, so you don’t have to.
Discuss your ideas and challenges with us and we can help you explore how we can work together.
We know how expensive it can be to continuously recruit new staff.
We can help you upskill and retain your existing workforce.
We will work with you to understand your specific needs and create tailored courses to address your skills gap and ensure courses work with our business working model.
We offer a variety of options to suit your needs, such as online delivery or a once-a-week campus visit.
We can give you access to a vast cohort of bright young graduates looking for their first step into employment.
Our graduates are highly enthusiastic, ambitious, and motivated and come at a low investment cost to your business.
They will give you a fresh perspective that will enable you to support the growth of your business.
You can connect with our graduates at one of our in-person or online recruitment events or advertise roles through our communication channels, all fully supported via our Partnership Hub Team.
Supporting and acting responsibly on the green issues of today and tomorrow is crucial to the future success of the planet.
In recognition of the skills gap facing the ‘green sector’ and our commitment to reach net zero by 2030, we have significantly dialled up our capacity and strategic commitment to sustainability and partnerships.
We want to work with businesses that share our vision and values for a sustainable future.
You can join our working group of employers exploring how to meet the needs of business through university teaching and learning or collaborate to deliver ‘Living Lab’ projects with our staff and students.
These will provide you with a portfolio of social value work/case studies to include in your ESG strategy.
We value input from businesses on our curriculum development.
Sharing ideas and business needs will ensure future students are equipped with the skills and knowledge that businesses require and help address the wider skills gap.
We take a consultative approach to co-design, recognising the time constraints that businesses face.
We’ll ensure that delivery is convenient and easy for you, so you can make an impact in this important area of development.
Working collaboratively with businesses, we can design and shape education courses, ensuring they address sector skill shortages and demands.
You can help us create the graduates that you need for your business by joining one of our advisory boards.
As a university, we have seen the benefits of businesses working with academics to solve real business problems.
We can connect you to our world-leading academics in a variety of subjects.
This is a powerful collaboration that will help your business innovate and grow through new products and services.
Many of our partners choose to set up scholarships aimed at specific groups of students or courses that resonate with their business.
It is an opportunity to carry out your business’s philanthropic endeavours.
You can choose which area you would like the scholarship to cover, and we can help connect you to relevant academics.
We will also promote the scholarship with our PR network.
As an employer, you can make a significant impact on the lives and careers of our students by becoming a mentor.
Mentoring is a powerful way to share your knowledge, skills, and experiences with the next generation of professionals, and to help them navigate the challenges and opportunities of their chosen field.
By becoming a mentor, you can help our students develop their skills, build their confidence, and expand their networks.
You can provide guidance and advice on topics such as career development, job searching, and workplace communication.
You can also share your own experiences and insights, and help our students learn from your successes and challenges.
As an employer, you may want to reach out to local schools as part of your corporate social responsibility strategy to engage in community activities.
We can support you on this journey with our established network of local schools and colleges.
We deliver several activities and interactions that are designed to support young people with making decisions about their next steps.
You can share your own personal career path to inspire the next generation and help students plan for their next move after college.
For more information and to contact our Partnership Relationship Managers, please email partnerships@gre.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/apprenticeships:
Apprenticeships are invaluable: Stephen from United Living tells us why
Funding to supercharge your business: Our guide to the Apprenticeship Levy
Higher and degree apprenticeships offer practical, hands-on experience and education.
Perfect for recruiting new talent or upskilling your workforce, our apprenticeships enhance your talent pipeline and boost business growth with tailored programmes.
University of Greenwich apprenticeships let learners combine studying with practical training in their dream careers.
Our programmes also enable employers to train and retain high-quality employees who can drive their businesses forward.
So whether you’re an employee or an employer, take the next step on your journey to success and contact us today.
At Greenwich we fully support our employers and apprentices every step of the apprenticeship journey.
Watch our video to see how we achieve this.
Understand the benefits of apprenticeships and how we can support you along the way
Discover what your programme could look like and find out more about the eligibility criteria
Learn more about the Apprenticeship Levy and government funding
Find out more about next steps and how to apply
See a full list of apprenticeships below:
Apprenticeships let you combine practical training in a job with studying.
As an apprentice, you will:
Anyone over 18 can apply for an apprenticeship at the University of Greenwich.
This includes existing employees.
To be eligible, you must:
Yes, and the application procedure is the same.
For more information, see ‘Who can apply for an apprenticeship?’ (see the FAQ above).
Ask your employer if they will support your career progression and tell them to contact us for more information.
Or you can search for existing apprenticeships if you do not have a current employer.
If you are an employee looking to upskill and take on a new challenge, please discuss the courses available with your employer.
Then ask them to email us at apprenticeships@greenwich.ac.uk .
You can also contact us to discuss your individual apprenticeship needs.
The apprenticeship itself is a vocational qualification, and you will receive an apprenticeship certificate issued by the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education.
All degree apprenticeships also come with an academic qualification.
This is set out in the apprenticeship standard and will be issued by the university you are studying at.
With all other apprenticeships there may be an option to be awarded an academic or professional qualification on successful completion of your end-point assessment.
This will depend on the apprenticeship programme and the training provider used.
A degree apprenticeship has a mandatory undergraduate or postgraduate qualification embedded within the apprenticeship standard.
There are four types of apprenticeship: Intermediate, Advanced, Higher and Degree:
Intermediate
Level 2; Equivalent education level - GCSE.
Advanced
Level 3; Equivalent education level - A-Level.
Higher
Level 4, 5, 6   and 7; Equivalent education level - Foundation degree and above.
Degree
Level 6 and 7; Equivalent education level - Bachelor’s  or Master’s degree.
Learners can choose from a range of apprenticeships.
All of our available programmes are listed on this page, above this FAQ section.
The UK government initiated the Apprenticeship Levy in 2017.
It’s for all employers who pay an annual wage bill of over £3 million.
These employers must pay 0.5% of their payroll each month as a levy tax.
This payment can only be used to pay for training apprentices.
Sometimes, employers pay into the levy but their funds do not cover the full apprenticeship training costs.
In these cases, they can get extra support up to a set level.
The government will pay 95% of the additional costs, and the employer will ‘co-invest’ 5%.
There is government funding available for organisations that do not pay the levy.
However, these employers may be required to co-invest 5% of the levy cost.
You are responsible for:
Apprenticeship standards:
Before an apprentice can start their apprenticeship, the university must assess their prior experience and learning.
This helps us make sure that:
KSBs stand for ‘knowledge skills and behaviours’.
These are the core competencies that an apprentice needs to do their job.
They can be found in the apprenticeship standard.
KSBs are assessed as part of the apprentice’s end-point assessment.
All apprentices must complete an independent end-point assessment.
This will show:
Off-the-job training is protected learning time that employers give learners during their normal working hours.
It is an essential part of apprenticeships.
This training must be directly relevant to the apprenticeship standard and must be new learning.
It should also help learners achieve the apprenticeship’s knowledge, skills and behaviours.
It can be delivered in the classroom or workplace through a variety of activities, such as mentoring, shadowing and industry visits.
Every apprentice must have an employment contract.
It must cover the entire duration of the programme, including the end-point assessment.
Learners who are not already employed before applying for an apprenticeship programme can apply directly with the employer for an apprenticeship.
The employer will then issue the learner with an apprenticeship training contract.
Organisations of any size can employ an apprentice.
We will give you:
No.
Apprentices are full-time employees of their organisation.
However, they can access most of the services full-time students can.
They cannot apply for extra financial support from either government or university hardship funds.
No, there is no entitlement to accommodation.
Apprentices will be invited to the relevant award ceremony.
Their employers fund the programme costs through the Apprenticeship Levy.
However, this does not cover travel, accommodation or living costs.
There is a lot of university and government support available.
This helps apprentices with special needs engage with and complete their apprenticeships.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/partner-colleges:
From our earliest days, we have collaborated closely with local colleges.
Over the years these collaborative efforts have come to form a Partner College Network.
Find out more about the work we do and our partners
The Partner College Network works on a broad range of objectives that encompasses:
The network forms part of a broader commitment to regional development, in particular to the regeneration of the Thames Gateway.
It also offers HNC and HND programmes, Levels 4 and 5 of honours degrees, some honours degree programmes, and a growing portfolio of foundation degrees (Fds).
Visit our Partner College Handbook page for information, guidance and support.
Bird College is a conservatoire for dance and musical theatre based in Sidcup, in South East London.
Flourish Learning Trust delivers training opportunities and specialist outreach services to educational professionals across North and East London.
Study courses in agriculture, horticulture, and the management and handling of animals at University Centre, Hadlow.
The new dedicated University Centre, based in Orpington, offers students high-quality teaching, small class sizes and flexible learning.
Study courses in Construction, Engineering, Civil Engineering and Building Services at a dedicated specialist centre in Kent’s County Town.
The University partners with NESCOT to provide specialist courses to develop teaching and education sector professionals.
The College offers Higher Education programmes that have a strong vocational focus and have been designed to prepare graduates to the increasingly competitive job market.
Plumpton College offers land & environment courses in agriculture, horticulture, animal behaviour, equine science, veterinary and wine.
The Woolwich College London (TWCLONDON) is a dynamic and innovative institution dedicated to providing quality education that empowers students to achieve their academic and professional goals.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/collaborations:
The University of Greenwich has been working successfully with international teaching organisations for over two decades.
Find out more about the benefits of becoming a partner, our selection process and how to apply.
Find out more about our current international partners and the programmes offered.
Find all forms, templates, and flowcharts for processes and committees.
FPT Education’s mission is to provide students with globally competitive advantages and the partnership with University of Greenwich - an accredited university in the UK and globally ranked university is our way to achieve that mission.
- Dr Le Truong Tung, President - FPT Education
The collaboration between UoG and New York College, started fifteen years ago, and has been flourishing eversince, centered around core values such as mutual respect and academic excellence.
We are proud.
- Dr Elias Foutsis - NYC President
Read our latest brochure and find out more about our Transnational programmes

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/giving/donate:
And remove the barriers to education, enrich the student experience and have a lasting impact on the wider community.
If you'd like to support our long-term planning where the need is greatest and urgent funding priorities, you can set up a direct debit regular donation .
Volunteering supports and inspires our students and graduates.
Join hundreds of volunteers who share their expertise and insights whilst developing skills.
Whatever the size or nature of your gift, your generosity has a huge impact on our community.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-benefits:
Through benefit and services, the university and alumni community can continue to support you.
You are part of a diverse global alumni community, that is over 280,000 strong.
Wherever your graduate journey takes you, the university and alumni community are here to support you.
We've teamed up with university partners Charlton Athletic Football Club to offer alumni discounted tickets to home league matches.
Find out how to access £10 tickets for home games and general information on match discounts .
University strategic partner, Old Royal Naval College (ORNC) are offering alumni a 30% discount to The Painted Hall when purchasing advance online tickets.
Please note that there is only a limited number of tickets available.
The ORNC is an extraordinary destination found on the Maritime Greenwich UNESCO World Heritage Site with over 600 years of rich history.
To experience the magnificence of the Painted Hall with this exclusive discount code, please contact alumni@gre.ac.uk for more details.
Visit Greenwich, one of the university’s partners, are delighted to be working with Blue Earth Summit – which is returning to Woolwich Works from 15-17 October 2025 and offering alumni a special promo code that gives 30% off any tickets.
To learn how to access this exclusive code, please contact alumni@gre.ac.uk for more details.
Following a recently announced partnership with Criterion Hospitality , a hotel operator which in 2023 opened Zedwell, Greenwich, just steps from the university, we are delighted to announce they are offering a 15% discount from the semi flex rate for alumni.
Enjoy exclusive access to TOTUM Pro, a benefits service designed especially for graduates and professional learners.
Enjoy discounts with 200+ brands including ASOS, Microsoft and Las Iguanas.
Find out more about TOTUM Pro .
For up to two years after completing your studies you have access to the full range of services provided by the Employability and Apprenticeship team.
Get support with CVs, job applications, careers fairs, internships, mentoring, graduate jobs, mock interviews, postgraduate study applications and more.
Explore how the university can support your career .
The Employability and Apprenticeship team also offer a wide range of services to employers, from small and medium-sized enterprises to multinational corporations, to help you reach potential graduates and students across the university.
This includes free jobs brokerage, invitations to exhibit at recruitment fairs and more.
The university is also an established training provider working directly with employers across many sectors and can offer a range of degree apprenticeships to employers.
If you are interested in getting involved in Career Fairs, teaching students or recruiting students, please email alumni@gre.ac.uk .
Generator is the home of enterprise at the university.
For up to two years after completing your studies you can access a range of opportunities, including bursaries, workshops, free co-working space in Greenwich, and their annual Enterprise Challenge.
Find out more about the Generator's services .
We are delighted to offer a discounted library membership scheme to all members of the alumni community, offering access to campus libraries for £30 annually.
In addition to the alumni library membership, we are pleased to offer free access to JSTOR and Sage.
Due to the university’s licensing obligations, these are the only online resources available to alumni.
Find out more about your library benefits and how to apply .
Alumni who have access to their nine-digit student ID number (who commenced study from 2000 onwards) are eligible to use Fast track, an application route designed to make it easy for alumni to apply (T&C apply).
Apply for a postgraduate course through Fast Track .
You may be eligible for a £3,000 fee waiver bursary offered to current Greenwich undergraduate students and Alumni to help you ‘Power Up’ your future and reach your potential through postgraduate study.
Eligibility for the Greenwich Progression Bursary changes year on year and is open to home-paying students (T&C apply).
Find out more about our Progression Bursary Scheme .
Throughout the year, alumni are invited to a number of in-person and virtual events, from talks by alumni to a range of public lectures from industry and our expert academics as well as public exhibitions at our university galleries.
You can find the latest events for alumni on our website .
There are three exhibition spaces on the Greenwich Campus: The Stephen Lawrence Gallery; The Project Space and the Heritage Gallery.
Alumni are welcome to attend exhibitions throughout the year.
If you are interested in running your own event (i.e.
a reunion) or would like to speak at a university event, please email alumni@gre.ac.uk for further information.
Alumni can enjoy discounted rates at our Avery Hill campus gym.
Find out more, including membership prices and how to access your discount.
Alumni can enjoy 10% discount on room hire across all three campuses.
Contact the Conferences Office for further information.
Telephone 020 8331 9345 or email conferences@gre.ac.uk .
We're delighted to hear when our alumni come back to visit their old campus or some of our new sites.
You can find links to maps and other useful campus travel information here .
If you're coming to the Greenwich campus, then check out these specially designed audio tours that explain more about some of Greenwich's famous landmarks and our university facilities.
If you'd like to visit the Alumni and Fundraising Office (we're based in Queen Mary Building, Room 030, Greenwich campus) then please email us at alumni@gre.ac.uk a couple of days in advance of your visit.
Make sure you also tag us in any photos from your visit on Instagram (@greenwichalumni), Facebook (@greenwichalumni), and LinkedIn using #GreGrads.
There are a range of services to help your career development which you can access in the first two years after you complete.
If you are in your final year of study, prepare for the end of your studies by exploring the support and resources available to you.
Update your contact and employment details to receive news and opportunities relevant to you.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/ask-alumni:
We are delighted to welcome alumni and new graduates to our new LinkedIn group.
This space is where Greenwich graduates from across the globe can reconnect, share experiences, build meaningful professional relationships, and find out how you can get involved with the university through our volunteering and fundraising programmes.
Whether you graduated last year or decades ago when we were known as Woolwich and Thames Polytechnic, you're an important part of our Greenwich legacy.
Through this online community we hope to help you professionally by:
It only takes two minutes to request to become a member.
Give back your time to inspire the next generation while developing your own skills.
Greenwich Snapshots celebrate and showcase the careers that students can look forward to after they graduate.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/graduate-outcomes:
Have your say in the biggest UK annual social survey that captures the perspectives and current status of recent graduates.
The Graduate Outcomes Survey captures your perspectives and activities 15 months after you complete your studies.
Find out more about the Survey below and keep your details up to date to ensure you have your say.
The Graduate Outcomes is the biggest UK annual social survey and captures the perspectives and current status of recent graduates.
The survey asks about what you’re doing 15 months after completing your degree as well as some more subjective questions about how you feel about your current situation and general wellbeing.
There’s a core set of questions which you’ll need to answer so your response can be used, but in total the survey should take about ten minutes to complete online.
If you’ve not heard of the survey before, you can find out more by watching this short video .
Your responses will be crucial in allowing current and future students to make informed choices and they will also help us to evaluate and promote our courses.
It will also contribute to the university’s position in the league tables, provide sector insights and highlight trends in the graduate job market.
Graduates are grouped together across the year into four cohorts based on end date of your course.
Depending on your course end date, you will be contacted around 15 months after you completed your course, and will be asked to complete the survey on behalf of the University of Greenwich and HESA (Higher Education Statistics Agency).
You will be contacted either via email or phone and the survey can be completed online or on the phone.
Below is the usual timeframe:
The survey should take about ten minutes and you'll have approximately 12 weeks to complete the survey and you will receive emails and texts to reminder you.
It’s important that we have your current contact details so that you receive the survey.
Graduate Outcomes data will be collected by HESA or their behalf as part of their wider data collection and analysis activities.
This data will be shared with the University of Greenwich and will be stored and accessed in compliance data protection legislation along with the policies for both HESA and the University of Greenwich .
A graduate Q&A is available on the Graduate Outcomes website.
Grow your professional network, collaborate and access opportunities based on your interests.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/events:
Events are an important way to feel connected to the University of Greenwich community.
We are proud to offer our alumni and friends a wide variety of events both online and in-person.
We send event invitations directly to alumni who are signed up to receive email communications.
Update your details so we can let you know about relevant events.
We're delighted to hear when our alumni come back to visit the campus.
You can find links to maps and other useful campus travel information here.
If you're coming to the Greenwich campus, you can:
Make sure you also tag us in any photos from your visit on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter (@greenwichalumni) using #GreGrads.
Explore how the university and alumni community can support you after completing your studies.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/news:
The latest stories from the university and alumni community.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/giving:
Your donation provides vital resources for students facing financial barriers.
The generosity of our alumni and donors ensures that every student, regardless of their background, can fully embrace the Greenwich experience.
Your support breaks down barriers, opens doors, and empowers the next generation to reach new heights.
For over 130 years, the University of Greenwich has empowered students from all walks of life to realise their dreams and make a difference in the world.
From our pioneering history as Woolwich Polytechnic in 1890 to our ambitious 2030 vision of Education Without Boundaries, we have always believed in the transformative power of higher education to unlock human potential
Whether you studied at Thames Polytechnic or today at the University of Greenwich, from pulling all-nighters in the library to sunny picnics in the park, the Greenwich experience is like no other.
It's exploring ideas in world-class labs and studios.
It's finding lifelong friends and mentors.
It's the exhilaration of launching your career in the big city, and moments of reflection by the Thames.
It's a journey of academic and personal growth across three unique yet united campuses.
Every student deserves to live this experience to the fullest, without financial or circumstantial constraints.
But for too many, the reality falls short.
That's why we've launched the Annual Fund – to level the playing field and ensure the Greenwich experience is open to all.
As a non-profit institution, the University of Greenwich relies on philanthropic support, and our alumni and supporters play a vital role in continuing this mission.
Every donation will directly support our students, providing them with the resources and opportunities they need to thrive.
By giving today, you’re helping to ensure that every student can access the education and experiences that lead to success, no matter their background.
Your gift in any amount to the Annual Fund, when combined with your fellow alumni, makes a demonstrable impact, removing financial barriers, creating opportunities and giving the next generation the chance to go further than ever before.
You can also spread the cost of your donation over the course of a year by setting up a recurring donation.
A recurring donation provides consistent funding, allowing the university to plan and implement long-term support programmes for students experiencing financial hardship.
Offer cost-of-living support to keep students facing adversity on track.
Your donation supports scholarships that provide students a chance to seize a life-changing opportunity.
Enable career development opportunities to launch students into impactful and fulfilling futures.
Our alumni and friends are a force for change.
Together, they make a huge impact, empowering our students and opening up opportunities.
Registered No: 986729

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/volunteer:
Give back your time to inspire the next generation of students and graduates while developing your own skills.
The University of Greenwich community is enhanced by our alumni volunteers.
Hundreds of alumni give their time, expertise and knowledge to support the university.
From mentoring our students and sitting on advisory boards, we are incredibly thankful for your support.
Below you will find current opportunities as well as opportunities where we need support all year round.
Become a University of Greenwich mentor and help shape the future of our graduates!
We are looking for industry experts who want to give back through mentoring for the 2025-26 scheme.
Your journey, expertise and insights paired with your experience as a member of the alumni community provide a unique perspective that is invaluable to our students.
What does mentoring entail?
Upon completion you'll receive a Career Mentoring Certificate and an invite to our Employability Awards Ceremony.
Interested?
Our Career Mentoring team would love to hear from you.
Find out more about the programme or apply via the career mentor registration form.
The Outreach and Educational Partnerships Team are seeking alumni volunteers to deliver a workshop on presentation skills for our Access Greenwich students, predominantly mature learners preparing for degree study.
Share your journey and tips to help them shine in their first presentation assignment.
📅 Thursday, 4 September 🕰️ 10-11.30am 📍 Remote or at our Greenwich or Medway campus
We are keen for alumni who can share their journey overcoming barriers to studying in higher education, perhaps you were first in family to attend university or commenced your first degree after you turned 25.
Express your interest using the form at the end of this page 👇
Share your story and inspire future Biomedical Science graduates
We are looking for Biomedical Science/Applied Biomedical Science alumni to share their career story with our final year students!
Every career journey is valuable – from recent graduates navigating their first roles to established professionals who have extensive experience.
During the panel discussion, you’ll give a brief introduction about yourself, share the steps that led you to where you are today, and answer student questions about your career journey.
📅 Tuesday, 11 November 🕰️ 2-4pm 📍 Online
Express your interest using the form at the end of this page 👇
As a valued member of our alumni community, your unique and personal first-hand experiences in the "real world" can resonate with current and prospective students, offering invaluable insights and help with planning and preparing for their future life at Greenwich, Avery Hill and Medway.
Consider joining us at the next open day or postgraduate open evening.
We are looking for alumni to talk about what they have been up to since graduating, how the university has supported them on their career journey, what it was like to be a student, and answer questions from parents and prospective students.
💡You would not need to prepare anything in advance and an informal meeting will be set up prior to the event to answer any questions you might have.
Alumni volunteers will only be required to attend for their allotted role and would not need to stay on campus for the full day/evening of the event.
The opportunity is usually a 1-hour duration with exact timings to be confirmed.
Dates for the 2025-26 academic year:
Work placements are invaluable stepping stones in a student's journey from academia to the professional world.
These experiences offer a unique blend of practical skills, industry insights, and personal growth.
As alumni, you have the power to shape the next generation of professionals by offering these crucial opportunities.
There are lots of benefits for students:
However, as alumni, you also benefit.
Offering placements is a meaningful way to support the University of Greenwich and our students.
Placement students bring new ideas and enthusiasm to the workplace.
It is also an excellent way for you and your organisation to identify and nurture future talent.
By offering work placements, alumni can play a crucial role in shaping the future workforce while simultaneously benefiting their own organisation.
Please email alumni@gre.ac.uk to find out more.
Across the university, staff are seeking alumni from diverse fields to speak about their career journey and experience since leaving Greenwich.
These events may be organised by your Faculty or the Employability and Apprenticeship team and welcome students from all degrees interested in starting a career in a specific industry.
Volunteer opportunities usually require approximately 1.5 hours of your availability and can include:
If you're interested in being a speaker, please complete the expression of interest form below and we will be in touch when there are opportunities.
Apprenticeships at the University of Greenwich allow you to train and retain high-quality employees who can drive your business forward.
Our Apprenticeship team will act as a trusted partner to help you recruit the right apprentice and promote the programme to learners.
Throughout the process and programme, they will offer you comprehensive and ongoing support to meet your needs and help ensure each apprentice succeeds.
Greenwich alumni, Matthew Brunt spoke to the university about the value of degree apprenticeships to organisations like his own.
Read the interview with Matthew here .
Take your next step.
Begin your apprenticeship journey with the University of Greenwich.
Email us today: alumni@gre.ac.uk
Throughout the year we will seek support from alumni volunteers to get involved as Giving Champions.
Your participation as a Giving Champion is an invaluable resource to us and means we can reach far and wide to promote our fundraising campaigns.
Giving Champion explained:
Alumni have the power and influence to help champion causes like the Greenwich Annual Fund by simply tapping into online networks.
It takes a community of people to ensure the next generation of Greenwich students can thrive.
Whether our students go on to build successful enterprises that tackle social and environmental challenges, provide exceptional healthcare as nurses, or become compassionate and dedicated teachers – it all starts with you.
Could you be our next Giving Champion?
Complete the form below.
👇

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/giving/thank-you:
Welcome to the 1890 magazine.
Your generosity directly empowers our students to reach their full potential and pursue their dreams.
Here's how:
Enhancing educational experiences : Your contributions fund scholarships, internships, and special projects that provide students with hands-on learning opportunities and industry insights.
These experiences are often transformative, shaping career paths and opening doors to exciting possibilities.
Fostering innovation : By supporting entrepreneurship, you're helping to create an environment where groundbreaking ideas can flourish.
This not only benefits our students but also contributes to advancements that can benefit society as a whole.
Building a stronger community : Your involvement, whether through mentoring, sharing expertise, or offering networking opportunities, strengthens the Greenwich community.
This network of support is invaluable for students as they navigate their academic journey and prepare for their future careers.
Ensuring accessibility : Your financial support helps make a Greenwich education accessible to talented students regardless of their economic background.
This commitment to inclusivity enriches our campus community and helps cultivate diverse perspectives.
We are deeply grateful to all our alumni and friends who have partnered with us in this mission.
Your ongoing commitment to the University of Greenwich community creates a ripple effect of positive change, empowering our students to become the leaders and innovators of tomorrow.
Thank you for being an integral part of the Greenwich legacy and for helping us shape a brighter future for our students and the world they will impact.
If you would like to discuss your gift or explore additional ways to get involved, please don't hesitate to reach out to the Alumni and Fundraising team at fundraising@gre.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/events:
Next Open Day 18 October In-person event: Book now
We welcome visitors all year round.
Discover and experience everything Greenwich can offer you - book an open day or campus tour, join a webinar, or choose one of our public lectures, exhibitions, performances or community events.
Seeking a location for your event?
Our three magnificent campuses and outstanding facilities provide a spectacular venue to suit any occasion.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/clearing/courses/business:
Find your course and secure your place with Greenwich Business School.
Limited spaces available.
Find out what you can do to help on results day

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/events/upcoming-event:
Join one of our events – it’s the best way to explore our university, learn more about the courses we offer and see what studying with us is like.
Taster Days are a great opportunity to learn more about the University through our range of subject-specific workshops which give you an insight into university-level study.
If you'd like to see what your child's experience at Greenwich will be like, join them at one of our Open Days.
Visitors can talk to staff and students and attend talks on student finance and how to apply.
Take a look around our outstanding campuses and find out more about student life.
Our series of twilight lectures are aimed at students currently studying at Level 3, to complement their studies and provide an insight into studying a range of disciplines at degree level.
A programme of academic skills workshops designed to support students embarking on their Extended Project Qualification or IB Extended Essay.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/signup:
Take a moment to register and we’ll send you links to download our undergraduate and postgraduate prospectuses.
You’ll also receive updates with information about studying with us, including our events and new virtual events, depending on your communication preferences.
Have a question about any of our courses?
Get in touch using our contact form !
I learned a lot of the necessary skills that I needed in the workplace.
- Alex McGrath, Accounting and Finance
The University were helping me out of hours, even after I had graduated.
They gave me the drive to keep on going.
- Raphael Bobie, BSc Hons Public Health

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/clearing/priority-signup:
Priority Clearing sign up is now closed.
Please call our Clearing Hotline instead on 020 8331 9000
Priority Clearing will be available again next year.
For more information, check out our Clearing page or call us at 020 8331 9000

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/study/tef-gold:
This recognises our outstanding performance in student experience and outcomes.
This is great news for us and great news for our students.
The TEF is a national scheme to encourage universities and colleges to improve and deliver excellence in education.
It focuses on undergraduate students and the areas they care about the most: teaching, learning and achieving positive outcomes from their studies.
The institutions that took part in the 2023 exercise were given an overall rating plus two underpinning ratings.
The University of Greenwich was awarded Gold overall and Gold for student experience.
We received Silver for our student outcomes, which were judged to be ‘typically very high quality’.
The outcomes from TEF 2023 last for four years from September 2023.
You can read more about the TEF on the Office for Students website .
Vice-Chancellor, Professor Jane Harrington announces our TEF result.
Many aspects of our teaching and learning are rated as outstanding, including:
Here are just a few ways we give our students the best opportunities.
All of these initiatives were recognised by the TEF assessment panel:
Our students played a crucial role in the TEF 2023, and our ratings would be far less meaningful without their contribution.
A submission to the TEF assessment panel from our students’ union highlighted the partnership between the university and its students, which is at the heart of the Greenwich experience.
To our students and students’ union, a big thank you.
If you’re looking for a university that offers top-quality education, please apply to join us .
We’d love to welcome you to the University of Greenwich community.
Less than a quarter of the educational establishments assessed were rated Gold overall
Praised for how our teaching and curriculum align with our employability support
All voices heard: evidence submitted by both the university and its students
Lecturers are always happy to support their students.
The way our lecturers teach makes students think innovatively and critically.
- Harishanan Thevarajah, Computer engineering student

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/sustain:
Nature positive at Greenwich: Discover more
University wins Greener Greenwich award: Recognition for sustainability work - Read more
Annual Sustainability and Sustainable Development Goals Report 2023/24: Available now
Simon, our Head of Strategic Sustainability, highlights our key aims and accomplishments to ensure we remain a leader in achieving a greener future for us all.
Our strategy is focused on six key action areas
Climate change and finite energy resources have been identified as two of the biggest challenges facing the world today.
To tackle these issues the university committed  to achieving Net Zero by 2033.
The University’s estate comprises a huge range of building types, styles and ages.
We are working to ensure that our buildings are Net Zero by 2033.
We are continually trying to improve are waste management and recycling rates here at the University of Greenwich.
The University recognises the need to deliver travel services to enable student and staff to travel  safely, efficiently and responsibly between its three main campus sites.
The University is committed to delivering sustainable and nutritious food to all students, staff and customers to all our campus outlets.
These commitments are mirrored by the Students’ Union within their shops and cafes.
Our grounds are managed sensitively; limiting the use of herbicides, protecting habitats and balancing conservation practices to ensure you can enjoy the outdoor areas, so please do explore the areas around you.
We are committed to ensuring our students are prepared to make their impact towards a sustainable, greener future by embedding sustainability throughout our curriculum.
There are more than 50 programmes to choose from already.
We take our responsibilities seriously and are motivated by the ability to empower change when we act together; from the smallest individual action to life changing research.
We are proud to have maintained our 'First Class Award’ in the People & Planet's University Green League since 2012 and we are currently ranked as the 17 th most sustainability institution in the UK and joint 89 th globally in the Times Higher Education Impact (UN Sustainable Development Goal) Ranking .
Operationally, our Estates & Facilities Directorate are operating with ISO14001 (Environmental Management) accreditation.
Our Corporate Strategy; This is Our Time reflects our responsibility from the Vice-Chancellor in delivering sustainability across teaching, research and operations.
Our Sustainability Strategic Action Plan sets out our ambition and the Priorities and targets we will achieve in delivering its success.
The new Curriculum Framework launched in 2025, pushes for this teaching, embedding sustainability across all disciplines so our students know how their skills can solve the global challenges of today, and tomorrow.
In recognising our own impacts as a University, our ambitious Net Zero ambitions strategic plan commits us in bringing down our carbon footprint.
Explore these webpages to find how you can make a difference to our planet through the actions you can do at Greenwich.
Visit our Blog pages for even more insights into our events, partnerships and awards.
Reducing disposable coffee cups
42% recycling rate
Carbon Neutral by 2030, Net Zero by 2033
£220,000 saved with our furniture reuse scheme
Smart heaters installed in student halls
Find out how you can live and learn sustainably whilst studying at the University of Greenwich
Find out how you can incorporate environmental principles into teaching, and inspire our students.
Learn more about our strategy, awards, achievements, and accreditations that help make this university a special place.
Delivering positive impact for people and the planet through research, collaboration and partnerships.
Learn about the team, their passions and how to make contact.
Find out how you can get involved with sustainability at the University of Greenwich.
ISO 14001 (Cert.
23692-EMS-001) Find out more
Green League Find out more
Fairtrade University Find out more
Food for Life Gold Find out more
Hedgehog Friendly Campus Find out more
Find out what has been going on recently around the University.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/sustain/courses:
Sustainability values embedded in our curriculum
Each of these programmes has been specially designed to include key content that focuses on sustainability.
This is part of our commitment to embed sustainability throughout our curriculum to equip our students for the challenges of today and tomorrow.
So if you aim to work in ways that deliver sustainability outcomes, Greenwich provides courses to ensure you are gaining the skills and knowledge that employers require to help deliver a more sustainable world.
The UN’s Sustainability Development Goals inform our curriculum and we’ll support and prepare you to contribute ethically to your community - locally, nationally and globally.
Make a difference to the future of food production in developing countries with a Master’s in Agriculture for Sustainable Development.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Medway Campus Subject: Environmental sciences; Science
Combine the academic and practical experience required by zoological societies, rescue organisations and conservation organisations by studying this foundation degree in Applied Animal Behaviour and Conservation.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Plumpton College Subject: Agriculture and animal management
Are you a professional working in food manufacturing?
Gain a Master’s in Applied Food Safety & Quality Management at the University of Greenwich.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Medway Campus Subject: Human nutrition and health; Science
Develop a wide spectrum of high-level design skills with our foundation year route into architecture.
Whilst fully accredited by RIBA and ARB this pathway provides the option to change your degree subject after your foundation year.
Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Architecture
Develop high-level design skills with our architecture degree, which is accredited by the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) and the Architects Registration Board (ARB).
Study an HNC in building studies.
Learn about building design and construction for managerial and project roles in the construction industry.
Mode: Part time Location: London South East Colleges - Orpington Campus Subject: Construction; Engineering
This programme offers direct entry, for home students, into business with marketing at either Level 5 or Level 6.
Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Marketing and advertising
This chemical engineering degree prepares you for successful careers in chemical and process engineering, pharmaceuticals and food production.
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Medway Campus Subject: Chemical engineering; Engineering
Study a degree in civil engineering to gain expertise in construction and structural design for engineering jobs.
Benefit from links to engineering firms.
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Medway Campus Subject: Civil engineering; Engineering
Develop project management skills in building and construction with our BSc in Construction Management.
Accredited by the Chartered Institute of Building.
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Construction; Engineering
Study an MSc Construction Project Management in Greenwich, south London, and enhance your project management skills for the construction industry.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Construction; Engineering
This degree in electrical and electronic engineering has a foundation year.
Study networks and electrical circuits for advanced technical skills.
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Medway Campus Subject: Electrical and electronic engineering; Engineering
Our degree in electrical and electronic engineering covers topics such as circuitry and communication networks for careers in engineering and telecoms.
Want to be involved in the launch of new ingredients and products?
Interested in nutrition and healthy living?
Join our MSc in Food Innovation.
Study on the only undergraduate course in the UK focused solely on forensic toxicology and prepare you for the world of work in the forensic, practical, research, chemical, and pharmaceutical fields.
Mode: Full time,  Sandwich Location: Medway Campus Subject: Forensic science; Science
Explore the interactions between food, land, energy, water and climate on this research-active Master’s in Global Environmental Change.
Mode: Sandwich Location: Medway Campus Subject: Environmental sciences; Science
Mode: Full time Location: Medway Campus Subject: Environmental sciences; Science
The MSc in Global Health Management includes all the elements of a leading international postgraduate global health and management programme.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Health and social care; Public health
How will we tackle ongoing global challenges?
Join our MSc programme – Global Sustainable Development.
Welcome to our Master's in LLM International and Commercial Law from within the School of Law & Criminology.
Your teaching team comes from an experienced team of lecturers.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Law
This master’s in International Business - which offers the chance to undertake a placement - will prepare you to become a specialist in the international business sector.
Mode: Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Business and management
This international business degree covers global business management, strategy and trade to help you succeed in business careers worldwide.
Mode: Full time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Business and management
Gain an understanding in business management, even if you have not studied business before.
Work on real business projects.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Business and management
Become an events professional with our Master’s in International Events Management.
Study in London, home to world-class facilities and events.
Mode: Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Tourism, hospitality and events
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Tourism, hospitality and events
Study our accredited landscape architecture degree to develop your expertise in landscape design.
The only degree of its kind in London.
Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Architecture; Landscape architecture
Become a professional landscape architect with a focus on design excellence with our Master of Landscape Architecture.
Accredited by the Landscape Institute.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Architecture; Landscape architecture
This extended LLB degree includes a foundation year.
Explore a range of legal practice areas, including contract law, criminal law and human rights law.
Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Law
Our law with criminology degree is aimed at those who want to study the main range of legal knowledge, and complement this with knowledge of the causes, consequences and prevention of crime.
Our LLB law degree includes contract law, criminal law, public law and human rights law, providing legal practice expertise for legal careers.
Study a master’s in Marketing Management to develop and deliver successful advertising and communications campaigns.
You'll also get the opportunity, as part of this course, to undertake a placement.
Mode: Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Marketing and advertising
Begin your studies in either September or January.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Marketing and advertising
Prepare for the next step in a successful management career with our MBA Global programme, taught in South London.
Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Business and management
This mechanical engineering degree looks at areas such as structural mechanics and hydraulics for careers in manufacturing and aeronautical engineering.
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Medway Campus Subject: Engineering; Mechanical engineering
Our extended BSc Pharmaceutical Sciences degree includes a foundation year.
Study biochemistry, biology and pharmacology for roles in research and industry.
Mode: Full time,  Sandwich Location: Medway Campus Subject: Pharmaceutical science; Science
Our degree in pharmaceutical sciences explores biochemistry, biology, physiology and pharmacology.
Ideal for roles in pharmaceutical industries.
Mode: Full time,  Sandwich,  Blended learning Location: Medway Campus Subject: Pharmaceutical science; Science
Train as a quantity surveyor in London with our BSc Quantity Surveying.
Gain expertise in construction and property for strong career prospects.
Take charge of your career as a safety professional with our Master’s in Safety, Health and Environment.
Address safety matters in the workplace.
Mode: Part time,  Distance Subject: Construction; Engineering
Sustainable construction is an ever-expanding field.
Make a difference with this Master’s in Sustainable Building Design and Engineering.
Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Construction; Engineering
Our tourism management degree prepares you for the booming international tourism industry.
Gain skills in marketing, development and planning.
Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Tourism, hospitality and events
Study a degree course that has a strong practical focus, which blends relevant grape and wine science theory with hands-on work experience.
Study a course that covers key areas such as sparkling wine production, climate change, and sustainability.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/university-of-greenwich-extends-partnership-with-charlton-athletic-football-club-and-charlton-athletic-community-trust:
Spanning over a decade, the partnership has continued to grow.
The university became the first-ever sponsor of Charlton’s women’s team and remains a visible presence on both the men’s and women’s kits.
Under the renewed agreement, the university will remain on the kit, as back of shirt sponsor, and continue to offer discounted tickets for students and staff, collaborate on research projects, and enhance student involvement through part-time roles, work experience, and guest speaker events.
A key highlight of the partnership has been the themed match days at The Valley.
During the 2024/25 season, five themed fixtures including the Partnership Takeover Day; Red, White and Black Day; the Greener Game; Football v Homophobia, and Her Game Too – drew record attendances from students, staff, alumni and partners.
These events not only celebrate our shared belief in the power of sport to drive social change but also reflect our shared values.
Their impact has also been recognised externally; in 2023, the Football v Homophobia fixture was shortlisted for a HEIST Award for Best Community/Business Engagement Campaign or Initiative.
Alongside this, the themed match days have also created incredible opportunities for students, including part-time employment, professional shadowing, features in promotional content and much more.
The partnership’s impact extends well beyond the pitch.
Through initiatives like the Make it Make Sense (MiMS) project, which exists to support pre-16 school learners across Southeast London and Kent.
In November, CACT visited Saint George’s School in Gravesend, delivering workshops designed to build confidence and help students prepare for life beyond school.
The University of Greenwich also proudly supports Charlton’s broader community work, including Charlton Invicta (the UK’s first LGBTQ+ team formally affiliated with a professional football club) and by sponsoring the annual CACT Awards .
Jane Harrington, Vice-Chancellor and CEO of the University of Greenwich, said: “The University of Greenwich enjoys a great relationship with Charlton Athletic Football Club and Community Trust and we are proud of the work we do together both off and on the pitch.
“We have been working together for over 10 years and are privileged to both play key roles in our local community.
We have a joint belief that sport and education together have the power to drive change.
“I look forward to continuing our work together.”
Gavin Carter, Chairman at CAFC, said: “We’re proud that the University of Greenwich is strengthening its partnership with the club.
They’ve supported Charlton for many years, not just commercially, but strategically and have played a real role in helping us move forward.
“Developing young people is at the heart of both our institutions.
Whether on the pitch or in the classroom, we share a belief in creating opportunities that can shape futures.
“I’m excited about this next chapter in our collaboration and what we can continue to achieve together, for our club, our students, and our community.”
David James, Director of Education and Sport at CACT, said:
“It’s fantastic that CACT’s partnership with the University of Greenwich has been extended.
As established institutions, rooted within the Royal Borough of Greenwich, this collaboration enables us to have an even greater reach and impact, supporting our vision of healthy, happy, resilient and thriving communities.
“I look forward to building on the positive partnership work to date.”
We are excited to continue this long-standing partnership - using the power of sport and education to make a meaningful impact and champion our shared values.
General public
Communications and Recruitment Directorate
Browse our recent news and press releases.
Browse all University of Greenwich articles.
Our historic campuses in London and Kent offer first-class facilities, inspiring teaching and a friendly, diverse community.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/deputy-vice-chancellor-awarded-obe-in-kings-birthday-honours:
We are delighted to share that Professor Andrew Westby, Deputy Vice-Chancellor for Research and Knowledge Exchange at the University of Greenwich, has been made an OBE (Officer of the Order of the British Empire) in the King’s Birthday Honours.
This well-deserved recognition celebrates his services to research in food security and leadership of the Natural Resources Institute (NRI).
Professor Westby worked at the NRI for 34 years, spending 12 of them as its director before taking up the role of Deputy Vice-Chancellor.
Under his leadership, the NRI grew significantly.
It became the first institute in a modern university to run a doctoral training centre, and won two Queen’s Anniversary Prizes for Further and Higher Education, cementing its place as a world-leading institution.
A large part of Professor Westby’s research career focused on the tropical root crop, cassava.
Cassava tolerates poor soils and drought, making it a vital food security crop for millions of people.
Professor Westby led a long-term, collaborative programme of work with partners in sub-Saharan Africa that developed new cassava markets and associated value chains that supported the livelihoods of smallholder farmers.
Major funders were the UK’s Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, the European Union and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
Today, Professor Westby leads the implementation of the University of Greenwich’s Research and Knowledge Exchange strategy, through which we deliver world-leading, rigorous and impactful research to answer some of the planet’s biggest questions.
Professor Jane Harrington, Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive Officer of the University of Greenwich, says: “I am delighted that Andrew’s work is receiving the recognition it deserves.
Andrew’s vital research has changed the lives of many, and his leadership of the Natural Resources Institute has been a source of great pride for the university.
I know that I am joined by the entire Greenwich community in wishing him congratulations.”
Reflecting on his award, Professor Andrew Westby adds: “I am deeply touched to receive this award.
Working within the NRI and at Greenwich means I am part of a wider community of students, staff and partners, and it is an honour to have had their support and camaraderie throughout my career.
“Like many, I joined the NRI because I wanted to contribute to reducing poverty, ensuring food security and creating a more sustainable world through agricultural and food research.
Through the work of the Institute, and the University of Greenwich, we get the chance to make a significant impact every day.
It is a privilege to serve our community in this way and to do so alongside so many talented and inspiring people.”
Stories from around the university.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/greenwich-academic-leads-thames-path-review-workshop-in-partnership-with-the-royal-borough-of-greenwich:
The findings from the workshop – in addition to further responses from residents, active travel groups, businesses and developers – will inform policy proposals for the future of the Thames Path in Royal Greenwich.
Greenwich has the biggest river frontage of any London borough.
Development of the borough over the next decade will inevitably lead to significant population growth.
According to the Council’s project mission statement, the “benefits to reviewing the Thames Path are numerous, including; promoting active travel, the transport strategy and modal shift; promoting healthy lifestyles and improving public health; promoting the local and tourist economy; strengthening the regeneration of the waterfront to integrate the path; improving the quality of life for all Royal Greenwich residents.”
The workshop was organised by Royal Borough of Greenwich Cllr Maisie Richards Cottell and Prof Ed Wall, University of Greenwich, Spatial and Digital Ecologies.
It was supported by the Spatial and Digital Ecologies research centre in the Institute for Inclusive Communities and Environments.
For three years, the Masters Landscape Architecture programmes at the University of Greenwich have been teaching New Coasts, which explores the future of the tidal Thames and the North Sea.
This year the BA (Hons) Landscape Architecture students have also been developing designs for the Thames Path in Greenwich.
Ed Wall said:
“It has been a fantastic opportunity for the landscape architecture students to inform policy-based decisions and especially about landscapes that the university campus is part of.”
Cllr Maisie Richards Cottell said:
“This was an incredibly energising workshop with great insight offered from the landscape architects who gave their time and expertise.
I’m very grateful to Ed for working with me on this work and the University of Greenwich for hosting and supporting us; it has been a great collaboration between the university and local council.’
To keep up to date on developments to the Thames Path and other council news and events you can sign up to the Council’s weekly newsletter or follow it on social media including WhatsApp .
Pictured: Ed Wall (foreground) and Maisie Richards Cottell (background) show guests along the Thames Path

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/university-of-greenwich-school-of-design-end-of-year-show-2025:
Running for two weeks in June 2025 and open to the public, visitors to this free exhibition will see innovative design concepts, projects, and research in the following design fields - Animation, Architecture, Drama, Film and Television, Graphic and Digital Design, Landscape Architecture, Media and Creative Arts, and Music and Sound Production.
The exhibition is the culmination of the hard work and dedication of over 500 students who have pursued their creative passions across these subject areas.
Visit the show's website to find out more about the exhibits on display.
Professor Chris Pallant, Head of the School of Design and Creative Industries said:
The End of Year Show is a fitting way to sign off on another year in the School of Design and Creative Industries, and it is the perfect platform for the students exhibiting to showcase their work and talent for all to see.
The exhibition - which takes place in the university’s award-winning Stockwell Street Building in the centre of Greenwich - celebrates our students’ achievements, creativity, and excellence.
Opening dates:
Friday 13 June 2025 - Saturday 28 June 2025
Monday to Saturday: 12:00 pm - 8:00 pm / Sunday: Closed
Please note: the exhibition is closed on Saturday 21 June - entry will NOT be permitted on this date
Free Tickets available vis this link

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/greenwich-business-school-secures-small-business-charter-reaccreditation-for-next-five-years:
The Small Business Charter is an accreditation celebrating world-class business schools across the UK and Ireland that demonstrate excellence and impact in supporting small businesses, student entrepreneurship, and their local economies.
The Small Business Charter accreditation demonstrates a business school’s effectiveness in supporting SMEs, student entrepreneurs and local economies.
It is a mark of excellence of a business school’s provision of high quality, tailored guidance, education programmes and services to help small businesses and entrepreneurs run successful businesses.
Securing reaccreditation will provide further opportunities for the school to run various management programmes and to build further networks with key communities.
From the report, the assessor panel mentioned the following:
“There are some truly impactful activities happening in the business school, and it is clear to see the value they bring to those businesses who engage.
"Business leaders spoke highly of their mentors and their personal outcomes of collaborating.
It was clear to see how the businesses are engaged with an ecosystem which has been designed to allow the transfer of knowledge in a two-way system.”
The reaccreditation project was led by the Director of the Executive Business Centre, Katie Ballantyne and the Head of Enterprise and Innovation, Rachel Brown, with Deputy Dean, Joanna Smith as our FLT Chair and was supported by Nikki Makinwa, Head of Accreditations & Standards.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/is-social-media-associated-with-increasing-loneliness-in-young-adults-it-depends-on-the-app:
There has been increasing concern that overall time spent online is contributing to greater loneliness and other psychological harm in children and young adults.
But a new study by a team of international researchers and published in Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences found that it is the type of social media platform that is associated with loneliness, more than the use of social media itself.
The study was conducted by an international group of researchers from the University of Greenwich, King’s College London, Duke University, University of Oslo, and University of California, Irvine .
It investigated patterns of digital technology use and their associations with loneliness in a cohort of 1,632 young adults (mean age 26) in the United Kingdom who had been followed prospectively since childhood for the Environmental Risk Longitudinal Twin Study.
Data were collected via an online survey in 2019–2020.
The period of data collection allowed for comparing young adults before and during the COVID-19 pandemic.
The researchers reported that networking social media platforms such as Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter (now known as X) were not especially associated with above average levels of loneliness.
However, those sites that promote passive consumption such as YouTube and Reddit, as well as some dating apps, were.
The one app that stood out was WhatsApp, which was associated with lower levels of loneliness.
These patterns between social media platforms and loneliness were the same before and during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Researchers also found that compulsive use of digital technology or experiences of online victimization were associated with higher levels of loneliness, suggesting that it is the nature of digital technology experiences that are associated with loneliness.
Much has been debated in policy circles regarding the effects of social media use on youth and how best to regulate it.
This paper demonstrates that mental health issues, specifically loneliness, and its association with social media are nuanced and should not be treated as a homogenous category because of the differences between platform types and how they are used.
This study will help to inform users, public health officials, and policy makers about more effective ways to use and regulate social media to optimize public health.
A copy of the study may be downloaded here “ Social media use, online experiences, and loneliness among young adults: A cohort study”.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/news:
Find out about the history of the university's institutions.
The Media Team provide a 24-hour cover service for journalists and staff: issuing press releases, placing features, answering journalists' questions and arranging interviews with academic staff.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/events/virtual-tours:
Welcome to our virtual tours section.
Here you can browse through all three campuses to get a closer insight into our learning facilities, accommodation halls and additional amenities.
As part of our ongoing commitment to real action on a greener future in order to reduce our energy consumption, we no longer supply refrigerators in individual student rooms.
Fridges are supplied in shared kitchens.Find out more about our action for a greener future on our Sustainability pages.
Sign up to receive our latest updates via email and gain access to download our free prospectus.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/campus/greenwich:
Our riverside Greenwich Campus is surrounded by the greenery of Greenwich Park and is located close to central London.
Greenwich Campus sits on a World Heritage Site and is located in the heart of Greenwich, south-east London.
The neighbourhood has a lively atmosphere but is away from the hustle and bustle of the city, making it the ideal place to study.
The campus is surrounded by historical landmarks, as well as Greenwich Park and a selection of bars and restaurants.
Many sites around the campus have been used as sets for films, such as The King's Speech, Les Misérables, Four Weddings and a Funeral, and The Queen.
Take a virtual tour.
The University of Greenwich has invested heavily in its learning and social spaces to offer world-class study facilities in London.
The £76-million Stockwell Street Building opened in 2014 and is now home to the campus library, film and TV studios, and state-of-the-art editing suites.
Our new £25-million Dreadnought Building is a central hub for the Greenwich Campus, with further teaching and social spaces.
The neighbouring Stephen Lawrence Gallery showcases the work of contemporary artists.
Greenwich Campus also has an on-site bar, two coffee shops, and a number of places to grab a bite to eat.
Greenwich is packed with pubs, bars, restaurants, and live music venues.
One of the world's largest music arenas - the O2 - is based in North Greenwich.
The likes of Ed Sheeran, Rhianna, Jay Z, and The Rolling Stones have all played there.
Just outside the campus gates you'll find the Cutty Sark, a 19th-century tea clipper by the river, and Greenwich Market, where you can find craft items and street food from around the world.
The 74-hectare Greenwich Park gives you access to cricket pitches and tennis courts.
Its enormous hill provides spectacular views of London - with the Royal Observatory sitting at the very top.
A free shuttle bus runs between Greenwich and Avery Hill Campus.
Transport for London (TFL) buses run at regular intervals.
You can access London Underground services via Greenwich DLR Station.
You can access National Rail services via Greenwich Station and Maze Hill Station.
The Thames Clipper will take you from Greenwich to Westminster in 35 minutes.
There is no on-campus parking available for students.
However, there is a public car park just outside the campus in Park Row.
See full travel information for Greenwich Campus.
Greenwich Campus could be the perfect setting for your student experience.
Come and see for yourself with a self-guided audio tour of the campus or join us at an Open Day.
Sign up for an Open Day.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/campus/avery-hill:
It has first-rate teaching and sporting facilities, as well as student accommodation.
Avery Hill is the ideal setting for students looking to study in London.
Not only does it have a campus university vibe with teaching and living space, it is also just 30 minutes by train from central London.
View in full screen.
The campus is renowned for its excellent teaching and sporting facilities.
We have recently invested £14 million into two new buildings, four clinical skills laboratories, and two floodlit, all-weather sport pitches at Avery Hill Campus.
It's the place to study if you're considering a career in nursing, medicine, or social work, with a huge health and social care teaching space on campus.
Our clinical skills laboratories are designed to replicate NHS wards.
It's here that trainee health professionals gain the practical experience they need for real health care environments.
If you're interested in a sports-related career, the David Fussey Building is home to a sports and teaching centre, with a multi-purpose sports hall and a 220-seat lecture theatre.
You can also take advantage of our strong partnerships with Charlton Athletic FC, whose training ground is based next to the campus.
The Student Village at Avery Hill Campus accommodates around 1,000 students during term time, which gives it a relaxed, friendly atmosphere.
On-site facilities include a café, canteen, shop, launderette, bicycle parking, and a fully-equipped gym (fees apply).
There are plenty of pubs, clubs, and restaurants in nearby Eltham.
You can also head to the Broadway Shopping Centre in Bexleyheath, or take a bus to Bluewater - one of Europe's largest shopping and leisure centres.
If you're looking for some sporting action, you can watch Charlton Athletic Football Club play at The Valley, or visit Crystal Palace National Sports Centre , which hosts a number of high-profile athletics events.
That's not forgetting the 86-acre Avery Hill Park, with its outdoor gym, outdoor tennis tables and marked footpaths which are part of the Green Chain Walk .
If you want to travel around the region, there are plenty of options to get around Avery Hill and Eltham.
A free shuttle bus runs between Avery Hill and Greenwich Campuses.
National Rail services can be accessed via New Eltham Station and Falconwood Station.
On-campus parking is available for students (fees apply).
See full travel information for Avery Hill Campus.
Avery Hill Campus could be the perfect setting for your student experience.
Sign up for an Open Day .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/campus/medway:
A forward-thinking university in a historic setting.
Discover more about student life and the study experience at Medway Campus in Chatham Maritime, Kent.
Where you choose to study is a really important decision, and we are delighted to welcome you to our historic Medway Campus in Chatham, Kent.
The campus also has amazing cafés and bars, including those in Pembroke and Pilkington Buildings.
An attractive piazza-style area with outdoor seating is ideal for events.
There are also plenty of green spaces, with a tennis court.
We offer our students a supportive environment for their studies and the help they need to secure graduate jobs in London, the South East and further afield.
Our proud tradition in education may date back over 125 years, but we're respected by industry experts as a forward-looking university.
Students benefit from excellent study facilities.
Our 8,000m 2 state-of-the-art laboratory provides cutting-edge technology and first-class facilities for students on our science and engineering degrees.
We've also got an outstanding learning resource centre, the Drill Hall Library, which has over 150,000 books and 400 computers.
View our facilities at one of our Open Days .
Medway Campus has its own local identity, which is shaped by a community of 10,000 students from all over the world.
On-campus accommodation for University of Greenwich students comprises 350 rooms across five halls of residence.
Our security team and resident assistants will help you feel safe and at home.
Our £4 million Student Hub is a social space which has been designed to enhance your student experience.
You'll have the opportunity to join a range of clubs and societies to balance your studies.
Beyond the campus, we're a short walk from the Historic Dockyard and the Dockside Shopping Outlet with its multi-screen cinema, restaurants and bars.
You can also find sports facilities at Medway Park, including a swimming pool and an Olympic-standard running track.
Shopping and entertainment at Bluewater are only 20 minutes away.
If you want to travel further afield or live off campus, there are plenty of options to get around Medway and the South East.
Bus services for Rainham, Gillingham, Chatham, Rochester, Maidstone and Gravesend stop on or near the campus.
The bus company Arriva offers a generous discount to our students on local services.
A university bus service runs between Medway and our other two campuses in London.
A fee applies, and services are scheduled to get you to and from lectures at the appropriate times.
You can reach central London by train in around 45 minutes from Chatham station, while the scenic Kent coastline is just over half an hour away.
Medway is also well located for Ebbsfleet International station if you wish to travel by Eurostar.
You can reach France and Belgium in under two hours.
If you prefer to travel by car, we have parking for staff and students on campus (fees apply).
See full travel information for Medway Campus.
Medway Campus could be the perfect setting for you to begin your student journey.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/contact:
View contact information for all areas of the University of Greenwich.
Main switchboard telephone: 020 8331 8000.
Main switchboard: +44 (0)20 8331 8000
The University of Greenwich is a charity and company limited by guarantee, registered in England (reg.
986729).
Registered office: Old Royal Naval College, Park Row, London SE10 9LS
Our Digital Student Centre is your space to find answers to your questions, helping you get the support you need when you need it.
AskUoG is our central hub for student information, where you can get quick support on a range of aspects related to your student life.
Find support on topics such as fees and finance, timetabling, accommodation, university life, visa and international advice, disability, mental health, campus facilities, registration, employability, graduation, wellbeing, and personal support.
With over a thousand easy to navigate articles, AskUoG helps you stay on top of things.
For further information on topics such as fees and finance, timetabling, university life, disability, mental health, registration, employability, graduation, wellbeing, and personal support please contact your local college and their support services team.
If you are starting in September 2025 and have questions about registering
Use this telephone number and e-mail address for all enquiries about applying to become a student at the University of Greenwich – including requests for prospectuses and how to apply.
Telephone
If you're a former student or graduate of the University of Greenwich, you can contact the Alumni & Fundraising team for your queries.
You can find answers to some of our frequently asked questions on our contact page .
The university has a business development unit, Greenwich Research and Innovation (GRI) supporting all four academic faculties in each of their areas of expertise and can give you access to the wealth of expertise here at the University of Greenwich.
Contact us to find out more, and discuss your business needs further.
For urgent, out-of-hours media enquiries telephone +44(0)20 8331 8937.
This is a 24-hour service, for journalists only.
University of Greenwich Southwood Site Avery Hill Road Eltham London SE9 2UG
University of Greenwich Old Royal Naval College Park Row Greenwich London SE10 9LS
University of Greenwich Central Avenue Chatham Maritime Kent ME4 4TB

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/campus:
The University of Greenwich has two London-based campuses and one at Medway in Kent.
Combine a city lifestyle with tranquil surroundings for a unique study experience.
You'll use the latest technology in our state-of-the-art teaching spaces while enjoying the splendour of our historic buildings.
Our facilities include first-class advanced laboratories for our science and engineering students, plus three campus libraries with dedicated academic services librarians.
The newly reopened Dreadnought Building at Greenwich hosts academic, teaching and computing spaces alongside a gymnasium and concert venue for a memorable student experience.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/partner:
The university works closely with a number of colleges local and international to build partnerships to help better the experience for students.
We work with selected colleges, regionally and internationally, to help meet a rising demand for higher education at local, regional, national and international levels.
Global Greenwich Find out more about our international partnerships, including overseas collaborations and our Study Abroad, Erasmus and exchange programmes.
Partner college network Through these partnerships, we help to continuously develop and enhance degree programmes, and stimulate research and consultancy activities.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/travel:
The University of Greenwich is easy to find, with great transport networks including train, bus and car.
Get directions to all of our campuses here.
University of Greenwich is based in London and Medway.
We are well located for major UK airports and ferry terminals, including Heathrow, Gatwick and Folkestone.
Get to Avery Hill Campus Buses stop just outside the campus, National Rail is within an easy walk, and we have pay and display parking.
Get to Greenwich Campus The campus is located in the centre of Greenwich a short walk from Greenwich DLR station and with excellent bus links.
Get to Medway Campus In Chatham Maritime, Kent, with bus links to the rail network and parking for permit holders.
Get to Bathway Located in the centre of Woolwich with excellent public transport connections.
Get to Hamilton House Located in Park Vista a short walk from the main Greenwich Campus.
Get to Stockwell Street Located in the centre of Greenwich a short walk from the main campus.
University bus service Details of our University Bus Service.
More travel More transport guidance and travel initiatives at the university.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/jobs:
Explore the jobs and careers at the University of Greenwich.
Browse the latest jobs and find out more about the University.
Welcome to the University of Greenwich.
We are an ambitious and diverse community who take great pride in our institution’s 130-year history within the higher education sector.
Our staff and students come from many walks of life and we value the talents and lived experience of each and every one of them.
We believe in education without boundaries, supporting our students to achieve their ambitions because of, not despite, their background.
We are a positive force for change, leading the way in student experience, impact-driven research and knowledge exchange.
Our impressive reputation for teaching and learning earned us a Silver rating in the 2017 Teaching Excellence Framework and we offer students an extensive portfolio of academic programmes.
With the help of our highly talented and motivated staff, we are building on these firm foundations and our goal is to become the best modern university in the UK.
As well as offering a first-class learning experience for our students, we provide applied research and enterprise that is recognised nationally and internationally.
Our research is regularly acknowledged as among the best in the world, with particular strengths in natural resources, pharmaceutical science and computational modelling.
Our three beautiful campuses in London and Kent foster a sense of community to build networks, relationships and connections that set our students up for life.
All our campuses are founded upon our commitment to create successful partnerships, providing sector-leading facilities and attracting talent from all over the world.
We are looking for colleagues who share our values and behaviours, and have the dynamism, expertise and enthusiasm to thrive as part of our professional community.
If you think you can help the university to continue to be a great place for teaching and research, please consider applying for one of the vacancies posted on our webpages .
The university welcomes people from diverse and underrepresented communities who can help the university to achieve its mission.
We do this through taking positive action such as encouraging applications from Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic , disabled and LGBT+ and non-conforming people .
As part of our commitment to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion and Mentally Healthy Universities , we are committed to promoting and supporting the physical and mental health of all our staff, and removing barriers to improve inclusion.
We encourage applicants to disclose experience of mental health problems so we can support them fully during our recruitment process and make any necessary reasonable adjustments.
Any information disclosed will be kept confidential and separate from the job application form.
We are making significant strides to understand and continuously improve our employees’ experience and we are committed to implementing progressive diversity talent management.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/policy:
The University of Greenwich has policies and guidelines on a wide array of matter looking at everything from academic through value for money.
Can't find the policy you were looking for?
Either visit our other policy information page or use the website search

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/governance:
The processes, policies and systems by which the university is administered and directed.
We have policies and guidelines covering everything from academic procedures to achieving the best value for money in all university projects.
Responsibilities and contact information for the university's senior management staff.
Helping the University and its employees comply with the Freedom of Information Act 2000 and the Data Protection legislation.
The Governing Body is the main decision-making body of the University.
It has the ultimate responsibility for setting and monitoring the strategy of the University.
Information about the Health & Safety Unit, policy and training.
Accessibility Compliance includes adherence to the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and an annual audit of Accessibility Statements.
The Academic Council has a number of committees supporting it in its work, including committees responsible for Student Success, Research and Knowledge Exchange, Programmes and Partnerships, Research Ethics and related committees in the University's Faculties.
The Academic Council is the University's most senior academic committee.
It oversees the teaching and research of the University and is responsible for academic quality and standards.
Guidance for staff on how to declare an actual or potential conflict of interest and gifts/hospitality relating to their role.
The executive committees are headed by the Vice-Chancellor's Executive (VCE).
VCE has a number of committees supporting it in its work including committees responsible for health, safety, safeguarding and wellbeing, estates, people, information technology management, equality, diversity and inclusion, capital programmes, fees and financial support and UKVI assurance.
This page provides guidance on the Foreign Influence Registration Scheme (FIRS).
Information about the University’s Freedom of Speech Code of Practice and external speaker approval process.
This resource area provides information about the University of Greenwich’s governance including guidance on and documentation for committee servicing.
This is information about the University's insurance policies.
Information about our internal legal services resources.
Planning and Statistics analyses data for incorporation into external returns and to provide insights for strategic planning purposes.
The University of Greenwich continuously develops and maintains an effective approach to risk management.
Risk management involves a planned, systematic approach to identifying, evaluating and controlling the financial, administrative, commercial and reputational that can arise through our business activities.
Information about our Safeguarding policies and arrangements.
'Single comprehensive source of information' required by the Office for Students (OfS registration condition E6).
Information about the University Delegation Framework and how powers are delegated within the University.
Information about making a disclosure under the University's Public Interest Disclosure (Whistleblowing) Policy and Procedure.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/accessibility-statement:
This website is run by the University of Greenwich.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
This accessibility statement applies to the University of Greenwich website ( www.gre.ac.uk ).
For example, that means you should be able to:
We've also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille:
We'll consider your request and get back to you in two working days.
We are always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we are not meeting accessibility requirements, contact us using our website accessibility information form or email accessibility@gre.ac.uk including details of the issue you experienced.
You'll receive conformation of our receipt within two working days, and details of the steps we will take to evaluate and, if necessary, correct the problem.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
We provide a text relay service for people who are D/deaf, hearing impaired or have a speech impediment.
Our offices have audio induction loops, or if you contact us before your visit we can arrange a British Sign Language (BSL) interpreter.
Find out how to contact us .
The University of Greenwich is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
Some images on older articles from 2018 or earlier do not have a text alternative, so people using a screen reader cannot access the information.
This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 1.1.1 (non-text content).
A project is underway to update or remove old images by September 2023.
Some older PDFs and Word documents do not meet accessibility standards.
For example, they may not be marked up so they are accessible to a screen reader.
This fails WCAG 2.1 success criterion 4.1.2 (name, role value).
As older documents are replaced, they will be updated with accessible versions.
All PDF and Word documents on the website are currently being reviewed to assess whether they are still relevant.
As part of this exercise, any documents identified as failing to meet accessibility standards will either be updated to ensure they are fully accessible by December 2023, or removed.
On some pages related to recruitment, we include a third party 'Live Chat' tool.
At higher levels of magnification, on mobile devices, this can sometimes obscure other content on the page.
This tool is hosted through third party software and ‘skinned’ to look like our website, and then embedded on it.
We’ve assessed the cost of fixing this magnification issue with and we believe that doing so now would be a disproportionate burden within the meaning of the accessibility regulations.
We will make another assessment when the supplier contract is up for renewal, likely to be in April 2024.
The disproportionate burden assessment for this issue can be found on our website .
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations .
WCAG 2.1 defines three levels of conformance: level A, level AA and level AAA.
This website treats WCAG 2.1 Level AA conformance as a minimum requirement and aims for AAA.
As a result, we apply some level AAA success criteria to all content:
This statement was prepared on 23rd November 2022.
It was last reviewed on 23rd November 2022.
This website was last tested in November 2022.
The test was carried out internally by the Information and Library Services Directorate within the University of Greenwich.
Our testing methodology included the use of automatic tools (notably SiteImprove and the AccessibleWeb browser plugin) to conduct a broad assessment of potential technical issues, combined with manual testing to assess more complex requirements.
Due to the volume and number of University of Greenwich website pages, non-automatic testing was carried out against a sample of pages.
We used this approach to deciding on a sample of pages to test .
The sampled pages were assessed to ensure we had covered a sufficient sample of content falling into the following categories:
The manual tests carried out were the following:
A full report was created as a result of this process.
Outstanding issues, once identified, were then addressed or have been flagged within this statement.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/governance/legal-information/copyright:
This website and its content is copyright of the University of Greenwich – © University of Greenwich 2015.
All rights reserved.
Any redistribution or reproduction of part or all of the contents in any form is prohibited, other than:
Please e-mail ip@gre.ac.uk for permissions and guidelines.
All aspects of the website design, text, graphics, databases, underlying source code, software (including applets) and other material on this website are copyright the University of Greenwich.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/governance/legal-information/fcdo-funded-projects:
Staff and partners involved in FCDO funded business can immediately report all suspicions or allegations of aid diversion, fraud, money laundering or counter-terrorism finance to the Counter Fraud and Whistleblowing Unit (CFWU) at reportingconcerns@fcdo.gov.uk or on +44(0)1355 843747 .
Staff and Partners involved in FCDO funded business must adhere to the UNGC principles 1 & 2 which are:
Organisations should do this by giving attention to vulnerable groups including women, children, people with disabilities, indigenous groups, migrant workers and older people.
Organisations should comply with all laws, honouring international standards and giving particular consideration to high-risk areas with weak governance.
Examples of how suppliers and partners should do this are set out below:

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/hr/edi:
We take active steps to provide an inclusive environment for students, staff and visitors as outlined in the Public Sector Equality Duty of the Equality Act 2010.
In addition to this webpage, we have an Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Hub , which provides wider activities and information.
The People Enabling Strategy provides an effective framework for our EDI workstreams going forward to 2030 and to make our university culture a more equitable and inclusive place for students, staff and our wider community.
University Strategy
We celebrate the diversity of our staff and students.
Our inclusive culture fosters an environment of freedom of expression and a place for staff and students to feel safe, accepted and recognised for who they are without fear of exclusion.
Strategic priority two Inclusivity and Culture (page 29) highlights our ambitions for the university.
People Strategy
The university aspires to be sector-leading in EDI by 2030.
We will achieve this by embedding an approach to EDI that values our unique identities and contributions in everything we do and making us a positive force for change.
Our priorities are around promoting equity in representation, pay, experience, culture and environment to ensure that our people reflect the diversity of our students and communities.
For further information can be found within the People Enabling Strategy with particular reference to Section 4: Inclusivity and Culture .
We believe that having a clear Equality and Diversity Policy Statement for staff and students reinforces our expectations of the values and behaviours that all members of the University community should exhibit.
The policy outlines that the University will take steps to encourage staff, students and visitors to the University to:
Please create a request on Horizon Help Desk for our EDI Strategy 2019-22.
As a University with more than 250 employees we must publish and report specific figures about our gender pay gap.
We have also made a commitment to wider protected characteristic pay gap reporting for BAME, Disability and LGBT+ staff.
The EDI Board makes recommendations on the University's EDI programme and aspires to deliver sector leading EDI activities aligned to our university strategy and oversees implementation of the EDI Programme.
The EDI Board reports to the Vice-Chancellor's Executive and also to the People Board on elements of the People Sub-Strategy relating to EDI.
EDI Board (Committee) Meetings 2023 - 2024
EDI Board (Committee) Meetings 2022 - 2023
EDI Board (Committee) Meetings 2021 - 2022
EDI Board (Committee) Meetings 2020 - 2021
EDI Board (Committee) Meetings 2019 - 2020
We collect diversity monitoring data on our staff and students and analyse this information at key stages of the higher education life cycle.
Your information enables us to improve our support and to tailor services for staff and students.
Understanding the diversity of our university community – in numbers and through lived experiences – is important in empowering and celebrating all that we are.
Further information around data collection can be found here .
An equality impact analysis is a way of finding out whether documentation on policy, function, practice, procedure or provision and organisational wide decisions have due regard (i.e., conscious thinking) for the legislative requirements of Equality Act 2010.
A proposed policy, function, procedure, practice or provision has a different effect on the protected characteristics of different groups e.g., students and staff and needs to take into account the experiences and circumstances of those groups or individuals who may be affected.
The IMPACT Equality Analysis provides a useful RISK tool for identifying and addressing discrimination:
Equality Impact Analysis (EIA)
Equality Impact Analysis (EIA) - Baseline Data and Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Equality Impact Analysis (EIA) Screening
We have two online mandatory training modules available for University staff to complete.
These training modules help to build confidence in recognising equality, diversity and inclusion in everyday situations.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion in Practice online training comprises of two courses:

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/governance/legal-information/disclaimer:
Registered Office:
University of Greenwich Old Royal Naval College Park Row London SE10 9LS

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/governance/information-compliance/making-requests-for-information/freedom-of-information:
Make a request for information held by the University of Greenwich under the Freedom of Information Act 2000.
To make a request for information held by the University of Greenwich under the Freedom of Information Act 2000, contact: compliance@greenwich.ac.uk or
Freedom of Information Officer University of Greenwich Old Royal Naval College Queen Anne Court Park Row, Greenwich London SE10 9LS
Provide your full name and contact details, and a clear explanation of the information required.
Requests will be responded to within 20 working days, subject to exemptions or clarification.
We do not charge a fee, although if the cost of your request exceeds 18 hours, we are entitled to refuse it.
The Information Commissioner's Office oversees the legislation, and complaints can be made there.
Complaints must first go through our internal review procedure:
General Counsel
University of Greenwich
Old Royal Naval College
Park Row, Greenwich
London SE10 9LS
Email: universitysecretary@greenwich.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/governance/freedom-of-speech:
The University of Greenwich is committed to academic freedom; to ensuring freedom of speech within the law for students, staff and visiting speakers; and to ensuring that the use of our premises is not denied to any individual or group on any ground connected with their ideas or opinions, or the policy or objectives of the group or the ideas and opinions of any of its members.
The University’s Freedom of Speech Code of Practice sets out these commitments and how they will be implemented.
The University is required to issue a Freedom of Speech Code of Practice under the Higher Education (Freedom of Speech) Act 2023.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/governance/transparency:
The table published below shows the percentage of classified first degrees at grade 2:1 or above by characteristics, for 2021-22 qualifiers.
It shows these percentages by:
We review disparities in student outcomes across demographic characteristics on a regular basis and this informs our approach to delivering on our Access & Participation Plan.
More information can be found in our Access & Participation Plan .
Detailed information is found in Table 1b, link below.
Numerators and denominators have been rounded to the nearest 10.
Where the numerator or denominator rounds to 20 or less, the data are suppressed with an "N".
Percentages are rounded according to the smallest, unsuppressed denominator in a given mode and characteristic.
If the denominator rounds to:
'N/A' is displayed where there is no provision in a given mode or level.
'DP' indicates suppression for data protection reasons.
This is applied where the numerator is two or less, or differs from the denominator by no more than two students.
Ethnic minorities = Includes students with Asian, Black, Mixed, or Other ethnicities.
EIMD = English Indices of Multiple Deprivation.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/governance/legal-information/privacy:
Read the privacy statement relating to the University of Greenwich website.
Find out more about the website privacy policy.
We pay for adverts to increase awareness of our services.
Some of these are 'targeted' at people who have been on our site before, or have viewed other relevant sites.
To do this we provide information to the advertising company by placing a small pixel on certain pages.
This information can't be used to identify you.
Our web pages may contain personal data, including names, contact details and photographs.
We don't add the personal data of any person who is not a member of staff to the website without permission.
We aim to ensure all personal data on the website is accurate and up to date.
When we collect personal data – for instance forms, questionnaires or surveys – we tell you what it's being used for, and if it will be shared with third parties.
The data is collected securely and confidentially.
We only use personal information to provide services, or for lawful, disclosed purposes.
To monitor our website use, our web servers collect anonymous information such as IP addresses, browser software, and dates, times and pages visited.
This helps us analyse data about web traffic and improve our website.
We use this information for statistical analysis then remove it from the system.
By using any page on our website, or our services, you are agreeing to us collecting your personal information.
We always process personal data in accordance with Data Protection legislation.
To find out more, visit our information compliance pages.
To find out how you can amend any errors in the personal information held about you, please e-mail compliance@gre.ac.uk .
This privacy statement only applies to this website – not to websites we provide links to.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/governance/student-harassment-and-sexual-misconduct:
This webpage summarises the University's policies and procedures on student harassment and sexual misconduct, including intimate personal relationships between staff members and students.
This webpage is the 'single comprehensive source of information' required by the Office for Students (OfS registration condition E6).
Harassment is defined in the University’s Student Harassment and Sexual Misconduct Policy as follows:
“Harassment” has the meaning given in section 26 of the Equality Act 2010 and section 1 of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 (interpreted in accordance with section 7 of that Act):
The definitions of ‘harassment’ in section 26 of the Equality Act 2010 and section 1 of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 include ‘objective’ and ‘reasonableness’ tests:
See our Report + Support portal for further information on What are Bullying and Harassment?
Sexual misconduct is defined in the University’s Student Harassment and Sexual Misconduct Policy as follows:
“Sexual Misconduct” relates to any unwanted or attempted unwanted conduct of a sexual nature.
This includes, but is not limited to:
See our Report + Support portal for further information on What is Sexual Misconduct?
The University provides a portal, Report + Support , which students and staff can use to disclose bullying, discrimination, harassment, hate crime and sexual misconduct .
You can disclose anonymously or ask to speak to a trained advisor to get information on reporting options and support available so that you can make an informed decision on what happens next.
The Student Harassment and Sexual Misconduct Policy sets out other options which students and staff have for disclosing concerns if they don’t want to use Report + Support, including contacting the relevant faculty or directorate for action to be taken under the appropriate University policy.
We would however encourage students and staff to consider using Report + Support in the first instance so that they can access specialist support from a trained advisor.
Students and staff can disclose how they have been affected by harassment and sexual misconduct using the University’s Report + Support portal.
You can choose to do this anonymously or you can request support from an advisor.
If you choose to speak to an advisor, they will be able to talk through the reporting options and support available to you, in confidence.
Our Student Support Advisors are all trained Sexual Violence Liaison Officers and Mental Health First Aiders.
A range of support is available within and outside the University for students and staff who have experienced harassment and sexual misconduct.
Further information about support options is available on our Report + Support portal:
Students facing allegations: as indicated in the Student Harassment and Sexual Misconduct Policy , the University has appointed specially trained members of staff who have the competence and confidence to respond to the needs of students who are accused of harassment and sexual misconduct.
Support is also available from the Student Wellbeing Service and Greenwich Students’ Union .
The Report + Support portal includes information for students accused of misconduct .
The following policies are relevant to how we investigate allegations of student harassment and sexual misconduct:
The Student Harassment and Sexual Misconduct Policy defines what harassment and sexual misconduct are and sets out the University’s approach to preventing and addressing harassment and sexual misconduct.
In terms of how incidents are investigated, the Student Harassment and Sexual Misconduct Policy specifies that:
The Student Disciplinary Procedure and the staff Disciplinary Policy and Procedure set out how allegations will be investigated fairly, including timescales, stages, penalties and appeal provisions.
Ensuring confidentiality is a key principle in creating a culture where those affected feel safe to make a disclosure about harassment and sexual misconduct.
The University will take all reasonable steps to protect the confidentiality and privacy of those who disclose harassment and sexual misconduct.
However, there may be circumstances (e.g.
in order to protect an individual at risk) where we are required to share information with other agencies or to share information internally.
Further details about confidentiality and information sharing are provided in the Student Harassment and Sexual Misconduct Policy , the Student Confidentiality Policy and the FAQs for the Report + Support portal.
In accordance with the Student Disciplinary Procedure , where it is reasonable and practicable to do so in accordance with its duties and obligations under data protection legislation, the University will provide the student that has raised an  allegation of harassment or sexual misconduct with an outcome of the investigation and/or an explanation of any actions that the University has taken, or not taken.
This includes where the outcome is changed for any reason.
However, it may only be possible for the University to provide limited information depending on the circumstances.
Guidelines have been agreed between Student and Academic Services (SAS) and People Directorate to ensure effective co-ordination over allegations by students against staff which are considered under the staff Disciplinary Policy and Procedure .
This includes:
We’re committed to ensuring that students understand what harassment and sexual misconduct is, how to report it, the support available to them, what consent is and how to intervene effectively.
We are committed to protecting students from any actual or potential conflict of interest and/or abuse of power that may arise from intimate personal relationships with staff.
Our Personal Relationships at Work Policy bans personal relationships between staff and students, except for pre-existing relationships which must be declared so any conflicts of interest can be managed.
We are committed to taking steps that will make a significant and credible difference to protecting students from harassment and sexual misconduct.
These include:
When investigating allegations of harassment or sexual misconduct, we will have particular regard to, and place significant weight on,the importance of freedom of speech within the law, academic freedom and tolerance for controversial views in an educational context or environment.
Our commitments to freedom of speech and academic freedom are set out in our Freedom of Speech Code of Practice .
In particular, we will assume that the exposure of students to course materials, and statements made and views expressed by a person as part of teaching, research or discussions about any subject matter that is connected with the content of a course, are unlikely to constitute harassment, unless it is otherwise demonstrated that these matters do in fact amount to harassment.
In March 2022 Greenwich signed Can’t Buy My Silence’s Universities Pledge .
This means that we will not use non-disclosure agreements (NDAs) in relation to complaints of sexual harassment, abuse, misconduct, or other forms of harassment and bullying.
In addition, since September 2024 the Office for Students has prohibited universities from using NDAs in relation to student allegations of harassment and sexual misconduct.
The use of NDAs in relation to complaints of harassment and sexual misconduct by students and staff is also prohibited under provisions of the Higher Education (Freedom of Speech) Act 2023 which came into effect on 1 August 2024.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/study/apply/transfers:
The following explains what to do if you want to transfer between courses at the University of Greenwich or transfer to or from another higher education provider.
Here, you will find guidance around student transfers (in accordance with the Office for Students Regulatory Framework).
This will help you if you wish to:
Recognition of Prior Learning allows you to use your existing qualifications and experience towards the entry requirements of a degree or to exempt you from modules that overlap closely with your existing awards.
Current students should see our guidance on Withdrawal and Interruption of Studies .
This explains how to withdraw from your course and the implications for withdrawal.
If you want a new institution to take into account the progress you have made at the University of Greenwich, you will need to supply your academic results.
See Certificates and Transcripts for guidance.
Changing course can have implications for your tuition fees, your student support and your visa (if applicable).
See Fees when changing courses for guidance.
International students should also see our guidance on visa implications.
The University's Programme Change Form will need to be completed and approved by the Programme Leader of your current course and the Programme Leader of the course you wish to transfer to.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/support/care-leavers:
We helped Kevin access all the support he didn’t even know existed before he applied to university.
Follow his story to see how ‘Greenwich Cares’ made a difference to his higher education journey.
A care leaver is defined as a young person aged 16 to 25 who has been in the care of their local authority for at least 13 consecutive weeks (or periods amounting to 13 weeks), which began after the age of 14 and ended after the age of 16.
(Note: If a young person returns home for six months or more after the age of 16 they cease to be eligible to be classified as a care leaver)
This could have been in foster care or residential accommodation.
If this definition applies to you, then you should be receiving support from your local authority's Leaving Care Team to come to university.
However, at the University of Greenwich, we will still provide support to all care experienced students, even if you have been in care for just one day.
Confidentiality is important to us and we will always respect this and will not share your information with anyone without your consent.
Here are some of the ways we can help.
Once you become a student, how do we support you?
What sources of financial support are available for care leavers?
Full-time undergraduate students can apply to Student Finance for a tuition fee loan and a maintenance loan for general living costs.
You will be required to provide a letter from your local authority to confirm your care leaver status in order to qualify for the maximum maintenance loan.
A local authority bursary of £2,000 is available for all eligible care leavers entering higher education.
Your local authority may pay this in a lump sum or in instalments.
Local authorities must also support you with accommodation and other costs related to entering higher education.
You can discuss with your local authority what they offer alongside the bursary.
The University of Greenwich provides care leavers, on both undergraduate and postgraduate taught programmes, with a bursary of £1,500 per progressive year of study, for up to four years (depending on the length of your course), plus £200 towards the cost of graduation.
This bursary is not means-tested, but you must be under the age of 25; a UK student; qualify for the maximum level of government maintenance, special support grants, or government Master’s loan; and your tuition fees must be paid directly to the University of Greenwich.
About the Care Leaver bursary.
This bursary is worth £700 for new undergraduate students with a low household income.
The bursary is assessed and awarded automatically by the Student Fees and Funding Team.
About the Greenwich Bursary.
You may also be entitled to some of our additional awards, such as the Commuter Bursary.
Our other awards.
The University of Greenwich has signed up to the Department for Education's Care Leaver Covenant.
We have committed to a range of support measures to enhance the recruitment, retention, success and progression of care leavers who study with us.
A range of organisations have committed to supporting care leavers with their own covenant.
Just having contacts in the university, it was really helpful and it gave me a bit of a lift because the staff already knew my background.
- Kevin McKenna, BA Politics and International Relations
Find out how we support you with your application, what financial support we offer, and how we help you transition to university.
Our Care Leaver Bursary provides £1,500 per year to undergraduate students who are joining us directly from local authority care.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/governance/legal-information/terms-and-conditions:
These terms and conditions refer to the University of Greenwich website accessible via www.greenwich.ac.uk, or any of its variations.
This is the official website of the University of Greenwich, Old Royal Naval College, Park Row, Greenwich, London SE10 9LS.
The website develops constantly, and information it contains is subject to change without notice.
The University makes every effort to ensure content is accurate.
The University of Greenwich is not responsible for the content of external websites that link to or from our website.
We make every effort to ensure external links are free from viruses, but accept no liability for damage caused by viruses acquired from or appearing to have been acquired from the University of Greenwich website.
This edition of the prospectus describes the services and courses that the University intends to offer in the coming academic year.
We make every effort to ensure our prospectus information is as accurate as possible at the time of printing.
However, this information is subject to change over time and it is important that you check the University's website for the most up to date information.
Where changes have been made to the information set out in the prospectus, any significant changes to a course will be notified to any prospective student who has registered an interest in the programme and also notified to applicants at the time of making an offer.
If you have any comments about the prospectus, please contact us via our contact form (UK students), international@gre.ac.uk (International/EU students) and postgraduateresearch_admissions@gre.ac.uk (MPhil/PhD students) as appropriate.
The University of Greenwich will do all that it reasonably can do to provide educational services as described on its website and prospectus.
Sometimes circumstances beyond our control mean that we cannot provide such educational services.
This might be because of, for example:
In these circumstances, the University will take all reasonable steps to minimise the resultant disruption to those services, for example by making reasonable modifications, but to the full extent that it is possible under the general law, the University excludes liability for any loss and/or damage suffered by any applicant.
The modifications we make may be to:
Many of the changes that we make are in response to feedback from students and are intended to improve the experience of students and student outcomes.
Where circumstances demand an unavoidable change or where it is necessary for the University to discontinue a course of study, the University will take reasonable steps to minimise the effect for applicants and all significant changes will be notified promptly as set out above.
Our Student Protection Plan sets out the steps we will take to protect the quality and continuity of study for students.
If you have any particular concerns regarding any proposed changes, you should make the University aware as soon as possible by contacting us at the email addresses provided above.
You should also be aware that some of the programmes listed in the prospectus are subject to final approval.
In the unlikely event that a course is not approved by its start date, the course will not run and you will not be able to take up your place.
Should this happen, you will be informed by the University and assistance will be provided to those who have been offered a place to find a suitable alternative course at the University.
Where a course is awaiting final approval, this will be indicated clearly in the course's entry in the online prospectus.
The prospectus describes the courses we offer.
As a student, you receive further material describing the teaching, examination, assessment and other educational services, and information on the social side of student life at the time that any offer is made to you and subsequently upon enrolment.
Your application to the University will be considered in accordance with the University's Admissions Policy and Procedure , which also sets out your right to complain if you are dissatisfied with the handling of your application.
Should you go on to enroll as a student of the University, you will be asked to agree to the University's Principal Conditions of Registration and your studies will be undertaken and governed in accordance with the University's Student Regulations, Policies and Procedures (see the current year's versions here ).
Please note that the Principal Conditions of Registration and the Student Regulations, Policies and Procedures are updated annually for the start of the academic year.
While changes are not usually significant, the current year's versions should be treated as indicative and you should familiarise yourself with the documents applicable to your year of registration when you enroll.
A summary of changes to regulations and policies is provided to continuing students at the start of each academic year.
If you become a student, this notice shall constitute a term of the contract between you and the University of Greenwich.
Any offer of a place is made on the basis that you consent to this notice as part of the contract.
If we have reason to believe you, or any person acting on your behalf, has provided false information, omitted relevant information, made any misrepresentation and/or provided counterfeit or forged documents while applying for a place, tuition fees assessment, or Mandatory or Discretionary Award, we will take the steps necessary to establish the authenticity of the information.
If we suspect fraud, we can share information with outside agencies as indicated in our Student Privacy Notice .
If they conclude fraud has taken place, we have the right to cancel your application, withdraw any offer of a place and rescind your student status.
We will ask you to provide further information or documentation in relation to your application or student status.
The University processes personal data belonging to its applicants, students and others and complies at all times with current data protection legislation.
Further details are provided in our Privacy Notices .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/docs:
This section contains all documents and files currently available on the university website.
If you have a question about a document, please contact the listed owners.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/gold-for-greenwich:
University celebrates Gold standard for Teaching Excellence
The University of Greenwich has been awarded Gold in a national scheme run by the Office for Students (OfS).
The Teaching Excellence Framework 2023 (TEF) encourages higher education providers to improve and deliver excellence in the areas that students care about the most: teaching, learning and achieving positive outcomes from their studies.
Greenwich was awarded Gold overall, which means that the student experience and student outcomes at the university are classed as ‘typically outstanding’.
Vice-Chancellor and CEO, Professor Jane Harrington, welcomed the news, saying:
'This is a fantastic achievement.
TEF is a rigorous review across a range of metrics.
To achieve the gold standard is a reflection of the hard work and dedication of our staff.
It is also a clear indicator to our students that their experience and outcomes with us at Greenwich meet the highest standards.'
The TEF assesses and rates universities and colleges for excellence above a set of minimum requirements for quality and standards.
Universities and colleges that take part in the TEF receive an overall rating as well as two underpinning ratings – one for the student experience and one for student outcomes.
In Greenwich the two underpinning ratings were Gold for Student Experience and Silver for Student Outcomes.
The outcomes from TEF 2023 will last for four years from September 2023.
Read more about the TEF on the OfS website .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us:
Here you can find all the information on the processes, policies and systems by which the University of Greenwich is administered and directed.
Read all the latest news & updates from the University of Greenwich here.
We update our news regularly, subscribe to our RSS or follow us on social media.
Keep up to date with our upcoming seminars and lectures at the University of Greenwich here.
Check out our great subjects and lecturers on offer.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/bus:
A place to thrive, a place to forge your future.
Join our diverse academic and student community who will support you for the challenges - and opportunities - of business today and tomorrow.
Calling change-makers, bold-thinkers, innovators and disruptors.
Whatever your ambitions, we are committed to you as a student - whoever you are,​ wherever you’re from, ​whatever you want to achieve.
Courses in Accounting & Finance, a suite of finance-focused degrees, and Economics.
Courses in Business Management, including Management & Leadership, International Business, Business Studies, Entrepreneurship & Innovation, and Logistics & Supply Chain Management.
Courses in Human Resources, Marketing & Advertising, plus Events, Tourism & Hospitality.
Courses include a range of MBAs and the Help to Grow Scheme for SMEs.
One of our flagship degrees - develop your knowledge of key business functions, explore the wider environment businesses operate in and gain skills for leading and managing.
You'll also get a chance to undertake a placement in industry.
Study our EFMD-accredited MA in Marketing Management to advance your skills and knowledge for careers in consultancy or for developing effective strategies within organisations.
Follow us to stay up to date on our latest news and events, and find out more about our students, staff and amazing community.
Join our LinkedIn community of students, alumni and professionals and find out more our about our latest news and events.
Like our page to get a real feel for life at Greenwich Business School.
Stay updated with student stories, events and news.
Greenwich Business School's research seeks to transform business, economy and society - through sustainable, responsible and caring practices.
News and articles from across the Greenwich Business School.
Our Generator Team can help you start, scale and grow a business, from the ground up, and they also run the University's Enterprise Challenge.
Study business on the banks of the river Thames, opposite London’s Global Financial Hub, Canary Wharf.
A capstone new initiative in our student success strategy for 2023-24 is ‘GBS Student Success: Making a Difference 2023-24’.
Greenwich Business School alumnus and honorand Byron Cole is part of UUK’s ‘100 Faces campaign’ which aims to champion and celebrate the positive impact of ‘first-in-the-family’ graduates on the UK.
A series of free public guest seminars, given by industry professionals from a variety of fields.
A unique opportunity for senior executives to strengthen the future of their organisations by offering exclusive networking prospects and valuable practical knowledge from renowned business experts.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/ehhs:
We transform the lives of students by providing an education that enables them to become creative and confident contributors to society.
Recent graduate of BSc Hons Midwifery, Leanne Hack tells us about her time at Greenwich
First year Business Psychology student Ifra Afzal tells us about her experience so far at the University of Greenwich
We offer a broad range of interrelated programmes at variety of levels and contexts for people wishing to develop their teaching capacities and professionalism to teach children and young and mature adults.
Firmly established with a proven track record for high-quality education, we deliver courses in nursing, midwifery paramedic science and allied health.
Our cutting-edge courses, delivered by staff from across the world, are founded on extensive professional partnerships and a supportive learning environment.
I had hoped to start my training for the ambulance service at Greenwich as I knew it was one of the most respected degrees of its type in the country.
I also found the lecturers had real drive and passion for the teaching and, most importantly, for supporting its students.
- Gareth Harper, BSc Hons Paramedic Science (London)
I loved the experiences and learning environment of Greenwich Uni, it really helped me grow as a person.
All my tutors and lecturers are amazing at their job!
They guided me in the right direction and were there for me whether I needed academic or personal support.
- Christina	Christoforou, Early Years, BA Hons
The wonderful lecturers and staff at the University of Greenwich have supported me through my degree and were everything I could have asked for.
I have taken full advantage of all the social outlets and activities that are set up for students and have made some lifelong friends.
- Claire Young, BSc Hons Children's Nursing
Greenwich was my first choice, as it had a reputation for high-quality teaching with research, as well as diverse statutory, voluntary and private-sector placement opportunities.
From the moment I embarked on the programme, I have not been disappointed.
- Mikhail Mohammed, BA Hons Social Work
We are offering virtual events so that you can still experience how Greenwich could be the right university for you.
All the latest articles from the Faculty of Education, Health and Human Sciences.
The faculty has over 200 CPD courses and programmes designed to broaden your skills, knowledge and career opportunities.
The faculty runs courses on all three campuses: Greenwich, Avery Hill and Medway.
For some subjects, you can choose Avery Hill or Medway as a location but you won’t need to travel between the two campuses.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/es:
There are no limits to what you can achieve when you study a degree in a STEM (science, technology, engineering, mathematics) subject with the University of Greenwich.
Find out why many international students choose to study a degree in science, technology, engineering or mathematics with the University of Greenwich in the UK.
The University of Greenwich offers Master’s degrees in science and related subjects, including Formulation Science, Food Innovation, and Agriculture for Sustainable Development, through its School of Science and Natural Resources Institute.
Beyond the classroom: Taking final year projects into the real world.
In the modern world we depend on engineering for everything from our phones to our houses.
All of them use different aspects of engineering to bring them to action.
Whether you’re interested in molecules, human anatomy or forensic detail, our science degrees offer you the opportunity to acquire the skills you need in a supportive, employment-focused environment.
Study with us in the historic maritime campus, and learn from experienced staff within a variety of top-quality teaching spaces and high-tech equipment
Offering patient-focused programmes aimed at healthcare professionals.
Transforming lives through research, innovation and learning.
The best part of studying at Greenwich were the laboratory practicals, which were an opportunity to put theory into practice and were well-organised.
- Josh Dunster, BSc Biomedical Science, graduate 2024
The magic of the University of Greenwich is its ability to make an individual feel like they belong to a community...
- Natalia Andrea Dorado Castaneda, BSc Business Computing
Having lectures that are joined with other groups of engineers makes Greenwich special.
- Shivani Aggarwal, BEng Chemical Engineering graduate
I’m taught by extremely knowledgeable and helpful members of staff who are always pushing me forward to improve and looking to constantly improve their students.
It’s an experience that has changed my life.
- Jake Young, BSc Human Nutrition (2019)
Having another IET accredited qualification has allowed myself and others to recognise the diverse skillset I possess and the asset I can be for a company.
- Kumar Vaidikar, MSc Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering graduate 2021, Sales and Applications Engineer
Our Workshops and Taster days are an excellent way to get a hands on experience of a day in the life of a engineering or science student.
Today’s highly competitive labour market and a growing demand among employers for practical skills make work placements an invaluable part of a postgraduate degree.
Find out more about the scholarships and bursaries available to study at Greenwich.
We are committed to developing the next generation of leading researchers.
Join the Early Career Researchers Network and come together to develop your research.
The University of Greenwich offers Master's by Research (MRes) programmes designed to equip you with advanced research skills and prepare you for a successful academic or professional career.
We have a history of carrying out specific and multidisciplinary activity across a range of research and enterprise contexts including the delivery of training and CPD.
Natural Resources Institute's work developing smart solutions to tackle pests recognised at St James's Palace.
The Faculty of Engineering and Science is a world-leader in fundamental research and technology, engineering and science, working closely with partners to improve and develop new solutions to key challenges.
The Faculty of Engineering & Science offers a wide range of services to businesses and organisations of all sizes.
Our services include problem solving, consultancy and training.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/las:
A diverse and energetic community with staff and students from across the globe, our four schools - Design and Creative Industries, Humanities and Social Sciences, and Law and Criminology - offer a great range of courses
The School of Design and Creative Industries Show is an annual exhibition highlighting the exceptional work of our students across the disciplines of Animation, Architecture, Graphic & Digital Design, Landscape, Film, Media, Music and Sound.
We are delighted to announce that bookings are now open for two new short courses - Spatial Audio Fundamentals and Creative Sound Design for Music in Ableton Live will be taught by composers and musicians with expertise in spatial audio composition.
Join us on 4 March 2025 for the Inaugural Lecture of Professor Stacy Banwell who will reflect on her life as a care-experienced woman of mixed ethnic identity who grew up in rural North Wales in the 1980s.
Our experts deliver continuing professional development (CPD), short courses and specialist interest groups designed to enhance career prospects, meet the needs of industry, share research and provide a taste of University life.
Based in an award-winning building - containing design studios, animation labs, a modelling workshop, exhibition spaces and a living wall - in the heart of Greenwich, the School is an exciting and friendly community united by a passion for creativity
Based at the stunning and historic Old Royal Naval College, Greenwich.
The School of Humanities & Social Sciences offers courses across a range of humanities and social science subjects
Based at the stunning Old Royal Naval College - close to the City and Canary Wharf - the School of Law & Criminology offers a range of degree courses in law and in criminology.
I've just finished my first week at a media company, writing journalistic copy for two magazines.
I'd like to credit the English Literature teaching team for providing the resources to propel me towards a really great job and the beginning of a fantastic career.
- Barney Dixon, BA Hons English Literature Graduate
Fostering interdisciplinary research that enriches lives, empowers communities and improves the world.
Join us on X to be a part of our community and find out more our about our latest news and events.
Connect with us on LinkedIn to see the wonderful people we work with, our latest projects, and faculty news.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/learning-teaching:
Our Learning and Teaching Hub provides guidance, resources, and career development opportunities for staff to help foster learning and teaching excellence across the university.
Our Academic and Learning Enhancement (ALE) Team supports the learning and teaching delivered to our students, from offering professional development opportunities for staff, providing guidance and resources, through to facilitating pedagogic research throughout the institution.
If you have any enquiries please contact our team by clicking the button below
Find out more about how we can support you from gaining formal qualifications to attending workshops on a diverse range of topics.
Enhance your practice and further your career with one of our CPD sessions.
See our full calendar of available sessions to book onto.
Develop your practice at your own pace.
Our materials are tailored to help you create engaging and effective learning experiences for your students
Explore our selection of credit and non-credit bearing programmes to develop your teaching and learning practice in Higher Education.
Explore our Advance HE accredited Scheme that awards internationally recognised qualifications to those supporting, delivering, and leading in Learning and Teaching in Higher Education.
Discover more about these esteemed awards and how we can support you in getting the recognition you deserve for your contributions to teaching and learning.
Learn more about this nationally recognised professional recognition for personal tutors, and how our scheme can support you in achieving it.
Our Peer-Supported Development (PSD) is a scheme designed to help you observe and give feedback on teaching or other activities that support learning.
Learn more about how you can use it.
Share your learning and teaching research and practice.
Learn from others to develop your own practice.
Find out how you can do this through the various opportunities we offer.
Find out more about our annual Learning & Teaching Conference that showcases innovative approaches to learning and teaching in higher education.
Our annual Medway Learning and Teaching conference is jointly organised by the Universities of Kent, Canterbury Christ Church and Greenwich, which aims to share, celebrate, and promote best practice in learning and Teaching.
Compass is a peer-reviewed cross-disciplinary research journal that welcomes articles, case studies and opinion pieces relating to innovative learning, teaching and assessment.
Discover our guidance, resources and enhancement initiatives available related to assessment and feedback.
Learn more about how to use the interactive presentation software in any face to face or online teaching and training sessions and become an Empowered Presenter
Find out how to support your students to use AI with academic integrity, and how you can use it to support your teaching practice here

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/update-your-details:
Keep your contact details and employment information up to date to receive news, events and opportunities relevant to you.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/communities:
Alumni communities strengthen the relationship between our alumni, the university, and our global network.
Alumni communities provide opportunities for alumni to network, socialise and collaborate based on their interests – and there are many that you can join today.
Join the recently launched LinkedIn group for University of Greenwich alumni .
If you studied in the School of Accounting, Finance and Economics, join the programme-specific community to network and share opportunities.
Alumni are invited to at least one AFE alumni event a year.
This community is led by Dr Agnieszka Herdan, Associate Professor of Business Studies and Accounting .
Complete the form below to join the mailing list and don't forget to follow the School of Accounting, Finance and Economics LinkedIn page
If you studied Film and Television or work in the sector, join the sector-specific community to network and share opportunities.
This community is led by Peter Bathurst, Senior Lecturer in Cinematography .
Complete the form below to join the mailing list.
The Global Majority Alumni Community (GMAC) is a vibrant and inclusive network dedicated to the voices and experiences of our global majority alumni.
The committee is led by alumni Roneish Myers (Chair) , Joyce Fraser OBE, and Maggie N.
Razavi.
About GMAC
The term ‘Global Majority’ reflects our commitment to inclusivity, recognising that individuals from Black, Asian, and other ethnic groups constitute the majority on a global scale.
With GMAC, we will celebrate this diversity and strive to create a space that is both inclusive and impactful.
We understand that all collective terms have limitations and can be problematic.
No single term can perfectly capture the diversity of experiences and identities within our community.
We are committed to ongoing consultation with our alumni and will continue to consider alternatives as language and understanding evolve.
Our mission
Our mission is to foster a sense of belonging and collaboration among our alumni.
Through events, projects, and dialogues, we aim to highlight the achievements of our global majority alumni, while also laying the groundwork for initiatives informed by their experiences.
Our community is not just about celebration; it's about taking action and inspiring change.
At the University of Greenwich, our Race Action Group works to strategically deliver the University’s Race Action Plan and the application for the Race Equality Charter.
We are currently in the second year of implementing our plan which includes several significant projects for projects this academic year .
Get involved
The Global Majority Alumni Community (GMAC) is a space for alumni who identify as part of the global majority to share, learn, and foster relationships.
Complete the form below to join the mailing list or join the Global Majority Alumni Community LinkedIn Group .
The LGBT+ Alumni Community is a space for alumni to grow professional and social relationships, and celebrates alumni who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans and wider non-heteronormative identities.
An alumni group for Nigerian alumni, no matter where you are in the world to connect, share opportunities and support one another.
Whether you're looking for career advice, networking, or just want to stay in touch with fellow graduates, this community is for you.
Please email alumni@gre.ac.uk if you want to join the WhatsApp group.
An alumni group dedicated to connecting alumni who work in sustainability or are passionate about making a difference in the space.
This group is for alumni to share ideas and bring together industry experts across the world to support one another and our university initiatives.
Want to find out more?
Our Sustainability Alumni Community will be an active and growing group which we hope alumni, staff and students alike will find helpful and informative.
If you are interested in joining the committee, please email Minh Lam, Deputy Head of Alumni & Regular Giving, at alumni@gre.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/contact:
Contact the Alumni and Fundraising Office and browse the frequently asked questions.
Membership of the alumni community is free and lifelong.
There is nothing that you need to do to join the community.
Three months after you complete your studies you will begin receiving communications from the Alumni and Fundraising Team.
This will be to the personal email address which you provided via the student portal.
If you are about to complete your studies please make sure your contact details are up to date on the student portal when prompted by the Student Services team.
If you have lost touch with Greenwich and would like to reconnect, simply update your details online via our form .
Please note: While membership of the alumni community is free, some benefits and services have an associated cost.
The university’s Certificates and Transcripts Team handle all requests for copies of certificates, transcripts and confirmation of study letters, please visit the certificates and transcripts page or email the team at certificates@gre.ac.uk .
If you left after 2000, you can use the Digital Documents Service to order copies.
If you graduated after 1992 and prior to 2000, visit our online store to order your documents .
Please note that there is a fee for ordering a degree certificate, transcript and / or confirmation of study.
For academic or employer reference, we suggest reaching out to your personal tutor or your Faculty.
If you require a confirmation of study for your employer reference, please see the Certificates and Transcripts website or email them at certificates@gre.ac.uk .
You can use the Digital Documents Service to share documents with a third party, including your employer.
Throughout the year there are a range of volunteering opportunities open to alumni, from mentoring to speaking to students and fellow alumni at careers or faculty events.
To see a full list of current opportunities and for suggestions on how to get involved across the university and with the alumni community, please visit our volunteering page .
You can also keep updated with volunteering opportunities by joining the University of Greenwich Alumni LinkedIn Group .
Alumni can access campus libraries as part of the library membership scheme , which is £30 annually.
Your IT account will be disabled 90 days after you have completed your studies.
This date varies from course to course.
After this 90 day period, you will not be able to access your files, your e-mail or any other university resources which rely upon your account.
You can find out more about access after you complete on the IT webpages .
We’re always encouraged to hear from alumni who would like to visit our campuses, whether to relive their university days or if they are visiting for the first time.
The Greenwich campus is open to the public, so alumni are welcome to visit at any time.
If you have a specific requirement, please get in touch.
The University of Greenwich is easy to find, with great transport links.
Get directions to all of our campuses here .
If you are interested in connecting with Greenwich alumni, then you may be interested in joining the University of Greenwich Alumni LinkedIn Group .
Or if you studied at Woolwich or Thames Polytechnic, you can join the Facebook group for alumni who studied before 1992 .
The Data Protection Act states that we are not able to provide you with details of other alumni without their permission.
However, if we hold a current email address for the person / people who you would like to contact, the Alumni and Fundraising team can forward an email or pass on a message on your behalf.
If you have moved recently, changed your email address or changed job, you can update your contact details here.
If you are having difficulties updating your details, please email alumni@gre.ac.uk .
If you’d like to opt out from all communications from the Alumni and Fundraising Team, please email alumni@gre.ac.uk .
For information about how we use our data, please see our Alumni Privacy Notice .
If you are a graduate / former student of the University of Greenwich, the Alumni and Fundraising Office can help with your query.
When getting in touch, please include your full name, degree you studied, year you left and student ID and detail the query you have.
Please note that new or returning students should contact the Digital Student Centre .
Alumni and Fundraising Office University of Greenwich Queen Mary Room 030 Park Row, Greenwich London SE10 9LS
E-mail : alumni@gre.ac.uk
Telephone : +44 (0) 20 8331 7836
Alumni Privacy Notice

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/reconnect:
Find out more about what happened at the first ever reunion for alumni who studied at Woolwich Polytechnic, Thames Polytechnic, or the University of Greenwich before the year 2000.
Late-night study sessions in the library, unforgettable campus events or that professor who inspired you to think differently.
These moments are part of what makes the University of Greenwich special.
As an esteemed member of our university community, you are an integral part of our rich history and enduring legacy, and we would love to get to know you again.
Re-join us as we trace the footsteps of our past and reflect on the transformations of our beloved institution.
Will you reconnect, reminisce, and redefine the future alongside your fellow alumni?
Thank you for being an invaluable part of the University of Greenwich’s legacy.
We look forward to welcoming you back with open arms and excitement for the future.
Leave your details today and don’t miss out on hearing about relevant news and events.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/stories/portraits:
Greenwich Snapshots celebrates the varied careers of alumni and showcases some of what students can look forward to after they graduate.
Each Snapshot captures the spirit of Greenwich, through our global community of students, alumni and staff.
Greenwich Portraits is our award-winning celebration of some of the university’s very best alumni.
Each portrait is testament to the diversity of fields in which Greenwich graduates make their mark, both in the UK and globally.
We look forward to sharing new the stories of new outstanding alumni with you over the coming months.
If you feel inspired by the stories told below then we invite you to nominate an alumnus as a Greenwich Portrait.
Alumnus and honorand Byron Cole is part of UUK’s ‘100 Faces campaign’ which aims to champion and celebrate the positive impact of ‘first-in-the-family’ graduates on the UK.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/giving/stephen-lawrence-scholarship:
2024 marks the 50th anniversary of Stephen Lawrence's birth, the University of Greenwich continues to celebrate his legacy through the established Stephen Lawrence Scholarship programme.
Stephen Lawrence grew up in South East London and wanted to become an architect.
Stephen was talented at mathematics, art and design.
With architecture he could combine these talents and do something impactful.
In 1993, when Stephen was only eighteen years old, he was murdered by strangers in an unprovoked racist attack that shocked the nation.
The initial police investigation failed to secure any convictions, and Stephen’s family became tireless campaigners for justice.
Stephen’s mother, Baroness Lawrence became a prominent figure in the fight against racism and injustice.
In 1999, the Macpherson Inquiry, which she tirelessly campaigned for, concluded that the police investigation into Stephen's murder had been marked by institutional racism.
The report made a series of recommendations to address these issues, calling for reform within the police force and the legal system.
This watershed moment marked a turning point in the way the UK addressed issues of racism, prompting a national conversation about equality, diversity, and the need for systemic change.
Find out about our partner.
How to apply for the Stephen Lawrence Scholarship.
The Stephen Lawrence Scholarship - Empowering the next generation of Black Architects
Baroness Lawrence was a member of University of Greenwich staff, and was studying for her degree at Greenwich at the time of Stephen’s murder.
In 2006, she also became an Honorary Doctor of the University.
We continue to work together, now through her charity, the Stephen Lawrence Day Foundation to honour Stephen’s legacy.
The Foundation takes its name from Stephen Lawrence Day which is officially marked in the British calendar as a celebration of Stephen’s life and legacy.
In 2023, to mark the 30th Anniversary of Stephen's death, the University of Greenwich announced a new scholarship programme in his name.
“Baroness Lawrence completed her degree at the university in 1995, just two years after Stephen's murder.
Her dedication to honouring her son's memory is exemplified by her tireless efforts to improve the lives of young people and create a positive legacy in his name.
The shared objective of inspiring a more equitable society in which access to education and employability is not restricted for those who are most marginalised is at the heart of our partnership with Greenwich, and the proximity of the university to where Stephen lived and died adds poignant significance to the impact of the partnership." - Jessica Neil, Chief Executive at the Stephen Lawrence Foundation.
This architecture course is taught in our state-of-the-art Stockwell Street Building, designed by renowned architects Heneghan Peng.
Stephen could not fulfil his dream of becoming an architect, which is one reason why the first Greenwich scholarship in his name will provide an £18,500 cash bursary or fee waiver for the Architecture Part 2 MArch course.
The new scholarship is specifically aiming at Black students from low socioeconomic backgrounds, as well as those who are estranged or have experience in the care system.
We have also chosen architecture first to address the lack of representation in the industry.
A recent survey by the Architecture Registrations Board (ARB) revealed that only 1% of UK architects identify as Black, while 83% come from white ethnic backgrounds.
The financial barriers to training and qualification are identified as a significant obstacle the scholarship aims to mitigate.
Students require professional practice work experience and a portfolio before completing the two-year, full-time Masters programme.
“We are immensely proud of our partnership with the Stephen Lawrence Foundation and Baroness Lawrence.
Stephen’s legacy for change will be continued and celebrated through this new scholarship and we are honoured to be the institution that will offer it." - Professor Jane Harrington, Vice-Chancellor & CEO of the University of Greenwich.
We are fundraising to offer more scholarships year after year.
With your help we can ensure that students receive the full Greenwich experience; we need both financial and non-financial support.
We want to hear from individuals and organisations who can sponsor a scholarship and also mentor, inspire and provide paid work opportunities for our students.
We have published a document on the Stephen Lawrence scholarship, which outlines the program's history, the costs involved in becoming an architect, and how we are striving to make the architecture industry more diverse.
Read more about the Stephen Lawrence Scholarship here.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/student-services/your-official-documents/certificates-and-transcripts:
Your original certificate and transcript are important legal documents.
Your original certificate and transcript will be available following conferral of your award at a Progression and Award Board.
An email will be sent, to the personal email address held by the university, 3 weeks after your results have been published on the Student Portal with a link to the University of Greenwich Digital Documents Service where you can register to view and/or order your award documentation.
Please ensure you have your student ID number (nine digits starting 00) when registering to the Document Portal.
Once you have registered you will be able view your documents and, if you wish, select the free Graduation Pack which consists of your certificate, transcript and covering letter.
There will be the opportunity to enter a delivery address and the option of DHL courier service for an additional fee.
To create an account, you will need to provide the following information:
Please note: Should you be unable to provide all the information requested further security checks will be required and the Certificates and Transcripts team will contact you via email advising of these requirements.
Current students: if you require an interim transcript, please contact Student Centre .
What to do if your documents are unavailable.
Although unusual, there are a few reasons why your certificate or transcript might not be available, and you will be advised who to contact to rectify this once you have registered on the Document Portal.
Most of our students’ questions have been replied to on AskUoG .
Here you can check out the most frequently asked questions or raise and enquiry on the Digital Student Centre if your questions is not covered yet.
In accordance with our policies and regulations, the University of Greenwich has the right to withhold transcripts and certificates from students who owe tuition fees to the university.
Once you have graduated, you may need to contact us:
Post-2000 Graduates
Alumni of the University of Greenwich can order and view award documentation via the Digital Documents Service.
Please note this service is only available if you graduated after 2000.
To access this service, you will need to click on the following link https://graduatedocs.gre.ac.uk/ and register for an account.
Please ensure you use your personal email and not a gre.ac.uk email address.
In the Document Portal you will be able to view electronic versions of your award documents and order replacement and certified copies of certificates, additional transcripts (post September 1999) and Confirmation of Study letters.
The current fee for these documents is as follows:
In addition to this, you can approve qualification verifications requests from third parties by creating a connection which will allow them to view and verify your award documentation digitally.
To create an account, you will be required to provide information as recorded on our database at the time of your studies.
If any of the information does not match our database, your request will be placed in pending and it can take up to 4 working days to be approved or rejected.
If it is approved you will receive email confirmation.
If it is rejected, please refer to the FAQs.
Pre-2000 Graduates
If you graduated after 1992 and prior to 2000 please visit our online store to order your documents at https://store.gre.ac.uk/product-catalogue/student-academic-services/certificates-and-transcript-service , as you will not be able to register for an account on graduatedocs.gre.ac.uk.
Please note graduates of Thames Polytechnic (post-1970), Dartford College incorporated , Avery Hill College incorporated , Garnett College incorporated and Woolwich Polytechnic need to follow a different procedure for obtaining a replacement certificate.
Graduates of Thames Polytechnic Graduates of Thames Polytechnic can request a replacement certificate via Open University Validation Services.
http://www.open.ac.uk/cicp/main/validation/awards-and-aftercare/cnaa-pro-forma-verification
Graduates of Woolwich Polytechnic, Dartford College incorporated, Avery Hill College incorporated and Garnett College incorporated
Graduates can request a replacement certificate via the University of London.
https://www.london.ac.uk/current-students/student-services/requesting-transcript-0
Alumni
If you want to supply a potential employee/university with confirmation of your qualification(s) you will need to register with the Digital Document Service which will enable you to electronically share your award documentation by creating a connection.
To access this service, you will need to click on the following link https://graduatedocs.gre.ac.uk/ and register for an account if you do not already have one.
If any of the information does not match our database, you will be placed in pending and may be sent an email to provide further information.
Following successful completion of registration, you will receive an email verification, once received click on the link and you will be able to use the service.
Third parties
Verifications of study for University of Greenwich alumni is now available via our Digital Document Service at the following link: https://graduatedocsverify.gre.ac.uk/
If you require a qualification verification for an alumnus of the university and they have not already registered with the Digital Document Service, please advise the potential employee/student to do so.
They can then create a connection to allow you to securely view their qualification documentation.
Once they have approved the connection you will receive an email advising you how to log on and view the documents.
Please note there is a £12 fee per verification.
For more information please visit the FAQs page .
Please forward your request to Certificates@gre.ac.uk.
We are unable to provide this service at the University of Greenwich however If required, you can have an Apostille stamp/seal added to your certificate for authentication of your document in other countries.
This stamp, sometimes called an Apostille of Hague Accords, is issued by the UK Government Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) and can be requested here: Get your document legalised - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk)
Once you have been officially awarded a qualification, credit or other academic achievement from the University of Greenwich we are unable to make amendments to the name held on our Student Records System or make alterations to the name presented on the award documents*.
This means that the name shown on your certificate will be your full name at the time of conferral.
A change of name after that date will not result in a change of name on your certificate.
This is in accordance with university regulations and guidance agreed to at the point of registration.
Most of this information can be found in the Principal Conditions of Registration
When you initially registered with the University of Greenwich, a member of staff (or a representative at our partner, network or collaborative institution) will have used identity documents (i.e.
a passport) to confirm, and amend if necessary, the details held.
Should you undergo a change of name during your studies you must inform the relevant Student Centre, and provide documentary evidence (e.g.
marriage certificate, deed poll), this evidence will then be scanned and stored against your student record.
The University of Greenwich will look at requests for a change of name on award documentation if, as an alumnus, you have changed your name due to identifying as transgender or have undergone gender reassignment.
To make a request, please contact the Certificates and Transcript Team directly by email ( certificates@gre.ac.uk ) for advice.
If a name change is then processed, the original certificate must be returned before a replacement is issued.
The Certificates and Transcript Team will be able to provide guidance on how to do this when contacted.
The Certificates and Transcript Service wishes you the very best with your future.
email: certificates@gre.ac.uk
The team can be contacted Monday to Friday 10am-12noon and 2.30pm-4.30pm via telephone number 02083319789

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/study/apply/ug:
The process for applying to the University of Greenwich is different for full-time and part-time students.
See the steps below.
UK students should apply for a full-time course through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
International students are welcome to use this option too.
If you come from outside the UK, you can also apply directly to the university.
You can apply for up to five choices of institution/course.
This may include degree and non-degree courses.
To apply for more than one course at Greenwich, you make a separate entry for each choice.
However, if you apply for a degree and an HND in the same subject, this may count as one choice.
( Please check with us first .)
For help with your application and the latest application fee, see the UCAS guide .
Make sure you enter the institution and course codes correctly on the online form.
The campus codes for the main university campuses are:
Partner college codes are listed below:
*code not required.
To study part-time, you apply directly to the university.
For a printed copy of the application form, please call 020 8331 9000 or email us via our contact form .
Please check the attendance requirements of your course before applying.
You may be able to change between full-time and part-time status after registration.
There is no closing date for part-time applications, but we advise you to apply as early as possible and not to wait for examination results.
If you are currently in the final year of a Foundation Degree or HNC/HND at Greenwich or a Partner College, Fast Track offers progression onto the final year of a related degree programme without the need to apply through UCAS.
We identify the courses that have a natural progression to further courses taught at Greenwich.
For example, students on the FdA Education and Special Education Needs may progress onto Year 3 of the BA Education Studies or BA Early Years.
If you wish to begin a 'Top-up' course at one of our Partner Colleges, your tuition fee may be different to our on-campus fee (see Partner College tuition fees ).
To progress onto the second or final year (top up) of an honours degree, you must have successfully completed one of the following:
If you apply to study at the same or lower level as a qualification you already hold, you may not be entitled to student support and may have to pay your own tuition fees.
About ELQs
If you are unclear about the support you may be entitled to or the tuition fee you will have to pay, please contact us.
We are committed to fair admissions and access by recruiting students regardless of their social, cultural or economic background.
Our admissions policy sets out the principles and procedures we use to admit new students for all courses offered by the university and its partner and network colleges.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/study/apply/pg:
Decided on the course you want to study?
Now find out how to make your postgraduate application.
For most of our postgraduate courses you can apply directly to us, via the online application form .
However, for some courses you must apply through a different route.
For international and current students there are also different application routes available to choose from.
Applications for the MSc in Nursing courses and MA Social Work, are through the University and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
Applications for full-time primary, secondary, and further education PGCE and School Direct courses are through the Department for Education (DFE) Apply route.
There are two main routes to a University of Greenwich research degree, either join an established research group on a funded scholarship or find a supervisor for your own research idea.
International applicants can apply via an authorised in-country representative or direct to the university.
Current undergraduate students and alumni can continue studying at the University of Greenwich with a quick Fast Track application.
We offer a range of events to support your application and are available to answer questions on live chat , phone or use our contact form .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/study/apply/international:
Find out how to apply as an international student for courses at the University of Greenwich.
International students can apply to us through different methods, these depend on the course and level of study you are considering.
Learn more about how to apply for your course by watching the video and checking the information below.
The application process you need to complete, depends upon on the level of course you are interested in studying.
Students who wish to study at undergraduate (Bachelor's) level can either apply through one of our trusted agency partners* or direct to us via UCAS (University and Colleges Admissions Service).
If you wish to study BA Hons Social Work or BSc Hons Adult Nursing , you must apply through UCAS (University and Colleges Admissions Service).
Students who wish to study a training or qualification programme associated with teaching or education, which is organised or accredited by the Department for Education (DFE) can apply here .
Students who wish to study at postgraduate (Master’s) level with us, can either apply directly on our website using the online application form or use one of our trusted agency partners*.
Students who wish to apply for a research degree (MPhil or PhD), please view applying for a research degree .
We also offer students foundation courses before their undergraduate or postgraduate studies if they fail to meet the entry requirements for direct entry to our programmes.
These are run at University of Greenwich International College (UGIC) .
For students whose English language is slightly below the levels required, we offer pre-sessional English courses which can then progress to a student’s degree.
If you have provided us the necessary documents and are eligible, we will send you/your agent an offer letter.
If there are still outstanding documents, we will issue a conditional offer explaining what else you need to provide.
You will then need to accept your offer and fulfil any outstanding conditions.
Once this is complete our CAS team will help with issuing you the documents you need for your student visa.
We have a range of scholarships available, including the International Scholarship Award and EU Bursary, open to all offer holders.
The visa process can feel overwhelming, but we've gathered all the information you will need to make the process as easy as possible.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/study/apply:
Completing a postgraduate research degree at the University of Greenwich is a richly-rewarding experience.
As a research student, you will be looking for a research environment that enables you to develop your ideas in order for you to succeed.
Generally, you can commence your studies at any time during the academic year although we strongly advise that you to start in September or January so that you can join our induction processes and meet other students who are starting their studies at the same time.
The Faculty of Education, Health and Human Sciences have student intake mainly in September and January but students may start at other times under exceptional circumstances.
The Greenwich Business School allow applicants to start only in September and January, please check for the application closing dates.
Postgraduate research students (PGRs) are welcomed into the University through two broad routes in response to (i) externally advertised projects or (ii) self-funded projects.
In the former case, the nature of the project has been defined through dialogue between the funder and the academic(s), and any recruited PGR is therefore joining a well-configured project/team, with the necessary expertise and infrastructure already in place.
In the latter case, a dialogue needs to take place between the applicant and academic(s) to fully define the project and identify the lead supervisor prior to registration.
All PGRs joining the University need to undergo a rigorous assessment process, involving an interview.
Please note: Applications to the Medway School of Pharmacy are made through the University of Kent.
If you already have an idea of which academic you would like to supervise your project then please make contact with them and discuss your proposal.
If you do not have the name of a supervisor, but would like to know if the University is currently undertaking research in a particular area, please see details as follows:
You are encouraged to make contact with staff who will be able to discuss the potential fit of your research proposal.
Following on from this initial contact, you may be able to arrange a meeting (face-to-face, online or by telephone) to discuss your ideas further prior to submitting an application.
A number of our MPhil/PhD/EdD students apply to join an established research group, by applying for a funded studentship where a project design has already been decided.
Studentships are advertised on our studentship and scholarships page, and websites such as Find A PHD .
If you apply for one of the advertised studentships, please ensure that you include the scholarship/studentship reference number in the Personal Statement section of the application form so that we can identify which studentship you are applying for.
Self-funded projects may also be advertised directly by the faculties on websites including Find A PHD .
Before applying to undertake a research degree (MPhil, PhD, EdD) you need to ensure that:
You meet the entry requirements, which are:
In addition to the above, applicants whose first language is not English must also meet the English Language requirement, which is:
OR
For the Greenwich Business School or Faculty of Education , Health & Human Sciences or Faculty of Law, Arts & Social Sciences :
For the Faculty of Engineering & Science:
In addition to the entry requirements, you are required to:
For information on the admission criteria and procedure for a Doctorate by Published Work or a Higher Doctorate, please refer to Section C of the Academic Regulations for Postgraduate Research Awards .
To find out more information on funding your studies visit our funding opportunities page , studentship and tuition fee pages .
Details on the application process are available on what is required at the time of application .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/foundation-degrees:
Foundation degrees are designed to prepare you for skilled employment or enable you to be more effective in your current work.
There are different ways you can take foundation degrees - whether full-time, part-time, or through distance learning and work-based learning.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/short-courses:
Continue to learn and develop new skills with our vast range of short courses.​
CPD stands for continuing professional development.
These short courses are a great opportunity to gain new skills, knowledge and experience.
Throughout the process, you can track and document your learning as you work, and then apply this to your chosen field.
The Faculty of Education, Health and Human Sciences provides education for 1,000 students and offers many opportunities for you to study once you are a registered healthcare professional.
The Wolfson Centre offers a wide range of short courses designed specifically for engineers involved in the handling and /or designing of equipment for bulk solid materials.
We offer a wide variety of short courses for pharmacists, nurses, midwives and all allied health professionals.
Biomed Online is aimed at employees across the health sector, to help them keep abreast of the latest developments in biomedical science and related subjects.
Working with teachers and other educational professionals within schools and colleges is integral to the success of our work.
Discover the short courses and continuing professional development (CPD) options available from the computing, design and law schools.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/events/opendays/open-day-faqs:
We look forward to welcoming you to our Open Day event, to assist in planning your day please find our frequently asked questions and helpful information below.
Depending on the subject you are interested in, you will attend the Open Day event at one of our three campuses: Greenwich, Avery Hill or Medway.
If the subjects you are interested in are taught on different campuses, you can use our campus bus schedule to plan your day.
Please read the relevant information for the campus(es) you are planning on attending to make the most of your experience at our Open Day event.
There are multiple ways you can travel to our Greenwich campus.
You can get here...
More information on travelling to our Greenwich campus can be found here.
Our Avery Hill campus is situated in Eltham, in Southeast London.
To get here...
Please note the entrance to the campus is on Avery Hill Road.
If using Google Maps please look for the campus called ‘Southwood site.’ The ‘Mansion site’ is now closed.
More information on travelling to our Avery Hill campus can be found here.
There are multiple ways you can travel to our Medway campus, which is in Chatham in Kent.
More information on travelling to our Medway campus can be found here .
Due to space limitations at our Greenwich Campus, there is no on-site parking available for Open Day attendees.
Public 'pay and display' car parks can be found nearby.
You can park at our Avery Hill or Medway campuses for free and catch the complimentary inter-campus bus.
The first service leaves Medway at 9am and Avery Hill at 9.30am.
On-site parking is reserved for staff permit holders, disabled drivers and visitors with pre-arranged parking.
If you have accessibility requirements and require a pre-booked parking space, please email opendays@greenwich.ac.uk .
Parking will be available on campus free of charge.
Open Day Check-In points will be at the following locations from 9:45am :
To help manage queues and for safety measures, within your ‘important information’ email you will have been assigned a check-in point.
Please use this allocated check-in point as this will also be close to your selected subject sessions.
After check-in, you will receive your visitor lanyard for access into our buildings.
Head to the David Fussey building at 09:45am to check-in and receive your visitor lanyard for access into our buildings.
You can check-in from 09:45am on the day of the event at the Pembroke Building.
We want to ensure that your visit is enjoyable.
If you or any of your guests have any mobility requirements or would like additional assistance, please let us know by emailing opendays@greenwich.ac.uk.
Open Day schedules provide a great way to plan your visit, explore the campus and attend sessions.
Open Day schedules are accessible via the ‘important information’ email sent before the event.
At the event there will also be posters with a QR code you can scan to get your schedule.
For the University of Greenwich Open Day event, free guest Wi-Fi will be provided across all campus sites.
There will be posters around each campus providing specific step-by-step instructions on how to access the guest Wi-Fi.
Please ask the on-site staff if you require further assistance.
You can find the location of your school or faculty by using our campus map.
This is where you will meet your future teaching staff and take part in informative talks and sessions.
The Welcome talk for Greenwich Business School can be found in the Queen Anne Building.
The Welcome talk for the Faculty of Education, Health & Human Sciences is in the Stephen Lawrence Building.
The Welcome talk for the Faculty of Engineering and Science is in the King William Building.
The Welcome talk for the Faculty of Law, Arts and Social Sciences is in the Stockwell Street Building.
On arrival, please go to the David Fussey building to check-in.
The Welcome Talk for the Faculty of Education, Health and Human Sciences will take place in our David Fussey Building.
On arrival, please go to the Pembroke building to check-in.
There, you will also meet our student ambassadors who will be able to take you to the subject sessions.
The Welcome talk for the Faculty of Engineering and Science will take place in the Pembroke Building.
The Welcome Talk for the Faculty of Education, Health and Human Sciences will take place in the Pembroke Building.
These are very popular!
We recommend pre-booking the tours, as there are limited spaces available.
If you are planning to go on any tours, please go to the dedicated ticket collection stand to book your timed slot.
Campus tour tickets can be collected from the stand in the Stockwell Street building and Campus tours will depart from the Stockwell Street foyer.
Accommodation tour tickets can be collected from the Accommodation stand in the Dreadnought atrium; Accommodation tours will depart from the Dreadnought atrium.
You do not need to pre-book tours.
If you are planning to go on any of the tours, please go up to the dedicated stands and enquire.
The safety of our guests, students and staff is our highest priority.
We understand that COVID and other infectious illnesses are still a cause for concern for some and we will continue to apply sensible and proportionate infection prevention measures to help stop the spread of COVID-19 and other respiratory illnesses, including influenza, and to reduce the risk to our community.
We strongly encourage all our visitors to frequently wash their hands, use our hand sanitising stations, and keep a safe social distance where possible.
If you develop symptoms or test positive, please stay at home in line with government guidance.
Find out more about our University Covid safety regulations

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/events/maps-and-timetables:
Please let us know which subject area you are interested in and we will provide you with a personalised schedule and campus map.
You can use the form below to find your schedule.
If you want to view all of the subject-area schedules, you can find them here .
For more information regarding our Open Days, visit our Open Day FAQs page here .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/events/audio-tours:
Welcome to our audio tour of Greenwich Campus.
Our recordings will introduce you to the university campus and the historic town centre.
We are continuing to make changes to our campuses in line with the current government guidance .
Everyone must act safely and responsibly and follow the university guidance set out in our Covid-Safe Charter .
For more information, please visit our Be Covid-Safe page .
Our map of the campus will help you get around and identify some of the landmarks referenced in the tours below.
Open in new tab
The tour starts at Cutty Sark DLR Station.
Discover what makes Greenwich town centre so popular with visitors.
Find out about Greenwich Market, as well as the town's royal origins and maritime past.
Learn about the university's award-winning Stockwell Street Building, home to a state-of-the-art library as well as hi-tech study spaces.
Take in the famous landmarks of Greenwich, from the National Maritime Museum and the Queen's House to Greenwich Park and the Royal Observatory.
Discover the baroque buildings of Greenwich Campus and find out which of the university's academic schools are based in these beautiful buildings.
See where graduation ceremonies take place and find out about our close links with major international companies.
Admire the beauty of Queen Anne Court, home to our Business School, and see where students catch the free intercampus bus to the university's Avery Hill Campus.
Step inside Dreadnought Building, the go-to place for students.
As well as a café and bar, it's where you'll find the Students' Union and the Student Services desk.
Explore Cutty Sark, the only surviving tea clipper in the world, and find out who to contact for more details about studying at the University of Greenwich.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/events/prospective-students:
Come and visit the university during one of our Open Days or subject evenings to find out more about what we offer and how you’ll learn.
We also offer sessions to help you with your UCAS application and study skills.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/events/campus-tours:
Greenwich Campus Tours
Greenwich is a world heritage site, so don't miss the opportunity of a campus tour.
Our Ambassadors will take you from our brand-new Dreadnought building, through the historical Queen Anne and King William buildings and end the tour at our Stockwell Street Library.
On the way, you will pass the recently renovated Painted Hall and the Greenwich Chapel, as well as the Greenwich town centre.
Avery Hill Campus Tours
Our Avery Hill Campus covers the Southwood site.
It is located in the 86-acre Avery Hill Park in Eltham, South-East London.
This Victorian site houses teaching and library facilities, student accommodation, the students' union, catering and sports facilities.
Our student ambassadors will show you all the key features of Southwood site, and also give you a tour of our skills labs.
Medway Campus Tours
The Medway Campus is a splendid Edwardian redbrick and ivy-clad campus, dating from 1903, located near Chatham Historic Dockyard in Kent.
Tours include the teaching and learning facilities as well as the impressive student amenities found there.
The campus boasts a mix of social and leisure facilities, including our Students' Union Hub, a restaurant in Pembroke building and the Venue café in Pilkington.
Accommodation Tours
All tours include a look inside the halls of residence to be found at that campus.
At Greenwich, this is Daniel Defoe or Cutty Sark halls.
At Avery Hill this is our student village, which accommodates over 1,200 students.
At Medway, we have a total of 350 rooms in shared self-catering flats situated within five halls and the tour includes a look at life inside these.
Campus Tours on the Medway campus and Avery Hill campus will include accommodation tours, however this is not possible for Greenwich.
Prospects are able to visit Greenwich accommodation during our Open Days but not during our monthly campus tours.
Take a Greenwich campus self-guided audio tour here .
We also have virtual tours of our campuses.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/events/teachers-and-advisers:
We offer a range of events designed to support you in helping others make choices and to give students a chance to experience university life.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/events/public-events:
Learn something new or join the discussion at one of our many public lectures, seminars and events.
Our public events cover everything from business and education to foreign policy and current affairs.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/contact/course-enquiry:
Ask us about becoming a student at the University of Greenwich – including requests for prospectuses and how to apply.
You can also call our Recruitment Team on 020 8331 9000.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/commuters:
If you plan to travel to university each day, we'll make sure you get the most out of your time here.
Over a third of our students commute to university so you'll have lots of potential travel buddies.
We have three campuses: Greenwich and Avery Hill in south-east London and Medway in Kent.
Our Greenwich Campus is in the heart of Greenwich, close to central London and a few miles from Avery Hill Campus in Eltham.
The Chatham Maritime area is home to our Medway Campus.
If you want to live at home and travel to university, our commuter bursary could help you save up to £1,000 a year on your travel costs.
It's available on a first-come, first-served basis, so make sure you apply for it early.
Find out if you're eligible.
It's easy to reach all of our campuses.
Use a travel app like Citymapper to find the best route.
It's worth trying out different routes until you find the best one for you.
(There may be slightly longer routes that are cheaper, for example.)
There are lots of places to study, chill and socialise between lectures on each campus, as well as our friendly student centres.
Our libraries are open until late, you can book rooms for group study, and there are plenty of places to grab a bite to eat.
You can get 30% off your London travelcard with an 18+ Student Oyster photocard and one-third off most train fares throughout the UK with a 16-25 Railcard.
Our frequent and hassle-free inter-campus bus service could be part of your daily commute.
Journeys are either free or much cheaper than alternative ways of getting to uni.
You can park at our Avery Hill and Medway Campuses.
Check out the options and find a payment method and ticket type that are right for you.
We're part of Unishare, a car sharing scheme that can hook you up with potential drivers and passengers near you.
It's free to join and a great way to save money on travel costs.
Sharing your commute can also turn a dull drive into a lively one.
Plus you'll be doing your bit to help cut congestion and pollution.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/articles/university/how-i-made-it-3-greenwich-graduates-share-their-success-stories:
Elliott credits his tutors and the university's careers service with his success.
During his studies, he took a supervisor's role at the Students' Union bar and started putting his Business Psychology degree into practice.
A placement with the Caribbean-based hospitality firm Sandals helped Elliott make the transition into the world of work.
He spent four months in St Lucia and five months in Grenada.
"I was working very closely alongside the regional human resources manager, so it was great for my development and understanding of the working world," he says.
In April 2016, Elliott joined Amazon as an HR assistant, relocating to Manchester to help launch its first fulfilment centre in the North West.
He has since been promoted to HR adviser and is still based in Manchester.
Alex McGrath graduated with a First in Accounting and Finance in 2014 and now works as a product manager at Fuel 3D, a leading 3D capture and imaging innovator in Oxford.
He joined Greenwich through Clearing, and has never looked back.
Initially, Alex was hoping to be a trader in the City but his time at Greenwich sparked an interest in start-up businesses and he joined Fuel 3D as an intern.
"If I hadn't gone to Greenwich I'm not sure I would be where I am today," he says.
"I learned a lot of the necessary skills that I needed in the workplace.
From the very first day, you are taught to stand in front of the class and explain concepts, and you have lots of teamwork."
The university's career mentoring scheme gave Siobhan Shum the confidence to land her first graduate job.
"I was partnered with someone from Northern Trust, and it helped me to outline my career goals and prepare for mock interviews," she says.
In her final year, Siobhan worked in the Business School Employability Office, where she picked up valuable insights on how to create an impressive CV and covering letter.
Part of her role involved doing presentations at student workshops.
"I would never have thought that I would be doing presentations to a wide audience, and feel like I've always avoided them," she says.
"But the more I do, the more I realise that I actually really enjoy doing them."

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/apprenticeships/employers:
Take your next step to business success.
Greenwich apprenticeships allow you to train and retain high-quality employees who can drive your business forward.
By enrolling an apprentice on a nationally accredited programme with us, you will:
We offer a range of support services to help your apprentices make the most of their time whilst with us at the university of Greenwich.
Including local health service information, counselling, disability and dyslexia, mental health and psychological wellbeing support.
We will act as a trusted partner to help you recruit the right apprentice and promote the programme to learners.
Throughout the process and programme, we will offer you comprehensive and ongoing support to meet your needs and help ensure each apprentice succeeds.
Hear how United Living future-proofed their business with Greenwich apprenticeships.
Find out how we can help your business.
Discover how Greenwich apprenticeships are driving business success
As the Trust-wide lead on apprenticeships at Oxleas NHS Foundation Trust, Nigel Hogg knows all about the many benefits that degree apprenticeships can offer an organisation.
Working in the ever-evolving construction sector, United Living’s commercial manager Steven Huggett knows exactly how vital apprenticeships can be to business success.
As the commercial director of Stanmore Contractors Limited, Matthew Brunt is a strong believer in the value of degree apprenticeships to successful organisations like his own.
Find out how to take the next step to business success with us.
Download our handy apprenticeship journey map for employers.
Identify your business needs
Begin by looking closely at your current workforce and assess where an apprenticeship could help fill skills gaps and support your business strategies.
Our team can help you with this, as we have years of experience you can call upon.
Plan and research
Speak to our team about how apprenticeships could help your business.
We can discuss:
Recruit
Start to recruit the best candidates for your apprenticeship.
This can include both new and current employees.
Our team can help advise you on this process.
Coordinate with our team
As a trusted partner, we will help you recruit the right apprentice for you and promote the programme to learners.
We will offer you comprehensive and ongoing support to meet your needs and help ensure each apprenticeship succeeds.
From the start of their programme, we will outline the apprenticeship standard the apprentice is expected to meet.
We will use this as the basis for planning their training and learning.
We will also explain how we will work with you during the apprenticeship programme  and end-point assessment.
Fulfil your responsibilities as an employer
We will support you to fully engage with the programme and meet your responsibilities as an employer.
You must:

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/apprenticeships/funding:
Your six-point guide to the Apprenticeship Levy.
The apprenticeship levy can help supercharge your productivity and shape your business's future.
What is the Apprenticeship Levy?
Is extra support available?
Sometimes employers pay into the levy but their funds do not cover the full apprenticeship training costs.
If the cost of the training exceeds the amount in your levy account, your organisation will need to pay.
Is there funding available for SMEs?
Government funding is available for SMEs that do not pay the levy.
However, you may be required to co-invest 5% of the levy cost.
We can guide you through the levy funding available to your business, so please contact us.
What are levy transfers?
If you are a large employer who pays the Apprenticeship Levy, you can choose to transfer up to 50% of your levy funds each year to other businesses.
These businesses can then use these levy funds to pay for their apprenticeship training and assessment.
With a levy transfer, you can decide which apprenticeships and businesses you would like to support.
It is a great way to help other businesses, people and local areas to succeed.
Is there help to pay other costs?
Employers can get £1,000 to support the apprentice in the workplace if they are one of the following:
Can you tell me more about the Apprenticeship Levy?
If you are an employer and want to know more about the Apprenticeship Levy, please contact us today at apprenticeships@greenwich.ac.uk.
Download our six-point guide with all the key details you’ll need.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/apprenticeships/apply:
Find out more about next steps and how to apply.
You’ll need to apply to one of our apprenticeship programmes through your employer.
Employers can contact us at apprenticeships@gre.ac.uk to discuss your recruitment and workforce needs.
You can also find details of our apprenticeship programmes on the Government’s apprenticeship website

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/apprenticeships/learners/employer-support:
Our market-leading programmes offer you and your employer a unique opportunity to achieve incredible future success.
You can upskill, boost your career prospects, and gain industry-accredited qualifications—all while staying in your current role.
If your employer doesn’t pay the Apprenticeship Levy, the government will cover up to 95% of the programme costs for your employer.
We can also explain to them how off-the-job training works, and the hours that will involve.
And because we know that balancing work and study can seem challenging, we’ll support you and your employer at every stage.
We’ll be your and your employer’s trusted partner and ensure a seamless learning experience, that fits around your job and their business needs.
Our dedicated support team will help you manage your studies while achieving your career goals.
Talk to your employer today about a University of Greenwich degree apprenticeship.
Ask them to email us at apprenticeships@greenwich.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/university-of-greenwich-is-the-3rd-best-university-in-london-on-student-reviews-platform-studentcrowd:
2024 rankings of the best universities in London, from StudentCrowd , a website dedicated to collecting information about all areas of the student experience, has placed the University of Greenwich at number three.
To get the rankings, data from over 4,000 verified reviews of London universities left by students on StudentCrowd are checked.
Students reviewed their personal experience of university across 5 categories: campus and facilities, clubs and societies, students' union, careers service and WiFi.
Ranking the university, the website said:
‘The University of Greenwich has ranked highly in our list of top London universities over the past few years, and this year is no different.
Located close to the banks of the River Thames, the University of Greenwich offers a dynamic learning environment with a focus on academic excellence and real-world impact.
With a rich history spanning over 125 years, the university is renowned for its innovative approach to education and research.
Emphasising practical skills and employability, Greenwich provides students with opportunities to engage in hands-on learning experiences.
The university encourages creativity, critical thinking, and personal development, preparing graduates to thrive in a rapidly changing world.
From state-of-the-art facilities to dedicated support services, Greenwich is committed to providing students with the resources they need to succeed both academically and professionally.’

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/university-of-greenwich-praised-for-high-quality-apprenticeships-in-ofsted-inspection:
The University of Greenwich has been rated Good in all areas by Ofsted following its recent inspection of apprenticeship provision.
The inspection praised the university’s commitment to widening access,  curriculum, and teaching and support.
The Ofsted report , published today 1 July, following an inspection in June, also praises the University’s apprenticeship offering for being well suited to SEND learners.
Greenwich has a number of popular apprenticeship programmes across a wide range of subjects including building, engineering, healthcare and science
University of Greenwich apprenticeships let learners combine studying with practical training and also enables employers to train and retain high-quality employees who can drive their businesses forward.
Professor Jane Harrington, Vice-Chancellor and CEO of the University of Greenwich said:
“As a university that is committed to real world impact and meaningful change to the lives of our students, it gives me great pride receive this positive reflection of our apprenticeship provision.
“I would like to take this moment to congratulate the many Greenwich staff who worked so hard to make this happen.”
Gianina Harvey-Brewin, Associate Director, Employability & Apprenticeships, at the University of Greenwich said:
"We’re proud that Ofsted has recognised the strength and impact of our apprenticeship programmes.
“These results reflect the dedication of our academic and professional teams, the commitment of our employer partners, and the achievements of our apprentices themselves.
“As a university, we’re focused on opening up opportunity and building skills that make a real difference in the workplace – and this report affirms we’re on the right track."
Anna McMenamin, Associate Director for Apprenticeship Development and Ofsted nominee;
“We work hard to provide our apprentices with high-quality teaching and learning and we truly value the strong relationships we’ve built with employers to support their apprentices.
I am delighted that the Ofsted report recognises the many strengths of our provision, which we are naturally proud of.
We remain committed to building on these strengths to ensure every apprentice gains the knowledge, skills and behaviours to fulfil their potential and continue to make an impactful contribution to their respective organisations.”
The report from OFSTED, following an on-site inspection highlighted several positive aspects of the provision:
Learn more about apprenticeships at Greenwich here .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/support/wellbeing:
Our student body is diverse and we offer support to all student groups; including undergraduate, postgraduate, international, part-time or PhD students.
We offer student-centred advice, signposting, support and events to all.
Please do have a browse as you may find information useful to you or to your fellow students in the future.
We welcome your feedback and suggestions as we are always looking to improve and expand the information we offer on our wellbeing hub pages.
See our emergency contact options.
If you need support there are plenty of specialist services available to you.
Follow the link for more information!
Access a whole host of Wellbeing resources on our dedicated Moodle Pages.
We offer a free and confidential service to all registered students.
Simply visit the Digital Student Centre and complete an online self-referral form:
Counselling, Mental Health or Psychological Wellbeing support via this self-referral form
Disability & Dyslexia support via this self referral form
More information about all of our specialist services can be found on our support pages.
Counselling provides a safe, confidential space where students can explore any difficulties that are having an emotional impact on them.
These difficulties can include anxiety, low mood and depression, stress, loneliness, relationship difficulties, loss of confidence, family struggles, sexuality and sexual orientation, abuse, academic problems, identity issues, self-harming, trauma and eating disorders.
Counselling aims to listen, support and validate students in order to find ways to understand and manage their difficulties better.
Counselling focuses on increasing self-awareness and working towards change.
Find out more on our counselling pages .
To find out about support available at the university for disabled students, students with mental health conditions, specific learning difficulties and long term medical conditions, visit the Student Wellbeing Service page .
Our Coordinators (Mental Health) offer generic mental health advice and guidance to students who have a diagnosis (or symptoms) of moderate to severe and enduring mental health problems by providing:
You can self-refer for an appointment by completing an online self-referral form on the Digital Student Centre.
Or join the online drop-in.
Wellbeing Advisors offer confidential, pastoral support and a space to explore things that may be worrying you.
We work to support students who experience a range of issues such as loneliness, friendship difficulties, and other life challenges.
We also work with students in a positive, proactive way to help you identify ways to get ahead.
We want to help you identify life challenges and support you in making the changes needed to achieve academic success and thrive in your time at university.
There are gym facilities onsite at Greenwich and Avery Hill.
At Medway, we offer discounted gym and swim membership at a local leisure centre.
Getting medical care as a student
To access NHS physical and mental health services locally you must be registered with a local GP.
For International Students this is a simple process and you can find more information about how to register with a local GP here.
Help is out there if you're concerned for someone's welfare.
If you are worried about another student's wellbeing encourage them to speak to our Student Wellbeing Service .
You can report a wellbeing concern via the report an accident or incident system here
You can also report any bullying, harassment, hate crime, discrimination or sexual misconduct through the Report and Support team.
If day-time services are closed, out-of-hours support is available too.
This includes Spectrum Life (Freephone UK: 0800 031 8227) our 24/7 student assistance programme.
Join us at a weekly drop-in session.
Details and link below:
Or take advantage of our Spectrum Life online platform/app and telephone service, we broadcast up to 4 live webinars each month, on a variety of interesting topics including; managing stress, how to get better quality sleep and positive parenting.
Here is the Spectrum Life 2025 calendar of events
Did you know that the Student Wellbeing Services runs an online wellbeing drop-in session for students 4 times a week?
Get information and tips on how to manage your stress during exam season from our student assistance programme providers Spectrum Life.
Keep an eye out here, and on the University Portal pages, for news about what the university has planned in the coming months.
The Student Wellbeing Service does not provide a mental health crisis or emergency service so please see below for who to contact for further support:
If you are in need of urgent help now and cannot keep yourself safe from harm: Call 999 or attend your nearest Emergency Department.
If you are under the care of an NHS mental health community team, please contact them.
NHS 111 is a free, non-emergency number for physical and mental health crisis.
Phone Number: 111
Website: www.111.nhs.uk
Greenwich and Avery Hill: 0800 330 8590
Medway: 0300 222 0123
Telephone: 0203 228 5980
Contact Spectrum Life for telephone support 24/7, 365 days a year.
Available to all registered students, giving in-the-moment wellbeing and mental health support
Freephone: 0800 031 8227
Whatsapp: Text 'Hi' to 07418 360 780
Register now to the Spectrum Life platform or mobile app.
Samaritans are available 24 hours a day, every day of the year if you need someone to listen, with no judgement or pressure.
Phone Number (free from UK mobiles & landlines): 116 123
Email: jo@samaritans.org
We offer an appointment service to suits your needs; offering video call, telephone and in person appointments.
More information can be found on our support pages.
Kindly note: We work on a pre-booked appointment basis.
So please join one of our online drop-ins, complete an online self-referral form or call Spectrum Life (Freephone UK: 0800 031 8227) for in the moment support (open 24/7).
Why not take a look at our Digital Student Centre which has lots of wellbeing FAQs for you to browse.
Expert, Free, Confidential, Independent, and
open to all students at all levels
Spectrum Life is a 24/7, 365 free wellbeing support and counselling platform.
Including mindfulness, digital gym, recipes, podcasts, webinars and rewards.
Find the help you need, when you want it.
The SafeZone app is free to download, and use, and is designed to put you in touch with the on campus first aiders, security or emergency response teams more quickly, when needed.
Live Well Greenwich is support available through the free Live Well Community Hub helpline, where you can connect with trained Health Improvement Advisors.
The student wellbeing hub has been designed with all University of Greenwich Students in mind.
If you have any suggestions for improving it, please email us at wellbeing@gre.ac.uk popping ‘Feedback’ in the email title line.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/study/student-experience/student-life:
Coming to university is about much more than getting a degree – it’s about exploring ideas, discovering new passions and making new friends.
When you join us as a student, you’ll meet people from all over the world and all walks of life.
What unites us all is our passion for learning.
We have a highly diverse student community at the University of Greenwich.
We welcome over 30,000 students in the UK every year, from over 140 countries, representing a wide range of backgrounds and cultures.
We pride ourselves on celebrating this diversity and providing support to help all students feel at home and thrive during their time with us.
So, whatever your background and whatever your ambitions, you’ll find people to vibe with.
You’ll get to develop networks that will help you in life and your future career.
For me, what makes the University of Greenwich special is that they pick such great people – not just as students but support staff and lecturers.
- Rachel Dickinson, BSc Mathematics graduate
We have loads of Students’ Union societies and a packed social events calendar.
You’ll find everything from club nights to anime and games sessions at the uni bar.
If you already love a particular sport, then you can delve deeper into it.
If not, have a go at something new.
It’s really easy to find a community to be part of here, and I have a lot of friends both from my course and from all the different societies.
- Ashfi Hossain, BSc Economics student
I reached out to Student Wellbeing Service when I started at the university.
Thanks to the support I’ve received, I’ve gone through my first year very smoothly.
- April Williams, BSc Psychology with Counselling student
We’re here for you whatever help you may need.
This means you can focus on your studies and living your best life while you’re at university.
If you need someone to talk to, you can count on our mental health and psychological wellbeing coordinators and counsellors.
If you have a disability or a specific learning difficulty such as dyslexia, our expert advisers are here to help.
If you’re a care leaver, you can rely on our specialist support before you join us, during your time with us and after you graduate.
Learn more about our support and wellbeing services.
There are many ways we can help eligible students fund their studies, including bursaries, scholarships and a hardship fund.
Our scholarships and bursaries range from bursaries for care leavers to students in financial need.
With our EU Bursary, new students domiciled in the EU could receive a first-year tuition-fee reduction.
Commuting to the University of Greenwich is easy.
Over a third of our students commute to university so you'll have lots of potential travel buddies
The Greenwich University Accommodation Bursary for new domestic/home undergraduate students with a low household income.
EU students domiciled in the EU who hold an offer to study with us could receive a significant tuition fee for studying in the 2024/25 academic year.
Learn more about the financial support packages available to our students.
A placement at Intel while she was at the University of Greenwich launched the career of maths graduate Rachel Dickinson.
She says it was the support of her lecturers and the employability team that gave her the confidence to land her placement.
Lauren Garrett came to the University of Greenwich when she was 21, after having worked as an apprentice legal secretary.
Her degree has led to her current role as a business change project coordinator at a multinational law firm.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/careers/get-work-experience:
A degree with a placement or internship can be a life-changing experience.
You can:
We’ve lots of opportunities for work-based learning, from summer placements to sandwich years.
These fit flexibly around your on-campus studies and enhance what you learn in the classroom.
Our placements and internships team will support you on your journey.
They:
Placements and internships are valuable opportunities to gain real-world experience (ideally related to your programme).
They provide an opportunity to solidify your degree, network, develop your skills and gain a competitive edge.
The terminology of placements and internships are often used interchangeably in the industry.
A sandwich year placement is an optional full-time work experience for 9 – 12 months, between the second (Level 5) and final year of study (Level 6).
You are still considered a student during the sandwich placement and will gain sandwich recognition on your degree certificate on successful completion of the experience.
Full information accessible here , including the placement and academic eligibility criteria, deadline for approval and tips/guidance.
Module-based placements are within some of the programmes of study at UoG.
These placements are significantly shorter than the sandwich year, and are often part time.
The criteria for module-based placements vary across each programme, therefore please ask your programme leader for further details.
Internships are usually shorter opportunities ranging from 5 working days to 6 months, with a range of part-time and full-time opportunities taken alongside study or over the summer.
The University has two internship schemes (optional).
CHEM1144 is a scheme open to Science students in the Faculty of Engineering and Science, and the Certificate of Industrial Studies is open to all first and second year students.
Internships are often sporadically released by organisations, so you should be checking regularly.
Remember, recruitment can take months.
Therefore, we suggest you begin looking as early as possible.
It is a good idea to consider an internship in Year 1 (Level 4) of study, to give you a competitive edge when applying to sandwich year placements, although this is not essential.
For sandwich placements you should start looking and applying at the start of your second year (Level 5) , you can even start looking at the end of your first year.
Most opportunities are released between September and January.
However, positions can be secured as late as July.
The University of Greenwich often have sandwich year placement opportunities, which go live mid-February onwards.
However, there is no ‘rule’ as businesses recruit at various times, so we suggest looking throughout the year, as new opportunities will come up.
We suggest looking once a week, using a variety of approaches such as websites, newspapers, direct contact, networking, career fairs etc.
Placements / internships are rarely advertised to graduates, therefore please consider work experience before your study finishes..
We will help as much as possible, but it is your responsibility to find and secure a placement!
We can help you develop your application skills, including CV and Cover Letter guidance and Mock Interviews.
We can also show you how and where to find opportunities.
However, you need to take our advice and be actively applying.
If live opportunities come into the University, we will share these on Target Connect and within our weekly (Thursday) Spotlight Newsletter (Placements, Internships and Insight Days Edition).
Short, credit-bearing work placements may not be paid.
However, sandwich placements are usually paid at the going rate for entry level roles in the relevant industry.
We will only promote paid opportunities.
Yes – absolutely.
You still have access to university services and support such as the library, employability and wellbeing team.
You will be allocated a placement tutor who will be a point of contact if you have any concerns, and who will visit you twice during the placement year.
You'll still have access to tutors during a placement year.
At the end of a placement year, there is a 'Recall Day' organised by our team, where we help you settle back into study and make the most of your experience with advice on how to apply it to your CV, LinkedIn and in interviews.
If you are receiving support via Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA) then please note that this support will not be available to you whilst you are on a sandwich year placement.
You have the option to apply for Access to Work for similar support.
Further information about organisations that support disabled students can be found here .
If you have any questions regarding this then please feel free to contact Student Wellbeing Service on wellbeing@gre.ac.uk .
I would encourage every student to do a placement because you can gain so many tangible skills that will help you in your final year, as well as in your further career.
- Tereza Jelinkova, BA Language & International Relations

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/business/generator:
The power behind your idea
This June, the Generator at the University of Greenwich hosted its third annual Greenwich Growth Conference.
Held at the Cooper Powerhouse, the event welcomed 36 participants, a dynamic mix of founders, creatives, and business professionals.
Meet the winners of the Generator's Enterprise Challenge 2025.
Find out how we can help you to learn about enterprise, develop your first idea, and meet like-minded students.
Find out how to develop your business or social enterprise via competitions, mentoring and opportunities.
Need funding to grow your idea?
Find out about funding opportunities at the university and beyond.
Two day event where student teams compete to solve bespoke challenges set by businesses and organisations.
The Enterprise Challenge is an annual competition that provides mentoring, training and funding for entrepreneurial students who want to pursue an idea.
Meet the team behind the Generator, our advisory board and more...
Fourty-six students attended the event and toured four businesses across London on a red bus.
The Generator has helped students and alumni to develop and launch successful businesses.
Here are just a few of the inspiring businesses we've helped so far.
Shelini won 'Greenwich Entrepreneur of the Year' at the Enterprise Challenge 2022.
We caught up with her a year later to find out where Ceilán is now.
Abdirahman won the Peoples Choice Award for Favourite Idea in the Enterprise Challenge 2022.
We caught up with Abdirahman a year later to see where Urban Rise is now.
Tina Glavanovitz founded Impi Bag while studying and won our Enterprise challenge in 2020 for the innovative idea.
Her business creates practical bags that hold all the essentials for busy modern customers.
Head of Enterprise and Innovation
Generator Programmes Manager
Communications Officer
Enterprise Advisor
Enterprise and Events Assistant
Enterprise and Events Advisor
Contents Home About us Get started Developing your business Funding and Competitions Competitions Community Enterprise Sources of funding Events Start-up Visa Partners
Contact us
generator@gre.ac.uk
LinkedIn
Instagram
YouTube

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/accommodation/apply:
Find out how to apply for accommodation, whether you are an existing student or planning to join the university in future.
You can apply for accommodation if you're currently younger than 18, as long as you'll be turning 18 during your first academic year.
If you do not turn 18 during your first year of study, you can contact Accommodation Services and we'll give you guidance on other housing options.
Please note: the Application Status Tracker is not open during the UCAS embargo period from 06:00pm on Monday 28 July until 8.00am on Thursday 14 August.
When you receive an offer of a room in a university hall of residence, you need to pay a deposit to secure the room.
You also sign an Accommodation Licence Agreement for the period of your stay.
More about deposits and your licence.
We work with Howden to provide some cover for the contents inside your room.
You don't need to activate the cover, but it's important to check the terms and work out whether it is sufficient for your needs.
More about your contents insurance.
Please check we've got your correct email address before submitting your application as all correspondence relating to your hall application will be sent via email.
If there's an error, just contact Accommodation Services (below).

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/accommodation/our-promise:
For new and continuing students who want to live in our student halls but may be uncertain about signing up, we've set out our accommodation promise to offer you some reassurance.
Our plan is to provide you with the best possible university experience that involves a blend of online and on-campus learning and activities.
We aim to support our residents as best we can throughout your studies and your stay in our residences, please see further information in the links below:
Applicants who sign up for accommodation can cancel for any reason up to three weeks before their contract begins.
If you change your mind three weeks or less before your arrival date, just complete the cancellation form available on the accommodation portal and the booking will be cancelled and your deposit may be refunded.
Students joining the university in January can apply online from October.
Our accommodation promise is also for returning students who may be considering a contract with a private landlord but are concerned about committing for the whole year.
If you wish to consider returning to halls, you can apply and book subject to availability through the main university portal .
If you want to move into halls during the academic year, you apply and make a booking through the student portal using the following link main university portal
Our Accommodation Services team are committed to offering you the best possible university experience on all our campuses.
Our campuses are in (or within commuting distance of) London, the world's #1 city for students (QS Best Student Cities 2019).
If you have any questions about the information listed here, please contact Accommodation Services on accommodation@gre.ac.uk.
If you a current student you can raise an enquiry through the Digital Student Centre .
We are ready to help you begin your journey with the University of Greenwich.
T&Cs
When you book a room in University of Greenwich halls of residence, you are required to sign an Accommodation Licence Agreement.
The licence includes the following clause allowing you to cancel for any reason up to three weeks before the start of your contract.
Cancellation / Termination of Licence Agreement
6.1 Before the start date of the Licence Agreement, the Resident is permitted to cancel the Licence Agreement under the following circumstances:

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/accommodation/accommodation-at-avery-hill:
Located at the Avery Hill Campus, the Student Village accommodates over 1,200 students.
Around 70% of the students living here study at Greenwich Campus and travel on our free intercampus bus.
Direct computer network access in each study bedroom and Wi-Fi throughout every building, including all available Freeview channels.
Apply via the Student Portal.
Permits are subject to availability.
Located at the Avery Hill Campus, the Student Village accommodates over 1,200 students studying at the Avery Hill and Greenwich sites.
These courts offer approximately 550 single study bedrooms in flats with shared kitchen and bathroom facilities - mostly for four or five students, but with some maisonettes containing seven rooms.
There are approximately 650 rooms in these courts.
Each single study bedroom comes with an en-suite shower/toilet pod within the bedroom and the residents share the kitchens.
The majority of flats are shared by six students, but Tudor Court flats are larger and have 9 bedrooms in each flat.
If you are looking for your own space at a great price then look at our shared flats.
Your room has plenty of space for study and storage and all rooms share a bathroom as well as a spacious kitchen and living area for socialising.
Flats in Aragon Court have more contemporary fittings than those in Boleyn and Seymour Courts.
When applying for a room just choose Small, Standard or Large – you will get the chance to choose a room in Aragon Court if you wish when you select your room (subject to availability).
If you prefer the privacy of your own bathroom facilities then our en suite rooms offer plenty of space for study and storage, with a communal living area and kitchen.
Most flats are shared by six students, but Tudor Court flats are larger and have 9 bedrooms in each flat.
Fridges are supplied in shared kitchens.
Find out more about our action for a greener future on our Sustainability pages.
Our virtual tours are a great way to get a feel for where you'll be studying.
Explore the facilities we have on offer below.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/accommodation/accommodation-at-greenwich:
Students based at our Greenwich Campus can choose from four halls within walking distance of the university and the Student Village at Avery Hill, which is a short ride on our free shuttle bus.
4 great locations all minutes from the campus and Greenwich town centre.
Buses, trains and the DLR provide great transport options locally and to the capital.
Residential support staff are always on-call for advice and welfare.
See which of our accommodation options is right for you.
Cutty Sark Hall offers 230 single study/bedrooms, all with en-suite shower/toilet facilities in shared, self-catering flats.
357 en-suite rooms for students in a mix of flat shares, studios and two bedroom "studio-style" flats.
123 en-suite rooms across from the campus reserved for postgraduate students and those aged 25+.
Shared flats and studios only a fifteen minute walk from Greenwich town centre, with a large common room for use by all residents.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/accommodation/accommodation-at-medway:
Stay in one of 350 rooms in shared self-catering flats on campus.
Located
within walking distance of Chatham and Gillingham town centres and close to
the Dockside Outlet and a multi-screen cinema.
Facilities on campus include a café and laundrette.
Stay in one of 350 rooms in shared self-catering flats on the Medway Campus in Kent.
Located within walking distance of Chatham and Gillingham town centres and close to the Dockside Outlet and a multi-screen cinema.
All have en suite rooms with a communal living area and kitchen and plenty of room for storage.
All of the Medway halls offer the same facilities but Adelaide, Forte and Sunne Houses have a more modern feel.
Although all the amenities in the Medway Halls are the same, Adelaide, Forte and Sunne Houses were built after Merlin and Wolfe and have a more modern feel.
MPharm students can apply to live in either University of Greenwich Medway Halls or the Pier Quays Halls at the University of Kent.
If your preferred hall is not available, you are automatically referred to the other university for a room (subject to availability).
The Pier Quays self-catered accommodation offers en-suite rooms in flats housing 5-8 students with a spacious shared kitchen and purpose-built social spaces.
There are a range of shops on site to help you feel at home.
About Pier Quays

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/accommodation/renting-privately:
If you want to live in a local house, flat or lodgings while you study at the University of Greenwich, Accommodation Service staff are available to point you in the right direction.
If you want to live in a local, house, flat or Purpose Built Student Accommodation (PBSA) while you study with us, we have partnered with Studentpad, an online student accommodation service.
You will find a wide variety of properties advertised on the site, from bedsits to shared houses.
Use the Studentpad links above and choose tab "landlord" to create a profile and advertise your property.
Contact our Accommodation Services Office (below) to discuss if you have any queries.
Only your name and your contact number will be listed.
Your personal address and the house number of the property you are advertising will not be displayed.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/accommodation/special-requirements:
Accommodation information for disabled students, students with medical conditions, students leaving care, and students on short courses, teaching or placement.
The university gives priority to students with disabilities when allocating places in halls of residence.
Our accommodation has rooms and flats that are fully accessible and equipped for those with disabilities.
The university is always ready to consider individual applications for adaptations that may be necessary in particular circumstances.
Students with particular requirements should make contact with the university's Student Wellbeing (disability/dyslexia) Co-coordinators on 020 8331 7875.
In addition, you should note any special needs on your application form and contact the Accommodation Service Team directly in order to ensure that team members are aware of your needs.
Any student requiring hall accommodation or any specific type of accommodation because of a serious medical condition may be given priority in the allocation of accommodation in hall.
You should note any special needs on your application form and contact the Accommodation Services Team directly in order to ensure that staff are aware of your needs.
You will be required to provide supporting documentation such as a note from your doctor explaining why your condition dictates that a place in hall or particular type of room is necessary.
Accommodation Services gives priority to care leavers in your application for a room in our halls of residence for the duration of your studies.
Priority is also given to care leavers who, when living in halls, may wish to extend their accommodation contract from our standard 40 weeks (September to June), to 52 weeks (including summer), as long as we are aware of your status and you have followed the required steps to secure housing for summer.
If you are a care leaver, please ensure that you state this, where appropriate, during your application process as you may not be required to pay a deposit prior to arrival.
You will be sent information about this as part of your booking process but if you have any queries or concerns please do contact the Accommodation Services Team
The standard arrangements for university accommodation require a residential contract that runs for the entire academic session (September to June).
If you know in advance that you will only require accommodation for part of the session, you must inform the Accommodation Service who will advise you if there is any suitable accommodation available to meet your needs.
The University of Greenwich is committed to promoting and implementing equality of opportunity and has the following Equality and diversity policy statement .
Equality in allocations
The majority of our accommodation is allocated through students selecting their own halls, flats, and rooms.
No distinction is made in allocations based on age, disability, gender reassignment, race, sex or sexual orientation apart from in Devonport House, which is reserved for postgraduate students and those over 25 years of age, or in cases where a student requires a particular hall, flat, or room to accommodate a disability.
Accessibility for disabled visitors and residents
‌The university is committed to providing an accessible environment to disabled visitors and residents.
Wherever possible, halls feature disabled access and all sites have flats and rooms that can be adapted for students with disabilities.
All newer buildings are designed to be fully compliant.
Staff are available to assist with completing forms and other processes where there are any accessibility requirements.
Please contact Accommodation Services if assistance is required.
If you are intending to apply for accommodation and have specific housing needs relating to your disability, please contact Accommodation Services as soon as possible so that we can discuss your particular requirements and ensure that the most suitable facilities are in place for your needs.
Any other specific requirements
Should you have any medical or other issues that you think should be taken into consideration regarding your allocation in a hall of residence, you should state this clearly on your application for accommodation in the appropriate section.
We will then endeavour to assist in finding you a room that best suits your needs.
This information may include things like you requiring a ground floor room, a room in a residence nearer to the university due to a mobility issue or illnesses which cause fatigue, sharp bin required for needle disposal, additional fire system equipment being required due to hearing impairment, etc.
It would also be useful if you provided us with information on any health condition e.g.
epilepsy, mental health difficulties, Asperger’s, etc.
which may not affect your room/residence but may be useful for us to know of for other reasons.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/accommodation/moving-in:
For all information on arrivals and moving into halls please see the campus sections below.
Why not also have a look at our FAQs page where you will find details on how your fees are calculated and what to bring with you.
Starting University and moving to a new country can be stressful and difficult when deciding what to bring with you.
Why not take the hassle out of transporting all your bedding and kitchenware with you and simply pre-order them from UniKitOut!
Choose from a range of essential items to be delivered to your room in halls so that they are ready for your arrival.
UniKitOut packs are ideal for our international students moving to the UK, and our home students travelling long distances to get to our halls.
All you need to do is follow the link to the UniKitOut website, choose what you would like, select you halls from the list, confirm and pay for your goods.
Why not use our special 10% discount code GREENWICH10 at the check out.
The pack will be ready and waiting for you when you arrive so that you can settle in quickly into your exciting new home, as long as you place an order as soon as possible prior to your contract start date
Instructions and information for each of our campuses
Information for new students about Avery Hill Student Village.
Information for new students about our Greenwich halls of residence.
Information for new students about our Medway halls of residence.
Information on contents insurance for students studying at the University of Greenwich and living in student accommodation.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/accommodation/contents-insurance:
It’s easy to underestimate the value of your possessions.
We’re not just talking about your laptop and phone, but items such as your clothes, hairdryers, and other gadgets, like Fitbits, and smart watches can all add up.
The great news is, through our insurance partner, Howden, we provide contents insurance for all the students who live with us, so your belongings are covered while they’re in your accommodation.
Watch this video to understand your content insurance: Student insurance explained
What is Howden for Students?
Once you’ve registered with Howden’s student app, you can instantly access your cover details and policy documents, as well as contact the claims team at any time.
Howden for Students is packed with loads of useful products and information to help you through your time at uni, including:
Register now
It is important to find out exactly what you are covered for as you may want to extend your cover to protect all of your possessions both inside and outside of your room.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/accommodation/our-guarantee:
We guarantee accommodation in halls to most new full-time students (and some returning students) who meet a few simple criteria.
The application deadline is 30 June.
Living in halls of residence is a great way to meet new people and make lifelong friends.
To help you get your university days off to a flying start, we offer an accommodation guarantee for most new students.
If you're coming to the University of Greenwich for the first time as a first-year undergraduate or postgraduate, or as a direct entrant to another year, you have an accommodation guarantee, subject to these conditions:
Please be aware that the guarantee criteria this is not applicable to Bird College Students.
We offer around 2,400 places in halls on or near our campuses at Avery Hill, Greenwich and Medway.
All our accommodation includes 24/7 residential support, free internet and WiFi, all utility bills and contents insurance.
Some flats have en-suite rooms and balconies.
Find out more about the different types of accommodation at each campus:
Greenwich Campus-based students should note that if you are unable to book a room in a hall near the Greenwich Campus, a room in the Student Village at Avery Hill will normally be available to be booked.
More than half the residents of the Student Village study at the Greenwich Campus and a free intercampus bus runs between the two sites.
You will normally be offered accommodation in a university hall of residence but in the unlikely event that rooms within university halls are unavailable, the university will either find you alternative university-approved housing or secure a room for you in short-term accommodation until a room within a university hall becomes available.
In the unlikely event that rooms within university halls are unavailable, the university will either find you alternative university-approved housing or secure a room for you in short-term accommodation until a room within a university hall becomes available.
The university is not usually able to extend the guarantee of accommodation to students enrolled at partner colleges.
Students at our partner colleges are advised to contact the Accommodation Service directly if they are interested in living in one of the halls of residence.
If you cannot be offered a place in halls of residence you will be advised of alternative options available to you.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/accommodation/frequently-asked-questions:
Frequently-asked-questions about student accommodation at the University of Greenwich.
Includes information on applying, costs, and when you need to apply.
You will not be required to pay any accommodation fees until after you have moved into halls.
You can select your own payment plan on the Flywire portal once your fees have been added to your account.
There are options to pay in 9 instalments (on the 28th of each month), 3 instalments (one to be paid at the start of each term), or in one instalment (to be paid by 28 September or within one month of arrival).
The first payment will be due on September 28th if you move into halls in September.
If you move in after the start of the academic year or are in residence for one semester only,  further information regarding your payment options will be available at the time of booking.
Staff are also available to discuss your payment plan options if you have any queries.
For residents moving in after September, your first instalment would be due at the end of the month that you have moved in to hall.
Further information about fees, payments and instalment plans is available in the Accommodation Portal and within your booking acceptance forms.
You are charged fees from the start date of your Licence Agreement until the end date of the Licence Agreement.
Your total fees are shown on your Licence Agreement and you should check this amount.
If you have any queries regarding your payment plan or fees, particularly if you receive a fee payment reminder and are not certain of the amount due, please contact the Accommodation Service Team.
You pay an equal portion of the fees in each instalment.
If you are living in halls for all three terms and wish to pay termly you will pay 1/3 of your fees at the start of each term (dates are shown at time of acceptance and are available within the Accommodation Portal).
If you wish to pay monthly and you live in halls for the full academic session you will pay 1/9 of your fees on the 28th of each month from September to May.
The calculation for instalment plans will vary accordingly for students on non-standard licence dates.
Payments are not for an exact period of time, they are an equal share of your total hall fees.
If you are released from your Licence Agreement before the original end date your account will be adjusted accordingly and you will be notified of the final balance or if a credit is due back to you.
All deposits are prepayments of fees.
If there are any charges or damages that you are liable for, during you time in hall, you will be notified and any costs applied to your accommodation account.
You will be expected to pay the costs no later than the end of your Licence Agreement or, if costs are applied after departure, within 28 days.
If you cancel your room booking 21 days before the start date of your Licence Agreement, your full deposit will be refunded.
If you cancel after this time some or all of your deposit may be used to cover any loss to the University.
The University will take steps to mitigate your loss by trying to find a replacement resident to take your place but will charge you up to the full deposit amount if no replacement is found.
You need to pay for your own food and other personal items you require while in hall.
You will need to pay for laundry costs (each hall has launderette facilities).
If you wish to bring a car, you will need to pay for parking at the Avery Hill Campus and Medway Campus Monday to Friday (there is no parking available at the Greenwich halls).
You need to pay for replacement keys if you lose the set issued to you on arrival.
If the keys can be identified and are lost in the proximity of the hall you may also need to pay for a lock change.
You will need to pay cleaning costs if the condition of your room is poor when you vacate the building or there are any issues with the cleanliness of the flat while you are living there (residents are always encouraged to work together with their flatmates to keep communal areas clean and tidy, staff can assist if there are problems).
You may be charged costs for deliberate or accidental damage in the flat or your room.
If damage is noted or reported during the residency period, residents will be written to and asked to provide further information and to discuss communal matters with their flatmates.
Accommodation Service staff will take steps to ensure charges are applied fairly and only to residents who have taken responsibility, or are considered liable.
Residents will be asked to tell staff before they depart if there are any damages as liability will be assumed to be shared if they are noted after the end of the licence period and everyone has vacated.
To avoid damage costs, you must ensure you carefully complete your inventory on arrival and report any issues to staff immediately if they arise during your time in residence.
If you are withdrawing from your programme of study or interrupting your studies then you must notify the Accommodation Service by completing a Leaving Early Form online through the accommodation portal requesting to vacate your accommodation and contact staff via email accommodation@gre.ac.uk .
Staff will usually be alerted when your student status changes but you should also ensure you contact the Accommodation Service in person.
You will be given a 28 day notice period from the day you submit the form.
If you wish to be replaced before the 28 day notice period is up, we will try to find a replacement student to take your room and you will be asked to confirm your date of departure on the relevant form.
If you wish to vacate for another reason then you should complete the Leaving Early form available on the accommodation portal and speak with a member of the Accommodation Services Team.
The Team will advise if there is a waiting list of students looking for accommodation.
If this is the situation then arrangements will be made for another student to move in and your licence will be terminated.
If there is not a waiting list you will need to find a new student to move into your room or you will remain liable for the fees until the licence ends.
Please be aware that it can often be difficult to find a replacement after mid-October and becomes more difficult as the academic year progresses.
You should therefore consider very carefully whether the halls environment is somewhere you would like to live before completing your licence agreement.
Residents can apply for room swaps from the first Monday in October by submitting a Room Transfer Request online on the accommodation portal.
Moves will be arranged subject to availability and you will be asked to stay in touch with the Team and regularly check the availability and/or whether there are other students who would prefer your room type and with whom you could swap.
Accommodation Services Teams are available 24/7 to assist you and will work closely with you to ensure that you feel happy and settled and that the problems you are experiencing are resolved.
You should either contact the Resident Assistant in the hall (6pm to 8am Monday to Friday and 6pm to 8am Friday to Monday) or email or speak with Accommodation Services Team weekdays from 10am to 4pm.
Car parking permits are available at Avery Hill and Medway.
You can apply for this permit, which is only available to student who live on campus.
Further information on parking is available on the University Parking Permits webpage.
There is no parking at halls of residence in Greenwich.
Yes, students are allowed visitors and guests.
However they must have the agreement of their flatmates before having a guest stay over for periods of more than one night.
Please remember that bedrooms are for single occupancy and there is not space for a number of guests, guests are not permitted to sleep in communal areas of the flat.
Residents are responsible for the behaviour of their guests at all times and must ensure they are aware of the regulations, of the evacuation procedures should the fire alarm activate and that they are not left alone in the flat or provided with a key.
Further information about the regulations regarding guests is included in the Accommodation Licence Agreement.
We operate waiting lists for our halls of residence.
If you contact the accommodation services they will be able to add you to this list and endeavour to offer you based on availability.
We also provide a list of alternative housing in the area to help you with your search.
We are aware that there are different course start dates, specifically January and March starters.
For these start dates you do not qualify for the accommodation guarantee, however there are often rooms available and you will be able to make an application from mid-October if you are starting a programme of study in January.
Applications for students commencing studies in March will open in January, please check the accommodation portal for further information nearer to the time applications will open.
The Team will notify you shortly after you have submitted your application when you will expect to receive an offer of accommodation and will keep you up to date with the status of your application.
If you are starting a programme of study at any other time of year then you will be able to make an application via the portal and staff will notify you of availability and discuss your accommodation options with you.
Returning students are guaranteed university accommodation for subsequent academic sessions rooms are normally available for returning students, particularly at the Avery Hill and Medway campuses.
At both of these campuses, we have been able in recent years to offer rooms to the majority of continuing students who apply.
Applications usually open in February and information is sent to all students shortly after the start of the second semester.
If you are a January starter who requires accommodation until the following January, you will also need to complete this application process.
If you are a March starter you will be provided with information about applying for the next academic year during your booking process.
A separate application process for rooms during the summer is in place which usually runs throughout January.
At the end of semester one and beginning of semester two, information about the process is sent to students who registered an interest in summer housing when completing their halls application form.
If you did not register an interest at the time of your original application please amend it via the link in the portal or by contacting Accommodation Service staff.
No, the University has a no smoking policy throughout its buildings.
Smoking is not permitted in any of the halls of residences or university owned or managed buildings.
Applications for new students open 10 March and you can apply any time after this date.
Students who apply on or before 30 June are guaranteed accommodation (see the Accommodation Guarantee for full conditions).
We recommend submitting an application no later than 30 June if possible as students whose applications are received before that date have priority booking status and will have the first chance to choose a room providing they meet the guarantee criteria
Please note that applications received before 30 June are not considered on a first come first served basis and any applicant submitting by the end of the day 30 June will be given equal chance to book one of their preferred rooms.
After this date, applications will be considered in date order from when they were received.
You can only apply for accommodation after you have confirmed the University of Greenwich as your firm choice on UCAS or if you are a direct entrant via the Admissions Office.
You can apply online by clicking on the ' Apply Now ' button available on accommodation webpages.
Please note that if you have advised UCAS you planned to live at home this does not affect you making an application for halls of residence and you can apply regardless of the information you supplied to UCAS.
The deadline to apply for accommodation in order to be covered by the Accommodation Guarantee is 30 June.
After this date an offer of accommodation will be subject to availability, however the majority of students who apply after the deadline (including those who apply through Clearing) are normally offered accommodation.
Please submit an application as soon as you have received your acceptance and portal log-in credentials from the university.
The University of Greenwich guarantees all new students a place in a hall of residence or in university-approved housing* provided that they have met all the conditions of the guarantee below.
Please note that applications for accommodation are open for students who have firmly accepted either a conditional or unconditional offer to study.
The University is not usually able to extend the guarantee of accommodation to students enrolled at partner colleges.
Students at our partner colleges are advised to contact the Accommodation Service Team directly if they are interested in living in one of the halls of residence.
The Accommodation Service will consider applications from full-time students who are attending for one semester, are attending at a partner college or who apply after the Accommodation Guarantee deadline.
However, we cannot guarantee you will be offered a room.
Offers will be subject to availability and if you cannot make a booking in halls of residence we can supply information about alternative housing options.
If you did not list the Student Village at Avery Hill as a preference but you can only see rooms at Avery Hill, it is usually because  there is no more availability in the Greenwich Campus halls.
The majority of residents who live at Avery Hill study on the Greenwich Campus and a free bus runs throughout the day (Monday to Friday) between Avery Hill and Greenwich giving students the flexibility to enjoy what Avery Hill has to offer while still having access to their lectures and the facilities on the Greenwich Campus.
A large proportion of continuing students also return to live at Avery Hill throughout some or all of their programme.
The standard moving in weekend is 2nd weekend in September between 10am and 5pm.
In some circumstances it may be possible to move in ahead of the standard arrival date and further information will be sent to residents regarding check in and arrivals.
If you have been offered a room with a move-in date before or after the main arrival weekend, you will be advised of when you can take up residence after completing all the steps to accept your booking.
If you require a room before the main move in date in September or the booking date shown in your offer, its best that you contact team on accommodation@gre.ac.uk.
(you also have the opportunity to note your programme start date on your application form).
There is limited availability in the residences earlier than the main move in weekend in September but where possible we will try and accommodate your request.
If you are looking to move later than the start of your licence, please note that we will hold the room for you for 2 weeks following which time your room may be cancelled and deposit withheld to cover the period of time when the room was held for you.
You will be able to inform the Accommodation Team of the planned arrival date by completing an online check in.
If you are unable to arrive within the first two weeks since the start of your Accommodation Licence Agreement, please contact the team on accommodation@gre.ac.uk and we will discuss your specific circumstance directly with you.
All furniture, including beds and mattresses, a wardrobe, a desk, a desk chair and book shelves are included in the room for you.
However, you will need to bring your own bed linen, towels, all kitchen crockery, utensils, and any other personal items such as laundry baskets, bins, floor mats, toilet roll and cleaning supplies.
Please check the University of Greenwich website for a full breakdown of what is available at each of our halls.
All you need to do is follow the link to the UniKItOut website, choose what you would like, select you halls from the list, confirm and pay for your goods.
The pack will then be delivered to your room in halls before you arrive (if you order in time before the 10 th September) so that you can settle in quickly into your exciting new home.
Yes, the Licence Agreement period includes Christmas and Easter holiday periods (unless the licence begins after these have passed) so you can stay in the room during these periods.
Please note you will be charged for the Christmas and Easter holiday periods regardless of whether or not you stay in your room.
For students who have licences running outside of the standard dates you will be able to remain in hall for some or all of the summer vacation period, depending on your licence start and/or end date.
You may be required to transfer to a different room and will be provided with further information when your booking is confirmed.
The Accommodation Service Teams are based on each campus within the Student Centre and are open Monday to Friday, 10am–4pm.
E-mail: accommodation@gre.ac.uk Tel: 020 8331 8272 (option 3)
The Accommodation Services Team aim to reply to emails within one working day.
If you do not receive a response please check that the email address is correct and re-send your message or contact the Accommodation Services Team via telephone.
You can be released from your Licence Agreement without financial obligation provided you notify the Accommodation Services Team at least 3 weeks (21 days) before the start date of your Licence Agreement.
If your Licence Agreement begins in less than 3 weeks, you should still advise the Accommodation Services Team immediately so we can try to find a replacement student for your room and reduce your liability.
For students moving in on the standard start dates in September, we are normally able to find a replacement student a few days beforehand although this cannot always be guaranteed.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/articles/bus/how-studying-international-business-in-greenwich-helped-maddy-land-a-career-she-actually-cares-about:
Maddy’s International Business journey at Greenwich
Growing up in the US, Maddy always knew she wanted to explore more of the world.
Studying International Business - BA (Hons) International Business with Language - was her way in.
“I’ve always been really interested in how business works on a global level, like how cultures and groups of people approach business functions differently,” she says .
“I knew I needed to get outside of that bubble and experience the world first-hand”.
Greenwich stood out immediately.
Between its location, international community and the vibe of the Business School itself, she saw a place where she could learn from people as much as from books.
“It felt like somewhere I’d meet people from all over and really see business from different perspectives”.
For Maddy, the most valuable part of the course wasn’t just the content - it was how it was delivered.
“Our professors brought so many different industry experiences into the classroom.
It wasn’t just theories.
They’d share stories from their own careers, which made everything feel way more relevant”.
She also found that being around students from all over the world shaped the way she thought.
“You learn how to communicate better, how to understand different ways of thinking.
That’s a big part of international business”.
One of the highlights of Maddy’s journey was her placement year at Disney, working in the Corporate Communications team.
“Disney was really a dream come true for me.
I had been applying to placements regularly and it was the last one I thought I’d get chosen for”.
The experience gave her an inside look at how a global brand operates.
“It was intense, but I learned so much about branding, campaign planning, and working in a fast-paced, creative environment.
It helped me build strong connections and figure out what kind of career I want”.
Outside of lectures, Maddy fully threw herself into university life.
“In my first year, I joined the International Students Society, and later became President in my second year.
That gave me a space to be around people who understood what it’s like being far from home”.
She also became a Student Rep for her course, a Student Ambassador for two years, and worked as a Residential Assistant throughout her time in halls.
“All of these experiences pushed me out of my comfort zone and helped shape who I’ve become”.
After four years at Greenwich, Maddy is about to start her dream job in the UK sports industry, working in PR and Communications.
“It’s been an amazing journey.
I came here never having been abroad before, not knowing anyone.
Now I’ve got friends from around the world, experiences I’m proud of, and a better sense of who I am”
“Greenwich gave me a sturdy foundation to start my career.
Now I’m ready to build on it”.
Discover more about our business and management degrees and how to apply.
IMPORTANT NOTE: Please note that course timetables, the availability of modules and opportunities offered to, and services for, students can change over time - i.e.
things may not be available from one year to the next - and that some things may also not be available to you if you are joining Greenwich as a direct entry student.
In the case of modules, please always check the 'What will you study' section of the course webpage for the course and entry year you are interested in.
You can find an index of all our subject areas, within which you will find the individual course pages, at: https://www.gre.ac.uk/subjects
Current students; General public
Faculty of Business

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/careers/identify-your-skills:
During term time you can head over to one of our weekly career pop-ups where you can speak to an advisor on a 1-2-1 basis and receive real-time feedback.
There is no need to register beforehand.
Greenwich Campus
Monday, 12pm - 2pm in Stockwell Street Library
Wednesday, 1pm - 3pm in the Dreadnought building
Medway Campus
Wednesday, 1pm - 3pm in the Drill Hall Library
Get support with CV’s, job applications, career fairs, internships, mentoring, graduate jobs, mock interviews and more via our Target Connect platform.
Target Connect gives our students access to the largest network of employer opportunities in the UK and Ireland through the Target Jobs board.
You can also access global corporates, local SMEs and third sectors through our own partner organisations.
Bringing opportunities and learning resources all in one place has never been easier with Target Connect, here are the things we enjoy most about the platform:
Access link: Target Connect
Build your career confidence, access a range of resources and develop yourself personally and professionally with the Greenwich Employability Passport.
If you’re academic staff or a returning student, you should have already heard that we’ve revamped the GEP!
If you’re a new student, you may have heard about the GEP briefly in your introductory sessions or lectures.
Either way, we’re pleased to update you all on the exciting and innovative changes that we’ve made.
Find out more:
We are pleased to introduce a new suite of microlearning modules designed to help academic colleagues embed employability skills and knowledge into the curriculum.
Our new CareerMicrolearning Pathways offer:
The CareerMicrolearning Pathways have been thoughtfully developed in alignment with the Academic Framework to begin to address key topics that can most effectively support our students in their future careers, whether progressing to graduate-level jobs or further studies.
Each pathway has been aligned with either level 4, 5, 6 or 7, though can be used at any level at your discretion.
Shortlist.Me transforms the way mock online assessments are facilitated.
On Shortlist.Me, you can browse and complete practice video interviews and receive feedback through their built in AI.
There are a wide range of interviews to choose from, some created by Shortlist.me and others created internally by the Employability Service.
Access link for current students and graduates: Shortlist.Me
Graduates will need to email us at Employability@gre.ac.uk to request the Access Code.
Career Set is an AI-powered career platform that generates instant personalised feedback on your CV and Cover Letter.
The platform has been designed to support you prior to visiting one of our Employability Skills Advisors.
Powered by AI, the platform gives you actionable  feedback via three main products Score My CV, Target My CV and Cover Letters.
The AI-powered CV review platform instantly scores your CV on key criteria recruiters and hiring managers look for.
Access link: Career Set
With LinkedIn Learning, you will have access to top-quality courses taught by industry experts, making it a great way to gain many insights into your prospective career/industry and develop valuable skills.
If you are graduating, don’t worry about losing out!
You will have access to the platform whilst your digital access to the university is still active (90 days after you complete your study).
Find out more: LinkedIn Learning
Graduates First supports graduates through allowing them to practice 150+ industry standard job assessments to best prepare them for assessment centres and common application processes used by employers globally.
Practice 150+ industry standard Job Assessments, to be prepared for common application processes used by top employers globally.
For each test, you can monitor your progress and receive instant expert feedback reports.
Through the platform, you can also gain over 100 useful insight videos about how employers’ recruitment processes and the types of assessments you will likely face.
In addition, use example top employer recruitment processes to gain a strong sense of the experience you can expect in your application.
Access link: Graduates First
For graduate access please email employability@gre.ac.uk.
Student Circus is a job search platform that's dedicated to international students.
With Student Circus, you'll have unlimited access to thousands of filtered visa-enabled opportunities and other resources on the platform.
How does it work?
Student Circus offers you the chance to find excellent opportunities, such as exclusive Skilled Worker Visa jobs, internships (including start-up internships) and placements.
Employers willing to sponsor the Skilled Worker Visa, listed on the platform, include Airbus, Deutsche Bank, McKinsey & Company, Land Rover, Siemens and many more.
What features are available?
Handpicked jobs at reputable workplaces 2.
Immigration assistance in select countries 3.
Exclusive career advice and country guides
Why should I join?
How do I sign up?
Go to https://gre.studentcircus.com/ 2.
Sign up using your university email ID 3.
Verify your email.
Prospects is the UK's biggest graduate careers website, supporting graduates with valuable information, advice and job opportunities.
Access link: Prospects
Bright Network is a careers platform that connects students and recent graduates with over 250 of their partner employers.
From internships to events, there are multiple opportunities to choose from.
Access link: Bright Network
The University's Library Service provide a series of 'LibGuides' which showcase the various online and print resources available to you to help enhance your employability.
Access Link: LibGuides
We run a variety of workshops, hosted by our Employability Skills Advisors and also by our trusted employer partners.
From workshops on placement advice and expanding your LinkedIn network to employer skills sessions, we guarantee there will be a workshop for you!
Book via Target Connect .
For further support, you can book a 1-2-1 with one of our Employability Skills Advisors via Target Connect .
The team were instrumental in improving my CV and cover letter, providing tips and answering questions that I had about applications, and putting myself in as successful a position as possible.
- Lexi Fraser-Urquhart, BSc Computer Science (Artificial Intelligence)

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/careers/meet-employers-and-network:
Watch the highlights of our Greenwich Employability Awards Ceremony – an event dedicated to celebrating the exceptional impact and contributions of our students and external employer partners.
If you’re looking for a role model to inspire and support you during your studies, join the hundreds of students who sign up for our mentoring programme each year.
You will also have the opportunity to expand your professional network through events and employer engagement opportunities.
The University offers different types of mentoring programmes:
The University of Greenwich Career Mentoring Programme is available to students from all faculties, you can apply throughout your time at university, and up to two years post-graduation.
During your time on the programme, you can expect to gain professional advice and insight through one to one and small group mentorship, first-hand industry knowledge, an extra boost of confidence and connections to kickstart your career.
One to one Career Mentoring is continuing this year.
The programme runs across the academic year ending in June with the first meeting expected to take place by January.
Applications open from September to December.
You will have 1-4 hours of contact time per month with your mentor either virtually or in-person.
Group mentoring is a new feature and will have one mentor to 3 mentees across three sessions (virtually or in person).
The 3 sessions allow for those with limited time to still benefit from the vast network of mentors in a shorter time period.
With our mentoring programmes, you'll be able to:
University of Greenwich Career Mentoring Programme
Graduate Aspiration Programme
1 Hour Project
A Discovery Day is a half-day event that allows you to visit and connect with an employer at their workplace, get an insight into their industry and gain valuable experience.
Keep an eye out on your student email to hear more about upcoming Discovery Days.
You can also email the Placements team at employability@gre.ac.uk for more.
There are multiple events that take place throughout the year, including flagship events and sector-focused ones.
In the past we've had flagship Careers Fairs and panel discussions which bring employers and students together under one roof.
Visit Greenwich Target Connect for events, jobs, placements and more.
Greenwich Target Connect
The Career Mentoring Programme and the support from the Employability Office at the University of Greenwich have been integral to my personal and professional growth.
- Piotr Radzki, BA Advertising and Digital Marketing Communications
The Barclays mock assessment centre was a fantastic learning experience, empowering us to enhance our employability and career prospects.
- Wiktoria Ziolkowska, BA Advertising and Digital Marketing Communications

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/careers/find-a-job:
Our services enable our students and recent graduates to apply for real-world job openings and be interviewed by companies on campus.
Our experts can assist you whether you are searching for part-time work or a graduate career.
Get to know our Student Ambassador team and discover the benefits of working as a Student Ambassador and in JobShop roles.
The main difference is that when you successfully become a Student Ambassador you receive a zero-hour contract to work for the university.
You then get informed of all the different opportunities, and you can decide which shifts you would like to work according to your skills, interests and availability.
A Jobshop role will have a particular job title and you will be contracted to work that position for a set number of hours each week for the duration of your contract.
You are allowed to work both as a Student Ambassador and within a Jobshop role, but the total joint hours must not exceed 20 per week.
At Greenwich we employ over 350 ambassadors to support our staff across the university.
The opportunities involve working with a variety of age groups both on and off campus.
Student Ambassadors are our most powerful brand advocates.
They are our role models and use their personal experiences to support and advise prospective students on university life.
Most students can work up to 20 hours per week.
This may vary depending upon your availability, the number of shifts available, and your level of proactiveness in seeking work.
Work is available throughout the year, including evenings, weekends and during holiday periods.
The scheme is flexible, so you can apply for roles you are interested in based on your academic timetable.
Becoming a Student Ambassador is a great opportunity that will enhance your appeal to future employers.
The benefits include:
We receive a lot of applications each year, so it's worth taking the time to write a strong application statement to help you stand out.
Before applying, you must watch the 'Pre-Application Introductory Video' by self-enrolling on our 'How to become a Student Ambassador' Moodle page.
This will help you understand what we expect of you and how the recruitment process works.
We also provide tips for your application.
For further support with your application or for enquiries about the role, please contact us at ambassadors@gre.ac.uk.
There are over 300 different roles within the Jobshop team including Digital Captioning and Accessibility Assistants, IT Service Desk Analysts, Student Demonstrators and School Administrators.
Each require a specific set of skills which you are likely to have from your course and provides you with the opportunity t﻿o further develop such skills within a professional business environment.
When the position is advertised, it will clearly state how many hours you will be able to work each week and for how long.
The hours can be from 1-20 per week and the roles are usually issued on a termly basis.
If successful, you will then work this position for this set number of hours until your role ends.
You may have more than one role to work different Jobshop roles as long as the total hours per week do not exceed 20.
Student Ambassador: For more information on when the next recruitment round will open and how to apply, please self-enrol in our Moodle course, How to Become a Student Ambassador.
Visit Greenwich Target Connect for jobs, placements and more.
Being a Student Ambassador has empowered me in more ways than one and has enriched my university experience!
- Simran Chettiar, MSc Psychology

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/careers/get-help-with-job-applications-and-interviews:
We encourage you to take advantage of the opportunities and support available through the following organisations to help you with your career and employability.
Drive Forward Foundation
Drive Forward’s mission is to enable care experienced young people to achieve their full potential through sustainable employment.
They support care-experienced young people aged 16-26 in London to transition from care into a career.
They can provide 1:1 employability support through careers advice, CV and interview skills, mentoring and access to a network of over 20 corporate partners across the city who offer apprenticeships, internships and employment opportunities.
To join Drive Forward and receive information on these opportunities you will need to complete their online application form.
Care Leaver Covenant
The Care Leaver Covenant is funded by the Department for Education in England and is a national inclusion programme that supports care leavers aged 16 – 25 to live independently through opportunities covering internships, placements, employment, training, and support.
Organisations that sign up to the Covenant make a promise to provide additional support for those leaving care and the kitemark is a recognition of this work.
Look on the website for a list of organisations and watch for this kitemark when applying for opportunities.
The Civil Service Care Leavers Internship Scheme
This flagship scheme, run by the UK Government, gives care leavers the chance to benefit from a 12-month paid internship in a central Government department/agency, with the possibility of the post being made permanent at the end of the 12 months.
Adverts are live on Civil Service Jobs early in May each year, with interviews scheduled from early July.
Successful candidates are notified by the end of July.
The scheme is open to young people who are aged 18 – 30, and satisfy other eligibility criteria.
For more information on this amazing opportunity for care leavers:
Email: Leavers.care@education.gov.uk
Twitter: @Dfecareers
Website: https://www.civil-service-careers.gov.uk/civil-service-care-leavers-internship-scheme/
For some, transitioning from University to employment can be challenging.
We have collated a list of resources to support our disabled students and graduates with this.
Access to Work
This is a Government fund which provides support to disabled employees in the workplace.
The support can be in the form of funding for additional equipment needed at work, paying towards the cost of getting to work and/or a support worker to help with the day-to-day duties.
Click to find out more about Access to Work and how to apply.
Auticon
An ‘autistic majority’ company which employs autistic individuals as well as providing support and guidance to other companies to enable them to do the same.
This includes a list of current job opportunities at Auticon.
Click to find out more about Auticon and to explore current career opportunities.
Blind in Business
Support for Blind and partially sighted graduate and undergraduates to find employment.
This includes job hunting coaching, assistance with application forms, specialised interview practice and help with obtaining necessary assistive technology for work.
Click to find out more about Blind in Business.
Evenbreak
A specialist recruitment agency that connects disabled people with employers looking to employ disabled people.
Evenbreak help disabled people to have equity in opportunities and choices to enter, progress and thrive in the world of work.
Please click to find out more .
Employ Autism
Employ Autism is an Ambitious About Autism campaign with the aim to increase better work opportunities for autistic people.
This can be through their supported internship programme or through advice and guidance on the recruitment process.
Click to find out more about Employ Autism.
Enna
A specialist recruitment agency which helps neurodivergent people find jobs.
This includes support with the recruitment process such as completing applications and preparing for interviews.
Enna also has a jobs board which details the latest vacancies.
Click to find out more about Enna.
Exceptional Individuals | Neurodiverse Recruitment & Employee Support
Exceptional Individuals also has a jobs board which details the latest vacancies.
Click to find out more about Exceptional Individuals.
Royal National Institute for Deaf People (RNID)
Advice, guidance and information on employment support for people who are Deaf, have hearing loss or have tinnitus.
This includes support with finding work as well as support in the workplace.
Click to find out more about RNID.
As a student with disabilities, the staff at employability have been of tremendous help.
The whole team are friendly, approachable, and always willing to help!
- Luke Goudie, BSc H BIOLOGY (EXTENDED)

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/careers/introduce-your-business-and-meet-students:
Career Fairs bring employers and students together under one roof.
We host Part-Time Job Fairs and Career Fairs in Autumn and Spring Term, located in student hot spots on Greenwich and Medway campuses.
At these events you can showcase opportunities within your organisation and network with a large pool of students across multiple degree disciplines.
Pop-Ups are stands that offer you the chance to spotlight your company and attract students throughout the year!
Work with our team to arrange a date or time that suits you on campus or online.
We are dedicated to understanding your recruitment and development needs, so get in touch to discuss how to partner with us to enhance you talent pipeline.
Contact us at employability@gre.ac.uk
Students networking at various Career Fairs and Recruitment Fairs on the Greenwich Campus
The Autumn Career Fair was an excellent day.
I was impressed by the organisation, the amount of people who attended, a very positive experience.
- Kent Connects

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/careers/teach-students:
Our Career Mentoring Programme is an integral part of our employability service, creating a bridge that connects experienced individuals, like our alumni and employer partners with passionate students.
Once you join the programme, you will be matched to a mentee through our Ask Alumni+ platform.
Matches are made based on responses provided during registration, and are cross-checked by the team.
During your time on the programme, you will have access to support and training from the Career Mentoring team along with further resources from Ask Alumni+.
The programme runs from January - June, with applications open from September - October.
You will have 1-4 hours of contact time per month with your mentee either virtually or in-person.
Our Career Mentoring Programme brings a number of benefits including:
Apply here: Mentor Expression of Interest Form
A Discovery Day is a half-day event that allows students to visit your workplace and learn more about your organisation, your industry, and the range of roles available within your company.
After agreeing to deliver a Discovery Day for our students, it'll be over to you to bring it to life!
You'll design the programme within the agreed timeline, ensuring the day is interactive, insightful, and inspiring.
We specialise in supporting employers to deliver successful Discovery Days.
We will work with you to develop a tailored programme that meets your goals, and we will recruit a group of students to attend the day (up to 20 or 30).
Work with our skills advisors and wider team on:
We are dedicated to understanding your specific recruitment and development needs, so please get in touch with us to discuss how your organisation might best partner with us to enhance your recruitment strategy.
Our 2024 Employability Awards cohort inside the chapel and on the steps
It has been a real pleasure to provide mentorship and being shortlisted for the Greenwich Employability Awards is truly an honour, and a meaningful recognition of the hard work and dedication invested.
- Zara Khan, VP at Citibank
What a fabulous bunch of young adults you have who were incredibly engaged, I
had so many positive conversations and delighted that the event sparked so much
interest in JLL and real estate.
- Lillian Chandler, Director and DEI Lead at JLL

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/careers/recruit-students:
Most recruitment activity is underpinned by Target Connect , where you can advertise vacancies, streamline the application process and have direct access to our talent pool!
You can promote roles such as:
In addition, we will advertise your vacancy to students via email newsletters and our social media channels to ensure maximum exposure to the right candidates.
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Instagram
A placement is a great way for you to invite fresh talent to your organisation and build your talent pipeline.
Typically, a placement is a year long and you'll be employing students that have just completed their second year of university.
The placement will need to be full-time (at least 30 hours per week, minimum 3 days in the office).
Internships are shorter placements, lasting form 5 days to 6 months on either a part-time of full-time basis.
This is a great opportunity for you to test-drive top quality candidates and have an extra pair of hands within your organisation.
Staff and students taking part in the Placement Recall Day during the summer
From the start, Hui integrated seamlessly into our team, demonstrating her exceptional teamwork skills.
Upon the completion of her funded internship, we were impressed with Hui's performance and commitment.
That is why we offered her a paid role, until she resumes her studies in October.
- Kiki Bourcha, Healthwatch

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/for-schools/activities:
We offer a wide range of activities designed to give students a chance to experience university life.
You can find University of Greenwich representatives at Higher Education Fairs, Careers Fairs and UCAS Fairs throughout the UK.
You can book a workshop package with us to have our Outreach Team deliver a series of activities and talks designed to support your students, and help your school/college in meeting Gatsby Benchmark requirements.
We will guide attendees through the application process, provide tips on writing an effective personal statement and explain student finance and funding options.
Students learn about higher education, how to apply and take part in a practical session to support their application process.
Our range of Taster Days offer students a real taste of a subject they enjoy and are contemplating studying at university.
Designed to support students embarking on their Extended Project Qualification or hoping to enhance their academic, personal or transferrable skills.
Interactive workshops to prepare students for higher education and making their university applications.
Student Ambassadors provide a drop-in service within your school or college to advise students on their higher education options.
Subject specific talks delivered by University of Greenwich academics at your event, school or college.
Information about care leavers' support.
The STAART initiative provides information and guidance to disabled and diverse students through a range of activities and events.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/for-schools/careers:
We can support your school or college to meet the requirements of the Careers Strategy, and support your knowledge and development with a range of CPD opportunities
The Government's Careers Strategy and statutory guidance uses the Gatsby Benchmarks to set out a range of requirements that schools and colleges must meet.
Using the expertise of our team , we have mapped out how each of our activities and events can support your school or college in delivering the requirements of the Careers Strategy and specifically meet four of the required Gatsby Benchmarks:
Our Gatsby Benchmark mapping can be downloaded here .
GREat Futures is a  two-year scheme of work consisting of a full programme of on and off campus activities designed to support your school or college in meeting the Gatsby Benchmarks
We have a variety of CPD opportunities for teachers and advisers, ranging from free webinars to our annual teachers and advisers conference

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/for-schools/resources:
Our resources can be used by teachers and careers advisors in the classroom.
An online resource to guide students through the UCAS application process
Explore our virtual university campus to find out what university life is like
A career-planning workbook for teachers and careers advisors to use in the classroom
An online career-planning resource designed to help students plan and prepare for their future careers
PDF versions of HE and GREat Skills Workshops
We have of PDF versions of each HE workshop and GREat Skills presentation and any accompanying resources.
These can be helpful for reference for further information for students once they have completed one of our workshops and can also be a useful resource for you to utilise to support your students if we are unable to deliver our workshops in your school or college.
Please get in touch with us using the form below if you would like to request these PDF documents or have any questions about any of our resources.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/for-schools/about:
The Outreach and Educational Partnerships Team co-ordinates the university's work with schools, colleges and local community organisations and is a team with extensive and varied experience in the education sector, including qualified teachers and careers advisers, outreach officers, recent graduates and student ambassadors.
We are committed to increasing the numbers of students from under-represented groups who enter higher education and work closely with our dedicated STAART team to provide information and guidance to disabled students who have concerns about going to university.
We also work closely with our Care Leave Coordinator to provide additional support for care leavers to enter higher education including our Care Leaver Summer School and Bursary.
We currently work with over 300 schools and colleges in London, Kent, the South and East of England.
If your school or college is not listed, please do contact us as we may be able to accommodate your request.
We are a member of the Kent and Medway Progression Federation (KMPF) and are also part of the Kent and Medway Collaborative Outreach Programme (KaMCOP), a project focused on facilitating the participation of young people from disadvantaged backgrounds in higher education.
This alongside our partnership work to lead and sponsor University Technical Colleges and multi-academy school trusts has enabled us to share the expertise that exists within our university with local educational settings.
More about who we work with
We offer a range of activities , resources and CPD opportunities, and we have mapped out how each of these can support your school or college in meeting the Gatsby Benchmarks and the requirements of the Government's Careers Strategy.
More about what we do
We ask students to register their details with us, where relevant, at all of our events for a few key reasons.
These include enabling students to join our mailing lists which ensure they receive relevant targeted information about our events and courses, based on the information they have selected, as well as our team being able to utilise aggregated data to report on the reach and impact of our outreach work.
You can access our privacy notices online, and ask any member of the team for further information about the use of this data either when we visit your school or college, or by emailing us at esu@gre.ac.uk
We will be running a competition each term, where we will randomly select three student winners per academic term from all of those who have registered their details with us for that term.
Winners will be selected in December for Term 1 activities, April for Term 2 activities and July for Term 3 activities.
The winners will be selected as first, second and third prize and will receive a Love2shop voucher of £100, £50 or £25, respectively.
The winners will be contacted and receive this voucher via the email address they have registered with us and will be notified of this competition at the relevant event they are attending, in advance of registering their details with us.
You can view the full T&Cs for this competition online.
There is currently a shortage of Governors across the South East of England, meaning that there are a large number of schools, colleges and academies who may have governance opportunities available and would benefit from the knowledge and experience which an additional Governor could bring to their organisation.
With this in mind, we have developed the Greenwich Governors Initiative , with the aim of creating a staff network of Governors who can share their knowledge, skills and expertise with those around them.
Whether you are currently already in a school governor role, would be interested in becoming a school governor, or are a school, academy trust or local authority with potential governance opportunities, this initiative could offer support for you.
For many students, applying to university can be an incredibly difficult and daunting decision.
Inclusivity, excellence, determination and ambition lie at the heart of our values, and we understand financial barriers can limit student potential.
We work closely with our network of schools, colleges, community groups and education partners across London and the South East to support academic attainment and progression to higher education.
Thanks to the generosity of one of our alumni we are pleased to offer two cash scholarships, worth £5000.
These will be paid in three instalments during the first year of study.
Eligibility
Teachers can nominate students who meet the following criteria for the Visionary Scholarship.
How to nominate
Download a nomination form .
Applications for 2024/25 will close at Midnight on 24 May 2024.
A committee will review all applications and award Visionary Scholarships on merit.
We aim to make our decision by 6 June 2024.
Questions
If you would like further details about this scholarship, please email: outreach@gre.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/welcome/registration/online:
When registration opens for your course, we’ll send you an invitation to register online.
This can be completed from any device with an internet connection.
The first step to being a fully registered student of the University of Greenwich is to complete your online registration.
You'll need to complete this at the start of your course and then every September until you get your final results letter congratulating you on completing everything and you've been awarded your final qualification.
All students (except if you're starting a new postgraduate research course) should aim to complete online registration before the first day of their course and classes begin .
This gives you the best chance of making sure you're fully registered before the registration deadline and being able to access everything you need to successfully engage with your studies.
Unfortunately if you miss the registration deadline then you will not be able to study with us and may need to make a new application when you're ready to join us.
We will send you an email inviting you to start your online registration once your record is all set up and ready.
Get your username and password
Your username and password should be sent to your personal email address before you begin your course.
If you're a continuing student, these will be your normal login details.
New students can find useful IT information on our IT for New Student webpage .
If you have not received your login details before you are invited to register, check your junk/spam folders.
If you can't find your details, contact our IT team by emailing ITServiceDesk@gre.ac.uk or calling +44(0)20 8331 7555 .
Log into Online Registration
If everything is ready, you can click the "Register online" button below:
You can also click the Online Registration button on the Portal .
You will probably be prompted to confirm your log in using Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) , so make sure that this is all set up to log in to certain University of Greenwich portals and systems.
Complete your action items
Action items are what we call the stages of Online Registration.
You'll need to read through the instructions for each item and confirm, update or follow the information on the screen.
If there is missing or incorrect information that you can't correct on the action item screen, you can raise a query and track its progress through your "Query Tracker".
Confirm how your fees will be paid
If you have the Fee Payment action item, you will need to either pay your tuition fees or let us know how they will be paid.
You can find out how to pay your tuition fees on the How to Pay Your Fees webpage .
If you make a payment through Flywire , you'll need to return and complete this step of online registration after the payment has been received by the university.
We recommend making any Flywire payments at least one full week before the registration deadline.
Follow the guidance on the 'Next Steps' completion screen
This final action item will confirm that you have completed your Online Registration and let you know what to do next.
You should get an email sent to your personal and university email address as well.
Continuing students will not need to do anything else, but new students will have a few extra things to do before they are fully registered.
If you experience any delay finalising your registration, we recommend you still attend any classes, lectures, and sessions that you can.
You should be able to find your class timetable in the timetable section of the student portal .
If you are starting a new course, you will need to make sure you have met all the conditions of your offer and returned any forms sent to you (e.g.
fee assessment forms) by the University.
Once your student record is ready, you should receive your username and password in two separate emails.
When registration opens for your cohort, you'll receive an invitation to register and further instructions by email.
Once you've completed online registration, you'll need to complete your Document Checks .
If you have not have not received an official your results letter saying you have completed your course and are still expected to continue your studies, then you must register every September.
You should receive your invite to re-register around the end of August.
If you had resits exams or a piece of coursework to do, then you might get your invite slightly later and might have to wait until an updated results letter is published confirming if you have passed the year or need to repeat anything.
Please be aware that there are some circumstances that would mean you would not be able to register.
For example if you have overdue fees, pending health checks, a DBS check outstanding or are not meeting the conditions of your student visa, we may put a hold on your account that needs to be resolved first.
You will have been contacted about this hold beforehand.
Make sure you complete all outstanding action items and reach the Next Steps screen in Online Registration so that your account, IT access, and Student ID card will stay active.
If you are starting a new course with one of our partner or network colleges, you will receive your username and password in two separate emails and will need to complete Online Registration through your Portal.
If you're continuing a course, you will not get new username and password deails and will need to use the ones you would have used before.
Once you have clicked 'Confirm' on the 'Next Steps' page, your Online Registration will be complete.
If you are beginning a course in September, your key dates are:
If you are continuing your studies with us, you must re-register every September.
If you'd like more information, check out our Digital Student Centre.
You can find FAQs or log an enquiry and we'll get back to you.
Document checks: DocumentChecks@gre.ac.uk
Registration and Student Centre team: Visit our Digital Student Centre
Student Services switchboard: +44 (0)208 331 8272
For further Student Services, visit gre.ac.uk/student-services

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/welcome/welcome-zones:
Welcome to the University of Greenwich!
Explore our Welcome Hubs this September.
Get ready for an exciting start to your university journey!
From Monday 15 September, our Welcome Hubs across all three campuses will be open to help you settle in, meet new people, and feel part of the Greenwich community.
Visit this page to receive regular updates.
Our Welcome Hubs are your go to place for support in your first week.
Whether you need help, information, or just a friendly face, we’ve got you!
Drop by to:
Our Big Welcome events will offer a range of fun, informative, and engaging activities to support your transition as you begin your journey with us.
Visit us in these central locations on each campus:
Building directions are available on this page.
Open Monday to Friday, from 9:00 - 17:00.
You’re welcome to join activities across all campuses and it’s easy with our intercampus bus service.
Don't forget to check out events organised by your Greenwich Students’ Union , running throughout the Big Welcome and all year round.
We look forward to meeting you!
If you have any questions or need assistance, the Digital Student Centre is here to help.
Simply log in with your university email and password to search for answers, submit an enquiry, or access important documents.
Visit: Digital Student Centre

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/welcome/course:
This course offers support for the next stage of your journey as you prepare to begin your studies with us.
Build your knowledge and skills to support your university studies and the next steps for your future.
There are activities and quizzes to complete, and chat forums to ask questions or post photos and tips.
To take part, you just need to create a free account and then enrol on the course on our online learning platform.
When you complete each area, you will receive a completion badge to mark your progress.
Complete the course to receive all the badges.
The University was very supportive in coaching me through my thinking and where I wanted to be in life and making me a well-rounded person.
- Alex McGrath, BSc Accounting and Finance

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/welcome/inductions:
We’re really excited to see you!
On these pages, you can find out how to access your timetable and all the activities from your faculty.
For courses in accounting & finance, economics, business & management, human resources, logistics & supply chain management, marketing, and tourism, hospitality & events
For courses in education, teacher training, nursing, midwifery, paramedic science, psychology and sports coaching
For courses in all facets of engineering, technology, science, pharmacy, maths, computing, construction, human nutrition, and geography.
For courses in the humanities, creative and media arts, architecture, drama, politics, law and criminology.
Make sure you regularly check our Welcome Pages to see all the other key information you need to know over welcome weeks, from registration to welcome fairs and your Students' union!
You can view your timetable by logging in to the Portal or going clicking the link to the Timetable system .
Click on the ‘Timetables’ tab and then select ‘ My timetable ’ (on the left side) to see your personal schedule.
You can also view your programme or module timetable.
Timetables are often not finalised and published on the portal until a week or two before teaching begins.
Once your classes are due to begin, and you have fully completed registration (i.e.
you have completed online registration and document checks , and have collected your student ID card ) you should be able to see your timetable on your student portal.
Please login, click the 'Timetables' tab, then 'My Timetable' and choose the week or term you would like to view.
For further guidance, please see our timetable information page here .
To find out more information about how to access your timetable, check out our helpful guide.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/it-and-library/connect/new-students:
Set yourself up for success; download our free software before you arrive, learn how to connect to campus Wi-Fi, and access all the IT and Library support you’ll need - on and off campus.
Find out how to log in to your university account and set up your security preferences, and reset your password if you can't log in.
Set yourself up for success with these three things before you get to Greenwich.
Check your student email regularly to keep up to date with Greenwich and your studies.
Add your email account to your mobile device and stay connected wherever you are.
There's a lot to remember at the start of the academic year.
To help you to get settled, this booklet for students will help you get to know our IT and Library services.
Find out how to access Microsoft Office apps for free, including Outlook, Word, Excel and Teams.
eduroam is the wireless network for students and staff.
It's fast, free and available across all of our campuses, and at thousands of educational institutions around the world.
Our Library teams are there to help you make the most of the library's journals, books, databases and resources.
Our Academic and Digital Skills team provides information and guidance to help you study more effectively.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/welcome/welcome-team:
We are current students here to support you with any questions you have until you have settled into university life at Greenwich.
Ask us about how to complete registration, getting to campus, accommodation, part time jobs, student life, and more.
We are available Monday to Friday 10am – 4pm
Hello!
This is Sazid.
I am studying MA in Applied Linguistics.
I am dedicated as a person, both in my work and dealing with people around me.
I am interactive, fun-loving, friendly, and helpful.
I have leadership qualities, and I am the program representative of my class.
To add to that, I was 1 of the 6 program reps across our university to receive the 'platinum' award at annual awards night this year.
My hobby is cricket.
Although I do not play, I follow every cricket match.
Hi, I am Sujata Chand, currently pursuing a master's degree in computer science.
I love travelling to different places every once in a while, where I get to meet new people, see the world, and create memories for a lifetime.
Walking in nature brings immense peace to me.
Fun fact about me: I am not a fan of a burger!
Hey, I'm Mary and I am currently studying Computer Science.
One fun fact about me is that I am fluent in French.
Hi, I am Jesh!
I recently graduated from BSc (Hons) Computer Science.
A fun fact about me is I enjoy playing guitar and singing.
You can throw me any song recommendations and I am confident that I can play that on the guitar.
My pronouns are he/him.
Hi my name Asher, I study Mechanical Engineering at the UoG .
A fun fact is that I like to travel to different museums and art galleries.
Hi, my name is Marwan, and I’ve recently graduated in Business Management from University of Greenwich.
I'm excited to be part of the Welcome Team, helping new students settle in and enjoy their time at Greenwich.
I also have a passion for travel and photography, and I love to document my adventures through vlogs on YouTube and Instagram.
She/her Bsc Psychology with Counselling I like spicy food but I can’t eat it.
Hi, I'm Jaheen.
I'm a second year Accounting and Finance student undergrad.
I am a part of the telephone team.
Fun fact: I am a great cook but don't like to eat my own cooking.
Hello, I’m Taabish!
I’m an MSc Data Science student.
But when I’m not buried in books or code, you’ll find me creating content for my YouTube channel or making music in my studio.
It’s my secret double life, blending the tech world with creativity!
Hi I’m Saleh… I am studying towards a master’s in Architecture.
I can read and write 4 languages and I have studied in 3 different continents.
Hi I'm David, he/him.
I'm currently studying computer science (Artificial Intelligence) and a fun fact about me is that I enjoy assembling furniture, they're like giant Legos.
Hi, my name is Niduka.
I am a third year business management student at the University of Greenwich.
I love meeting new people and my hobbies are reading books and leisurely walks.
I am a cat lover and even though I have two cats, I enjoy petting the cats I meet on the streets.
We have a team dedicated to assisting students with disabilities, including physical, mental, and learning challenges.
We help students from low-income families and those who care for others.
- Aryan, Biotechnology MSc
Working as a Campus Ambassador at University is an exciting and rewarding experience, as it provides the opportunity to help new students transition to their new academic environment, while also representing and promoting the University.”
- Shantanu M.
Shende
Being part of the Campus Ambassador operation is a great way to build connections within the university and develop business and interpersonal skills.
- Emma Myers
Our fun and diverse Campus Ambassador Team works do-diligently to help and support students in need across the three University of Greenwich campuses, stationed at common student hub areas such as Dreadnought, The Dome, and The Hub.
- Maddy J.
Christen

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/visa/when-you-arrive/international-welcome-programme:
We know that coming to the UK to study is a big step.
You may have previously studied here, or this could be your first time way from home.
Whatever your previous experience, our online International Welcome Programme is specifically designed to give you access to all the information you need, helping you prepare for life as a student in the UK.
We really care about your experience and want to make your first few weeks in the UK as comfortable and enjoyable as possible.
Our International Welcome Programme is fully online , and accessible via our Moodle platform, so you can access it from anywhere in the world, at a time which suits you.
If you are an international applicant and you hold an offer to study with us, you will receive an email inviting you to access the course a few weeks before the start of term.
You can also access the course in Moodle (our online learning platform), once you have your University of Greenwich log in details.
Our International Welcome Programme contains carefully selected resources to help you adjust to life in the UK.
This can be very different to how things work in your own country and it takes some getting used to!
We call this 'culture-shock', but with a little preparation, it is easy to overcome.
Our International Welcome Programme will help you be much better prepared for culture shock by helping you understand what to expect when you arrive in the UK.
There are things you can prepare before you leave home and some things you can do after you arrive.
Remember, your journey starts long before you get on the plane!
In the programme, you will find:

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/student-services/student-attendance-and-engagement:
Engagement is widely recognised as being essential for successfully achieving your full potential when studying.
Attending your lectures, seminars and workshops, having regular supervisory meetings with your supervisory team, or practical training, provides you with opportunities to develop the skills and knowledge necessary to successfully achieve the outcomes of your programme.
We are keen to support you to maximise your potential, and by monitoring attendance we can identify patterns and provide support with any issues that may be affecting your ability to attend so that you can stay on track.
Where circumstances are such that you are unable to continue studying, we can provide early intervention support and explore appropriate options with you.
The University has a Student Attendance Policy which aims to:
You are expected to engage according to the requirement of your programme of study:
All students are expected to respond to communication regarding your engagement .
Please check your attendance records and your University of Greenwich email account regularly.
We will measure your attendance according to your programme of study – these are called 'Contact Points'.
A missed contact point will normally trigger the attendance escalation process.
More information on this is available in our article: Meet the Retention Team .
Escalations
The attendance policy is there to identify low levels of attendance and ensure you have access to support.
We know receiving an escalation may cause concern, but the Retention team is here to help.
There is lots of support available at each escalation stage, so we encourage you to engage in the process and respond to communications in a timely manner.
Persistent non-attendance may result in withdrawal from your studies.
We hope to avoid this action and help you get back on track at the earliest opportunity, or consider support options with you, such as interruption, where applicable.
You have the right to appeal a decision relating to a withdrawal made on attendance grounds.
Your appeal must be submitted within 14 calendar days of the date of the email informing you of the withdrawal.
You will need to set out the reasons why you believe that the withdrawal was not justified with evidence, where applicable
And provide a compelling reason why the information and evidence on which you are basing your appeal, could not have been made available before the decision to withdraw you was reached.
For full details of how to submit an appeal and the procedure for consideration of your appeal, please refer to Section 7 of the Student Attendance Policy .
For further support, you can contact the GSU Advice Service here .
Appeals are processed by the Academic Registry.
Please see our Student Attendance Policy & Procedure page for more information on how to submit your appeal.
Academic Support
If you believe your absence might affect your academic performance, you should read our guidance on Extenuating Circumstances in case you need to make a claim.
You can also contact your Faculty Support Adviser to discuss any impact on your studies.
Wellbeing Support
If you need personal support at any time, the University’s support services include a Wellbeing team, a Counselling service , and Spectrum Life (with Spectrum Life available to students 365 days a year, 24 hours a day).
Interrupting your Studies
In some cases, where attendance may be impacted for a long period of time or circumstances cause ongoing academic impact, you may decide to request to interrupt your studies .
Students will normally interrupt from the current academic year (which normally runs from Sept- July), so that you can return the following September to re-start your current academic stage.
Example -If you interrupt your second year of studies, you will return as a second-year student next September.
This break from your studies will hopefully help address circumstances and you can return with additional support in place.
Please note, interruption will delay graduation.
The Retention Team can guide you through the application process and support your return, but please seek academic advice from your Faculty and any financial advice, where applicable, before applying.
We recognise that occasionally attendance may not be possible due to external factors.
If you do need to notify the University of an absence, you should use the appropriate procedure.
Absence up to 3 calendar days = Click here , or access the link via your Student Portal - My Learning - Notify staff of non-attendance .
Absence of 3 or more calendar days = Submit an Authorised Absence here.
Frequent absence reporting and/or absences for long periods may result in additional support being triggered, including the need to consider interruption.
Please contact the team if you have any questions or concerns relating to your attendance.
You don’t need to have received an escalation email to get in touch.
Email: student-retention@greenwich.ac.uk
Please include your Faculty (FEHHS, FES, FLAS, GBS) and your student ID in the subject title.
FEHHS- Faculty of Education, Health, and Human Sciences
FES- Faculty of Engineering and Science
FLAS- Faculty of Law, Arts and Social Sciences
GBS- Greenwich Business School
Book an online appointment.
Drop-in: The team hosts a range of drop-in sessions throughout the academic year subject to room availability.
Please visit the Bookings calendar and click on ‘In Person’ for details: SAS-Retention and Success - Support Meetings

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/student-peer-mentoring-scheme:
Welcome to the Greenwich Student Peer Mentoring Scheme
Are you a new student looking to connect with someone who understands the student experience?
Or a current student who wants to share insight, build your confidence and meet new people?
Join Vygo (Mentor Mates) today as a member or as a mentor.
Our trained student mentors are here to help, offering a friendly ear, practical advice, and insights from their own university experience to help you feel more at ease.
To become a member, sign up using our Vygo platform!
If you have any questions about the scheme, please contact the Student Engagement Team on student-engagement@greenwich.ac.uk.
We encourage all students in year 2 and year 3 of their programme, as well as postgraduate students 6 months into their course to become a mentor.
The training is all on Moodle , please complete the Blue Badge mentor training quiz to become a blue badge mentor mate and begin your mentoring journey.
There are 5 elements of the training, these are:
1- The Mentor Academy
2 - Mental Health and Wellbeing
3 - Student Finance/ budgeting
4 - How to make the most of the Vygo App and how to create an enticing profile.
5 - Sign Posting/ Reporting
If you have any questions about becoming a mentor, please ask a current mentor within Vygo.
The badge system is designed to highlight your progress and achievements within the Mentor Mates Scheme.
You’ll earn different coloured badges as you complete key milestones:
Blue Badge : The beginning of your journey.
Once you complete the first mentor training quiz , you earn the Blue Badge.
It's your initial step into the mentor community.
Silver Badge : Earned when you participate in additional mentoring activities and engage further with the community.
Gold Badge : Achieve the highest of our badge system.
The Gold Badge is awarded for outstanding participation and leadership in the mentor program.
Each badge offers exciting rewards, unique opportunities and more.
Redeem your rewards upon achieving each badge and enjoy the benefits of your hard work and dedication.
If you would like to become a Student Mentor, please complete the Blue Badge mentor training quiz.
As a mentor you will:
Benefits of being a mentor:
For general enquiries, please visit our Digital Student Centre.
Our Greenwich Mentors Mates have been featured on the Champions Coffee Podcast: Student Crossroads by Vygo, where they have shared their experiences and insights about their lives as students.
The podcast aims to provide valuable advice, inspiration, and support to help students navigate their academic and personal journeys.
Episode 1 with Gihan Bulathsinghala, Student Mentor
Episode 2 with Serena Christie, Student Mentor
Looking to support your students' engagement with the university’s peer mentoring scheme?
The Mentor Mates resources on Moodle include training information, promotional materials, FAQs, and guidance for staff.
Access the full set of staff resources here: Section: Resources for Tutors and Silver/Gold Mentors | Greenwich Mentor Mates (Vygo) 2025/26 | Moodle Home
We also invite staff to attend a short information session, Enhancing Student Success: An Overview of the Mentor Mates Programme .
These sessions provide an insight into how the scheme supports students as they transition into university life, with guidance on how staff can get involved.
Sessions take place on the second Thursday of each month from 12:00 to 12:30 .
To attend, please fill out this Microsoft Form and a Microsoft Teams invite will be sent to you.
For any queries, contact the Student Engagement Team at student-engagement@greenwich.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/academicskills:
Develop your essential skills for university, complete our short courses, attend our workshops and book in with our team for personalised support
Sign up for our programme designed to prepare for your new university life.
The course will help you explore your university, make connections with other new students and discover our facilities and services before you start with us
Book a 1 to 1 tutorial with a librarian or academic skills tutor, or sign up for some of our workshops to help you prepare for your studies.
A range of useful resources to help you get the most out of your studies.
Our guides to the variety of study support services available to you
Whether you are a new, continuing or master’s student we have the resources you need to get ready take your learning to the next level and develop your digital skills
LibGuides is a website dedicated to the university libraries, and contains everything you need to know about the library resources available to you.
Here you will find a wide range of documents, videos and other resources, designed by our team, to help you study more effectively.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/study/apply/pg/fast-track:
Continue your journey with us.
Fast track is an application route designed to make it easy for you, our current students.
Get your student ID ready and fill out the application form below.
There are no limits to what you can do next.
If your preferred course is not available through Fast Track please apply through the standard route.
We offer £3,000 fee waiver bursaries to final year home undergraduate students and alumni of the University of Greenwich applying for a postgraduate taught course with us.
A further range of bursaries and scholarships are available to support you with your postgraduate study.
You may be eligible for a bursary or scholarship when training to become a teacher.
This is tax-free and you don't have to pay it back.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/study/apply/rpl:
Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) allows you to use your existing qualifications and experience towards the entry requirements of a degree or to exempt you from modules that overlap closely with your existing awards.
Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) is where the university compares any existing qualifications or work experience you have with the requirements and structure of the course at Greenwich.
You make a claim for RPL as part of your application (see below for details).
We then assess whether your prior learning can exempt you from any of the modules or support your admission if you do not meet the standard entry requirements.
Prior learning can help in the following ways:
When completing the form, remember to:
Your RPL co-ordinator will then progress your RPL application.
You will need to inform the co-ordinator of any change to your contact details while your case is being considered.
If you wish to apply via UCAS for direct entry into the second or third year of study, you don't need to make a separate RPL application to us.
Simply indicate your preferred year of entry in the 'point of entry' section of the UCAS form and our admissions staff will assess your eligibility from there.
Before you submit your UCAS application, you are strongly advised to contact the RPL co-ordinator (usually the programme leader of your chosen course) to check that direct entry is permitted.
You will need to submit evidence to support your claim for direct entry to a later stage, such as an academic transcript and syllabus.
An admissions tutor will advise you of the requirements.
If you wish to claim exemption from individual modules (rather than a whole year of study) or you are not applying via UCAS, you should apply for RPL using the process described above.
Do you have a question about RPL?
Find the answers to the questions we get asked about the most here .
RPL guidelines and application form.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/study/apply/contextual-admissions:
A diverse student body is important to us, and we aim to select students with the greatest potential to succeed on degree courses, regardless of their background and circumstances.
In some circumstances we may decide that it would be appropriate to offer you an alternative pathway to Greenwich, which would involve completing our Access Greenwich course before progressing to one of our degrees.
A four-week access course designed to introduce you to a range of independent, digital and academic skills to support your success at university.
Content includes:
The course is free for all students who have been invited to take part.
The course will take place in the final week of August and first three weeks of September, with teaching split between our Greenwich campus and online delivery.
The course will require an approximate commitment of 20 hours a week with 10-15 hours of timetabled teaching and up to a further 10 hours of independent study.
A full timetable, including meeting instructions for the first day, will be shared with students who have accepted their place on the course.
You will need to attend at least 80% of all taught sessions and pass a coursework-style assessment, which you will have the opportunity to work on throughout the course and to produce with support from your tutors.
If you have been invited to take part in Access Greenwich, please email outreach@gre.ac.uk to confirm your place.
You will receive a reply with information about the first day and your course timetable.
Contextual data is the information we take into consideration alongside what is already on your UCAS application that may have impacted your studies, for example, if you have spent time in care.
We do this because we understand that sometimes your personal circumstance can impact the grades you achieve and access to other experiences, like extra-curricular activities or work experience.
We want to ensure there are more opportunities for students from underrepresented backgrounds to attend university.
Looking at a range of contextual data alongside the information already on your UCAS application gives us a better indication of your potential to excel in your chosen degree and helps us to ensure that all applicants have fair opportunities throughout our admissions process.
If you meet the criteria below and we wish to make you an offer, you will receive a contextual offer up to 16 UCAS points lower than the entry requirements found on our course pages.
Any pre-requisite conditions would still need to be met as per our published entry requirements including GCSE requirements.
You would still need to successfully complete any additional selection requirements such as an interview or portfolio.
Applicants domiciled in the UK may be eligible for a contextual offer if they meet one of the following criteria:
We will automatically receive the relevant information, such as your postcode, from your UCAS application.
Please see below for further information for Care Leavers.
Contextual offers will only apply to students completing a tariffable Level 3 qualification as defined by UCAS.
Please note, this excludes applications made via clearing.
Contextual offers will only be made to applicants applying via UCAS using our institution code G70 and where the standard entry requirements are 64 UCAS points or higher.
*POLAR – Participation of Local Areas: This measure classifies areas based on how likely young people are to participate in Higher Education across the UK.
POLAR4 Q1 is used to show the lowest rate of participation.
Further information on the POLAR measure can be found here: https://www.officeforstudents.org.uk/data-and-analysis/young-participation-by-area/
To find out if your postcode is associated with POLAR4 Quintile 1, you can use the following postcode lookup: https://www.officeforstudents.org.uk/data-and-analysis/young-participation-by-area/search-by-postcode/
In order to qualify, you must be under the age of 25 at the start of your undergraduate degree and are being supported by your local authority.
It is essential that you indicate that you have spent time in care when you complete your UCAS or Direct Entry application form and you will need to email us and attach a letter from your local authority, which confirms you are a care leaver, to: contextualadmissions@greenwich.ac.uk
This will help us to identify and contact you to support you with our contextual admissions service and your journey into Higher Education.
Do also take a look at our care leaver and care experienced students webpage to find out lots more about the support that is available to you whilst you are studying at the University of Greenwich.
If you contact us at contextualadmissions@greenwich.ac.uk and attach the evidence requested, we may be able to make you a renewed offer at a lower tariff.
E-mail us at contextualadmissions@greenwich.ac.uk to inform us that your application has been rejected and we will review your application.
If you’re eligible for a contextual offer, you can apply for up to £50 to reimburse you for travel costs when you attend an offer holder event .
See our terms and conditions to find out more.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/study/apply/application:
If you would like to check the status of your application to the University for your programme of study 
        or make an application for accommodation, then please enter your details and follow the link below.
The information will be updated at regular intervals and you are welcome to revisit this page as often as you like.
You will need to enter the following information:
Once these details are entered click 'Check Status' to make an enquiry.
Please enter either your Applicant ID or your UCAS Personal ID
Please fill in your date of birth in the format DDMMYYYY
If you have any further questions about the status of your application, please contact us using the details below:
UK Students : 020 8331 9000 / contact us via this form International Students : 020 8331 9000 / international@gre.ac.uk
The University of Greenwich is committed to protecting the privacy and security of your personal information.
In relation to your application to the University, the University provides you with access to an Application Status Tracker 
                    where you can review the status of your application and, if you firmly accept an offer of study with the University 
                    and your admissions status has been confirmed, view instructions on how to apply for accommodation.
To show you your application details the University processes the data that you provide to us 
                    either via our online application form, or by other means, such as in application form(s) and equal opportunities form(s) 
                    which you complete, and any additional documentation which you provide to us.
We may also process information relating to your application which is provided to us by third parties at your behest (for instance, referees).
The University of Greenwich processes the following personal data about you for use on the Application Status Tracker:
Data for applicants who do not become fully registered students at the University of Greenwich will be held for 
                    two years after the end of the current academic year when the application was made.
Exceptions may be made where there is an overriding requirement in law to keep certain data, 
                    or for other reasons where retention of data is permitted under data protection legislation.
Retention periods are based on our retention schedules, and you can request a copy of the relevant schedule.
If you become a registered student, your data will be used to form the basis of your student record, 
                    at which point the Student Privacy Notice will apply.
We process personal data about you for the following reasons:
We rely on the following legal bases for processing the data: public task (core or key tasks of universities) 
                    and a contract with you the individual (including steps before entering into a contract).
You can find out more information about this by looking at our Data Processing Activities Register.
We will share the data about you used in the Application Status Tracker with the following external bodies or organisations:
You have rights as a Data Subject.
You can see more information about those rights on our website.
To contact the University of Greenwich Data Protection Officer and University Secretary, 
                    email compliance@gre.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/study/after-you-apply/feedback-appeals-complaints:
Feedback is “information about why an application was unsuccessful”.
Due to the large volumes of applications we receive, we are unable to provide feedback to unsuccessful applicants routinely.
However, we will provide general feedback upon request to unsuccessful applicants, or to applicants who have received an alternative offer.
Requests should be made within 30 days of the University's communication of the unsuccessful decision.
Requests for feedback should be made through our contact form , and include your name, the programme you applied for, the email address you used on your application, and your application ID number.
When completing the contact form, select the enquiry category "Application Status: My application was unsuccessful and I want to know more.
The University aims to respond to requests for feedback within 10 working days
An admissions appeal is “a request for the reconsideration of an admissions decision on an application”.
To submit an appeal, you must first have requested and received feedback on your application.
Once feedback has been received, you may appeal against a decision by the University not to offer a place only if there is significant new information, which for good reason, was not made available either on your original application or during the application procedure, and where that new information is directly relevant to the original decision.
The appeal must be made within 10 working days of receiving the feedback communication.
The appeal must contain all details of the “significant new information”.
To submit an appeal please complete the form below:
Admissions Appeal Form
A decision on your appeal will be communicated within 10 working days.
Your fee status assessment of either Home or Overseas determines whether you will be charged Home or Overseas tuition fees for your programme of study at the University of Greenwich.
This assessment is made by the Admissions Office following the regulations set out by the Government’s Department for Education, and the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) provides a very helpful guide to these regulations.
If you consider a fee status decision to be incorrect, complete the below form:
Fee Status Appeal Form
We aim to process the appeal within 10 working days, and if this is not possible, we will convey the anticipated timescale.
Please note: this procedure relates to fee status appeals from applicants only.
Registered students wishing to change a fee status should follow the procedure for current students .
An applicant complaint is "an expression of dissatisfaction by one or more applicants about the University's action or lack of action, or about the service provided by or on behalf of the University." There are two stages to the applicant complaints procedure:
The Head of Admissions’ decision following completion of this process will be considered final.
To submit a stage one, or stage two complaint, please complete the form below:
Applicant Complaint Form
Please note: this procedure relates to complaints from applicants only.
Registered students wishing to make a complaint should follow the Student Complaint Procedure.
For more information on our feedback, appeals and complaints process please read our Admissions Policy .
For any assistance, please use our contact form or call us on 020 8331 9000 .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/clearing/courses-in-ucas-clearing-2025:
This Accounting & Business Analytics degree, accredited by several professional bodies, offers a future-focused curriculum and will prepare you to tackle modern financial challenges with confidence.
Our accounting and finance degree provides sound knowledge in financial and management accounting.
Study in London for top career opportunities.
Our adult nursing degree offers pre-registration training.
Our excellent links with the NHS offer a range of nursing placements.
Study a degree in animal management to learn more about animal behaviours and habitats, and how to manage collections of exotic animals.
Our animation degree covers motion graphics, modelling, animation design and digital effects for careers in TV, film and video game production.
If you're looking to work within an animal centre, rescue and welfare centre or zoo, this BSc (Hons) Applied Animal Behaviour and Welfare Top-Up is for you.
Get career-ready with a Computer Science degree combining elements of computer science, electronic engineering, mathematics, and management at our Medway Campus.
If you want to manage animals as a career, you can learn more about animal behaviour and welfare with our FdSc in applied behavioural science and welfare.
Our degree in applied biomedical science provides the skills you need for a career in medical diagnostics or research as a biomedical scientist.
This immersive top-up degree emphasises applied learning, critical thinking, and effective communication techniques, equipping you with the skills you will need to be successful working in a wide variety of roles in the animal conservation sector.
This extended biology degree includes a foundation year.
Explore subjects such as cancer therapeutics, pharmacology and neurological conditions.
Study our biology degree for topics including cancer, pharmacology and neurological conditions such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease.
This biomedical science degree includes a foundation year.
Study human health and disease, gaining skills for roles in the healthcare sector.
Explore human health and disease with our biomedical science degree.
Gain skills for roles in healthcare, forensics and pharmaceuticals.
This biomedicine degree includes a foundation year.
Explore human health and disease with our biomedicine degree.
The Built Environment courses are designed to provide students with a high level of understanding of the design and construction and to prepare them for employment
Study building design and construction with an HNC in building surveying.
Ideal for roles as a site manager or quantity surveyor in the construction sector.
This business computing degree covers important issues for business, including IT management, IT project management and information security.
This business economics degree from our business school will boost your knowledge of economic theory and behavioural economics for top careers.
Become a business logistics and supply chain management specialist in sectors such as retail and fashion with this innovative business degree.
Navigate your journey to success with the BA (Hons) Business Management (Extended) programme which develops the knowledge and skills needed to manage and lead businesses today.
Combine a business management degree with the opportunity to gain a deep understanding of finance.
Combine a Business Management degree with the opportunity to gain a deep understanding of Finance.
Navigate your journey to success with this BA (Hons) Business Management (Marketing) programme that develops the knowledge and skills needed to manage, lead, and promote businesses through marketing
Navigate your journey to success with the BA (Hons) Business Management programme which develops the knowledge and skills needed to manage and lead businesses today.
Explore the world of business and psychology with a business psychology degree.
Focus on the psychology of individual and group behaviour in the workplace.
This fast-track entry into the second or final year of our business studies degree offers the practical skills you need to work in project management and business development.
Enter our business and accounting degree in the final year to top up your qualifications.
Get a grounding in accounting and key business skills.
This chemical engineering degree includes a foundation year.
It has been designed with leading companies to meet the needs of future engineers.
Discover the influences that impact on children’s physical and mental health with our children’s nursing degree.
Excellent placement options.
This three year degree programme will set you up for a rewarding career where you can develop knowledge and leadership skills to shape the future of societies and the environment we live in.
This degree in civil engineering includes a foundation year.
Study construction, mechanics and design for careers in structural engineering.
This computer engineering degree includes a foundation year.
Develop skills in engineering by building computer hardware and embedded systems.
Based at our Medway Campus, this computer engineering degree provides experience in developing applications and hardware for computer systems.
Study our computer science degree to pursue a career as a computer science professional specialising in artificial intelligence.
Study in London.
Study a Computer Science degree for the skills to pursue careers as Computer Science professionals specialising in Cyber Security.
Study a Computer Science degree to gain the skills to pursue a career as a Computer Science professional specialising in Data Science.
Study this Computer Science degree for the skills to pursue careers as Computer Science professionals specialising in Games.
Get career-ready with a Computer Science degree.
Specialise in Artificial Intelligence, Cyber Security, Data Science or Games.
A Computing degree with a specialised pathway in Artificial Intelligence, Data Science and Machine Learning.
A degree where data meets intelligence for attaining the skills and knowledge needed for a successful career.
Our Computing (Data Science) degree provides a solid foundation in data science, information retrieval and machine learning.
Learn skills to solve real-world problems in a global context.
Our computing degree specialising in information systems provides the skills for jobs in computing and systems development.
Our computing degree specialising in network systems provides the skills you need for careers in networking and systems management.
Our computing degree covers the core theory and practice of computing but also allows you to specialise in networks or information systems.
Our computing degree with foundation year explores the theory and application of computing.
Options include information systems and networks.
This computing foundation degree prepares you for careers in computing and IT.
Learn programming languages including Java and C# along with network systems.
Study a construction management HNC to prepare yourself for professional roles in the building, surveying and construction management sector.
Unlock your potential in the construction industry with our comprehensive course, blending academic excellence and practical training, and gain recognition from top industry bodies like CIOB and RICS.
Develop skills in literary analysis and use them to inform your own writing style with this degree in creative writing and English literature.
Develop as a writer of poetry, fiction, drama and screenwriting with our BA in creative writing.
Analyse the work of others to cultivate your writing style.
Our Criminology and Criminal Justice degree covers security, terrorism, forensic psychology and crime scene investigation for careers in policing and crime detection.
This extended criminology and criminal psychology degree combines topics in crime and psychology for careers in policing, policy and welfare.
This criminology and criminal psychology degree combines crime with psychology.
Explore security and terrorism alongside profiling and psychopathology.
Learn about cybercrime, forensics and security management with a computer security degree.
Focus on techniques and gain valuable experience.
Study a Data Science degree shaping mathematically inclined students into skilled data scientists for diverse careers or specialised studies in data science, data analytics, and related fields.
Study our advertising and digital marketing and advertising degree to identify trends and create attention-grabbing campaigns.
This comprehensive extended foundation degree covers all aspects of Health and Social Care, giving you the skills to prepare you for a career in Health or Social Care or further study.
Build your global profile by taking a year abroad to study at one of our partner institutions in the USA.
Our drama degree provides a thorough grounding in theatre and performing arts.
Gain experience in direction and performance.
Develop new and engaging teaching methods and enhance your career in education with an early years foundation degree.
Study the field of child development and early years services.
Learn using specialist facilities, including a simulated early years nursery.
Economics at Greenwich aims to provide you with the intellectual abilities and analytical tools to understand, analyse and act upon the most challenging issues of our time.
This foundation degree in education and special educational needs helps classroom and teaching assistants to develop their skills.
Transform your career opportunities in education by topping up your existing qualifications to earn a BA Education Studies degree.
Our electrical and electronic engineering degree prepares you for the future in engineering technology.
Study design, materials and hardware systems.
Learn to analyse language and develop new ways of reading and studying literary texts with our BA in English language and literature.
Explore how we acquire language and how we teach it with our BA English Language & TESOL.
Learn more.
Our BA English Literature degree allows you to specialise in the study of poetry, prose, film and theatre, alongside many other disciplines.
Gain the skills to cultivate new ideas and start your own business with a specialist degree in business entrepreneurship and innovation.
Learn to train, breed and manage horses with our vocational and skills-based foundation degree in equine training and management.
Prepare for event management jobs and opportunities with this event management degree.
Develop your knowledge and skills as a global event organiser.
Train in film and TV production, making fiction films, documentaries and television series for the film and television industries.
Undertake a film studies degree in London.
Advance your knowledge of film theory and history while gaining experience as a film-maker.
Study a finance and investment banking degree in London.
This degree is designed to prepare you for a successful career in investment banking or a related field.
This financial mathematics degree with a work placement option will give you expertise in mathematics used in the financial sector.
Our extended degree in forensic science includes a foundation year.
Gain the skills to become a forensic scientist or work in criminal justice.
This degree in forensic science with criminology includes a foundation year.
Combine science-related modules with topics in criminology.
Study a four-year Forensic Science degree with a placement year.
Experience real-life forensic science with top-class facilities and impress future employers
Study biology and physiology alongside criminology topics such as policing and terrorism.
Learn more about our BSc Forensic Science with Criminology.
Our degree in forensic science provides the skills to become a professional forensic scientist.
Explore what it takes to become a video game developer.
Specialise in areas such as programming, 3D modelling & animation, or virtual reality.
Our Graphic and Digital Design with Foundation Year degree develops strong visual communication skills and encourages a creative and critical approach to design, preparing you for a wide range of careers in the creative industries.
Studying our graphic and digital design degree, you’ll look at everything from branding and advertising to fine art and photography.
Study a HND in Graphic and Digital Design at the University of Greenwich.
This HND allows you to fast track into a career in graphic design.
If you’re a social care professional with a diploma, our health and social care top-up award helps you develop skills to advance your career.
Explore historical issues and comparative and global politics with this history and politics degree.
Study in a historical setting close to central London.
Study British, European and world history in a historic location near central London that is ideal for access to archives and museums.
This foundation degree in commercial horticulture provides the skills for careers in plant science, landscaping, and food crop production.
This human nutrition degree includes a foundation year.
Explore how nutrition relates to health and disease for careers in a range of dietary-led careers.
Our accredited human nutrition degree explores the links between food, health and disease for careers in healthcare, sports and nutrition.
Our degree in Human Resource Management and Development is ideal for students wanting to find out how to develop people and their skills to boost business success.
Our international business degree with language blends international business management and strategy with a language to launch your global business career.
Our international tourism & hospitality management degree prepares you for a career in one of the fastest growing industries.
Prepare for international relations careers by gaining a deep understanding of the subject coupled with languages such as French, Italian, Spanish, and Mandarin.
Learn about contract law, criminal law, public law and human rights law, with our LLB Law in Practice.
Take a placement or spend time abroad to boost your career.
This two-year course is ideal if you have a degree and wish to convert to law.
Get the best from our links to law firms and chambers.
At the University of Greenwich, London, our degree in marketing and brand management provides the skills and knowledge you’ll need to start your marketing career.
This degree in mathematics and computer science teaches you advanced mathematical methods and how to apply them to computer programming.
Study maths in London.
BSc Mathematics helps you build your skills in applied mathematics and solve mathematical problems, preparing you for a range of maths careers.
This mechanical engineering degree includes a foundation year.
Study topics in structural mechanics for work in the automotive and aeronautical industries.
Develop the ability to produce and critique creative content.
Gain skills in writing, visual communications, camera use, sound, and video editing.
Our degree in Mental Health and Wellbeing provides knowledge and skills in demand by today’s employer.
Empower patients and their families to make informed decisions.
This specialist degree equips you to become a registered mental health nurse.
This midwifery degree equips you to become a registered midwife.
Gain the skills to support expectant mothers through pregnancy and childbirth.
Open your ears to a range of musical worlds, from music production to sound design in film, TV, music and games.
Creativity is at the heart of this degree course.
Learn the essentials of coaching athletics, gymnastics, swimming or dance with this physical education degree.
Partnered with Charlton Athletic.
This politics and international relations degree offers insight into international affairs.
Political placements possible in London and beyond.
Learn about current practice in primary schools and early-years education with our primary education degree.
Ideal for advancement to QTS.
Are you looking for a rewarding career where you will be able to impact some of the most crucial years of a child's development?
Our BA Hons Primary Education course is for you!
Our Professional Certificate in Education (PCE) will give you the skills to become a teacher in the Further Education sector.
Prepare yourself for the stage and show business with a degree in professional dance and musical theatre.
Excel in the performing arts.
Our BSc Hons Psychology with a foundation year explores adult & child psychology, the workings of the brain & mind, and real-world applications of psychology.
Our psychology with counselling degree trains you to counsel those in distress.
It is ideal for careers as a clinical psychologist or therapist.
Our BSc Hons Psychology explores adult & child psychology, the workings of the brain & mind, social influences, individual differences and real world applications of psychology.
This public health degree includes a foundation year.
Build the experience to become a registered public health practitioner.
Explore strategies to improve UK health policy with a public health degree.
Develop the skills to pursue a range of public health careers.
Our HNC and HND awards in quantity surveying cover the design, function & construction of buildings for careers across the construction sector.
This accelerated BSc programme is designed to fill a particular need in training rural property and business advisors who wish to qualify as Chartered Surveyors and Fellows of the Association of Agricultural Valuers.
Interested in social work?
Learn to become a skilled social worker with a Master’s in Social Work.
Employer-seconded part-time route available.
Study our sociology and criminology degree for careers in criminal justice, youth work and education.
Explore in-depth approaches to society and crime.
Our sociology and psychology degree explores society and the self by focusing on issues such as gender, identity, relationships and social inequalities.
Study key issues in society with our BA Sociology degree.
Topics include popular culture, social justice, gender identity and global relations.
Our software engineering degree teaches you to design, create and maintain software systems using the latest technologies and programming languages.
BSc Sports Science explores the science of sport through cutting-edge technology and studies in physiology, psychology and performance analysis.
Our statistics and data analytics degree provides you with a deep understanding of modern statistical methods and develops your practical skills in the field of data analysis.
This four-year law degree (LLB) includes a year abroad in Europe.
This foundation degree is a 2 year full-time course providing you with an opportunity to extend your knowledge and skills in supporting teaching and learning in the classroom.
This BSc accelerated degree in Sustainable Agriculture covers climate change, agronomy, food security and technological solutions to global challenges faced within the agri-food industry.
Study this foundation degree and get a qualification in sustainable horticulture management that will see you into the future.
This foundation degree is designed to provide you with a solid grounding in Sustainable Land Management.
This three-year foundation degree with a placement is offered by our partner college, and will prepare you for a career as a veterinary nurse.
A full time blended learning course allowing those already employed within the wider animal industry to reduce or adjust their working hours to accommodate full-time study due to its unique delivery.
Study a business degree specialising in wine and associated drinks that is unique in the UK.
Study a unique degree course covering both grape growing and winemaking at our partner college site.
Study the fields of psychology, education, public health and social work in relation to supporting vulnerable children and families in the UK today.
The FdSc in Zoo Management is aimed at students wishing to take a vocational programme to provide them with the skills to work in the zoo industry.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/clearing/events:
Changed your mind on where you want to study?
Beginning to think of alternative options?
Looking for a back-up in case not all goes to plan?
Join one of our upcoming events and webinars to learn more about UCAS Clearing and how to apply.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-advice-for-parents:
We know it can be challenging for parents to offer support on Clearing day.
Get quick answers to common Clearing questions here.
Clearing helps thousands of students each year to find university places.
It is useful in a range of situations.
Some examples are that students may have:
If any of these situations apply to your young adult, they can apply through Clearing .
If your child does not receive the grades required to meet the conditions of their Conditional, Firm, or Insurance university offers, the status of their offers in their UCAS Hub will change to ‘Unsuccessful,' and their account status will change to ‘You are in Clearing.' They will also see a unique Clearing ID number on their account which they might need when contacting universities for Clearing.
If your child hasn't applied to university by 6pm 30 June 2025, the application must be made through Clearing.
Clearing can be a stressful time for students, however, with preparation it doesn’t have to be.
Here are some tips on how you can support your young adult:
If your young adult is still nervous after all the discussions and plan Bs for results day, it would be a good idea to distract them from such anxious emotions.
Encourage them to plan ahead or even make plans with them, in the days preceding the results day.
This will keep them busy in the run-up to the big day, rather than allowing them to sit around and overthink it.
If your child has narrowly missed the grades they needed, remind them that it is always worth calling their firm and insurance university choices to see if they are still willing to offer them a place before entering the Clearing process.
If an applicant has an unconditional firm offer and they change their mind, they can click on the ‘Decline my place’ button on UCAS and apply somewhere else during Clearing.
Word of caution : Please think very carefully before releasing into Clearing; if they change their mind, the current university place is unlikely to remain open.
Changing universities at this point requires reapplying for accommodation and updating the student finance application.
Applications for a student loan should be made through Student Finance England (or the regional equivalent in Scotland, Wales, etc.).
New students should apply as soon as possible to avoid delays to their first payment.
If your child/dependant has already applied for a student loan but has changed universities during Clearing, they must notify the loan provider about the new arrangements.
We offer a range of support on budgeting and avoiding debt.
We also have hardship funds and a new Commuter Bursary if students encounter financial difficulties during their studies.
The university's halls of residence provide a supportive environment for students living away from home, with 24/7 advice and assistance available from on-site staff and residential assistants who live in the halls.
It helps our students make friends and establish networks that enhance their experience.
We offer an accommodation guarantee to all first-year students and can normally provide housing in halls for the years that follow.
As well as on-site security teams on our campuses, we offer 24/7 advice and assistance available from on-site staff and residential assistants in our halls of residence.
There are many reasons why Greenwich is the ideal place to come and study.
Not at all.
Clearing is a pragmatic way of applying for courses given the change in circumstances that can take place throughout the year - not least on results day.
Many of our former students who entered through Clearing have gone on to successful careers.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/clearing/how-does-clearing-work:
This guide will help you navigate Clearing 2025.
It has everything from how it works, the key dates and where to get support, plus tips on how to make the most of Results Day.
Clearing is a term you’ve probably heard of in relation to applying to university, but what does it mean?
Most students apply to university through the UK’s Universities and Colleges Admission Service (UCAS).
Clearing, also known as UCAS Clearing, is the final part of the UCAS application cycle before the new academic year begins .
It is how universities fill courses that have spaces by matching applicants without a university place with universities that have vacancies.
A common myth is that you only use Clearing if you haven’t got the grades you need.
While this is a common reason to go through Clearing, many applicants use it to shop around for courses or to make a late application to university.
Clearing opens on Tuesday 1 July 2025 and runs until September .
You can apply through Clearing if you’re not holding an offer because:
Whatever your reason for being in Clearing, the important thing is to prepare yourself for Results Day so you can act quickly and calmly.
Results Day can bring a lot of positive or negative emotions, depending on your circumstances.
For instance, not getting the results you were expecting may be really disappointing, while changing your mind about which university you want to go to or which course to study may be unnerving.
Wherever you find yourself on Results Day, knowing you have an action plan opens plenty of options.
This Clearing guide will help you choose the right one for you.
Universities use Clearing to fill courses that have spaces and applicants use it to search for courses with vacancies.
During Clearing, you can contact universities and higher education providers to see if they have any spaces on courses for the new academic year.
It is open to anyone who has applied through UCAS but does not hold any offers.
It’s a chance for applicants who didn’t meet the conditions of their offers to find a course.
It also gives applicants who have changed their mind about the university or course they want to study to find a course.
Clearing is available to you if you aren’t holding any offers.
If you’re already in the UCAS system, Clearing is available to you if your UCAS Hub says ‘You are in Clearing’ or ‘Clearing has started’.
Once Clearing opens on Tuesday 1 July, you can see which universities have vacancies on their courses on the UCAS website.
It’s also a good idea to reach out to universities directly to find out which courses have spaces.
You can apply to as many universities as you want and get as many offers as you want during Clearing.
However, you can only accept one offer.
For more details about the Clearing process and how to use it, see our step-by-step guide below.
Tuesday 1 July UCAS Clearing opens
Thursday 14 August A-level, T-level and BTEC results
This guide explains the key parts of the Clearing process and what you need to do at each stage.
It also includes details on what happens on Results Day.
If you already have your exam results, you can apply as soon as Clearing opens on Tuesday 1 July.
If you haven’t received your exam results yet, you’ll have to wait until you have them before you apply through Clearing.
For most students, Results Day is Thursday 14 August.
Here’s what you need to do:
From 1 July 2025 onwards, universities list their Clearing vacancies on UCAS.
You will be able to search for courses that have spaces using the UCAS search tool.
Once you have found the course/courses you’re interested in, get in touch with the university/universities to see if you meet their entry requirements and whether there are still spaces available.
Once you have all your Clearing offers from universities (typically given over the phone) and have decided which one you want to go for, you need to formally accept the offer.
This means that you are definitely accepting the offer from the university, so take your time before making your decision and make sure you’re absolutely sure before going ahead.
When you’re ready, accept the offer by visiting your UCAS Hub and adding the course as a Clearing choice.
Only add a Clearing choice if the university has given you permission to do so.
Sign into the UCAS Hub and go to the ‘Your choices’ section of your application.
Click ‘Add Clearing choice’ and fill in the course details by the date the university gave you on the phone.
For example, to accept an offer from the University of Greenwich, enter the UCAS course code and our institution code, G70.
Once you’ve added your Clearing choice, the university will then confirm your place within 24 to 72 hours.
If you have a confirmed place at a university and have changed your mind, you need to self-release into Clearing before you can apply to another institution.
When you self-release, you’re declining your confirmed place.
You will not be able to reverse the decision, so be absolutely sure it’s what you want to do before you go ahead.
Also ensure that the university you have spoken to is definitely offering you a place through Clearing.
To self-release into Clearing, log into UCAS Hub .
Then click on ‘Decline my place’.
This will take you to a page explaining the process and you will be asked to confirm that you want to self-release into Clearing.
Once you have done this, your status on UCAS will show that you are in Clearing and you will be able to add a course as a Clearing choice and formally accept an offer from a university.
As Results Day approaches, it can be an anxious time, especially if you’re relying on certain grades to get into your chosen university.
Whether your exam results are better than you expected or not what you’d hoped for, we can help you through it.
One way to minimise the stress on the day is to do the groundwork.
Here are some things you can do in advance to help you handle Clearing on the big day.
Students receive their A-level, T-level and BTEC results on Thursday 15 August.
Places on courses become available because applicants don’t get the grades they need or they decide to swap to another course.
It is normal to feel disappointed if you don’t get the results you wanted, but there will be options for you, so try not to be too disheartened.
And remember, you’re not alone – thousands of students go through Clearing.
As Results Day is very busy, it’s a good idea to plan in advance to make the most of the opportunities and help ease any stress.
As soon as your results are released, your UCAS Hub will update.
This is what it will show:
8am Exam boards release A-level, T-level and BTEC results.
UCAS receives the results directly and your UCAS Hub will update at around 8am
8am University Clearing lines open
1pm Applicants can add their Clearing choice on their UCAS Hub
A good place to start is to check out ‘How to prepare for Results Day’ to see what you can do beforehand.
Here’s what you can do in the final lead-up and on the actual day to benefit the most from Clearing.
Find things to take your mind off your exam results in the days leading up to the day by doing things you like.
This can be spending time with loved ones, exercising or enjoying your favourite hobbies.
Try to get a good night’s sleep the night before to make sure you’re fully rested.
Check your internet connection, make sure you have a fully charged mobile phone (and charger), and have the following information to hand:
It can be helpful to reach out to friends at this time but try to avoid comparing your results.
Remember that everyone’s journey is different and it’s best for your wellbeing to focus on your own plans.
Most universities will give you a few days to accept or reject an offer so don’t rush your decision.
Ask universities how long you have to accept their offer, ask about the course and see if there are any Clearing Open Days you can attend in the coming days.
If you’re feeling overwhelmed, don’t hesitate to ask for help.
Speak to your loved ones and reach out to the universities and support services.
If you’ve applied to a UK university through UCAS, you can apply through Clearing.
If you haven’t applied yet, you can make a Clearing application.
For details on how to do this, see above: 'How to apply through Clearing'.
If you’ve got higher grades than you were expecting, you can explore your options while holding onto your firm choice.
If you are offered a space on a course in Clearing, you’ll need to ‘self-release’ in order to accept the offer.
See above: ‘What “self-release" means and how to use it’.
Yes, you can.
You’ll need to ‘self-release’ into Clearing to be able to do this.
See above: ‘What “self-release” means and how to use it’.
Many universities run Open Days specifically for students going through Clearing.
You can visit the campus, see the facilities, and speak to staff and students.
Ask universities for details about their Clearing Open Days when you call them.
Keep an eye on our website to see when our Clearing Open Days are.
Student loans are available for eligible students applying through Clearing.
You should apply as soon as possible to ensure your first payment arrives on time.
Learn more about students finance on our fees and funding page and on the UCAS website .
If you have already applied for a student loan and have changed university and/or course, you need to notify your loan provider (Student Finance England or similar).
If you haven’t decided about going to university or your plans have changed, here are some options.
When you study for a degree apprenticeship you split your time between university and work.
You gain valuable practical experience with the added bonus that you earn while you learn.
The University of Greenwich offers a number of degree apprenticeships .
Foundation degrees combine academic and workplace skills and prepare you for the final part of an undergraduate degree.
They focus on a particular profession and are shorter than a degree – usually two years full-time or longer for part-time students.
The University of Greenwich works with a number of partner colleges that offer a wide range of foundation degrees.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/finance/funding-your-studies:
There are a number of ways to fund your studies.
These range from student loans and official sponsors to grants, scholarships and bursaries.
Many new students will apply for a student loan to help fund the cost of the course.
Find out more about applying for an undergraduate student loan.
Find out more about applying for a postgraduate loan.
Students from the United States, find out more about federal loans to study at Greenwich.
What sources of funding help to make our courses accessible?
There are various sources of funding that help to make our courses accessible, from scholarships to hardship funds.
Find out more about government grants, including funding to assist students with disabilities.
This hardship funding is available for Home students when all other options have been exhausted.
Find out about the organisational funding options available to support your studies.
Find out more about the funding available for training in healthcare and midwifery.
Find out more about the bursaries available for teacher training.
If you are employed, your employer may be willing to cover the cost of your course.
Find out more about sponsorship options.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/for-parents/information-for-parents:
Whether you're a parent, guardian, carer, spouse, or friend of a future University of Greenwich student, this page will provide you with a clearer understanding of the university and the application process.
We understand the rising cost of living can be tough.
That's why we offer one-to-one financial guidance to help your child manage their money.
We also provide a variety of bursaries and scholarships to help reduce university costs.
Student wellbeing is vitally important to us so if someone’s struggling, we make sure they can get support as soon as possible.
It’s quick, go online and complete a self-referral form or attend one of our regular wellbeing drop-in sessions.
We believe that every student should have the opportunity to succeed regardless of their personal challenges.
If your child has additional needs, they will find plenty of tailored support available to them.
Already thinking about where a university degree can take your child?
Whether they have a dream job in mind or are still considering their options, we will help them gain the skills, confidence and experience they need to launch a successful career.
If your child will be living away from home while at university, it’s important they feel safe and secure in their new accommodation.
As a resident in student halls, they’ll benefit from 24/7 security, extensive CCTV.
It's important that you and your child feel confident about their choice of university.
So why not visit us on an Open Day and get to know us in person?
Speak with staff and students, explore the campus, get a taste of what it's like to study here.
For further information on the University of Greenwich and Higher Education, helping you to support your child(ren) make informed decisions, please register your details with us.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/contact/live-chat:
Welcome to our live chat service.
Here, you can speak to one of our current students with first-hand knowledge, to get your questions answered.
To open live chat, use the button below during our opening hours.
This service is for prospective students and applicants.
Current students should contact a local Student Centre .
Many new students apply for a student loan to fund their studies.
The process for this depends on factors such as where you come from.
Access contact information for all areas of the University of Greenwich.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/olaf:
| EXIT
Online Application Form

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/finance/funding-your-studies/loans/undergraduate-loans:
As an undergraduate student at the University of Greenwich, you may be eligible to apply for a Tuition Fee Loan
This loan is paid directly to the university on your behalf to cover your tuition fees from Student Finance England.
Eligibility for the loan depends on various factors, including your residency status and nationality.
For detailed information on whether you qualify, please refer to the links below or visit the Student Finance website for full eligibility criteria and application guidance Student Finance
If you join us during Clearing and your student loan application with Student Finance England is delayed, we can offer temporary loans of up to £500 to help you get started at university.
If you live in England and are entering higher education at undergraduate level, visit Student Finance England for more information on the types of support available and how to apply.
Students living in other parts of the UK have their own funding arrangements for student support.
Visit the following websites for further information:
It is wise to keep all correspondence with finance bodies for future reference.
You should also store your login in a safe place, as you need to reapply for support every year and SFE does not re-issue login details.
EU Nationals intending to study in England may be entitled to apply for a tuition fee loan.
Check your eligibility by using SFE's form finder .
More on the UK's decision to leave the European Union.
International students may be able to apply for other sources of funding, such as scholarships or bursaries.
See funding your studies .
If you have studied a higher education course previously, you may not be eligible for a Tuition Fee or Maintenance Loan.
It is important to review the rules and regulations on withdrawing, interrupting or transferring onto a new course as this can affect your access to support.
Contact us for more information.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/clearing/planning-for-clearing:
The following guide will help you prepare for Clearing, from key dates to opening hours, you will find all you need to plan your next move.
How do you plan for Clearing?
The following guide is designed to help you out and let you know when we're open on and around results day.
Learn more about Clearing and finding the right course for you
Collect the information you need, so you're ready to go: Your UCAS number (if you have one) Grades, such as A-level, BTEC and GCSEs An idea of the courses you'd like to study Clearing phone numbers and opening times.
The standard timeline runs as follows.
During Clearing, our advisors are available by phone ( 020 8331 9000 ) and Live Chat during the hours below.
If you have your results, you can start Clearing.
International Baccalaureate (IB) results are expected on 06 July.
Once you have all your results, you can contact our Clearing team.
You can make your clearing choice on UCAS from 1pm in your UCAS Hub account.
GCSE results will be released on this day.
Clearing continues until our courses are full or the academic year begins.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/clearing/frequently-asked-questions:
If you've got a question about UCAS Clearing, find your answers here.
Clearing is a term you've probably heard of in relation to applying to university, but what does it mean?
Most students apply to university through the UK's Universities and Colleges Admission Service (UCAS).
It is how universities fill courses that have spaces
  by matching applicants without a university place with universities that have vacancies.
A common myth is that you only
  use Clearing if you haven't got the grades you need.
You can apply through Clearing if you're not holding an offer because:
For instance, not getting the results you were expecting may be really disappointing, while changing your mind about which
  university you want to go to or which course to study may be unnerving.
Clearing matches prospective students to university courses that have not been filled.
It is open to anyone who has applied through UCAS but does not hold
    any offers.
It's a chance for applicants who didn't meet the conditions of their offers to find a course.
Clearing is available to you if you aren't holding any offers.
If you're already in the UCAS system, Clearing is available to you if your UCAS Hub says 'You are in Clearing' or 'Clearing has started'.
It's also a good idea to reach out to universities directly to find out which courses have spaces.
You can apply to as many universities as you want and get as many offers as you
  want during Clearing.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/finance/fees:
Search for a course below to find out what tuition fee you will pay.
We also show you the different payment methods you can use.
University of Greenwich course tuition fees charged in previous academic years.
Fees are subject to the university's Charging and Refund Policy .
Regulated fees for home students: The University commits to charging fees at a level no higher than the maximum regulated fee rates set by the UK Government and intends to set its fee at that maximum level.
The UK Government has announced changes to tuition fees and maintenance support for 2025/26 academic year, setting the tuition fee cap at £9,535.
The measures are designed to both support students’ cost of living pressures and improve higher education providers’ financial sustainability.
The rates above, applicable to continuing and new students, from September 2025 onwards, who have been assessed by the University as eligible to pay tuition fees at the home fee rate.
The university reserves the right to charge for any additional courses or credits and amend the fee due where necessary after you have completed online registration.
Disclaimer:
*The Department for Education has indicated that it intends to raise the home tuition fee limit from £9,250 to £9,535 for 2025/26.
Fees may differ depending on your nationality or where you live.
Find out more about how your fee status is determined and the methods you can use to pay your fees.
You can pay your tuition fees using a government student loan (UK/EU students), official sponsorship, credit or debit card, or by bank transfer (BACS) through our secure Flywire payment portal.
If you study a course at an equivalent or lower level to an award you currently hold, you may be charged higher fees.
Learn more below.
If you change your course or your mode of study (i.e.
full-time to part-time), this could affect your tuition fees, your student support, and your student visa.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/finance/money-advice:
We have a wealth of information on money issues, from working and paying taxes to budgeting and reducing debts.
If you cannot find an answer to your question, get in touch.
Find a range of advice and tools for budgeting and managing your finances.
Falling into debt can be stressful.
Find advice on how to tackle and reduce your debts.
If you cannot find what you are looking for or you are in difficulties, get in touch.
Which are the best student accounts?
How do you open a bank account?
Find out more about the rules concerning council tax for students.
If you're an international student, there are limits to what you can work while you study.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/bursaries/commuter-bursary:
Our commuter bursaries support students from low-income households who face challenging travel costs to attend university.
The bursaries are worth 50% of your monthly commuting cost between home and university up to £1,000 per academic year .
We expect these costs will mostly arise from public transport.
However, we can consider supporting petrol costs if you can demonstrate why travel by car is necessary (e.g.
you live in a rural area with limited public transport).
We also support cycling and will support an application for a bicycle and safety equipment.
The commuter bursary is funded by our Hardship Fund and there are a capped number of awards.
We offer these on a first-come, first-served basis.
To be eligible for a commuter bursary, you will need to meet the following criteria:
You must also consent to share information with the University to verify your entitlement to a commuter bursary.
2024/25 applications closed Friday 23rd May 2025
2025/26 applications will be available from the Greenwich Hardship Fund after the close of registration in October 2026
See our general terms and conditions.
If you would like further details about this bursary, please contact us.
We offer more scholarships and bursaries.
See a full list.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/bursaries/greenwich-progression-bursary:
£3,000 bursary for home fee paying students and Alumni.
We are committed to our students’ success and progression to postgraduate study and are investing significant financial resources in addressing the cost of living crisis for students wishing to continue their studies with a master’s degree.
As part of this commitment, we are offering £3,000 fee waiver bursaries to current Greenwich undergraduate students and Alumni to help you ‘Power Up’ your future and reach your potential through postgraduate study.
Am I eligible?
You will be offered the Greenwich Progression Bursary shortly after submission of your postgraduate application provided you satisfy the below criteria:
The bursary is only available to students starting a Postgraduate taught course with available places in September 2025.
It will be applied to part-time students on a pro-rata basis.
The course should be completed with no gaps in study to retain the full bursary amount.
PHD /  Postgraduate Research courses are not eligible for this bursary.
How to Apply
You do not need to apply for the Greenwich Progression Bursary
This bursary is assessed and awarded automatically by the Student Fees and Funding Team.
Eligible students will be contacted to accept the bursary offer before registration.
All applicants will be contacted to advise on an offer of a place to study on the course, and the outcome of the bursary award, as soon as possible.
The bursary will be allocated on a first come first serve basis.
To be eligible for the Greenwich Progression Bursary, you must have applied for a postgraduate programme before midnight on Friday the 29th August 2025 .
Any applications received after this date will be subject to a wait list, and no guarantees will be made regarding further awards after this date.
Questions?
If you would like further details about this bursary, please contact us:
Digital Student Centre
See the full list of our available scholarships and bursaries .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/bursaries/accommodation-bursary:
As part of this commitment, the Accommodation bursary offers up to £700, equivalent to up to 10% accommodation fee discount to reduce the rent for your first-year accommodation.
You will be offered an accommodation bursary based on the following criteria:
You'll be studying at Greenwich, Avery Hill or Medway Campus (except Medway School of Pharmacy) or one of our Partner Colleges where your tuition fee is paid directly to us.
How to apply
You do not need to apply for the Greenwich Accommodation Bursary.
This bursary is assessed and awarded automatically by the Student Fees and Funding Team after the close of registration in October 2025.
The Accommodation Team will contact you within the first term if you are eligible.
Conditions
Students are permitted one scholarship or bursary per academic year at the highest value:
Exceptions:
The Greenwich Hardship Fund and supporting funds (Digital Access, Energy Support Bill and Commuter Bursary) can still be applied for providing full eligibility terms are met.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/bursaries/stephen-lawrence-scholarship-architecture2:
The scholarship is a £19,070 cash bursary or fee waiver to study the Architecture Part 2 MArch course at the University of Greenwich commencing 2025/26.
The scholarship is available for Black students from low socioeconomic backgrounds and/or Black students who are estranged or Care-experienced.
The duration of the course is two years (full-time), and the scholarship is awarded in three instalments per year to assist applicants to pursue a career in architecture.
The scholarship is available for full and part-time study of this course.
Please note that part-time students will be awarded pro rata.
Because of Stephen
The scholarship honours the life and legacy of Stephen Lawrence.
Stephen grew up in South East London and wanted to become an architect.
His mother, Doreen, now Baroness Lawrence was studying at University of Greenwich when Stephen was murdered in an unprovoked racist attack in Eltham.
Stephen was only 18 years old, and it took twenty years before some of those responsible for Stephen’s murder were convicted.
Baroness Lawrence campaigned tirelessly for justice for Stephen, including a public inquiry into the handling of the case which has changed societal attitudes to racism, to the law and to police practice.
About the scholarship
University of Greenwich partners with the Stephen Lawrence Day Foundation who exist to inspire a more equitable, inclusive society, and to foster opportunities for marginalised young people in the UK.
One of the ways we are working together is through removing barriers to education and work, and we are starting with architecture.
According to the “Equality and Diversity survey” conducted by ARB (Equality & Diversity Data, 2020) 83% of UK architects are from white ethnic backgrounds and only 1% of respondents identified as Black.
There are many reasons for this disparity, but a considerable barrier is the cost of training and qualifying.
One scholarship is currently available for 2025/6 entry, but the university is actively fundraising to offer more scholarships at the earliest opportunity.
Please contact Mary Ivers, Interim Associate Director, External Engagement at m.b.ivers@greenwich.ac.uk for more information.
Eligibility Criteria
Priority for the scholarships will be given to Black students from low socioeconomic background (Index of Multiple Disadvantage quintiles 1 and 2, low household income) and/or Black students who are estranged or Care-experienced, (see detailed criteria for more information).
Applicants must also:
Application Process
The application for the scholarship is made as part of the application to study Architecture Part 2 MArch .
To be considered for a scholarship, applicants must, by the deadlines below, have:
Applications for the 2025/26 scholarship are now closed.
2026/27 applications will reopen from October 2025.
While applications are currently closed for this award, applications for The Stephen Lawrence Scholarship (Architecture) supported by the Football Foundation are open.
All applicants will be contacted to advise on an offer of a place to study on the course, and the outcome of the scholarship award, as soon as possible.
Once allocated, updated information will be added to this website page advising scholarships are closed.
For more information about applying this scholarship, please contact alumni@gre.ac.uk .
We have a range of scholarships and bursaries available.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/events/offer-holders:
Join us at one of our exclusive in-person events to find out more about studying at the University of Greenwich.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/study/after-you-apply/interview:
Congratulations on your invite to an interview.
Find out about where you will be attending your interview, what you’ll need to provide on the day, and how to prepare for the best chance of success.
Your interview will take place online or in person, depending on your course.
Find out more about how to join.
Find out about any further reading or preparation you should complete for the best chance of success at your interview.
Candidates for courses in education or health will be asked to present an ID document during the interview.
Find out what you need.
If you are invited to interview for animation, graphic design and architecture / urban design courses, you must prepare a portfolio.
If you are unable to attend your interview, you are able to rebook this using the link in your confirmation email.
If you cannot attend on the day of your interview, please contact us as soon possible.
We can't always guarantee you will be offered another interview date, but if you fail to attend and don't contact us beforehand, your application may be withdrawn.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/study/after-you-apply/accept-your-offer:
You can accept your offer via UCAS, via email or by paying a confirmation deposit, depending on how you applied.
Once you're ready to accept your offer, you can do this via your UCAS hub.
If you are a UK student who has applied directly to us or an international student who is sponsored (by your government/company) you can accept your place by emailing us.
International students can accept their place by paying a £3000 deposit.
However, If you are sponsored by a government or organisation (e.g.
US Federal Aid) you can accept directly by following instructions above.
International students who have applied directly or via an education agent have 14 days to accept their offer.
Once this 14-day period has passed, we may still be able to accept you however, you will need to ensure we still have space on your programme.
You can check this on our capped course page.
If you've applied via UCAS for an undergraduate course, there is a deadline to make your decision.
This is set when your last offer comes in.
If you don't select us as a firm or insurance choice by this time, UCAS will automatically reject the offer on your behalf.
Check your deadline on your UCAS hub.
If this does expire, or you wish to change your mind or make a late application to join us, you can do so via Clearing, which opens on 5 July 2025.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/finance/fees/how-to-pay-your-fees:
Payments can be made before the registration process.
Undergraduate Students
Tuition Fee Loan via Student Finance England (or equivalent) If your tuition fees will be paid by Student Finance England (SFE) or a similar government loan provider, please select this option during your online registration.
Important: If you haven’t applied for student finance yet, you can still register under the condition that you submit your application immediately after registering.
You’ll have 6 weeks to secure funding.
It is your responsibility to ensure that funding is arranged, whether through a government loan, private lender, or sponsor.
If no funding is confirmed after 6 weeks, you will be personally responsible for paying your tuition fees.
Postgraduate Students
Postgraduate loans are paid directly to you, not to the university.
As a result, you are responsible for arranging payment of your tuition fees.
Before your first loan instalment is released, you must pay at least 15% of your total annual course fee.
Please plan ahead to ensure this payment can be made on time.
Instalment Plan for UK/EU Students (Postgraduate or Self-Paying)
We offer the following instalment schedule for self-funded UK and EU postgraduate students:
If you begin your course in January or at another time of year, a similar staggered payment plan will be arranged.
This instalment plan applies whether you are self-paying or receiving a postgraduate loan.
Remember: the initial 15% must be paid before your loan is released .
Planning ahead is essential.
Self-Paying Undergraduate Students
If you are paying your tuition fees directly (not using Student Finance England), your payment schedule depends on whether you are a new or continuing student.
Payment Breakdown:
The remaining balance will be divided into up to five equal monthly instalments *.
No alternative payment plans are available.
Please ensure you are prepared to meet the payment deadlines.
Instalment Schedule by Intake
Intake/Cohort
Initial Payment Due
First Instalment Due
September
By close of Online Registration
14th October
January
14th February
April
14th May
*Note: The April intake will have 3 monthly instalments due May, June and July , with the final payment due on 14th July .
Please ensure you plan ahead to meet these deadlines.
Failure to pay may result in restrictions on access to university services.
If your tuition fees are being paid by an employer or official sponsor, they must formally confirm sponsorship and request an invoice by emailing PATteam@gre.ac.uk
The sponsorship request must include:
Important: Letters from individuals (such as relatives or friends) do not qualify as official sponsorship and will not be accepted.
Part-Sponsorship
If your sponsor is covering only part of your tuition fees (For example 50% of the tuition fee), you are responsible for paying the remaining balance.
You remain personally responsible for any fees not paid by your sponsor.
Unpaid balances may lead to penalties as outlined in our Policy for Non-Payment of Tuition Fees .
At the University of Greenwich, we understand that some students may be unable to take out interest-bearing loans due to religious beliefs.
Whether you're starting an undergraduate or postgraduate course, we are committed to supporting you with respectful, inclusive financial guidance.
Our Student Finance Team offers one-to-one appointments via MS Teams to help you explore alternative, Sharia-compliant funding options.
Book an appointment with us
Sharia-Compliant Financial Services
If you prefer to avoid traditional loans due to interest (riba), several UK financial institutions offer Sharia-compliant products that align with Islamic principles.
These services typically avoid investment in prohibited sectors (e.g., gambling, alcohol, weapons) and offer ethical alternatives for student financing.
Some options include:
These services can be used alongside family support or other non-interest-bearing resources.
Scholarships for British Muslim Students
In partnership with the University of Greenwich, the Aziz Foundation provides 100% tuition fee scholarships for British Muslim students pursuing master’s degrees at UK universities.
Learn more and apply.
Non-Repayable Student Finance Support
You may be eligible for grants or supplementary funding that do not need to be repaid, even if you choose not to take out a student loan.
Examples include:
You can apply for student finance without taking out a loan (e.g., requesting £0 in loans) to enable income assessment and access to university bursaries or scholarships.
Visit your local Student Finance website for full eligibility and application details.
Government Progress on Sharia-Compliant Student Finance
The UK government is developing a Sharia-compliant student finance model , based on the concept of Takaful (mutual co-operation).
This alternative:
This proposal originated from a 2014 consultation and is currently under development.
A Sharia advisory committee will oversee the final product.
Read more: Alternative student finance - GOV.UK
For further details on interest-free or faith-sensitive finance options, visit the UK Government website or speak with our Student Finance Advice Team .
Securing Your Place
If you have been assessed as an international fee-paying student, you must:
If you require a Student visa, additional fees may be required before receiving your CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies) or during the registration process.
This depends on your country of residence and visa requirements.
International Fee Waiver Scholarship
If you are awarded an international fee waiver scholarship:
Paying Your Tuition Fees
Once you've paid your deposit (and any required pre-CAS payments), the remaining tuition fee balance will be due according to the University’s payment schedule or payment plan options.
Sponsored Students
If your tuition fees are being paid by a recognised sponsor such as a government, the British Council, or another official organisation you do not need to pay the £3,000 deposit.
Instead, please provide formal proof of sponsorship to the university.
Paying Your Deposit
If you are funding your studies yourself, you are required to pay a £3,000 deposit to secure your place on your chosen programme.
Check our Capped Courses page to see if your programme is still accepting students.
Making Your Payment via Flywire
We’ve partnered with Flywire , our preferred international payment platform, allowing you to:
To make your deposit payment, click the button below and have your Applicant Student ID (e.g.
000000000) ready, this can be found on your offer letter.
Make a Payment with Flywire
Please Note: The £3,000 deposit is non-refundable , except in limited circumstances.
Refer to our policies document for full details.
Paying the deposit is a firm commitment to study at the University of Greenwich.
Please refer to the Flywire FAQ and our AskUoG Knowledge Base for answers to common questions about payments, refunds, and more.
Residents of Sanctioned Countries
Flywire complies with global sanctions regulations and does not accept payments from the following sanctioned regions:
In addition, certain Russian banks and individuals are sanctioned and cannot use Flywire.
Payments from Russia and Belarus may face delays or rejection due to enhanced compliance screening.
Flywire accepts payments from all other countries , provided the sender and recipient are not on international sanctions lists.
If you are from a country currently subject to economic sanctions, please contact the University’sm Student Finance Team for advice on approved alternative payment methods.
More information on understanding the sanctions .
If your tuition fees are being paid by an official sponsor (e.g.,government, British Council, or another recognised organisation):
To apply for a student visa, you must first be issued a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) from the University of Greenwich.
This process involves several important financial steps.
Initial Deposit Requirement
You must pay your £3,000 deposit before the CAS process can begin.
This confirms your commitment to study and secures your place on the course.
Additional Tuition Fee Payments (Country-Specific)
Depending on your nationality and course of study, you may be required to make additional payments toward your tuition fees before receiving your CAS.
This is to help strengthen your visa application and meet UKVI financial guidelines.
If you are from one of the following countries, you will be required to pay at least 50% of your total tuition fees before a CAS can be issued:
In some cases, based on visa refusal risk, students may be asked to pay 100% of their tuition fees prior to receiving a CAS.
This decision will be made by the University’s CAS team as part of your CAS request.
Important: You will be advised directly by the CAS team if a higher payment is required in your case
CAS Deadlines
To ensure your CAS is processed in time for you to begin your course, you must:
We publish CAS deadlines on our CAS Guidance Pages ahead of each intake.
Visit our CAS Guidance Pages for full details on deadlines and the CAS process.
Once you’ve paid your initial deposit and received your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS), there are further payment steps required to complete your registration.
Payment Required at Registration
To complete registration, you must pay a percentage of your total tuition fees , unless you already paid this during your CAS process.
Instalment Plan for International Students
Intake
After registration starts, you can pay your remaining fees online via Flywire.
Our tuition fees and payment processes are governed by a set of policies designed to ensure clarity, fairness, and compliance with UK regulations.
Please review the key points below.
Registration Requirements
Tuition Fee Increases
Equivalent or Lower Qualifications (ELQs)
Additional Charges
Governing University Policies
All tuition fees are subject to the following university policies:
These documents are reviewed annually to ensure they reflect current regulations and institutional requirements.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/visa/before-you-arrive:
As an international student, you'll need to consider if you need a visa to study in the UK and what type of visa you need to apply for.
When you apply for a Student Visa, you'll need to prove to UKVI that you have enough money for your tuition fees and living expenses.
When making your Student visa application, you will need to submit some specific documents to prove that you meet the criteria
Some international students on postgraduate programmes need an ATAS certificate.
You should check if this applies to you as early as possible when preparing to start a course or when extending your visa.
As part of your visa application, you may be interviewed by UKVI.
You'll need to prepare for this interview to make sure your visa application has the best chance of success.
To apply for your Student Visa, you need a CAS to support your application
Making your Student Visa application inside the UK requires planning and preparation.
We've put together guidance and information to help make your application go as smoothly as possible.
Making a Student Visa application from outside of the UK can be complicated.
We've put together all of the information you'll need to make the process as easy as possible for you.
If you are considering bringing your family members to join you in the UK whilst you study, you should first read about the visa application they will need to make.
If you are coming to the UK to study on a programme that is less than 6 months long, you may be able to apply for a Standard Visitor visa
The information on this page is correct at the time of writing.
Whilst we try to make sure the information we provide is accurate, immigration policy changes frequently.
You should therefore always refer to the official gov.uk website to ensure that you have up-to-date information.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/finance/funding-your-studies/loans:
Several of our Master's degrees qualify for a non-means-tested loan that will help you with the cost of postgraduate study .
American students coming to Greenwich can receive financial assistance through the US Government's Federal Student Aid scheme .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/finance/funding-your-studies/loans/federal-loans-for-usa-students:
American students coming to Greenwich can apply to receive financial assistance through the US Government's Title IV Federal Student Aid Direct Loan Program.
The University of Greenwich participates in the William D.
Ford Federal Direct Loan Program.
Our OPE IE Number is 036193-00.
You must make an application to study at Greenwich before you can be assessed for a Direct Loan.
We will check the eligibility of the programme you wish to study as well as your personal eligibility upon entry and every year you apply, but please review the requirements on Student Aid to prevent disappointment.
The information below is provided for you to refer to whenever you need guidance and provides an overview of the processes from applying, to receiving your loan, as well as the latest links to policy.
There are specific regulations that the university and individual applicants and students for aid are required to meet prior to being considered for eligibility to access Direct Loans.
The University welcomes applications from those holding a broad range of UK, European and International qualifications.
We use independently published guidelines within the sector when considering equivalence.
For applicants from the United States of America, who wish to borrow aid to fund their programme and/or living expenses, you must have a high school diploma, or a recognised equivalent of a high school diploma and they must be over 18 years of age.
Applicants who are offered a place as a ‘Mature Student’ must also have an official high school diploma or its equivalent to be admitted.
There are further restrictions on the type of programme you can study.
See the Programmes and Attendance section below.
Step 1: Complete a free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) .
This generates a Student Aid Report (SAR/ISIR) that we can access (if you list the University of Greenwich).
Step 2: Email the Direct Loan Administration team at USFSA@gre.ac.uk to confirm that you hold an offer to study with us and you have completed the FAFSA.
Please provide your full name, university ID number from your offer letter (example 001234567), and your social security number in your email.
Please also provide any information that could affect your assessment for Federal Aid where this information is different from the information on your FAFSA.
If you believe you have Special or Unusual Circumstances you must provide this now at Stage 2 to ensure you are assessed correctly.
*An example of a Special Circumstance could be that your parent has lost their job.
An example of an Unusual Circumstance could be parental estrangement.
Step 3: The team will email you further guidance and a ‘Cost of Attendance’ pro-forma (Microsoft Excel) that you must complete.
Step 4: You must complete ‘ Entrance Counselling ’ and you must e-sign the relevant E-MPN’s .
Step 5: Return confirmation of your completed 'Entrance Counselling', the e-MPNs, plus your completed Cost of Attendance to the team.
Step 6: Upon receipt, the team will use the information you have provided to determine your eligibility and the level of loans you can apply for.
We may also need more information; in which case we get back in touch with you.
It is vital that you formulate a realistic budget for your study in the UK.
We will not sanction impractical costs.
The following links may help you to prepare an accurate cost assessment.
You will need sufficient funding to support yourself in the UK until your loan is released.
The university deducts tuition fees and university accommodation costs (if you decide to live in halls) before any payment is made to you.
See disbursements below.
Once we have determined your eligibility and the level and types of loan available to you, you will receive an award letter .
This confirms the amount of aid available and ask you to confirm how much you would like to borrow.
The US government sets maximum standard direct loans which are connected to your status as a 'Dependent' or 'Independent' borrower plus the level and year of study.
We cannot influence these levels.
PLUS loans provide additional financial support as identified on the Cost of Attendance form.
There are two types of PLUS Loan:
Undergraduate students cannot apply for PLUS Loans in their own right.
If you are a dependent student and your parents are rejected for Parent PLUS, you will receive only the Direct Loan at the independent rate.
Graduate students rejected for PLUS may source an endorser for their application.
If this is not possible, only the Direct Loan element will be available.
Students unable to obtain a PLUS Loan may be eligible to apply for private loans (see below).
Applicants attending Foreign Schools are not eligible for Pell or other forms of grants.
International students are required to pay a deposit of £3,000 towards their course costs.
Some US Nationals receiving Federal Aid may not be required to do so.
Undergraduate students: if you agree to take the full Direct Loan and the full Parent PLUS Loan, the university deducts your fees from your disbursement and you are not required to pay a deposit in advance.
If you are only entitled to the standard maximum Direct Loan and you have not arranged a further private loan, you will need to pay a deposit.
Postgraduate students: if you agree to take the full Direct Loan and/or a full Graduate PLUS loan, the university will deduct your fees from your disbursement and you are not required to pay a deposit.
In all instances, if you are not eligible or have not applied for sufficient funds to cover your tuition fee, you must pay a deposit.
You can also choose to pay a deposit to reduce the deduction from your disbursements.
Following receipt of your signed award letter and any deposits paid, our International Admissions Team will contact you to confirm details about you and your course.
We then issue you with a standard Certificate of Attendance to Study.
This is required to meet the regulations of UKVI's Tier 4 entry guidance for a student visa.
When you apply for your student visa, you must also include a copy of your loan confirmation and/or details of any private loans to prove you have the funds to conduct your studies.
Disbursements are not released until you have fully registered with the university.
Fully registered means, having completed Part 1 & Part 2 of registration and having no ‘holds’ on your student record.
Once you have completed registration and from the first day of term, you will have a 14-day cooling off period in which you can cancel your registration, and therefore your loan(s), without penalty, other than any deposit you will have paid.
The US Department of Education Regulations state that the first disbursement of aid must not be made within 30 days of the first day of term.
For example, if the first day of term is the 25 September, then the earliest disbursement date would be the 25 October.
Due to processing times within the US DoE systems and within the university, the disbursement date may be later than this by up to 10 working days.
Federal Student Aid is usually paid after meeting the above conditions, in three instalments, as follows:
Begin in September: October, January & April
Begin in January: February, April & October.
Disbursements cannot be used to pay for visa applications.
If you have any queries regarding disbursement of your loans, please email us at usfsa@gre.ac.uk .
To receive the funds, you must have opened a UK bank account and added your account details into the secure area of the student portal.
The university receives your loan in US dollars.
This is converted into pounds sterling by our bank, Barclays, according to the exchange rate on the day.
We are unable to confirm the value in advance.
When we receive your loan in sterling, we allocate funds to your student account.
At this point, payments are deducted for your tuition fees (if not already paid) and accommodation fees (if you reside in university halls).
This means each payment you receive is for personal living costs.
This should be budgeted to ensure it lasts until your next disbursement.
If you are staying in halls of residence, please notify the Accommodation Office that your rent will be paid in three instalments via Federal Student Aid.
For US Nationals, your entitlement to Federal Aid could be affected if you fail to meet academic and attendance requirements.
Students receiving Federal Aid are expected to progress without repeating a stage of study.
Sometimes however, we know unexpected circumstances can impact your studies.
Where you are unsuccessful in passing all elements of assessment within an academic period, you may be permitted to repeat failed or incomplete courses in the next academic session, prior to progressing to the next academic stage.
You are likely to be charged a prorated fee to repeat these courses.
You are only permitted to repeat to a maximum of 150% of the standard time taken to complete a programme.
For UG programmes, the standard is 120 credits per year x 3 years, you could therefore repeat up to 180 credits across your programme and must graduate within 4 years.
If you need to repeat a stage or an element of study prior to being progressed, you may still qualify for funding but will do so with a warning of Federal Aid probation.
If, by the time of the next disbursement period, your progress and attendance meet the requirements, aid will continue.
If your progress does not meet standards, aid is suspended for the remainder of your payment period.
An assessment will be made at the end of each termly payment period to determine whether aid can be reinstated for the next payment period.
You cannot progress to the next academic level of the programme until you have successfully passed the relevant credits in that period.
Fully assessed aid will be reinstated when you progress to the next academic stage and are still within the 150% maximum timeframe.
More about satisfactory progress and other academic regulations.
Your Federal Aid status does not affect your university registration status.
If your aid is suspended or your study/attendance intensity falls below 50%, you can continue studying using other financial means such as personal savings or private loans.
Where applicable, tuition fees are due for all periods of registration, regardless of your Federal Aid status.
Appeals are accepted only where unexpected extenuating circumstances have directly affected your ability to meet the necessary requirements.
An example of an unexpected circumstance could be serious illness or bereavement of a parent or child.
Circumstances resulting from a decision which clearly impacts on study, such as choosing to work excessive hours resulting in an inability to fully engage with your programme, will not be accepted, nor will unevidenced circumstances.
A statement of appeal detailing the exact reason why you have failed to make satisfactory academic progress in relation to the unexpected extenuating circumstance, must be received by us, along with clear evidence of the circumstances and a statement from your personal tutor or other advisor (e.g.
counsellor) within 28 days of the suspension notice.
(See Contact us below.)
A decision will be communicated by email to your university account within 10 working days.
This decision is final and no further appeal will be considered.
Federal Aid recipients must
Additionally, please note that transferring to an ineligible programme following registration on an eligible programme, will render the entirety of the study period ineligible and result in a requirement to repay all loans received up to the point of transfer and no further aid being made available.
Applicants offered a place to study as a ‘Mature Student’ must have a High School Diploma to be eligible for aid.
All international students must attend contact hours as required by your Tier 4 Student Visa.
( See full details .) Attendance is confirmed via your student ID card.
To progress and complete your course successfully, we recommend an attendance level of at least 95%.
In addition, you are expected to attend all seminars and tutorials.
A change to your mode of attendance (e.g.
full-time to part-time) will affect your Federal Aid entitlement.
You must consult the Primary Destination Point Administrator of your intention to change so that you can make an informed decision.
If you choose to study part-time, you must study for a minimum of 50% of a full-time equivalent course ('half-time') to receive aid.
The university accepts students from US schools to study for short periods or full academic sessions known as Study Abroad .
Entitlement to Federal Aid for this period is held by your school.
We confirm the costs to your school to assess your eligibility for Federal Aid.
University of Greenwich students who take an Erasmus or study abroad year as part of their degree is eligible for Federal Aid.
For this, you must be required to formally attend an EU Higher Education Institution that is registered to administer Federal Aid with the US Department of Education.
You must inform the Primary Destination Point Administrator prior to the start of your programme if you plan to study a programme with a partner institution to ensure you are eligible for aid.
If the institution you wish to study with is not a designated foreign school for Federal Aid, your whole programme may be ineligible and as such, aid will not be provided.
The University will need a Consortium Agreement to be signed where applicable.
All Federal Aid recipients must inform the Primary Destination Point Administrator at usfsa@gre.ac.uk immediately of any change in circumstances, especially if you are considering withdrawing or interrupting your studies.
You should read the university's withdrawal and interruption policy and speak to an International Advisor and your personal tutor before completing this process.
If you withdraw or interrupt from your studies, your eligibility to Federal Aid is affected.
The details below form part of the terms and conditions of the acceptance that you sign to access your loan.
Where notified, you must return unearned aid immediately to the university for return to the US DoE.
Your aid is calculated on a daily basis, so any change to your registration status that results in an overpayment will require a return to the Department of Education either via the university or directly to your loan servicer.
Your loans will be assessed and reduced in the order of unsubsidised, subsidised, then PLUS.
The assessment is completed using a pro-forma provided by the US DoE.
You are assessed to have earned 100% of the annual award amount if you have attended 60% or more of your course.
Our programmes are measured in ‘Credit Hours’.
The percentage of earned aid in a payment period is therefore determined by dividing the total number of calendar days in the payment period into the number of calendar days completed in that period as at the date of Withdrawal.
Depending on the date of your withdrawal or change of circumstances, you may or may not receive further disbursements.
The university charges a pro-rata fee for students that interrupt or withdraw.
These differ from the standard university policy for Charging and Refunding due to the way the assessment is required to be completed by the US DoE:
If you withdraw or interrupt within the first 30 days, you will not be charged a fee and will not be eligible for loans.
After 30 days, the amount of 'earned' loan eligibility depends on the date you complete the withdrawal or interruption form online.
Your last day of attendance is the date given on your withdrawal or interruption form by your Faculty.
You may have a fee balance to pay that is not covered by your loan.
The assessment may show that your loan entitlement is lower than the value disbursed to you (after any due tuition fees are deducted).
Any excess loan received must be repaid to the university immediately.
We will notify you by email at the preferred address in your student record.
You should check this and, where relevant, respond, make payment or make queries immediately following receipt.
Where relevant, we will also confirm by email the value of any refund we make to the DoE through G5.
Where relevant, we will return any unearned loans to the US Department of Education within 45 days where no excess payments have been made to you.
You must also return any excess loan you are liable to repay directly to your loan servicer within 45 days.
Interruption of study (formal leave of absence) is allowed for up to 180 days.
We report your attendance to the National Students Loan Data System (NSLDS), so you do not begin repayment before you return to study (where this is within the 180-day period).
If the period of interruption is longer than 180 days, your attendance will be reported as 'withdrawn'.
More about the grace period and repaying loans.
You have the right to cancel your loan, but this must be done within the time frames given below.
You can notify us that you wish to cancel your loan at any time before registration or by the first day of term - whichever is first.
Cancellation prior to registration will cancel all loans applied for at no cost to you.
This update will be provided to UKVI, which may cancel any Tier 4 student visa it has issued to you.
The first liability date for Federal Aid is either the day you fully complete registration, with all registration holds removed from your account, or the first day of term - whichever is first.
Once you have completed registration fully, or the first day of term is reached, you are liable for a minimum tuition fee of £3,000.
You cannot cancel this segment of your loan unless you decide to pay this fee through other means.
If you notify us within 14 days of your full registration, we can cancel the remaining part of your loan.
Loans for living costs are not disbursed to you until you have fully registered and attended university for 30 days.
Your ability to cancel part of a loan after a disbursement has been made, whether it relates to a withdrawal / interruption or not, depends on the date you make the request and the number of days you have attended.
You can return part or all of a disbursement directly to the DoE Contact us (details below) for further advice.
When you have completed your course, you will need to repay the loans you have borrowed.
The tools provided to you are designed to assist you throughout your repayment period.
We appreciate that circumstances can change over the years.
But even in hardship, maintaining contact with your loan servicer is a legal requirement.
If you default on loan repayments, this adversely affects the institution and jeopardises the chances of others to access Federal Aid funding.
Just as you complete 'Entrance Counselling' before you start your course, you will need to complete 'Exit Counselling' before you finish.
This helps you consider the repayment options and provides information that will assist you in the future as your life changes.
If you fail to complete this, we may withhold your degree certificate or your invite to graduation.
Find out more about repayment.
How do we help you avoid defaulting on your loans?
If you unable to borrow enough to cover the costs detailed in the Cost of Attendance form, you can apply for an education loan from a private lender.
Private loan agreements are made between you and the lender, not the university.
You will need to conduct research on lenders.
We do not make recommendations of providers.
We can assist by reporting on your attendance and progression, if required.
We also accept payments from authorised lenders where the university is able to credit funds to your tuition fee account before disbursing any remaining funds to you.
We are currently registered to administer loans provided through Sallie Mae and Earnest.
A private lender will require you to complete a Private Loan Applicant Self-Certification form.
The information required for the form is available through your completed COA and award letter.
However, you can contact us for assistance if you are unclear.
The University of Greenwich is required by various agencies to collect personal and other data about you for the purposes of reporting.
On occasion, we are required to disclose information to the relevant organisations we work with for various reasons.
Our Data Protection Policy and why we share information
When you complete a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), you are required to sign a Master Promissory Note (MPN).
Within this are details of the agreement you make for the sharing of information to the United States Department of Education and other government agencies.
It is important that you understand these waivers prior to signing the MPN.
The University of Greenwich has a Programme Participation Agreement that allows us to administer Federal Aid and provide students with the funding they need to attend our university.
Relevant personal information and data relating to your loan may be shared with the US Department of Education and other relevant agencies where fraud or other criminal activity is alleged or suspected.
For further details regarding data sharing with US Agencies before applying for federal aid, please contact the Primary Destination Point Administrator (details below).
Links to information, policies and procedures so you are fully aware of your choices and your responsibilities when requesting a Federal Title IV Direct Loan.
To notify us that you have accepted an offer and have completed your FAFSA, or for any further information about Federal Student Aid, please contact the Direct Loan Administration Team:
If you have any comments, complaints or queries regarding application, our service provision, or the administration of the Federal Loan Program, please contact:
Claire Evenden US FSA Primary Destination Point Administrator University of Greenwich Directorate of Finance Room A012, SWH Avery Hill Road Eltham London SE9 2UG

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/bursaries/eu-bursary:
EU students domiciled in the EU who hold an offer to study with us could receive a significant tuition fee reduction for studying in the 2025/26 academic year.
Following the UK's departure from the European Union, we are supporting new EU students by offering a substantial fee-reduction for studying in 2025/26.
To work out your fee, find the international fee on your course page, then deduct the bursary amount shown below depending on the type of award you are studying.
EU Bursary Award
£9,000 (£3,000 for each year of studies)
You will need to meet the following criteria:
Unfortunately, students at the Medway School of Pharmacy and students on Dual-Award programmes are not eligible for this award.
This bursary will be applied automatically , provided you meet the criteria.
You will not need to apply.
Recipients of this award cannot access any other scholarship or bursary offered by the university.
*The EU bursary is for a maximum of 3 years and does not include years that students are resitting/repeating any years or modules.
If you would like further details about this award, please email intscholarships@gre.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/visa/before-you-arrive/apply-for-your-tier-4-visa-outside-the-uk:
The information on these pages is designed for applicants and students who are starting a new programme and will be applying for a UK visa from outside the UK.
It's also relevant for students who are continuing an existing programme of study, but are applying for a new visa from outside the UK.
If you are a new student, but you'll be making your new Student Visa application inside the UK, see our guidance on making a Student Visa application inside the UK.
If you are an existing student and are making a Student Visa  extension in the UK, please see our separate guidance on Student Visa extensions.
You can check processing times for visa applications from your country online.
Please note that this information is only a guide and you should always allow plenty of time for your visa application.
In some countries you may be able to make a priority visa application , which will speed up the processing time if you are in a hurry.
This is called a 'Value Added Service'.
Not all Visa Application centres will offer a priority service; please check the services offered at your local Visa Application Centre before you apply.
All Student Visa applications for a programme which is more than 6 months long will have an Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS).
This is for access to NHS healthcare whilst you are in the UK.
You will pay the Immigration Health Surcharge during the application process.
For more details, please refer to the UKVI information about the immigration health surcharge .
If you're coming to the UK for more than 6 months and are resident in one of the countries which require a TB test , you may need to take a tuberculosis (TB) test.
Once you have had your TB test, if it is clear, you will be given a certificate which can be used to support your Student Visa application.
This certificate is valid for 6 months.
Unfortunately, you will be unable to make your Student Visa application without this certificate.
As part of the Student Visa application process, you are likely to be asked to provide your biometric data (fingerprints and photograph).
This is sometimes known as 'biometric enrolment' by UKVI.
Your fingerprints and photograph will be digitally stored by UKVI, and are linked to your digital immigration record.
Once your visa application is approved, you will be given a short paper visa in your passport.
This is called a vignette and will allow you to enter the UK.
It is usually valid for up to 90 days so you must make sure you enter the UK during this time.
Soon after your visa application is approved, you also be able to generate your eVisa using the "view and prove" service.
This is your actual visa and should be valid for the duration of your programme.
If you wish to apply for a visa for your dependant(s) to come to the UK with you, please see our information about applying with dependants .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/visa/before-you-arrive/apply-for-your-tier-4-visa-in-the-uk:
The information on this page guides you on the process of submitting your Student Visa application from within the UK .
If you are submitting your Student Visa application from outside of the UK, the application form and process is different – see our guidance on applying from outside of the UK instead.
If you plan to make your Student Visa application in the UK, you should check that this is possible.
If you are not eligible to apply for a visa from within the UK, you will need to leave the UK and apply from your home country .
To apply for a Student Visa from within the UK, you will need to complete the online form .
Once you have created an online account, you can access your application at any time and complete it at your convenience.
During the application process, you will need to scan and upload your supporting documents .
When you have completed the application form, there are some fees you will need to pay in order to finalise your visa application:
At the end of the visa application, you may be asked to book an appointment at a UKVCAS Service Point, to provide your biometric information.
You can choose one of the 6 free 'core' service points, or for an additional charge you can select an 'enhanced' or 'premium' service point.
If you have given your biometric data in an application made in the UK before, you may be given the option to use the ID verification app to verify your ID, instead of needing to book an appointment.
For more information on using the ID check app, see the gov.uk website.
If you are advised that you must attend an appointment, you will need to present your passport to confirm your identity.
We recommend that you take all of your supporting documents with you to the appointment, just in case there have been any issues when you uploaded them.
After you have confirmed your ID by one of the 2 methods above, your visa application will be processed.
You can keep your documents, including your passport, whilst your application is pending.
The basic fee for a standard in-country Student Visa application is £524 .
There is an additional fee of £500 if you use the priority service, or £1000 for the super priority service.
Please note that in addition to the visa application fee, you will also need to pay the Immigration Healthcare Surcharge .
Some people also need to pay a biometric enrolment fee (see above).
If you need to attend a biometric enrolment appointment, and you attend an enhanced or premium service point, there will be an additional charge for the appointment itself.
This will be detailed in your application form and should be between £60-£125, depending on the day and time of the appointment.
The application system can be confusing.
If you notice other additional fees in the application process, and you are not sure what they are for, or if you need assistance with submitting your application, you can contact the International Student Advice Service for advice.
As part of your online Student Visa application, you will need to pay a fee for the Immigration Healthcare Surcharge (IHS).
For a Student Visa, the charge is £776 per year for the duration of your visa.
Please refer to the UKVI information about the healthcare surcharge for more details.
Paying this charge will provide you with full access to the National Heath Service (NHS) whilst you are in the UK.
If you are applying with dependants (your spouse, civil partner, partner or children), you need to confirm this in the application form.
When you confirm that you have dependant(s), an additional section of the form will be displayed, where you can complete their details.
Find out more in our guidance about applying with dependants .
If you submit your new visa application before the expiry date of your old or current visa, you will be lawfully resident in the UK regardless of the length of time it takes UKVI to decide your application.
This action is also referred to as making an in-time visa application.
Your application must also be valid in addition to being submitted in time.
To check that your application is valid, please see the section on the validity requirements for a student explained in Appendix ST of the Immigration Rules .
When you make an in-time valid visa application, a provision known as section 3C kicks in to protect your immigration status in the UK after the expiry date of your visa has passed and whilst you wait for your new application to be decided.
This means that you can continue to live and work in the UK legally under the conditions of your old leave until your new visa application is decided.
For more information on the immigration conditions that are extended where section 3C applies, please see the 3C Leave Guidance.
It is important to note that you must not travel outside the UK whilst your application is pending as if you do, your application will be automatically treated as cancelled.
You must ensure that you have received a decision on your application and have access to prove your immigration status digitally before you travel outside the UK.
We recommend getting advice before making your application, to maximise your chances of success and reduce the likelihood of any problems.
If you would like free and confidential guidance and advice about submitting your Student Visa application, contact the International Student Advice Service .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/visa/eu/eu-settlement-scheme:
The EU settlement scheme is a UK government visa programme designed to allow EU, EEA and Swiss nationals the opportunity to protect their residence in the UK after the transition period has ended.
The EU settlement Scheme allows you to apply for either pre settled or settled status.
To be eligible for the EU Settlement Scheme , you must have been resident (living) in the UK by 31st December 2020.
There are no financial requirements for the EU Settlement Scheme.
Applications for the EU Settlement Scheme are free .
The online application process is simple and straightforward.
Applications can be made from within the UK or overseas.
You don't need to send your passport or EU ID card to UK Visas & Immigration (UKVI).
Instead, you can verify your identity using the EU Exit: ID Document Check app .
The app reads the chip in your passport or ID card.
The app is available on Android and iPhone devices (subject to compatibility) and can be downloaded from the Google Play Store or the Apple App Store .
If your phone is not compatible, you can borrow one from a friend or colleague.
If you cannot use the app, there are some public locations where you can verify your passport, but you may be charged for this service.
Once you have verified your identity, you can complete the online application form .
You don't have to use the same device that you used to verify your identity.
During the application, you will be asked to declare any criminal convictions .
Please note that serious convictions may affect your application.
If you have a criminal conviction and would like some advice, please contact the International Student Advice Service before you apply.
UKVI will check your UK residency using HMRC (tax) records.
If your tax records are incomplete (for example, if you have not been working) you may be asked to submit evidence of your residence in the UK.
This can include a Student Status Letter .
There is a list of acceptable types of evidence that you can use to support your application.
A successful application under the EU Settlement Scheme will result in:
You will need to apply for settled status (indefinite leave to remain) before your pre-settled status expires.
The Home Office say that  your status won’t change automatically, you must submit a new application.
However this is currently being reviewed in the courts.
We recommend if possible that you make an application to change your Pre-Settled Staus to Settled when the time comes, because it will help you to show evidence that you have changed to Settled Status.
Both Settled and Pre-Settled status allow you to work, study, and live in the UK without restriction after the end of the transition period.
If your application is refused, you can apply for an administrative review , or submit a new application.
In such cases, we recommend that you speak to one of our International Student Advisers .
The deadline to apply for the EU Settlement Scheme was 30 June 2021 but there may be certain circumstances in which the Home Office will still consider late applications from those who otherwise meet the requirements of the scheme.
To find out more about the specific circumstances in which a late application may be possible, please refer to the Home Office guidance on EU Settlement Scheme: information for late applicants .
If you are a national of the Republic of Ireland, you don't need to apply under the EU Settlement Scheme.
Your rights to live, work, and study in the UK are protected under separate arrangements .
However, if you have non-Irish family members in the UK, they may need to apply under the EU Settlement Scheme.
The EU Settlement Scheme is also open to family members of EU, EEA, Swiss, and Irish nationals.
They need to apply under this route for permission to stay, or join you, in the UK.
Family members who are outside of the UK may be eligible to join you in the UK at a later date.
The exact date by which they must apply depends on a number of factors.
For more information, please refer to the official guidance or speak to one of our International Student Advisers .
Long periods of absence from the UK can affect how your UK residency is calculated.
In order to obtain Settled Status, you must have been resident in the UK for at least 6 months in each of the past 5 years:
The government have confirmed that if you have been studying remotely from overseas due to Covid-19, this will not break your UK residency as long as you return to the UK within 12 months of leaving.
It's really important that you are not out of the UK for longer than your permitted period of absence, otherwise you will break your residency and may be subject to visa restrictions when you return.
If you are concerned about this and would like to discuss your individual circumstances, please get in touch with our International Student Advisers.
If you have had prolonged absences from the UK and are concerned about how this may affect your application, please contact the International Student Advice Service for a confidential consultation.
Settled Status lasts indefinitely and you can keep it even if you leave the UK.
However, if you leave the UK for more than 5 years , you will no longer be considered a resident and your Settled Status will lapse.
Once you have Settled Status, you may be able to apply for British citizenship (subject to eligibility).
To apply for citizenship with settled status you must usually have lived in the UK for 12 months after getting it.
Immigration policy changes frequently.
We have made every effort to ensure that this information is correct at the time of writing but it remains subject to change.
You should always refer to www.gov.uk to ensure that you have up-to-date information.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/travel/bus:
Our intercampus bus service helps students and staff to travel between each campus.
All regular vehicles are fitted with Wi Fi and USB chargers.
Discover how the bus service operates.
Track the location of the bus via our Bus Tracker.
Check out today’s scheduled bus times.
Buy tickets for the Medway bus service and book your space on the bus.
Follow bus service updates on Twitter/X.
Please complete our survey and you could win £50 of Amazon vouchers.
University bus service terms and conditions of travel.
The service covers four routes shown below.
You can view our travel conditions here .
This is a free service linking Avery Hill Campus (and the Student Village) with Greenwich Campus.
Our buses are fully accessible and operate until 10:45 pm during term time.
They include two zero emissions electric double deck buses.
You will need to swipe your Greenwich Gateway Card on the reader when boarding the bus (exceptions are allowed for new students).
The service stops throughout the day at Eltham Station (towards Avery Hill) and Falconwood Station (towards Greenwich).
Buses also stop  in Eltham High Street (from Greenwich).
Avery Hill - Greenwich timetable
This is a coach service operating between Greenwich and Medway Campus.
The two core vehicles use diesel hybrid technology producing far fewer emissions than conventional engines.
A 22-seat minibus operates between Avery Hill and Medway.
Greenwich - Medway timetable
Avery Hill - Medway timetable
For the Medway routes you must purchase a ticket online and book your journey .
Register @ bustickets.gre.ac.uk and download our user guide here .
Each single trip to or from Medway requires one ticket to be booked.
Tickets are valid for 365 days.
The service is heavily subsidised by the university to keep fares low.
Fares will increase in September by 3.4% in line with the May Consumer Price Index.
You can read more about our fare policy here .
Staff travelling on the Medway routes for business journeys (not commuting) can recharge tickets to their department.
This is available via the Recharge Tickets tab on the bus tickets site.
A dedicated free minibus service during term time only to our Bathway site in Woolwich from Avery Hill and Greenwich campuses.
This service does not have Wi Fi or USB charging.
Please have your university ID when boarding the bus.
Bathway timetable
Please fill out our bus survey to help us improve our service.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/support/disability:
Our support is currently being delivered in a blended way, with appointments offered online, face-to-face or by telephone.
You can book an appointment by calling or emailing us.
If you need to send us paperwork, please email scans or photos.
We can make appropriate reasonable adjustments for your disability, dyslexia or other specific learning difficulty if you register with the Student Wellbeing Service.
Disabled Students' Allowances (DSAs) provides additional support for disabled full-time, part-time, and postgraduate home students.
As a student, you will be expected to meet the academic standards for your course.
However, you can access support and ask the University to consider what reasonable adjustments can be made.
Students with a disability, learning difficulty, long-term medical or mental health condition which affects performance in timed exams may be entitled to special arrangements, such as extra time.
The University has measures in place to enable access to our campuses and to ensure the safety of disabled students and staff during an evacuation.
We are proud to sponsor and commit to Advance HE’s Disabled Students’ Commission: The Commitment, which calls on the higher education sector to make changes to create a more inclusive environment and enhance the disabled students’ experience.
I was diagnosed with borderline personality disorder at 18.
I joined STAART in my third year after spending most of my studies hiding my diagnosis.
I finally felt accepted and less isolated with my problems.
STAART has been integral to my experience as a disabled student.
It has given me the confidence and the opportunity to do things I would have never imagined possible two years ago.
- Rebecca Cordina, BSc Biology (Extended)
You will need to register with us to access support at the university.
You can self refer to the Disability & Dyslexia Team here
Aragon Court Southwood Site Avery Hill Road SE9 2UG
Campus directions
003 Dreadnought Building Park Row London SE10 9LS
Room 53, Blake Building Central Avenue Chatham Maritime ME4 4TB

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/support/counselling:
We are not a crisis or emergency service.
If you need immediate help, please seek emergency assistance.
Counselling provides a safe, confidential space to explore any problems you may be experiencing.
These include anxiety, stress, loneliness, homesickness, relationship difficulties, loss of confidence, family crisis, sexuality and sexual orientation, abuse, depression, academic problems, identity issues, addictions, self-harming and eating disorders.
Working with a counsellor may help you to see your problem with greater clarity, get some insight into its origins, and think about how to move forward.
We offer short-term counselling with a solution-focused approach.
In your initial appointment, your counsellor will seek a clear understanding of your problem and discuss with you how you might move forward.
Very often, students feel this is enough to get back on track.
If you need more help, follow-up sessions may be recommended.
We aim to keep these as brief and focused as possible.
You may be contacted a few weeks after your session to find out how you are getting on, and to provide some feedback on your experience.
Once you have had an assessment, one of the following will happen:
The counselling service is free and confidential.
Our counsellors abide by their professional bodies’ ethical framework for good practice in counselling and psychotherapy.
We abide by GDPR and the Data Protection Act.
We encourage students to self-refer :
For mental health, counselling or psychological wellbeing support, please self refer via the Digital Student Centre.
If you do not have access to the Digital Student Centre, you can contact us by calling 020 8331 7875 or emailing wellbeing@gre.ac.uk
By registering and attending Student Wellbeing appointments we presume you have read and agreed to the Student Wellbeing GDPR Confidentiality Agreement.
If there are any queries, please contact wellbeing@gre.ac.uk.
Students can now access drop in sessions with the Psychological Wellbeing Team.
You will be offered a 15-minute appointment to discuss any wellbeing concern with a professionally qualified Student Wellbeing Co-ordinator.
They can then offer advise or signpost you to other helpful resources or services, both internal or external to the university.
Our aim is to support you in your University of Greenwich experience.
We offer a confidential service, meeting with one person at a time.
The Drop-in session is held online via MS Teams.
The appointments will work on a first come, first served basis.
Drop-ins will be offered on the following days and times (subject to change):
Monday 2pm-4pm
Wednesday 12-2pm
Friday 11am-1-pm ­­­­
Please click to join to attend the Wellbeing Drop-in session.
If you need to speak to someone urgently.
Out of hours - call either your GP or NHS Direct:
Other sources of support
We are committed to working towards preventing sexual violence from occurring within our community and take a zero-tolerance approach.
Bereavement and grief are something that we are all likely to experience in our lives.
When we experience grief, bereavement or loss, it can make us feel many different things and we all experience this differently.
We are committed to inclusivity and we take a firm approach to dealing with actions that have a negative impact on the safety and wellbeing of our community.
Anyone can experience domestic abuse, regardless of gender, age, ethnicity, socio-economic status, sexuality, or background.
Find out what support is available.
Alongside our counselling service, there are a range of volunteer services, self-help guides, and support services you can turn to if you need additional help.
Tel: 020 8331 7875 for enquiries.
| Opening hours: By appointment only.
Student Centre Aragon Court Avery Hill Road SE9 2UG
Room 10, Blake Building Central Avenue Chatham Maritime ME4 4TB

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/support/disability/staart:
STAART complements the academic support provided by our Wellbeing team.
Disabled and dyslexic students at the University of Greenwich and in the local area (Year 11 onwards) can join up at any time.
Here’s an introduction to STAART from our ambassador, Becca.
These principles have been created by self-selected University of Greenwich (UK) disabled students, disabled graduates, and disabled staff:
Thank you to all the disabled students, graduates and staff members who contributed to the SPoD consultation.
If you have any comments/suggestions/queries, please email:
Dr Melanie Thorley STAART Manager
M.Thorley@gre.ac.uk
Launched on 2 December 2022
STAART is a disability focused initiative at the University of Greenwich.
It was developed in 2007 in partnership with Aimhigher.
We provide impartial information and guidance to post-16 future and current disabled students.
We continue to develop to meet the requirements of disabled students.
The STAART (Support through *AccessAbility: Retention and Transition) initiative was developed in 2007 at the University of Greenwich in partnership with AimHigher to provide guidance and support to future and current students living with a disability, long term health condition, neurodivergence (autistic and dyslexic spectra), and/ or a mental health condition.
The initiative continues to support disabled and diverse students to thrive at university.
STAART is a disabled people (led) organisation (DPLO) within the University of Greenwich.
The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) states that that DPLOs must be comprised of at least 51% disabled people, STAART is comprised of 100% disabled people.
This is a deliberate decision.
As disabled staff and students, we are experts by experience which acknowledges that we have personal experience of navigating university as a disabled person.
This is very different to second-hand knowledge.
We are able to restrict our staffing to solely disabled staff and students by utilising positive action as stated in the Equality Act 2010 .
In terms of the STAART logo, it is made up of 7 different navy-blue squares with different disabilities represented which are in white.
STAART is an all-inclusive group and so the logo reflects this with the different types of disabilities; long-term health conditions; autistic and dyslexic spectra; and mental health conditions represented.
The seven squares are cogs, the word dyslexia jumbled up, the infinity symbol, the hearing loop symbol, an eye with a line through it, two hands signing and an individual in a wheelchair.
Bethany Howell
LLB and STAART Graduate
LLM International and Commercial Law Student
October 2023
We have introduced this initiative at the University of Greenwich as many prospective university students are concerned about their safety and/or security on campus.
It is not just the students who have concerns, we also know that school & college staff; and parents, guardians, partners and children of prospective students also have concerns about the wellbeing of their loved ones whilst at university.
We have many different support mechanisms throughout the university and PoMoC has gathered the different aspects and put them in one place.
PoMoC is relevant for students and staff.
Buddy Benches
Our buddy benches are located at: Avery Hill: outside the Dome Greenwich: outside of Dreadnought Medway: outside of Pembroke North
https://www.gre.ac.uk/articles/student-and-academic-services-sas/buddy-bench2
Campus Ambassadors
s tudent-engagement@gre.ac.uk
https://studentcentre.gre.ac.uk/
Emergency Medical Information (EMIs):
https://studentcentre.gre.ac.uk/knowledgebase/article/KA-09669/en-us
Employee Assistance Programme
Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) | People Directorate | University of Greenwich
Personal Emergency Evacuation Plans (PEEPS)
https://www.gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/a-new-integrated-disability-support-system-to-record-and-manage-students-gips-and-peeps
Resident Assistants (RAs) and security staff:
https://www.gre.ac.uk/accommodation
Report and Support
https://www.gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/report-support-will-officially-launch-25-may
SafeZone App:
https://www.gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/safezone
Spectrum Life
https://www.gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/introducing-spectrum-life-our-new-student-assistance-programme
STAART
https://www.gre.ac.uk/support/disability/staart
Student Wellbeing Services
https://www.gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/student-wellbeing-service-student-inductions-september-2023
Vygo
https://www.gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/peer-support-for-you-welcome-to-the-greenwich-student-peer-mentoring-scheme
The University of Greenwich have employed students as student ambassadors since 2004.
In 2007, the university realised that we did not have any disabled student ambassadors.
As we are a university which strives to be both inclusive and reflective of our local populations, it was decided that we would have a specialist cohort of self-selected disabled ambassadors.
Originally know as *AccessAbility Ambassadors, they are now STAART Ambassadors (& Graduates).
In 2007, we (myself and the widening participation team)  invited self-selected and self-identified current University of Greenwich  disabled students  to apply to become specialist ambassadors.
We interviewed and appointed three disabled students.
Initially, the *AccessAbility Ambassadors took part in   occasional school/college visits, provided student life presentations at our campus events, which progressed to having a desk at open days and similar events.
In the past 16 years, we have trained nearly 400 *AccessAbility/STAART ambassadors.
They have been undergraduates & postgraduates; international & home students; full time & part-time students; and a variety of shapes, colours, genders, ages, personalities, etc.
They are an astounding  and exceptional group of individuals.
STAART Ambassadors are mostly undergraduates and STAART Graduates are students who worked as STAART Ambassadors before undertaking their postgraduate studies with us at the University of Greenwich.
STAART has continued to change and evolve over the years.
We started on a very small scale, and STAART is now bigger and better than it has ever been, although our initial reason for employing specialist disabled ambassadors is fundamentally the same.
STAART Ambassadors undertake both standard ambassador work and specialist STAART work.
We have STAART Ambassadors who work with the outreach and recruitment teams, student engagement team, provide peer mentoring, are involved in clearing, and many other opportunities.
Our STAART Ambassadors and Graduates have a different uniform (t-shirts are currently white with blue writing) from the standard ambassadors (their t-shirts are blue with white writing).
This is to differentiate the two groups as STAART Ambassadors are involved in so many aspects of the university but they are proud to be positive role models for future disabled students.
You can find a variety of blogs and articles about our STAART Ambassadors & Graduates dotted throughout the STAART webpages and wider University of Greenwich webpages.
*trigger warning
July is Disability Pride Month 1 , a time to remember and honour the history, celebrate the achievements, and recognise the struggles of people within the disabled community.
Disability Pride Month enables everyone to celebrate what makes them unique, promoting visibility and providing a platform for mainstream awareness of disabilities; including long-term health conditions and mental health difficulties.
The month is a short period in time to remind individuals who are disabled or allies that many people have overcome barriers to get to where they are today.
There have been amazing individuals throughout history who have made major differences in the lives of those living with disabilities.
Disability Pride was started as a single day of celebration in 1990 in Boston, USA.
The USA also passed the Americans with Disabilities Act 1990 which prohibits the discrimination of individuals with disabilities in all areas of public life, including jobs, schools, transportation, and all public and private places that are open to the general public.
The UK followed suit much later commemorating and celebrating Disability Pride Month for the first time in 2017 in Brighton.
The Disability Pride flag was adopted in 2015 and redesigned in 2021 (below) 2 has a number of elements, the background, the road shapes and colours.
The charcoal background – to represent those in the community who have been subjected to ableist violence, as well as representing protest in the community.
The “band/road” shape – represents how disabled people face barriers and have to navigate their life according to them.
The different colours in the shape represent the creativity in navigating life, and how the community is breaking free from authority.
The colours – the colours represent the various experiences and needs (mental illness, developmental disability, invisible disabilities, physical disabilities, and sensory disabilities) in the disabled community.
The University of Greenwich continues to champion the work of the late, Professor Mike Oliver who was a pioneer in disability studies.
Professor Oliver is credited with coining the social model of disability.
The University of Greenwich powers on accelerating the work of Professor Oliver through the initiative of STAART, Support Through *AccessAbility - Retention and Transition which was created to support disabled and dyslexic students through their higher education journeys.
The STAART Principles of Disability (SPoD) could not have been created without the foundations laid down by Mike Oliver.
Disability Pride Month 2023 saw the joining of STAART, the University of Greenwich Disabled Staff Community (DSC) and the National Association of Disabled Staff Networks (NADSN) together to create a unique exhibition: Histories of Disability: The Good, The Great, The Bad, The Ugly showcasing the experiences of disabled students, staff, and allies.
The exhibition includes poignant moments in time; and figures of great importance to the disabled community and personal experiences.
The exhibits have been allocated to each of the four sections in the exhibition title, with relevant emojis.
There are also trigger warnings on the exhibits which maybe confronting.
However, we also have joyful and celebratory exhibits.
The official opening of the exhibition took  place on 14 th July 2023 on the Greenwich Campus where the University of Greenwich Vice Chancellor, Professor Jane Harrington provided the official welcome.
The exhibition itself has been created to be portable.
The exhibition will be showcased on our Medway campus (ME4 4TB) through Disability History Month from 16 th November to 16 th December 2023.
The exhibition can then go on tour to other universities.
Please contact staart@gre.ac.uk if you are interested in hosting our collective exhibition.
** We recommend the exhibits are for post-16s only due to some of the confronting content.
1 What is Disability Pride Month?
| Inclusive Employers
2 Disability Pride Flag | Good Housekeeping
The SEND PP is an outreach activity coordinated by the Kent & Medway Progression Federation (KMPF) which provides education and careers opportunities for SEND/disabled students in Kent and Medway schools, colleges and universities.
STAART has been a very active member of this partnership since it began in 2020.
In 2023, the SEND PP published The Guide; Support available for Disabled Students at University which provides information about applying to university; support available at university; the benefits of sharing your disability/disabilities on application forms; the Disabled Students’ Allowances (DSAs); and   a collection of student journeys.
The Guide has been produced in both paper and digital form.
A digital copy of the Guide can be found here: The Guide: Support available for Disabled Students at University (kmpf.org)
In addition to The Guide, SEND PP have created the following:
To order a paper copy of the Guide and further information here Contact - Kent & Medway Progression Federation (kmpf.org)
What constitutes a disability in higher education?
This is why we use the term 'sharing' – it’s a much more positive term than ‘disclosure’ or ‘declaration’, which suggests there is something to be ashamed/embarrassed about.
We also emphasise the ‘living experience’ instead of the usual ‘lived experience’.
This is because many of us are still facing physical and negative attitudes in our day-to-day lives.
Our equal opportunities policy
1 Widening participation strategy in higher education in England (parliament.uk)
2 STAART | Support | University of Greenwich
The term D/deaf is used throughout Higher Education and research to describe students who are Deaf (sign language users) and deaf (who are hard of hearing but who have English as their first language and may lipread and/or use hearing aids).
D/deaf is often used as a short cut to describe both groups who are similar but not exactly the same when it comes to communication.
D/deaf is an example of how universities might use different words and terminology from those used in schools and colleges.
See tips for adapting to university.
STAART is a disabled people (led) organisation (DPO) within the University of Greenwich.
The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD)  states that that DPOs must be comprised of at least 51% disabled people, STAART is comprised of 100% disabled people 1 .
We are able to restrict our staffing to solely disabled staff and students by  utilising positive action as stated in the Equality Act 2010 2 .
1 Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) | United Nations Enable
2 Employers: what is positive action in the workplace?
| Equality and Human Rights Commission (equalityhumanrights.com)
STAART provides an online workshop once a month which are advertised via the STAART Facebook and LinkedIn.
The following workshops are available for *disabled post-16s considering university.
The workshops can be delivered on campus, schools/colleges or virtually.
All of the workshops are interactive utilising Mentimeter software and are 90 minutes long.
There is also time for Q&A at each session.
A bespoke report is created  each time a workshop is delivered.
Preparing for University
Useful information to prepare for university and realistic expectations of university life
Introduction to (free) Learning Technology
Introduction to free learning technology which includes mindmapping, speech-to-text, text-to-speech, colour overlays and bespoke databases of vocabulary.
STEMM@uni
Academic, social and wellbeing tips for STEMM subjects in university
Know your strengths and learning style(s)
Fun quiz to determine your strengths and possibly career paths & know your learning style(s) and various strategies to match your learning style(s)
Thrive not Strive at University
Academic, social and wellbeing tips to get the most out of your university experience.
Postgrad@uni
Academic, social and wellbeing tips for postgraduate students
STAART ambassador Student Life
Student life presentation from two  STAART Ambassadors and/or Graduates.
What is it like being a disabled university student and the work opportunities available.
Introduction to Note Taking and Note Making
An introduction to note taking and note making systems, methods and metaphors.
Also introducing the NOTE template
Lifestyle for Learning
Tips for maintaining your physical and mental health to ensure you are ready for university learning.
We run a variety of STAART events throughout the year.
Our events are for anyone over 16 with an interest in the support for disabled university students.
This could be prospective students, current students and school, college & university staff.
Whilst some of the events are in-person, the majority of them are online and/or hybrid.
We have a variety of events including attending workshops, information days, seminars, awareness raising events, STAART ART Prize Competitions, and conferences.
We choose to provide mostly online events as many of our attendees have a disability or two, and attending sessions from home is much easier, and potentially more comfortable, both psychologically and physically.
Our online and hybrid events are delivered using interactive Mentimeter software which enables attendees to participate in activities and to receive a bespoke report at the end of the session.
Our future events are listed below:
STAART Briefings are a summary of one particular topic.
The briefings are created by our STAART Ambassadors and Graduates.
We will cover a variety of topics which will be useful for any post-16 disabled students, family and friends of disabled students; and school, college & university staff.
The information is in bullet points with a list of useful resources if people would like more information.
There are several ways to access STAART support and our community.
Follow our Facebook or Twitter accounts for news and information or to talk to us and fellow students.
About our social channels
Attend a transition day before term starts to get a tour of the campus and library and meet our STAART Ambassadors.
Latest articles
Come and meet our ambassadors at the STAART desk at Open Days and applicant events.
Sign up for the next event
Our bulletins contain useful information, celebrations, STAART events, University of Greenwich events, STAART ART Competitions, new technology, etc.
You can request receiving the Bulletins by emailing M.Thorley@gre.ac.uk , putting ‘request bulletin’ in the subject line.
Newsletters
The University of Greenwich has partnered with Vygo, a student mentoring platform, since 2022.
Self-selected UoG students can become mentors or mentees, depending on their length of time at the university.
We are delighted and excited to have a bespoke STAART Mates cohort from September 2024.
All of the mentors are STAART Ambassadors and the mentees are self-selected, self-identifying (we do not ask for medical and/or psychological evidence) disabled students who have recently joined the university.
Disability, in a higher education context includes physical disabilities; neurodivergence (dyslexic and autistic spectra); mental health conditions and long-term health conditions.
There are many benefits to both mentees and mentors with peer mentoring and we will create a small case study in February 2025 to ensure the mentoring is impactful.
The following three statements are from the staff involved in setting up the STAART Mates:
Vygo's mission is to give every human a world-class education.
The University of Greenwich have developed a range of  programs to help all of their students stay connected and find the support they need.
By introducing the STAART Mates Program, disabled students can easily access a safe space to ask any questions they have to a trained STAART Mentor and build relationships to enhance their university experience.
For some, seeking support and advice can be a challenge but by connecting with other students who they can relate to, we hope everyone feels comfortable in seeking answers to their questions and can maximise the educational opportunities available to them.
- Chris Baker-Brown, Senior Partner Success Manager, Vygo.
This new programme is an exciting and impactful addition, connecting STAART students at Greenwich with supportive mentors through Mentor Mates and Vygo.
It promotes independence, boosts confidence, and makes university life more accessible and enriching for disabled students or long-term health challenges.
- Celso Lopez, Senior Student Engagement Officer (Projects), University of Greenwich.
I am extremely pleased and enthusiastic we will have a customised Vygo platform for our disabled students.
A number of our STAART Ambassadors (who all have at least one disability themselves) have been Vygo mentors since in 2022.
The STAART Mates cohort will complement our existing support mechanisms and hopefully enhance the experience of disabled students at the University of Greenwich.
- Dr Melanie Thorley, STAART Manager, University of Greenwich.
New University of Greenwich disabled students can join here.
Find out more about here.
The following national organisations focus on disability and/or education.
Most have a variety of useful information.
Action for M.E.
is the UK's leading charity dedicated to improving the lives of people with M.E.
It provides information and support to people affected by M.E.
Empowering people with Arthritis
The leading UK registered charity providing information and advice about Spina Bifida and Hydrocephalus.
The British Polio Fellowship seeks to empower and support all people in the UK living with the effects of polio and Post-Polio Syndrome.
Deafblind UK is a national charity offering specialist services and human support to deafblind people and those who have progressive sight and hearing loss acquired throughout their lives.
Supports those affected by Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease, also known as Hereditary Motor and Sensory Neuropathy or Peroneal Muscular Atrophy.
Understand it, treat it, beat it!
To help anyone who is troubled by depression and to provide support for their carers.
Information and support for people with Down's syndrome, their families and carers, and the professionals who work with them.
A national charity and the UK's leading provider of services and support for people with dyslexia and literacy difficulties.
Taking action to meet the identified needs and aspirations of all people with epilepsy and those with an interest in the condition.
Providing information, advice and support to UK amputees and the limb-loss community.
The voice of learning disability.
Everything we do is about valuing and supporting people with a learning disability and their families and carers.
The only national organisation in England, Wales and Northern Ireland dedicated to the support of people with MND and those who care for them.
Leads the fight against muscle disease.
The UK's largest charity for people affected by multiple sclerosis (MS) – c.
100,000 people in the UK.
To champion the rights and interests of all people with autism.
It aims to provide individuals with autism and their families with help, support and services that they can access, trust and rely upon.
A UK charity offering information, support and advice to over two million people in the UK with sight loss.
The largest charity working to change the world for the UK's 9 million deaf and hard of hearing people.
Samaritans provides confidential non-judgemental emotional support, 24 hours a day for people who are experiencing feelings of distress or despair, including those which could lead to suicide.
Whatever you're going through, whether it's big or small, don't bottle it up.
About cerebral palsy – for disabled people achieving equality.
I've made a lot of friends through STAART.
I credit the group and Melanie for how well I've managed to juggle study, life, care responsibilities and work.
I couldn't have got through it without them.
- Zoe Robinson, BSc Human Nutrition
STAART is one of the main reasons I came to the university, and one of the biggest driving factors that kept me going.
- Bradley Cory, BSc Biology
Following a stroke at the age of 16, Bradley's interest in biology has continued to grow.
He is now pursuing a PhD in the biology of wound healing.
Find us on Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp (for current students only) and discover other ways our members can contribute to the STAART community.
Find the latest updates and view our articles and art competitions.
These tips will help you adjust to university if you have a disability or require additional support.
The STAART Principles of Disability (SPoD) have the potential to create a more disability-friendly environment for our students, staff and visitors.
Working towards these principles has the possibility of having a positive impact.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/support/medical:
Our health services provide the information and advice you need and access to medical treatment in the event of sickness or emergency.
If you fall ill while on campus or living in university halls of residence, there is always staff on duty to help you contact your local GP or emergency services.
Students who live on / near our Avery Hill Campus can register with a local GP surgery that we work closely with:
Elmstead Medical Clinic
81 William Barefoot Drive
Coldharbour Estate
London
SE9 3JD
Tel: 020 8857 1900 or 020 8860 0104
Students living at our Greenwich and Medway Campuses can register with local GP surgeries that we work closely with.
Address: 48 Burney Street Greenwich London SE10 8EX
Tel: 020 8858 0631
Address: Clarence Road Deptford London SE3 3BX
Tel: 020 8469 3300
Address: 71a Greenwich South Street Greenwich London SE10 8NT
Tel: 020 8293 3330
All international students at the University of Greenwich for six months or longer are entitled to free National Health Service (NHS) treatment.
European Economic Area (EEA) Nationals studying for less than six months are also eligible if they complete form E128 in their home country.
Any other international students studying for less than six months will have to pay for any non-emergency treatment.
We highly recommend you take out medical insurance.
If you are a resident of a country that has a reciprocal health care agreement, you will be eligible for some NHS treatment.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/support/chaplaincy:
Find out about the chaplains and how they can be contacted.
Please feel free to get in touch.
The Chaplaincy is both a place and a team of people, known as Chaplains.
Chaplains are appointed by faith communities to work at the university to care for students and staff of all religions or none.
Each campus has at least one chaplain, based in the Chaplaincy Office.
There is a prayer room on each university campus.
These are provided for all students and staff, of all faiths and none.
We run religious and social activities, events and workshops as well as services of prayer, Holy Communion, Bible studies and discussions on ethical issues.
The place to drop by for a free drink and snack and chat.
Avery Hill: Tuesdays 7:00-9:00pm in Library Foyer
Greenwich: Thursdays 10:3-11:30am in Queen Mary Entrance Foyer.
7:30pm-9:00pm
If you would like to improve your conversational English language skills, better your cross-cultural understanding and make friends, join us on Zoom.
The Chaplaincy Service is usually provided between Monday to Friday, 9am-5pm, though it is not an emergency service.
Follow the Medway Students Blog for updates on events and activities from Lynne Martin, our Chaplain at Medway Campus.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/support/counselling/transitioning:
We aim for an inclusive environment that is free from discrimination, harassment, or victimisation, and where everyone is treated with dignity and respect, however they identify in terms of gender.
No applicant or student will be treated less favourably than any other on the grounds of gender identity.
We will respond positively to the needs of transgender students and aim to provide an environment where all transgender students feel welcome, safe, valued, and supported to achieve their potential.
The Transitioning Policy for Students offers a framework for how the university will support transgender people when they transition whilst registered as a student.
It provides information on support as well as details such as how you can tell us that you are transitioning.
(You don't have to do this, but it allows us to offer you specific forms of support.)
It also explains what to do if you need to submit medical letters to take time away from your studies or to submit a claim for extenuating circumstances if your performance in an assessment or exam has been affected.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/support/counselling/sex-relationships-alcohol-drugs:
University can be a time of change, but it is important to understand risks and to know where to go to seek help.
Healthy relationships can help us cope with the stresses and strains of everyday life.
Being at university may put a strain on a relationship, especially if you are living apart from your partner or if the nature of your relationship changes.
If you do experience relationship issues or troubles while at the University of Greenwich, you can talk in confidence with a professional counsellor or more informally with one of our Listening Ears team.
Your local Medical Centre will provide a full range of sexual health services, including full contraceptive services and Sexually Transmitted Infection (STI) advice and testing.
We have developed an online Moodle training course on healthy sex and relationships which will provide you with training on consent, rape culture and how to tackle it, intimate partner violence and the law on sexual offending.
You can access the course here and complete it at your own pace.
We are continuously developing this training to ensure it is relevant to you and value your feedback on content and presentation to enhance it further.
If your birthday is on an odd date, we ask you to complete this survey before doing the training.
If your birthday is on an even date, we ask you to complete this survey after doing the training.
Alcohol is often seen as a big part of student social life, and it can be all too easy to over-indulge.
But drinking too much can affect your judgement and reflexes.
You may also be tempted to take drugs like ecstasy and cannabis, especially if they are widely available and seen as socially acceptable.
However, this will affect your ability to concentrate and may cause depression and anxiety.
We equip all our students with realistic, practical information and advice on alcohol consumption and the risks involved in drug taking.
We also offer guidance to students who are worried about drinking too much or are feeling social pressure to try drugs.
If you experience problems with alcohol or drug consumption, your local Medical Centre and our professional counsellors will give you the help and support you need.
Addiction can be defined as not having control over doing, taking or using something to the point where it could be harmful to you*.
This includes things like alcohol, gambling smoking and drugs, but people can also become addicted to other things like shopping for example, there are lots of reasons why addictions start.
Trying to manage an addiction can be difficult and cause problems for example in your homelife, at work and can affect your wellbeing.
* https://www.nhs.uk/live-well/healthy-body/addiction-what-is-it/
If you would like to disclose how you have been affected by any form of harassment, including bullying, discrimination, hate incident/crime, and sexual misconduct, you can do so by using our new Report and Support platform .
This enables you to speak to a specially trained advisor who can advise you on reporting options and support available, so that you can make an informed decision on next steps.
You can also disclose issues anonymously.
Visit the Report and Support website for more information.
Drugs
Your GP can give you information on what is available to you.
If you prefer you can also talk directly to your local service yourself .
The NHS also has information on the types of support they offer.
Frank can also provide information and advice with a phone line available 24 hours a day 7 days a week.
Alcohol
The NHS has information on support for those who need help due to alcohol dependency,  they also have a search facility for local services and list some useful contacts.
Smoking
There is lots of information available from the NHS if you want to stop smoking or are thinking about doing so.
This includes a local stop smoking service look up facility.
Gambling
If you think you have a problem with gambling and would like to stop the NHS has information on what is available as well as support groups and helplines.
Mind have a guide to addiction and dependency support which lists a number of support resources for different types of addiction and dependency.
You can speak to someone anonymously about any type of addiction by calling the Samaritans free on 116 123
You can also contact our professional counselling team at the University.
Spectrum.Life may also be helpful to you; it provides you with access to counselling support to help you cope and deal more effectively with any personal problems.
Livewell Greenwich Hub Live Well Greenwich | Healthy living activities around Greenwich, London They deliver smoking cessation support and signposting to local services for substance misuse.
We aim to equip students with realistic, practical information and advice on alcohol consumption and the risks involved in drug taking.
We offer guidance to students who are worried about drinking too much or are feeling social pressure to try drugs.
We also have a duty to provide a safe and healthy environment for study and work and our policy statement on drugs and alcohol provides more information on this.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/accounting-and-finance:
The Bloomberg Room at the University of Greenwich is a hub of financial exploration and real-world application.
Here, we are proud to be among the select universities that offer direct access to Bloomberg data, analytics, and information.
Most of our undergraduate degrees in accounting and finance have a sandwich year option, offering you the opportunity to gain industry experience.
If you don’t meet the entry requirements for a three-year course, you can apply for an extended degree which includes a foundation year.
This Accounting & Business Analytics degree, accredited by several professional bodies, offers a future-focused curriculum which will prepare you to tackle modern financial challenges with confidence and innovation.
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Accounting and finance
Mode: Full time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Accounting and finance
Gain the skills and knowledge on this accredited accounting and finance degree to kick-start your career Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Accounting and finance
Join our Accounting & Finance degree in Year 2 or Year 3 as a direct, overseas, entrant.
Do you want to develop as an independent scholar and conduct ground-breaking research in business?
If so, explore our business research degrees (MPhil/PhD).
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Accounting and finance
Boost your career with an ACCA accredited Master’s in Accounting & Finance.
Our degree in accounting and financial information systems focuses on systems and models, including quantitative analysis & accounting controls.
Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Accounting and finance
Mode: Full time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Accounting and finance; Business and management
Join this direct entry Business with Finance degree in the final year as a direct, overseas, entrant Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Accounting and finance; Business and management
Join our Business with Finance degree in Year 3 as a direct entrant Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Accounting and finance; Business and management
Join our Finance & Investment Banking degree in Year 2 or Year 3 as a direct, overseas, entrant.
This master’s covers the key areas of finance and investment analysis, helps you prepare for professional qualifications and gives you the opportunity to undertake a placement.
Mode: Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Accounting and finance
Study financial markets and products at our campus in London with this MSc Finance & Investment.
Gain the skills you need for roles in the financial sector.
Study finance and technology at our campus in London with this MSc Fintech & Finance.
Gain the skills you need for roles in this rapidly growing sector.
Study for your Master’s in International Banking and Finance near Canary Wharf in Greenwich, London.
Gain skills for senior careers in finance.
Prepare for the next step in a successful management career with our MBA Finance course, taught in a great London location.
Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Accounting and finance; Business and management
Mode: Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Accounting and finance; Business and management
Our Accounting and Finance students enjoy studying in a beautiful campus, just a short train ride from London’s financial powerhouses, Canary Wharf and the City.
We have strong links with world-leading businesses that provide placement, mentoring and networking opportunities.
We’ll prepare you to launch your career.
From mentoring to the chance of a placement on a number of our taught courses, from networking and industry insight to support for your own business ideas, we can help you stand out in today's job market.
A mix of tips, ideas, opinions and real talk about business and business-related things, including studying it, brought to you by Greenwich Business School.
The Generator is the place for all things enterprise at Greenwich.
Their team can help students start, scale and grow their businesses from the ground up.
Hear from our staff and students how our Accounting and Finance courses give you the skills and confidence to kickstart your career.
Our student societies offer a space for personal and academic growth, as well as new opportunities to make lasting friendships.
You can take part in activities through your department and via the wider Students’ Union.
Here is a taste of the societies you can join and what our students achieve at Greenwich.
Run by students, for students, Greenwich Students' Union (GSU) is a one-stop-shop for entertainment including societies, sports clubs and activities!
In need of a break from classes, coursework or projects?
The local Greenwich area has plenty to offer you.
From culture to food and drink, and from green spaces to heritage attractions, we think there’s really something for everyone locally.
We want you to feel like this is your community and you belong.
We will support and celebrate you and your wellbeing through our wide-ranging services to let you explore your individual identity in a safe and inclusive home.
Our research covers a broad range of accounting and finance issues, from knowledge transfer partnerships with London Credit Union to projects with central banks and the Corporation of London.
We actively seek opportunities to engage in research activity with international partners and collaborators.
Greenwich Business School has four research centres.
Learn more about our research.
Our MPhil/PhD enables you to research a subject in depth and contribute to knowledge in the field of business or economics.
If you have a suitable research proposal, we can help you apply to the university and find the appropriate supervisor.
pgr_business_recruit@gre.ac.uk
Our expert staff, industry-standard facilities and research expertise can help your business grow.
Greenwich Research & Enterprise
020 8331 7867
MBA Finance Programme Leader and Senior Lecturer in Accounting & Finance
Senior Lecturer in Financial Management
Associate Professor in Finance
Senior Lecturer in Social and Critical Accounting and Organisational Studies
Lecturer in Financial Accounting
Senior Lecturer
Senior Lecturer in Accounting and Finance
Associate Professor
Senior Lecturer in Finance
Principal Lecturer in Financial Information Analysis and Management
Associate Professor in Accounting and Finance
Director of International Affairs, Principal Lecturer in Finance
Lecturer in Finance
Associate Professor of Accounting
Teaching Fellow
Senior Lecturer in Management Accounting
Lecturer in Management Accounting
Senior Lecturer in Law
Associate Professor of Accounting, Head of School of Management and Marketing
Programme Leader, BA Marketing Suite, BA Public Relation & Communications and Lecturer in Finance and Marketing
Lecturer in Accounting & Finance
Lecturer in Accounting and Finance
Head of School Accounting, Finance & Economics ; Director of Centre for Governance, Risk and Accountability; Co-Director of Institute of Political Economy, Governance, Finance and Accountability
Senior lecturer
Principal Lecturer in Financial Accounting, Programme Director MSc suite of programmes in Accounting and Finance
Academic Portfolio Lead and Programme Director
Programme Leader for MSc Fintech and Finance
Senior Lecturer in Finance and Banking
Find out how our world-class faculties excel in a diverse range of fields and disciplines.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/architecture:
At Greenwich we offer courses in architecture and landscape architecture - including the only undergraduate landscape architecture course of its kind in London.
Begin the final stage of your architectural training and join the UK’s register of architects with exemption from ARB/RIBA Part 3 examinations.
Mode: Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Architecture
As part of our MPhil/PhD Architecture and Landscape you will learn how to conduct rigorous and significant research (both theoretical and applied) around Architecture, Cities and Landscape.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Architecture; Design; Landscape architecture
For graduates of architecture with ARB/RIBA Part 1 looking for Part 2 exemption, this MArch in Architecture offers the perfect choice.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Architecture
Our MA Landscape Architecture is part of an accredited route to becoming a fully qualified landscape architect.
Study in state-of-the-art facilities.
Teaching is based at our Stockwell Street Building in Heneghan Peng-designed galleries.
Studio-based tutorial groups provide all the skills and knowledge you'll need via a range of approaches to architectural design.
Two University of Greenwich students have earned RIBA awards, including a Silver Serjeant Award for Excellence in Drawing.
Second-year MArch Architecture student, Saleh shares some insights into his journey as a postgraduate architecture student at Greenwich and his future aspirations.
Discover how Greenwich alumni are transforming architecture through Narrative Practice - a mentoring and research platform creating opportunities for underrepresented voices in the profession.
Architecture lecturer Eric Wong from the School of Design was approached personally by director Mamoru Hosada for his new film, Belle.
Our active student-led societies offer a space for personal and academic growth, as well as new opportunities to make lasting friendships.
Students can take part in activities throughout the year, both through the department and via the wider Students’ Union.
Our academics are involved in a variety of research projects.
They include the Design Agency symposium, Landscape Citizenship symposium, Urban Tree research, and Living Walls and Green Roofs research.
The Centre for Spatial and Digital Ecologies is a place for experimentation between artistic and scientific practices across architecture and media, design and landscape, cities and environment.
If you have a research proposal related to architecture, we can help you apply to the university and find the appropriate supervisor.
fach_pgresearch@gre.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer in Architectural Histories and Theories
Professor of Architecture
Head of Design Practice
Senior Lecturer in Architecture
Academic Portfolio Lead for Landscape Architecture & Urbanism, Technical Coordinator and Landscape Architecture Undergraduate Programme Leader
Academic Portfolio Lead - Architecture
Professor of Landscape Architecture and Nature Based Solutions
Senior Lecturer in Architecture Histories and Theories
Programme Lead for Technology: Masters & BA Architecture
Centre for Spatial and Digital Ecologies Lead and Landscape Design Coordinator

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/biology-and-biomedical-science:
Study a course that will prepare you to enter a profession that looks like its here to stay with more diseases affecting humans today still waiting to be identified.
At undergraduate level, we offer bachelor degrees and extended courses with a foundation year that can be accessed with a lower tariff.
We also offer master's degrees in biomedical science and biotechnology.
Explore the options.
Mode: Sandwich Location: Medway Campus Subject: Biology and biomedical science; Science
Mode: Full time,  Sandwich Location: Medway Campus Subject: Biology and biomedical science; Science
A flexible Biomedical Science programme for healthcare workers to stay up to date in their field.
Study for CPD or work towards a postgraduate award.
Mode: Distance Subject: Biology and biomedical science; Science
Explore biological systems to develop new technologies and tools with this Master’s in Biotechnology.
Study gene therapy and drug design.
Mode: Full time Location: Medway Campus Subject: Biology and biomedical science; Science
This online haematology programme boosts your understanding of blood management and haematology patient management.
Available for CPD.
Gain advanced qualifications for senior positions.
An online healthcare management programme to help you improve your managerial effectiveness.
Study for CPD or gain awards for senior positions.
Our online Healthcare Quality Management programme can be studied for CPD or for postgraduate awards to support career moves to senior management roles.
Are you an industry-based student?
Our MSc by Research in Science is ideal for you to gain skills and work on a significant scientific project.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Medway Campus Subject: Biology and biomedical science; Chemistry; Pharmaceutical science; Science
Learn from research-active academics and focus on real-life clinical case studies.
Our courses contain specialist modules in a variety of areas, from ecology and biotechnology to cancer biology and neuropharmacology.
Find out more about studying biology and biomedical sciences.
The Guardian League Tables 2025 has ranked our biology and biomedical courses at the University of Greenwich as third in the UK.
Both accredited courses - find out the difference when you study at the University of Greenwich
Studying Biomedical Science has offered Tim Gomez the opportunity to switch careers from fraud investigator to curious scientist.
Hear Sophie's story of her quest to become a GP by studying Biology at the Faculty of Engineering and Science on our Medway Campus.
Our student societies offer a space for personal growth and the chance to make lasting friendships.
You can take part in activities through your department and via GK Unions (an alliance between the Universities of Greenwich and Kent).
Here's a taste of how you can get involved and how we build connections with the wider community.
The call for scientists has escalated during the Covid pandemic.
More than ever their skills are in demand.
Our students respond.
Research students can specialise in a variety of areas, including drug delivery systems and neuroscience, with the Department of Life and Sports Science, Medway School of Pharmacy, and the Department of Pharmaceutical, Chemical & Environmental Science.
Our well-equipped labs support research programmes such as neurotransmitters, hormones, and various drug pharmacokinetic metabolite breakdown and cell biology.
If you have a suitable research proposal in biology or biomedical science, we can help you apply to the university and find the appropriate supervisor.
fes-research-office@gre.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer in Genetics
Senior Lecturer Biomedical/Physiological Sciences
Emeritus Professor of Biochemistry
Senior Lecturer in Immunology
Associate Professor in Microbiology, Director (Academic) BioMed Online learning, Head of the Tissue Culture and Parasitology Laboratory
Lecturer in Biomedical Sciences
Senior Lecturer in Biological Sciences
Professor of Biochemistry
Lecturer in Biosciences
Reader in Pharmacology and Drug Development
Professor in Biosciences
Professor in Cancer Biology
Associate Head of School - Student Success (SCI), School of Science
Reader of Drug Delivery and Membrane Trafficking
Lecture in Bioinformatics
Senior Lecturer in Biotechnology
Senior Lecturer, Pharmacology
Reader, Microbiology and Plant Science
Head of Department, Food & Markets, Natural Resources Institute

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/business-and-management:
Fascinated by business but not quite sure which of our undergrad Business & Management degrees you should consider?
Don't fear - our handy guide is here to help!
The modern world of business is broad and boundless in its opportunities.
Most of our undergraduate degrees in business and management have a sandwich year option, offering you the opportunity to gain industry experience.
Our MSc in Business Analytics is designed to equip ambitious professionals with the skills and knowledge to thrive in today's data-centric business environment.
This course offers direct entry, for international students, into either Level 5 or Level 6.
Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Business and management; Logistics and supply chain management
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Business and management; Logistics and supply chain management
Join this direct entry Business Management (Marketing) degree as a direct, international, entrant Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Business and management; Marketing and advertising
Navigate your journey to success with this BA (Hons) Business Management (Marketing) programme that develops the knowledge and skills needed to manage, lead, and promote businesses through marketing Mode: Full time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Business and management; Marketing and advertising
Join this direct entry Business Management degree as a direct, overseas, entrant and develop skills for a range of careers in the world of business.
Complete your Business & Management degree with this direct entry pathways, and develop the knowledge and skills needed to manage and lead businesses today.
Join this direct entry Business Management degree as a direct, home, entrant and develop skills for a range of careers in the world of business.
Join this direct entry Business Studies degree in the final year as a direct, overseas, entrant Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Business and management
Join our Business Studies degree in Year 3 as a direct entrant Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Business and management
Join this direct entry Business with Marketing degree in the final year as a direct, overseas, entrant Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Business and management; Marketing and advertising
Join our Business with Marketing degree in Year 3 as a direct entrant Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Business and management; Marketing and advertising
Elevate and enhance your career and leadership metrics with our CMDA programme and Business Administration degree.
Engage in blended learning, letting you master management while networking on our beautiful Greenwich Campus.
Mode: Part time,  Degree apprenticeship Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Business and management
Advance your career with an Executive MBA degree.
Study our blended programme online and in person at our inspiring Greenwich Campus, a UNESCO World Heritage site.
Mode: Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Business and management
Address the complex issues involved in distribution, procurement and customer service with this Master’s in Logistics and Supply Chain Management.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Business and management; Logistics and supply chain management
Prepare for the next step in a successful management career with our MBA Global, taught in South London.
Prepare for leadership roles and successful careers in marketing with our Marketing Management MBA.
Taught in a great London location.
Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Business and management; Marketing and advertising
Mode: Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Business and management; Marketing and advertising
Lead the management of complex, high-stakes projects across all sectors, backed by global professional recognition.
Advance your career and expand your leadership skillset with a Senior Leader Apprenticeship.
Study flexibly in person and online, exchange experiences with a dynamic network of professionals, and visit our inspiring Greenwich Campus.
Click through this tour of Greenwich campus and the facilities for Business and Management students including our brand new Bloomberg Trading suite.
Discover some of the reasons we think Greenwich is a great place to study a Business & Management degree.
Discover Holly's story - from Greenwich Business School graduate to fashion label founder, find out how Holly's studies helped her succeed in the fashion business.
Enjoy our stunning - UNESCO World Heritage Site - campus, a popular tourist attraction itself, in a great London location.
We’re just across the river from Canary Wharf and handy for the City and the opportunity that is London.
Here is a taste of the societies you can join and how we foster a sense of community in business and management.
Jez Frampton turned his BA (Hons) in Business Studies into a remarkable career as Global CEO of Interbrand, shaping the branding strategies of iconic companies like Microsoft and McDonald's.
The Business School conducts research in a wide range of areas.
These include: insights into the relationships between people within and across organisations; governance, risk and accountability; public services and privatisation; employment relationships; connected cities; tourism; and supply chain design and performance improvement.
If you have a research proposal related to business and management, we can help you apply to the university and find the appropriate supervisor.
This series helps you gain insight into the operations and challenges faced by different industries.
Talks include how large regeneration projects work and scoping the affordable alternatives to fossil fuels.
Lecturer in Business.
External Engagement Co-Lead, EBC.
Professor of Supply Chain Management
Lecturer, International Business.
Senior Lecturer in Human Resources and Organisational Behaviour
Business Faculty Director of Student Experience
Lecturer in Entrepreneurship
Professor of Enterprise & Innovation
Professor of Sustainable Strategy, Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Lecturer in Business Management
Associate Head (Research & Knowledge Exchange), School of Business, Operations and Strategy
Emeritus Professor
Senior Lecturer in Social Entrepreneurship and Innovation
Lecturer in Human Resources & Organisational Behaviour
Professor of Economic Sociology
Director of Professional Business Engagement
Lecturer in Business
Principal Lecturer International Collaborations Coordinator
Teaching Fellow - PPD, Management and Organisational Behaviour
Lecturer in Network Science
PhD Candidate
Senior Lecturer in Business Operations
Senior Teaching Fellow, Programme Leader, BAHRM, Year 1 Programme Lead BABM
Teaching Fellow, Solicitor, Attorney and Counsellor-at-Law (New York)
Senior Lecturer in Ethics and Sustainable Business
Senior Lecturer in Business Management
Lecturer in Strategy and Sustainability
Teaching Fellow in Business Management
Lecturer in Business Operations (MBA)
Lecturer in International Business Management
Senior Lecturer in International Business
Lecturer in Executive Education
Lecturer in Strategy and Leadership
Senior Lecturer, Quantitative Techniques
Lecturer in Strategic Project Management
Associate Professor of Management (Teaching and Scholarship)
Associate Professor, Public Services International Research Unit (PSIRU)
Teaching Fellow in Business and Management
Lecturer in International Business
Lecturer in International Business Strategy
Teaching Fellow in OB and Management
Lecturer, Business Management
Senior Lecturer in Economic Sociology
Programme Leader for BA (Hons) Human Resource Management and Development, International Partnerships Lead, and Lecturer in Business Management
Programme Leader MA International Business; Senior Lecturer in International Business Strategy
Senior Lecturer, Management
Lecturer in Management
Teaching Fellow in Project Management
Senior Lecturer in Human Resources & Organisational Behaviour
Deputy Head of Executive Business Centre
Associate Professor on Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Teaching Fellow and Coaching Supervisor
Lecturer in Marketing, Programme Leader BA H Business Management (Marketing) and BA H Business with Marketing (Direct Entry)
Director of Public Services International Research Unit
Associate Professor of Employment Relations and Equality, Director of Diversity Interest Group, Co-Director of Centre for Research in Employment and Work
Lecturer in Business Operations
Lecturer in project management
Senior Lecturer in Political Economy
Professor of Operations and Supply Chain Management, Co-Director of Networks and Urban Systems Centre, Co-Director of Connected Cities Research Group

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/chemistry:
Chemistry is a part of everything in our lives Are you curious to discover more?
Join Kelly in our high-tech labs for a glimpse of life as a Chemistry student.
We offer apprenticeship degrees through to Master's degrees that will equip you with all the knowledge and skills that you need to succeed in your career.
Our Laboratory Scientist degree apprenticeship will equip you with all the knowledge, skills and behaviours you need to succeed in your career as a laboratory scientist.
Mode: Part time,  Degree apprenticeship Location: Medway Campus Subject: Chemistry; Science
A knowledge of chemistry can prepare you for a broad range of future careers, while our degree apprenticeships allow you to work towards a degree from the workplace.
Find out more about the opportunities at Greenwich and your potential future career destinations.
Vikki Cornelius earned her PhD at Greenwich and now works for MalariaGEN at the University of Oxford, a global network that leads the fight against this deadly disease.
Learn as you work with degree apprenticeships, which are based largely in the workplace.
Employees receive vocational training and emerge with a degree.
Find extensive laboratories, modern lecture theatres and unique learning and social spaces in the former naval buildings on the Medway Campus.
Research and scholarly activities inform our learning and teaching and complement the enterprise activities that we provide.
Agricultural pests destroy around one third of all the crops we grow, costing billions and threatening food security.
Graduates from our undergraduate science courses can move on to our MRes degree.
Normally, you will need a 2.1 or First.
If you have a suitable research proposal in a science discipline, we can help you apply to the university and find the appropriate supervisor.
Principal Lecturer, Physical Chemistry
Lecturer, Inorganic Chemistry
Senior Lecturer in Chemistry
Senior Lecturer in Pharmaceutical Sciences
Senior Lecturer, Materials Chemistry
Professor of Pharmaceutical Technologies
Pro Vice-Chancellor
Deputy Head of School of Science (Interim)
Professor of Synthetic Electrochemistry, Centre Lead for Functional and Organised Molecules

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/computer-science-and-computing:
Learn more about the computing and computer science courses we offer at postgraduate level and what our graduates can go on achieve.
You can study our computer science and computing degrees full-time, part-time or take a sandwich year with an industry placement.
These pioneering degrees combine technical engineering with an impressive depth of computer theory.
You'll gain the specialist knowledge and skills needed to work in this cutting-edge industry.
Our Computer Science programmes are ideal for those keen on developing strong technical skills, advanced programming, and the science behind AI and algorithms.
If you're passionate about applying technology in practical and business contexts, our Computing and Business Computing degrees are tailored for you.
Blending technical skills with business acumen they will prepare you for a wide range of careers.
Greenwich provides excellent facilities with cutting-edge technology to give you the best university experience you can get.
Whether you're studying computing or computer science, you’ll benefit from practical teaching, flexible study options and collaborative learning.
Computing graduate Alan Wong took advantage of a scholarship scheme to help students at Greenwich continue their studies at postgraduate level.
He is now pursuing a career in cyber security.
The University of Greenwich’s Computing and Computer Science degrees offer unique pathways tailored to different interests and career goals.
Study a course with a unique blend of modules in business and computing disciplines that will prepare you for careers in programming roles and those related to business and enterprise.
What truly convinced me was the perfect blend of academic excellence, inclusivity, and opportunity that the University of Greenwich represents.
- Maria Bashir, MSc Data Science 2024-25
I really love the vibrant atmosphere.
There are students from different cultures and nationalities with different kinds of perspectives on life, but I found everyone is respectful to each other.
- Lamina Salehin, Management of Business Information Technology 2024-25
Our student-led societies offer space for growth and opportunities to make new friends.
You can take part in activities through your department and via the Students’ Union.
See a taste of the societies you could join and how they will improve your experience.
We organise events for computing and multimedia students and provide support with common or technical computer tasks.
We welcome people of all skill levels interested in game development, including art, programming, game design and story writing.
Devoted to introducing inquisitive minds to the topics of digital forensics, cyber security and ethical hacking in a safe, controlled and legal way to aid in the protection of the digital world.
Our Internet of Things and Security Research Group works with industry, the public sector and academic partners to combine scientific excellence with real-word implementation.
Our research drives innovation across discipline from smart cities to green chemistry, transforming ideas into impact—building a safer, cleaner, and more connected future through science, engineering, and innovation.
The University of Greenwich offers opportunities to undertake a research degree in computing and information systems.
If you have a suitable research proposal, we can help you apply to the university and find a suitable supervisor.
FES-Research-Office@gre.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/criminology:
Our School of Law and Criminology students can get involved with the Innocence Project London (IPL) - a law clinic and charity at the University of Greenwich that investigates potential miscarriages of justice.
We offer full-time three-year criminology degrees.
If you don’t meet the entry requirements, you can apply for an extended course with an added foundation year.
You can also combine criminology with criminal psychology, forensic science or sociology.
Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Criminology
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Criminology
Our MSc Criminology and Criminal Psychology provides students with the knowledge and skills for careers in criminal justice, legal and forensics.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Criminology; Psychology
Our research degree (MPhil/PhD) allows you to undertake rigorous and critical exploration of an area of law or criminology support from an expert supervisor.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Criminology; Law
Our Professional Doctorate in Social and Criminal Justice is an internationally recognised qualification, designed for working professionals in social and criminal justice organisations with an active interest in practice-based research.
Mode: Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Criminology
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Criminology; Sociology
We offer excellent facilities and a varied curriculum, with lots of interesting research going on as well.
Find out what makes the University of Greenwich a great place to study criminology.
As a former BA Criminology student and Students' Union officer, Zoë is passionate about making a difference.
Discover her story!
Andreea: Criminology student and anti-trafficking advocate
If you’re considering studying Criminology at undergraduate level here’s a little inspiration to get you thinking about the subject more.
Senior Lecturer in Law and co-founder and director of Innocence Project London (IPL), Dr Louise Hewitt delivers a powerful Ted Talk on the IPL's mission - a pro-bono clinic dedicated to investigating wrongful convictions.
The criminology team has a strong research culture and a focus on developing students’ research skills.
With guidance from tutors, undergraduate students can conduct their own research in their final year.
The Centre for Transformative and Global Justice is an interdisciplinary research centre that conducts research, analysis and activism on Human Rights issues, governance practice, environmental challenges and Criminal Justice systems.
Research is an important part of our master’s courses, which can be a springboard into studying for a PhD.
If you have a suitable research proposal in criminology, we can help you apply to the university and find the appropriate supervisor.
Learn about our current research in Law and Criminology, from 'Ghost Criminology' to the use of machine learning techniques to help us predict criminal threats.
Lecturer in Criminology
Professor of Criminology
Associate Head of School for Research and Knowledge Exchange
Associate Professor of Criminology
Associate Professor of Criminology; Lead - Centre for Transformative and Global Justice
Associate Professor of Criminology, Deputy Head of School
Senior Lecturer in Criminology
School Administration Manager
School Administrator
Associate Professor in Criminology; Interim Lead - Centre for Communities and Social Justice
Senior Lecturer in Criminology; Early Career Researcher Hub Lead
Senior Lecturer in Law and Criminology
Associate Professor of Criminology and Social Policy; Lead - Centre for Communities and Social Justice

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/design:
At undergraduate level, we offer degrees in animation, graphic and digital design, and creative advertising and art direction.
At postgraduate level, we offer degrees in web design & content planning, and design.
Join us and enjoy our great facilities.
Mode: Full time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Design
As part of our MPhil/PhD Art and Design you will learn how to conduct rigorous and significant research (both theoretical and applied) around Design and Art-related disciplines.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Design
Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Design
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Design
Get the hands-on skills you need to plan, design and build a successful website with this MA in Web Design and Content Planning.
Discover more about our creative community of staff and students.
From industry-workshop opportunities to state-of-the-art facilities, discover why second-year student Chris chose the BA Animation course at Greenwich.
After studying Product Design in America for her bachelor’s, Lara decided to further develop her artistic skills and discovered the MA Digital Arts course at the University of Greenwich.
We are thrilled to announce that two of our talented BA Graphic and Digital Design students have won prestigious global awards for their outstanding work.
See examples of our students' work.
Popular career options for graduates include VFX and video games companies, advertising, and digital interactive media.
Born and bred in Greenwich, Tom Dingley appreciated the flexibility from his local university to follow his own creative direction.
Professor Anastasios Maragiannis' inaugural lecture showcased his long-term research into participatory and inclusive design practices.
Deputy Head School of Design and Creative Industries
Reader in Digital Immersion
Principal Lecturer
Lecturer in Illustration for Graphic Design
Lead - Centre for Sound and Image
Senior Lecturer in Design Research
Associate Head of Research & Knowledge Exchange; Practice Hub Lead
Programme Lead BA (Hons) Animation
Lecturer in Design
Design Studio Manager and Instructor
Head of the School of Design
Associate Professor in Curation and Digital Arts
Academic Portfolio Lead - Performance
Programme Leader for BA/HND Graphic& Digital Design
Student Experience and Engagement Lead

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/drama:
The Fruity Theatre Company have enjoyed further success with their production, 'Nail Polish', earning them a 4-star review from a recent five-show-London-run.
At Greenwich, study drama as a stand-alone course working from our own theatre facility - hone your performance skills and explore directing and writing.
Or combine drama with English literature.
Both routes offer a chance to add a year studying in the USA or working in the UK with one of our industry partners.
If you’re looking for a course to help you realise your potential as a professional dancer and musical theatre artist, check out our partner’s - Bird College - course.
The Level 7 Creative Production Management Apprenticeship is your pathway to developing top-tier talent in Production and Technical Management.
Mode: Part time,  Degree apprenticeship Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Drama
Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Drama
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Drama
Mode: Full time Location: Bird College Subject: Drama
Discover some of the facilities and opportunities we offer BA (Hons) Drama and BA (Hons) Drama and English Literature students (and those on the international study versions) and find out more about drama at Greenwich.
Our Bathway Theatre - located in central Woolwich - is the perfect space for Greenwich’s drama students to develop their craft.
A number of Drama undergraduates gained industry experience helping a world-leading immersive theatre company with their major new show.
In the first half of 2022, several undergraduate BA (Hons) Drama students spent a semester studying in the Windy City.
Discover the talent of our third-year BA (Hons) Drama students at the University of Greenwich's annual Bathway Spring Festival.
Our world-leading academics and practitioners contribute to a vibrant and diverse research culture, which is supported by exceptional partnerships with industry.
The Centre for Creative Futures supports research that investigates emerging creative technologies, models and platforms – in a way that is equitable, inclusive and socially engaged.
We welcome applications for the MPhil/PhD Drama programme.
We are particularly interested in proposals with research interests in: contemporary British Theatre; interactive practices and new technologies in performance; theatre for young audiences; comedy and society.
FLASadmissions@gre.ac.uk
Lecturer in Drama
Associate Professor English Literature and Drama
Postgraduate Researcher
Associate Head of School - Student Success
Professor of Interactive Theatre and Performance
Lecturer in Drama; Lead - Centre for Creative Futures
Senior Lecturer in Drama
Visiting Professor
Senior Lecturer in Drama, Programme Leader BA (Hons) Drama

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/early-years:
Our early years degree will give you an understanding of the core values of the early years workforce.
Our early years degrees include work placements which will give you the practical skills required to progress through your career.
The extended degrees with a foundation year will prepare you for degree-level study.
Mode: Full time Location: London South East Colleges - Orpington Campus Subject: Early years studies
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Early years studies
Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Early years studies
Study early years at Greenwich for a great student experience and benefit from an active research-led environment that fosters strong relationships with institutions and communities.
Placements are a core element of teacher training which enable our trainees to put theory into practice in a supportive environment.
BA Early Years student Hannah Phillips will receive the British Empire Medal for her work with children's charities.
An open-door policy in this large, bright, student- led studio makes for a winning space for Early Years students
Our academics are researching a number of areas including the history of childhood, children’s health, multicultural toys, play and identity, youth and education.
Our institute of lifecourse development (ILD) will support internationally leading research and practice in Education, Health and the Human Sciences, and will build on the strengths across the university and wider community.
If you have a research proposal related to early years or childhood studies, we can help you apply to the university and find the appropriate supervisor.
pgr_education_recruit@gre.ac.uk
Associate Professor in Teacher Education and Early Childhood
Academic Portfolio Lead for Early Years and Primary Education
Senior Teaching Fellow
Associate Professor and Programme Leader for Early Years
Principal Lecturer and Programme Leader
Principal Lecturer and Research Lead
Lecturer
Senior Lecturer, Early Years
Associate Dean of Student Success
Senior Lecturer in Primary Education
Senior Lecturer in Early Years

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/economics:
Discover what makes the University of Greenwich an exciting place to study Economics: from our internationally diverse community and supportive academic staff to our cutting-edge Bloomberg Trading Room and critical, climate-aware curriculum.
At undergraduate level we offer two economics degrees which can be studied either full-time, part-time or - for those wanting to undertake a placement year - in sandwich mode.
Also at undergraduate level, we have a direct-entry version of our Economics BSc.
At postgraduate level, we offer a taught MSc and the opportunity for MPhil / PhD study.
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Economics
Mode: Full time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Economics
Do you want to develop as an independent scholar and conduct ground-breaking research in economics?
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Economics
Study a Master’s in Economics at Greenwich, just minutes away from London’s financial hub.
Explore international economics, finance and business.
We offer relevant courses, with a real-world focus; a supportive learning environment - we were ranked 5th in the UK in Economics for satisfaction with feedback (Guardian Uni Guide 2025); access to a first-rate employability service, providing advice and support, all in a stunning London location.
Greenwich Economics graduate, Byron, has gone on to become an award-winning entrepreneur, business start-up expert and mentor, and successful author.
Money-market-minded?
The Bloomberg Trading Room is a hub of financial exploration and real-world application.
From Brexit to inequality, economics will help you understand the big issues and boost your career prospects.
Join Chloe as she describes the personal learning experience at Greenwich.
Report highlights Greenwich as one of two universities - from a list of 20, including Oxford, Cambridge, LSE and Warwick - providing an economics education which the report considered “critical, climate-conscious and fit for the 21st century."
The campus is lovely and it's close enough to the rest of London to make the most of the London life.
- Liam Cordrey, BSc Hons Economics
Our research of economics is closely related to our teaching of the subject.
Academics and researchers explore current socially relevant issues, from neoliberalism and privatisation to finance, economy and society.
If you have a research proposal related to economics, we can help you apply to the university and find the appropriate supervisor.
Gain insight into how different industries operate and the issues they face.
Experienced speakers share their expertise on topics ranging from leadership and management to economics and media.
Senior Lecturer in Economics
Senior Lecturer in Quantitative Methods
Lecturer in Economics
Lead Tutor, Principal Lecturer
Associate Professor in Economics
Associate Head of the School of Accounting, Finance & Economics - Research & Knowledge Exchange, Co-director of PEGFA
Academic Portfolio Lead (Economics), School of Accounting, Finance and Economics
Professor of Economics and Institutions

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/education-studies:
Robert Morgan, Programme Leader talks us through the programme.
Our education studies degree allows you to explore modern education and methodologies, and incorporates disciplines such as sociology, history and psychology.
It is an excellent route into teaching after completing a PGCE qualification, education research or community education.
Improve your higher education teaching skills with this accredited Award of Institutional Credit in Learning and Teaching in Higher Education.
Mode: Distance Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Education studies
Whether mid-career or a senior professional, our Doctorate in Education welcomes educators wishing to study for a research degree at a centre for excellence.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Education studies
Mode: Full time Location: Flourish Learning Trust Subject: Education studies
Push frontiers in education and training with a research degree (MPhil/PhD) at the University of Greenwich.
Supported by experienced educators.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: North East Surrey College Of Technology (NESCOT) Subject: Education studies
Our Master’s in Education is ideal for anyone who is passionate about education and wants to make a difference in the lives of others.
Make a unique contribution to knowledge in education with doctoral study at the University of Greenwich.
Study a research degree (MPhil/PhD) in Education.
Explore a range of approaches to higher education teaching through postgraduate study at the University of Greenwich.
Gain Fellowship of HEA.
Mode: Distance Subject: Education studies
Improve your skills to teach in international schools with this online International Postgraduate Certificate in Education.
Mode: Part time Subject: Education studies; Teacher training
Mode: Full time Location: Avery Hill Campus Subject: Education studies
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: North East Surrey College Of Technology (NESCOT) Subject: Education studies; Teacher training
With an "Outstanding" Ofsted rating for the quality of our university's training in primary education, our courses will give you more than 100 hours of teaching experience to prepare you for your career.
Our Doctorate in Education (EdD) is intended for committed mid-career and senior professionals in all areas of education, training and related professional fields.
PGCE and EdD graduate Toyin Coker tells us why he chose to study at the University of Greenwich.
The ILD is a key anchor resource hosted by the Faculty of Education, Health & Human Sciences.
Professionals from related fields will work closely together with researchers and stakeholders from public, charitable and voluntary organisations.
Together they will develop effective and economically sustainable lifecourse solutions and tackle the grand challenge agendas society faces.
We welcome enquiries and applications from those interested in full- or part-time study for MSc, MPhil or PhD research.
International PGCE Programme Leader and Associate Professor
Autism Spectrum Condition (ASC) Mentor & Assistive Technology Trainer Disabled Students Allowance (DSA)
Deputy Head of School (Research & Enterprise)
PGR student
Programme Leader for MA Education
Education Doctorate Research Student / Business Lecturer
Professor of Education, Director of the Centre for Leadership & Enterprise
Associate Professor of Sustainable Health Practices and Discourses
Associate Head / Academic Portfolio Lead

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/engineering:
Discover the different types of engineering courses available to study at the University of Greenwich.
Explore a wide range of careers in engineering.
Most of our engineering disciplines offer a four-year course which leads to an Integrated Master's degree and an 'extended' degree which includes a foundation year to prepare you for degree-level study.
Study in specialist laboratory facilities at our Medway Campus where you’ll gain the skills and knowledge you need to become a professional chemical engineer, using the latest equipment and simulation software.
Discover pioneering approaches in specialist laboratory facilities on our Medway Campus, where you will use the latest surveying equipment and learn how to apply them in real-world scenarios.
Our range of courses, some of which are professionally accredited, will give you the skills and knowledge you need to start, or develop, your career.
Learn how to make the world a better, more connected place.
You will study in specialist lab facilities on our Medway Campus and benefit from our close ties with engineering companies such as BAE Systems and Ford.
Combine solid technical skills in engineering with business enterprise management skills.
Studying on our Medway Campus, you will benefit from specialist and integrated lab facilities.
Learn how to apply engineering to a range of real-world problems.
Studying on our Medway Campus, you will develop the skills and knowledge you need to drive changes in product design using the latest technological advances.
This is one of the broadest areas of engineering.
You will learn about the design, construction and operation of mechanical systems.
Studying at our Medway Campus, you’ll benefit from our strong links with local industry.
We help to transform lives through our broad range of Engineering courses.
Enjoy top-of-the-range facilities at our Medway Campus and teaching from academics who have experienced the course themselves.
Sachin's MSc Engineering Management with Industrial Practice has helped him succeed in industry.
Read his story.
JBM accreditation, course modules, practical elements and field trips, all helped prize winner Nuha Chowdhury achieve her goal.
IChemE accreditation, state-of-the-art facilities, innovative research opportunities, and a collaborative learning environment.
All University of Greenwich current students are welcome to join Engineering Society.
Studying Mechanical Engineering at the University of Greenwich has helped me understand product design, thermodynamics material engineering, and mechanical dynamic.
In terms of engineering they are one of the leaders in the country.
- Connor Felstead, Mechanical Engineering graduate
Research in engineering is focused on achieving improvements to society through tackling important questions.
Our research themes include biomedical engineering, handling materials, sustainability, mathematical modelling, future technology and the Internet of Things, and next generation materials.
Dr Wim Melis is working on technology that could significantly improve sound quality for hearing implant users.
Graduates from our undergraduate forensic science courses can move on to our MRes degree.
If you have a suitable research proposal in engineering, we can help you apply to the university and find the appropriate supervisor.
Gain in-depth research experience with a Master's by Research degree.
Ideal for those aiming for a PhD, these courses focus on independent research projects over one to two years.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/english:
Looking for some tips to get you thinking about either studying English Literature or Creative Writing at undergraduate level?
If so, look no further - our subject teaching teams have a few suggestions which might help.
We offer degrees in English literature, English language, creative writing, and English language teaching.
You’ll explore everything from fiction and poetry to playwriting and linguistics – opening doors to careers in writing for stage or screen, publishing, marketing, or language teaching.
Develop your understanding of the key concepts in applied linguistics.
Build academic and professional skills for language-related careers, including TESOL.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: English
For this MPhil/PhD you will produce a full-length creative work (a novel, collection of poems, or play) and an accompanying work of critical reflection.
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: English
Study and produce creative works in every genre with our MA Creative Writing.
Explore cultural contexts, research methods and London’s creative industries.
Study different ways of looking at and writing about London with this exciting MA.
Our English Literature research degree (MPhil/ PhD) allows you to undertake the rigorous and critical exploration of literatures in English, including publication processes and histories.
Explore literature or language or creative writing and study at our stunning campus, part of a UNESCO World Heritage site, which is within easy reach of London’s cultural and creative highlights.
The annual Greenwich Anthology showcases an inspiring collection of poetry and prose by our creative students.
Explore the full collection here.
Hear from Jasmine - a BA (Hons) English Literature student - about her course, her experiences as a student at Greenwich and her aspirations!
While on placement in a primary school, a Greenwich English student takes the initiative to help pupils’ parents build their language skills.
The results in two 2025 league tables underline the School’s focus on delivering a great student experience.
The Centre for Research in Language and Heritage (CREL) is a multidisciplinary setting for the study of language that fosters research of international excellence and impact through collaboration, knowledge-exchange, training and mentorship.
PhD Researcher
Associate Lecturer in English and Creative Writing
Professor of English Literature and Literary Studies
Associate Professor of English Literature
Lecturer in English Literature
Academic Portfolio Lead, Creative Writing
Senior Lecturer in Early Modern English Literature

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/environmental-science:
The Natural Resources Institute (NRI) at the University of Greenwich, UK, specialises in research and education focused on food, agriculture, the environment, and sustainable livelihoods.
Our postgraduate courses, offered both full-time and part-time, are built on a foundation of world-class research.
They provide you with vital skills and knowledge needed to address some of the worlds major environmental challenges.
With a focus on sciences, these courses are designed to prepare you for impactful roles in this evolving field.
This MSc will help graduates and professionals gain skills and expertise in natural resources and sustainable development.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Medway Campus Subject: Environmental sciences
We've got a strong focus on the environment and sustainability at the University of Greenwich.
Study with the Natural Resources Institute (NRI), and benefit from our research-led teaching and public events.
The Natural Resources Institute (NRI) is a specialist research, development and education organisation with a focus on agriculture, the environment, and sustainability.
When Miranda Elsby graduated from our MSc Agriculture for Sustainable Development, she was quickly snapped up by a well-known agricultural cooperative, Ocean Spray.
All the latest news and updates from the Natural Resources Institute
The University's work to tackle food shortage in Africa has been celebrated by Universities UK.
This includes a method to extend the shelf life of the critical cassava crop.
The National Resources Institute (NRI) specialises in agriculture, environment and sustainability.
Dr Frances Hawkes at the university’s Natural Resources Institute has worked on a pioneering solution against malaria, which affects over 200 million people every year.
Principal Scientist
Food Safety Specialist
Associate Professor of Food Security, Environment and Development
Environmental Scientist
Senior Lecturer, GIS and Remote Sensing
Professor in Applied Analytical Chemistry

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/media-arts:
Our Media and Communications graduate has forged a hugely successful career at UK production companies and broadcasters.
His achievements include a BAFTA for ITV game show, The Chase.
Looking to develop your film-making skills or explore film industries?
Want to open your ears to a wide range of musical worlds?
Keen to understand today’s media landscape or produce advertising, branding or creative content?
One of our Film, Media or Sound degrees might be for you!
This research degree allows you to undertake a doctoral research project relating to film and other screen media, through theory and/or practice, supported by experts.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Film, media and sound
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Film, media and sound
Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Film, media and sound
From our great purpose-built facilities for Film, Media and Sound students and our vibrant community, many graduates have gone on to very successful careers in the creative industries, including a BAFTA winner and a BAFTA ‘shortlistee’.
We think we’re a great place to shape your creative future.
University of Greenwich students win big at the world’s largest filmmaking challenge.
The GRAFTAs - the annual Greenwich Achievement for Film & TV Awards - were celebrated in style by students and staff in our School of Design and Creative Industries!
MA Film graduate, Anushree Shukla's documentary ‘Mustafa - True Story of a Tiger’ has been screened at several international film festivals
Check out the selection of work produced by our postgraduate Film Production students.
Engaging with the world, physically and theoretically through design, focusing on a broad range of areas within the creative professions and digital arts, architecture, landscape architecture, urban design and the built environment
Senior Lecturer in Cinematography
Lecturer in Film & TV Production
Associate Professor, Media&Creative Writing; Associate Head of School of Design and Creative Industries; Research and Knowledge Exchange
Professor of Critical Theory and Practice
Academic Portfolio Lead - Film & Television Production
Associate Professor in Media
Senior Lecturer in Media (Theory)
Senior Lecturer in Digital Film & Television Production and Programme Leader for BA (Hons) Film & TV Production
Associate Professor in Film and TV
Course Leader for MA & MSc in Film Production
Senior Lecturer; Curator - University of Greenwich Galleries
Senior Lecturer in Film Studies

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/forensic-science:
You'll study a range of sciences, learn about the law, and find out how to give evidence in court.
Follow Alessia as she describes her aim to be a Crime Scene Investigator.
We offer a number of ways to study forensic science.
You can undertake a full-time three-year degree or choose a sandwich course with a placement year.
If you don’t meet the entry requirements for a three-year course, you can apply for an extended degree with an added foundation year.
Where science meets justice; advance your forensic expertise; explore criminological perspectives.
Empowering tomorrow’s forensic leaders and innovators.
Mode: Full time Location: Medway Campus Subject: Forensic science; Science
Experience real-life forensic science with top-class facilities and impress future employers Mode: Sandwich Location: Medway Campus Subject: Forensic science; Science
We offer specialist forensic provision with outstanding laboratory and crime scene facilities.
Our courses are accredited by the Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences.
Students put their investigation skills to the test as they face mock crime scenes as Crime Scene Investigators.
Gain experience, explore areas of industry, develop transferable skills, acquire expert knowledge.
Our forensic staff are in high demand in real life.
Read about Sammi and Luke’s latest excavation to bring home the remains of war victims to their families.
Our academic team is currently researching in the fields of entomology, fingerprints, bacteriology and anthropology.
Future research will explore the prevention of cybercrime and the examination of crime scenes set up following alleged sexual offences.
If you have a suitable research proposal in forensic science, we can help you apply to the university and find the appropriate supervisor.
Head of School of Science, Professor of Forensic Science
Professor in Applied Psychology
Associate Professor in Forensic Science
Lecturer in Forensic Anthropology
Senior Lecturer in Forensic Science

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/games-development:
Deep dive into the student games development experience.
Turn your passion for gaming into a career!
We offer degrees that allow you to specialise in a variety of areas in games development.
The curriculum has been developed with bespoke games focused modules programming, 3D modelling, artificial intelligence, visual effects, character animation, game audio and more.
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Computer science and computing; Computer science; Games development
Our degrees provide the skills to produce and manage assets in games development.
We also push boundaries and challenge the field, not just in terms of new technologies but also in the development of its people.
Join us and become a part of it.
Our students showcase their creative and technical skills to create immersive experiences for fun and learning.
Iasmina knew she wanted to study a degree in game development at the University of Greenwich and has never regretted it.
Combining modern day technology in a historical setting, the Greenwich campus has the best of both worlds.
We bring all game-loving students together to enjoy their hobby, from board games to console games to RPG campaigns.
Senior Lecturer in Games Development
Lecturer in Games

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/health-and-social-care:
Embark on an exhilarating path with our latest BSc Hons Physiotherapy course.
This hands-on, practical course readies you for the clinical realm through immersive practice placements and beyond.
We offer degrees in health and social care as well as speech and language therapy.
You can study full-time, part-time, or take a sandwich degree, which includes a work placement year.
Our extended course in public health has a foundation year to prepare you for degree-level study.
Mode: Full time Location: Medway Campus Subject: Health and social care; Nursing
Mode: Full time Location: Avery Hill Campus Subject: Health and social care; Nursing
Deepen your knowledge of advanced practice and develop your career as an advanced clinical practitioner with a Master's in Advanced Clinical Practice.
Mode: Part time Location: Avery Hill Campus Subject: Health and social care; Nursing
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: The Woolwich College Subject: Health and social care
This postgraduate diploma for graduates of healthcare disciplines allows you to make use of your prior learning and progress onto a full master's degree.
Tailor your learning to suit your career with our Master’s in Global Public Health.
Options include child & maternal health, ethics & human rights, and migration.
Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Health and social care
Study a research degree (MPhil/PhD) in Health Sciences if you’re looking to deepen your knowledge and are interested in research that can change lives.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Avery Hill Campus Subject: Health and social care
Our Healthcare Practice MA comprises of two modules which will further develop your leadership skills, academic rigour and ability to link research to practice.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Health and social care
Mode: Full time Location: Avery Hill Campus Subject: Health and social care; Midwifery
Study our midwifery degree at our Medway Campus in Kent for rewarding careers supporting women and their families through childbirth.
Mode: Full time Location: Medway Campus Subject: Health and social care; Midwifery
Study with our expert nurse lecturers and achieve your potential with a Master’s in Adult Nursing.
Take placements with top NHS Trusts.
Looking for a new career as a registered children's nurse?
If you already have a degree, our Master's in Children's Nursing is for you.
Are you a graduate looking for a meaningful career in mental health care?
Explore our Master’s in Mental Health Nursing and make a difference.
This apprenticeship helps nursing associates to build the experience and versatility to work in further health and social care settings.
Mode: Part time,  Degree apprenticeship Location: Avery Hill Campus Subject: Health and social care; Nursing
Learn how to provide high-quality care to surgical patients with an Operating Department Practitioner degree.
Work with surgeons & anaesthetists.
Mode: Full time Location: Avery Hill Campus Subject: Health and social care
Mode: Part time,  Degree apprenticeship Location: Avery Hill Campus Subject: Health and social care
This degree is supported by experienced paramedics to equip you for front-line emergency care.
Clinical placements help your paramedic training.
Mode: Full time Location: Avery Hill Campus; Medway Campus Subject: Health and social care; Paramedic science
This course is for qualified nurses and midwives who wish to work as specialist community public health nurses (health visiting or school nursing).
Our Physiotherapy degree is applied and hands-on, and will equip you with the skills and knowledge to apply across a broad spectrum of clinical practice areas.
Our Physiotherapy Degree Apprenticeship will equip apprentices with the knowledge and skills to develop further in their workplace and, on Practice Placement, in different environments.
Mode: Degree apprenticeship Location: Avery Hill Campus Subject: Health and social care
Advance your career in forensic practice for health care professionals, with our PG Certificate, aligning with UKAFNP standards; perfect for those in custody or sexual offences services around the UK and Northern Ireland.
Mode: Distance Subject: Health and social care
Do you have the leadership qualities and passion to become a district nurse and inspire your own team in the community?
Our postgraduate programme will support your ambitions.
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Health and social care; Psychology
Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Health and social care; Public health
Study issues ranging from discrimination to family breakdown with this social work degree.
Ideal for careers in social work and social care.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Health and social care; Social work
This speech and language therapy degree gives you the skills for careers in speech therapy and for treating speech and language disorders.
Explore new challenges with a part-time Master’s in Therapeutic Counselling.
Accredited by the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy.
Mode: Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Health and social care; Psychology
Providing high-quality teaching with world-class research, we work with health and social care providers, including the NHS, as well as a range of community and voluntary organisations.
Our nursing and midwifery courses are run in partnership with several NHS Trusts, who work with us because of our reputation for teaching excellence.
Find out about our placements.
The University of Greenwich is proud to present our brand-new Simulation and Clinical Skills Centre which will make a safe and realistic environment for students to learn.
CPD stands for continuing professional development.
These short courses are a great opportunity to gain new skills, knowledge and experience.
From September 2020, students in nursing, midwifery, paramedic science, and speech & language therapy may be entitled to receive at least £5,000 a year towards their studies.
Dr Lesley Dibley’s innovate research into gastroenterology has been shared with 2,500 surgeons and 1,00 specialist nurses across Europe and given a voice to marginalised patients with inflammatory bowel disease.
pgr_health_recruit@gre.ac.uk
Lecturer in Midwifery
Associate Professor in Physiotherapy
Clinical Simulation Fellow
Academic Portfolio Lead, Programme Lead and Senior Lecturer in Speech and Language Therapy
Senior Lecturer, Midwifery
Lecturer in Physiotherapy
Senior Lecturer Public Health and Wellbeing/ Deputy Head of School for Human Sciences
Professor of Social Science Applied to Health and Illness, Programme Leader: PhD in Health Sciences & Academic Portfolio Lead for Simulation and Research
Lecturer in Speech and Language Therapy
Research Fellow
Teaching Fellow, Operating Department Practice

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/history:
A tale of royalty, famous architects, sailors, beer and… even a little jousting!
Find out about some of amazing history of the campus and it surroundings.
You can study a history degree or combine it with English, politics or sociology.
Modules include global events, community history, the Ottoman Empire and World Wars.
Our historically and culturally rich location allows for visits to London museums and archives as part of your degree.
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: History
Covering a range of different historical periods and areas of history, we offer a varied choice of history modules taught by experienced subject specialists.
Rebecca's passion for the past influenced her to study history at the Greenwich campus - a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Read more about her journey!
Following the first series' success, "Rise of Empires: Ottoman" - which features a Greenwich History academic - returned to Netflix in late 2022.
Find out about History & Politics graduate and award-winning comedian and writer, Michael Odewale and discover how his time at Greenwich links with his career.
Since being at uni I have been able to develop and practice various transferable skills such as presentations and public speaking.
Studying in London also gives me the opportunity to network with various people which will be beneficial once I have finished my degree.
- Tobias Thompson, BA Hons History
Not only does the University of Greenwich offer an extremely high standard of teaching on the programmes, it has provided the opportunity for me to make lifelong friendships.
In addition, the support I have received both academically and emotionally has always been there from my lecturers.
- Nicholas Jones Hudson, BA Hons History
The courses in the combined programme complement each other really well and it allows me to transfer my knowledge to each half of the programme.
- Lorna Froelich, BA Hons History and Politics
Senior Lecturer, History
Lecturer in History
Associate Professor of History
Associate Professor in the History of the Ottoman Empire and Modern Middle East
Senior Lecturer in Environmental History

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/human-nutrition-and-health:
Our degree in human nutrition is accredited by the UK Association for Nutrition.
You will study a variety of areas, including physiology, metabolism and microbiology.
We also offer an extended degree with lower entry requirements, which has a foundation year to prepare you for degree-level study.
Mode: Sandwich Location: Medway Campus Subject: Human nutrition and health; Science
If you’re a professional working in the food supply chain, this MSc Food Safety and Quality Management online learning course is perfect for you.
Mode: Distance Location: Medway Campus Subject: Human nutrition and health; Science
Mode: Full time,  Sandwich Location: Medway Campus Subject: Human nutrition and health; Science
Our accredited degree will support your career prospects in a range of scientific and nutrition-based fields.
Find out more about your prospects at the University of Greenwich and about our Medway Campus in Kent.
Study human nutrition and health at our beautiful Medway Campus and be at the forefront of a rapidly expanding area of science.
Visiting an Open Day at the Medway campus introduced Shona Reid to her future university.
Rhianna Martin explains why she has never looked back after choosing to study the Human Nutrition course,
Diana discovered how food could positively impact her physical and emotional wellbeing, leading her to develop a passion for science.
Senior Lecturer, Human and Sports Nutrition
Senior Lecturer in Human Nutrition & Health Science
Associate Professor in Nutrition and Health Science

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/human-resources:
Why is the University of Greenwich an excellent choice for human resource studies?
These students will tell you why.
Our taught courses cover a range of contemporary areas of Human Resources and our undergraduate BA has a sandwich mode allowing you the chance to undertake a work placement as part of your degree.
Mode: Full time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Human resources
Our degree is ideal for studying human resource management.
Find out how to develop people and their skills to boost business success.
Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Human resources
Our research degree (MPhil/PhD) allows you to undertake rigorous and critical exploration in the area of work, employment, human resource management and organisational behaviour with support from an expert supervisor.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Human resources
Bridge the gap between theory and practice on our CIPD-accredited MSc in Strategic Human Resource Management which emphasises cutting-edge skills for your professional development Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Human resources
Enjoy our stunning campus and get job-ready for the modern world of business.
Mock graduate assessment centre tests students’ mettle at the Barclays and University of Greenwich Mock Assessment Centre.
Highlights from our Unconference including fresh ideas on AI, sustainability, and wellbeing in the workplace.
This society aims to be a source of information, opportunities and networking.
No business-related degree needed.
For students with interests in Marketing and/or Advertising.
Get involved in social work (helping local businesses) and guest lectures.
The Human Resource Management and Business Psychology Society provides all things relating to the topics, there is something for everyone in our society.
Our academics in human resources cover a range of research areas, from welfare-to-work policy and whistleblowing to cross-cultural management and management coaching.
If you have a research proposal related to human resources, we can help you apply to the university and find the appropriate supervisor.
Associate Professor in HRM & Organisational Behaviour; Academic Lead for Race Equity
Post Graduate Research Teaching Assistant
Postgraduate Research Programme Leader (MGM) and Lecturer in Human Resource Management.
Senior Lecturer in Human Resource Management and Programme Leader MBA Global
Postgraduate Research Teaching Assistant
Postgraduate Research Teaching Associate

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/international-relations:
The latest event in the ‘Political Insights’ series gave Greenwich’s International Relations students unique insight into the 29th United Nations Climate Change Conference.
We offer international relations degrees with politics, languages, and history.
You will explore cultural and political dynamics that transcend national boundaries, preparing you for careers in diplomacy, civil service, national and international government, and non-governmental organisations.
Explore a range of issues and actors in the global political system on this master’s degree in International Relations.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: International relations
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: International relations
Explore politics - or languages - and international relations and study at our stunning campus, part of a UNESCO World Heritage site, in the global city that is London.
Read Kristofer's perspective on why Greenwich stands out as an excellent choice for those eager to step into the world of Languages and International Relations!
Politics graduate Mete Coban helped set up the charity MyLifeMySay to engage young people in politics and was awarded an MBE in the 2020 New Year Honours List for services to young people.
Associate Professor in Politics and International Relations
Head of School of Humanities and Social Sciences
Senior Lecturer in International Relations

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/landscape-architecture:
At Greenwich we offer a number courses in landscape architecture - including the only undergraduate landscape architecture course of its kind in London.
Studio-based tutorial groups provide all the skills and knowledge you'll need via a range of approaches to landscape architectural design.
Landscape Architecture student, Cleo Lewington, received the Judges Special Prize at the Architects for Health (AfH) awards.
Find out about Sarah Eberle - one of the UK's top landscape designers and Chelsea Flower Show multiple gold-medallist - who graduated from the university’s predecessor, Thames Polytechnic.
Greenwich Landscape Architecture students attended an intensive week of garden visits and seminars looking at how plants can be used in a variety of different landscapes.
Helena Rivera (A Small Studio) and Akil Scafe Smith (Resolve) listed as one of 109 best emerging British practices.
The Feeding Mars exhibition showcased a live experiment growing vegetables, herbs and fruits in Martian simulant soils.
Landscape Architecture Postgraduate Programme Leader
Lecturer in Landscape Architecture and Urbanism

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/law:
Our rich programme of employability events is promoted through our Law Employability Platform.
Here LLB students can access information about our employability and mentoring opportunities.
In addition to a full-time law degree, we offer a degree for non-law graduates, a law degree with a year abroad, and an extended degree with a foundation year; graduates can complete their law degree at Greenwich and, in just 15 extra months, earn a US JD or LLM degree through our partnership with Mitchell Hamline School of Law in Minnesota, USA.
Mode: Full time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Law
Our Master's in Law, Regulation and the International Financial System covers the legal and financial topics involved in regulatory frameworks.
We have a proven track record in supportive teaching and learning and a renowned reputation for innovative employability opportunities.
Our LLB students participate in extra-curricular programmes and projects that develop their practical work-based skills and increase their graduate prospects.
Graduates of University of Greenwich law degrees can complete a US law degree with Mitchell Hamline School of Law in just 15 extra months in unique partnership.
At the University of Greenwich, LLB students can bring their classroom learning to life by gaining practical experience with real clients.
Our LLB student mooters develop their public speaking and advocacy skills.
Mooting is a great way to practise legal arguments and research.
The ability to convey complex argument in an intelligible and structured way is a key skill of a lawyer.
The Innocence Project London (IPL) is a law clinic and registered charity based at the University of Greenwich.
Trained student advisers work closely with volunteer lawyers to provide free legal advice to members of the public and small businesses.
Our research covers a range of legal areas, including maritime governance.
If you have a research proposal related to law, we can help you apply to the university and find the appropriate supervisor.
With contributions from students and staff, this journal from the University's Bar Society presents unique insights and articles from 2024-25.
Lecturer in Law
Senior Lecturer in Legal Practice
Lecturer in Law and Criminology
Senior Lecturer in Financial Law; Postgraduate Hub Lead
Senior Lecturer in Property Law
Professor of Public International Law
Associate Professor in Law; Undergraduate Hub Lead
Associate Professor in Law
Legal Advice Centre Administrator
LLB Programme Leader
Professor of International Law
Supervising Lawyer and Law Teacher
Professor of Law, Principal Fellow of the HEA

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/logistics-and-supply-chain-management:
Discover and grow your knowledge of the exciting world of managing supply chains and logistics with one of our taught degrees.
Discover some of the reasons we think Greenwich is a great place to study a Business degree.
For students from the Systems Management & Strategy (SMS) Department to debate, network and socialise.
The Enactus network of global business, academic and student leaders are unified by our vision—to create a better, more sustainable world.
Senior Lecturer in Operations and Supply Chain Management
Associate Professor in Logistics and Operations Management
Lecturer in Business Operations and Supply Chain Management
Teaching Fellow in Business Logistics and Transport
Senior Lecturer, Learning Technology
Lecturer in Supply Chain Management
Lecturer in Transport and Logistics Management
Associate Head of School - Research and Knowledge Exchange Executive Business Centre

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/marketing-and-advertising:
Take the chance to apply to volunteer with Gen C, our in-house marketing agency, and you could find yourself working on real briefs for real clients!
Choose from a range of great marketing degrees, a number of which are accredited.
At undergraduate level, our non-direct-entry degrees offer - with their sandwich mode - the chance to undertake a placement year and one of our taught master's now offers a 'with placement' version.
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Marketing and advertising
Prepare for leadership roles and successful careers in marketing with our Digital Marketing Management, MSc.
Taught in South London, near Canary Wharf.
Our marketing, events and tourism research degree (MPhil/PhD) allows you to undertake rigorous and critical exploration of one or more of these fields with support from an expert supervisor.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Marketing and advertising; Tourism, hospitality and events
Discover some of the reasons we think Greenwich is a great place to study Marketing.
For Paniz, studying Marketing at Greenwich Business School was a journey of self-discovery and professional growth.
Throughout her time at the university, she found multiple moments that reassured her she was on the right path.
Our academics have a range of research interests in marketing, advertising and public relations.
The Tourism and Marketing Research Centre (TMRC) explores how tourism, marketing, events and hospitality can be a force for good in a time of profound digital transformation.
If you have a research proposal related to marketing, advertising or public relations, we can help you apply to the university and find the appropriate supervisor.
Lecturer in Marketing & Sales
Senior Teaching Fellow, Programme Leader MSc Digital Marketing Management
Lecturer in Marketing and Tourism, Programme Leader BA (Hons) Marketing and Brand Management
Senior Lecturer, Marketing
Associate Professor in Non-Profit and Business Communications and Co-Leader of the Personal Professional Development Curriculum Redesign in the Business Faculty
Senior Lecturer: Programme leader for MA Marketing Management
Principal Lecturer, Marketing and Learning Enhancement Technologist
Senior Lecturer in Marketing, Programme leader, EBC Quality Assurance lead
Lecturer in Advertising and Marketing Communications
Lecturer in Marketing and Sales
Lecturer in Marketing and Tourism; Programme Leader for MSc Strategic Tourism and Hospitality Management
Senior Lecturer in Tourism and Marketing
Senior Lecturer in Marketing
Lecturer in Marketing, Deputy Programme Leader for the MA in Strategic Marketing
Ph.D.
Candidate
Senior Lecturer - Public Relations
Senior Lecturer in Advertising and Marketing Communications
Lecturer in Marketing
Teaching Fellow – Data Analytics and Digital Marketing.
Programme Leader – MA Strategic Advertising and Marketing Communications
PhD research student
Academic Portfolio Lead of Advertising and Communications; Deputy Director of Tourism and Marketing Research Centre
Senior Lecturer in Advertising & Marketing Communications

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/mathematics:
Mathematics is quite literally everywhere.
Was it invented or was it discovered?
Find out how maths is the foundation of everything around us.
We offer mathematics degrees in combination with subjects such as computer science, business, economics, and statistics.
A number of our courses are accredited  by the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications (IMA), except for the BSc Mathematics & Computer Science.
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Mathematics
Explore new ground in Mathematical Sciences (MPhil/PhD) across a diverse range of subjects, supported by world-class academics and facilities.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Mathematics
Develop the skills of a statistician with this statistics and operational research degree.
Gain the knowledge to tackle statistical modelling.
Click through this tour of our Greenwich campus and the facilities for Maths students, on the site of the Old Royal Naval College designed by Sir Christopher Wren.
Through our degrees in mathematics, you will grow as a mathematician, gaining analytical skills that you can apply to problems in the real world.
BSc Mathematics student Nathan Qureshi explains how maths can be used to solve daily problems affecting people, as well as assist companies in making big decisions.
Helen Cinko wanted to study at Greenwich because its location is in London, a global hub for technology, innovation, and finance.
Recent Graduate Mahfoozur Rahman shares his experiences of studying a Mathematics Degree at Greenwich before starting a PGCE in Secondary Education.
Meet Professor Noel-Ann Bradshaw, Deputy Dean for the Faculty of Engineering and Science.
There are a lot of public service fields that want mathematics graduates to be a part of their team to make them efficient, for example working with the government to decide budgets or working within the police.
- Nathan Qureshi, BSc Mathematics
Professor of Computational MHD
Deputy Dean, Faculty of Engineering & Science
Lecturer in Evacuation and Circulation Modelling
Senior Lecturer in Multi-Physics Simulation
Lecturer in Mathematics (Data Science)
Director, Greenwich Maths Centre
Lecturer in Mathematics and Data Science
Senior Lecturer in Statistics
Professor of Computational Fluid Dynamics
Associate Professor in Statistics
Associate Head of School - Research & Knowledge Exchange (CMS)
Senior Lecturer in Computational Science and Engineering

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/midwifery:
You’ll learn using the latest equipment and technology with simulated in-patient wards and clinical skills suites equipped with life-like patient simulators plus virtual reality communications.
Our midwifery degree is a full-time course.
You’ll be taught by experienced midwives and other professionals who will help you develop your knowledge of midwifery and related areas, from social sciences to ethics and research.
Our midwifery degree apprenticeship combines study but requires you to be employed by NHS Trust to be eligible to apply.
Mode: Part time,  Degree apprenticeship Location: Avery Hill Campus Subject: Midwifery
Click through this tour of the campuses and the facilities for Midwifery students including our state-of-the-art learning and simulation centre.
Choose to study midwifery with us and you’ll be surrounded by expert teachers and students including our midwifery team who won first prize for their contribution to midwifery education at the 2018 British Journal of Midwifery Practice Awards.
Verity Lancaster, who was named BJM Student Midwife of the Year 2019, talks about her experience of studying Midwifery, BSc Hons at Greenwich.
Our health courses are run in partnership with several NHS Trusts.
Paramedic science students will undertake their clinical placement with the London Ambulance Service NHS Trust or South East Coast Ambulance Service NHS Foundation Trust.
I have always contemplated doing my midwifery training, especially having worked as a Maternity Support Worker (MSW) for many years.
However the timing was never quite right with family commitments.
The midwifery society is here to enhance and supplement your learning.
We offer support, guidance and friendship, plus fun-filled events.
Formerly known as Greenwich LINKS, we are a society run by students, for students teaching first aid skills for both routine and emergency situations.
Open to all students and lecturers, as well as past students and professionals.
We hold events to extend our learning around social work topics.
The Faculty of Education & Health works closely with charities, local authorities and the NHS.
If you have a research proposal related to midwifery, we can help you apply to the university and find the appropriate supervisor.
Midwifery Apprentice Programme Leader and Senior Lecturer
Senior Lecturer in Midwifery

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/nursing:
Our nursing courses offer pre-registration training in adult nursing, children’s nursing, learning disability nursing and mental health nursing.
We have also recently introduced nursing degree apprenticeships, which combine hands-on clinical work with academic learning.
All courses are taught at the Avery Hill Campus, with Adult Nursing also delivered at both the Avery Hill Campus and the Medway Campus.
Study an adult nursing degree apprenticeship for practice-based & academic learning.
Train to work as part of a team in hospital & primary care settings.
Mode: Part time,  Degree apprenticeship Location: Avery Hill Campus Subject: Nursing
Earn while you learn with our Advanced Clinical Practitioner Apprenticeship, which leads to a master's degree.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Health and social care; Nursing
Study a mental health nursing degree apprenticeship for an academic & practice-based approach.
Specialise in drug & alcohol misuse or working with offenders.
Click through this tour of the campuses and the facilities for Nursing students including our state-of-the-art learning and simulation centre.
The University of Greenwich nursing degrees were ranked first in London for student satisfaction in the 2019 National Student Survey.
Former student Lindsay Gordon shares her experience of studying for the BSc Hons Learning Disabilities Nursing course.
“It has been an amazing learning experience and has provided me with a fantastic opportunity to develop skills not just around nursing itself but around communication, academic skills and confidence to name but a few.”
Our student-led societies offer a space for growth and the opportunity to make lasting friendships.
You can take part in activities through your department and the Students’ Union.
Here's a sample of the societies you can join, and how we foster a supportive culture for nurses of all backgrounds.
The Greenwich student branch of St John Ambulance offers First Aid training to students and the chance to volunteer at popular events.
Led by Paramedic Science students for all healthcare students.
Join discussions led by students and guest speakers from healthcare.
Recent research includes the career barriers facing black and ethnic minority nurses, health inequalities and the experience of vulnerable groups, and care quality in residential care and nursing homes.
If you have a research proposal related to health and social care, we can help you apply to the university and find the appropriate supervisor.
Senior Lecturer in Adult Nursing
Senior Lecturer, Mental Health Nursing
Professor of Qualitative Nursing Research
Senior Teaching Fellow – Mental Health Nursing
Children’s Nursing lecture
Professor in Sexualities and Genders: Health & Well-Being
Reader Alcohol Policy and Mental Health Studies
Clinical Simulation Fellow and Senior Lecturer Adult Nursing
Academic Lead for Simulation/Programme Lead
Associate Professor and Academic Portfolio Lead
Principal Lecturer, Professional Lead, Course Leader, Adult Nursing
Lecturer in Adult Nursing
Lecturer Practitioner - Mental Health Nursing
Senior Lecturer Mental Health
Senior Lecturer- SPQ-District Nursing
Lecturer in Children’s Nursing
Associate Head for Research and Knowledge Exchange; Centre Lead for Professional Workforce Development; Professor of Healthcare Simulation and Workforce Development
Senior Lecturer of District Nursing

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/paramedic-science:
Would you like to make a difference to people's lives and work on the front line of emergency care?
Study our three-year degree and combine academic university-based study with clinical work placements, where a range of health professionals will assist in your paramedic training.
We aim to transform the lives of students from a wide range of backgrounds by providing an education that enables them to become creative and confident contributors to society and ensure that our students graduate with the skills and knowledge needed to make a real difference to their communities.
Mode: Part time,  Degree apprenticeship Location: Avery Hill Campus Subject: Paramedic science
Click through this tour of the campuses and the facilities for Paramedic Science students including our state-of-the-art learning and simulation centre.
You’ll undertake a work placement with the London Ambulance Service if you’re studying at Avery Hill or South East Coast Ambulance if you’re at Medway Campus
Laura found that our BSc Paramedic Sciences course offered her everything she needed to become a paramedic and make a real difference to people’s lives.
Current research includes the perceptions and experiences of paramedics assessing and managing patients with pelvic injuries.
If you have a research proposal related to paramedic science, we can help you apply to the university and find the appropriate supervisor.
Programme Leader
Senior Lecturer in Paramedic Science
Quality Lead – Practice Based Learning
Senior Lecturer and Programme Leader

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/pe-and-sport:
If you want to share your passion for PE, Sport and Exercise Science with the next generation, we've got the right course for you.
We're one of the few London universities with an extensive range of sports facilities on campus, including all-weather floodlit sports pitches, an indoor Astro Turf airdrome and a new strength and conditioning lab.
If you love PE, Sport and Exercise Science and want to share your passion for it with the next generation, we've got the right course for you.
You can study for a physical education and sports degree in a number of ways: full-time, part-time, or on a sandwich course which includes a sports industry related placement.
We also offer an extended degree with a foundation year to prepare you for degree-level study.
Study an MPhil/PhD in Human Sciences to conduct cutting-edge research in fields such as psychology, social work, public health & sports science.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: PE, sport and exercise science; Psychology; Public health; Social work
Mode: Full time Location: Avery Hill Campus Subject: PE, sport and exercise science
Interested in careers in sport psychology?
Study a Master’s in Sport and Exercise Psychology and learn from experts in major sports organisations.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: PE, sport and exercise science; Psychology
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Avery Hill Campus Subject: PE, sport and exercise science
Study resistance training for health, performance, injury prevention and nutrition with this unique MSc in Strength and Conditioning.
We're one of the few London universities with an extensive range of sports facilities on campus.
Our courses prepare you for a whole range of careers.
Our expert teaching staff work in the professional sports and sports science sectors and have great contacts for placement and intern opportunities.
Our on-campus sports facilities include all-weather floodlit sports pitches, state-of-the-art facilities, a new strength and conditioning lab, and an indoor AstroTurf airdrome.
Take an aerial view of our pitches.
Our alumni found our MSc in Strength and Contitioning course to be invaluable and recommend it to anyone interested in the field.
If you love PE, Sport and Exercise Science and want to share your passion for it with the next generation, we have got the right course for you.
Find out about studying Strength and Conditioning at the University of Greenwich from Dr Fernando Naclerio, and Joseph, one of our students.
Our research explores the development of sport and physical education, from evaluating the impact of primary school sport to how we engage communities in sport and physical activity.
Specialist projects include exploring the benefits of dance therapy for children on the autistic spectrum.
Employability is important to our students and to us and we continually work with organisations to create opportunities for our students that will set them apart from other graduates.
Senior Lecturer in Sociology
Senior Lecturer, Sports Science and Coaching
Outreach Ambassador for Sports Science
Associate Professor in Sport and Physical Activity Development
Professor in Human Movement and Sport Science
Professor in Strength and Conditioning and Sports Nutrition
Senior Lecturer, Dance and Physical Education
Senior Lecturer in Exercise Physiology
Professor of Sport and Exercise Science
Senior Lecturer, Sport and Exercise Psychology

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/pharmaceutical-science:
Professor Joshua Boateng introduces the School and its ‘learning by doing’ approach to undergraduate and postgraduate teaching.
All our courses are accredited by the Academy of Pharmaceutical Sciences (APS).
They can be studied either full-time or part-time, with our undergraduate courses also offering a sandwich year in industry.
The extended degree also includes a foundation year.
Study the first Master’s in Formulation Science in Europe and learn about the science behind formulating new products.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Medway Campus Subject: Pharmaceutical science; Science
Our Master’s in Pharmaceutical Sciences with Industrial Practice combines a year of study with a year of practical experience from a company internship.
Mode: Sandwich Location: Medway Campus Subject: Pharmaceutical science; Science
Benefit from world-class facilities and enhance your skills in pharmacy and drug discovery with a Master’s in Pharmaceutical Sciences.
High-quality teaching and research-informed teaching underpin the course content of our APS accredited pharmaceutical science and formulation science portfolio.
Joining the Pharmaceutical Sciences Society is a great opportunity for any student interested in the field.
The Faculty of Engineering and Science is located in Chatham, Kent.
Get a sense of what our Medway Campus is all about.
Major research projects are underway on the University of Greenwich's Medway Campus from the School of Science.
Professor in Pharmaceutics and Drug Delivery, Associate Head of School - Research and Knowledge Exchange (School of Science)
Senior Lecturer in Pharmaceutical Science
Professor in Pharmaceutical Technology and Process Engineering; Director of Centre for Research Innovation (CRI)
Principal Lecturer, Pharmaceutical Sciences
Emeritus Professor of Biological Chemistry
Lecturer in Pharmaceutical Science
Emeritus Professor of Pharmaceutical Sciences

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/pharmacy:
Discover a health profession that links medicine, chemistry and biology at the Medway School of Pharmacy.
Our range of degrees in pharmacy include a four-year Master’s in pharmacy which prepares you for professional practice.
You can study full-time, part-time, take a sandwich course with an industry placement or study an extended degree, which includes a foundation year.
Newly registered pharmacists can work towards foundation stages 1 and 2 with this accredited General Pharmacy Practice course.
Mode: Distance Location: Medway Campus Subject: Pharmacy; Science
Qualify as a non-medical prescriber of medicine with our fully accredited Postgraduate Certificate in Independent / Supplementary Prescribing.
Mode: Blended learning Location: Medway Campus Subject: Pharmacy; Science
If you’re a healthcare professional, enhance your career with a flexible distance-learning Master’s degree in Medicines Optimisation.
This integrated MPharm in pharmacy combines biological sciences and drug delivery with patient care to prepare you for a career as a pharmacist.
Mode: Full time Location: Medway Campus Subject: Pharmacy; Science
Study undergraduate and postgraduate courses in Pharmacy with the Medway School of Pharmacy based on the Medway campus.
Established and recognised by the regulator The General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC).
Sara Shahid had her sights set on pharmacy long before she reached university.
She's now relishing the experience of learning about medicine at the Medway School of Pharmacy.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/psychology:
What do you aspire to be?
Our BPS accredited courses provide the foundation for people interested in becoming Practitioner Psychologists.
You can study a psychology degree full-time or part-time at the University of Greenwich.
We specialise in a number of areas, from child psychology and counselling to forensic psychology and the psychology of sport.
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Psychology
Passionate about helping children and young people?
Study a Master’s in Child and Adolescent Psychology.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Psychology
Our Forensic Psychology Master’s degree is designed to prepare you with knowledge and skills required for a career in a forensic setting.
With this MSc in Occupational Psychology you will develop your understanding of a wide range of domains where psychology impacts the workplace.
Study psychology at master’s level, even if your undergraduate degree is in a different subject, with an MSc Psychology Conversion Degree.
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Psychology; Sociology
If you choose an undergraduate degree accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS), you'll be eligible for graduate membership of BPS upon successful completion of your studies - the first step to becoming a chartered psychologist.
What's it like to study psychology at Greenwich?
If you’re interested in understanding how the mind works and may already be thinking of a career in Psychology, Greenwich is the place for you.
We have five psychology laboratories where students learn to use tools such as eye-tracker equipment and specialist psychology software.
Erin, one of our Psychology graduates, found that during her time at Greenwich she developed many transferable skills that helped her get a job she loves.
Our student societies offer a space for growth as well as new opportunities to make lasting friendships.
You can take part in activities via your department and the wider Students’ Union.
Here is a taste of the societies you can join and how our students look out for each other even after they graduate.
We provide a platform to discuss psychedelic compounds and altered states of consciousness and draw awareness to research related to the psychedelic experience.
Dedicated to improving mood and wellbeing, as well as creating a safe place to talk about mental health.
We offer support to overcome stigmas and have fun at the same time.
TEDx is a series of local, self-organized events that bring people together to share a TED-like experience.
Spark deep discussion and connection in small groups.
A Greenwich psychology graduate, now at Barclays, helps students get a taste of what it's like to apply for a job in the corporate world.
The Applied Psychology Research Group focuses on three key areas: Social Psychology, Developmental Psychology, and Cognitive Neuropsychology.
We work collaboratively with a variety of stakeholders and engage with the wider community, hosting events to help children learn more about psychology.
How good are you at recognising faces?
If you are especially good, you might be among the 1% of super-recognisers.
Dr Josh P.
Davis is a leading authority on super-recognisers.
If you have a suitable research proposal in psychology, we can help you apply to the university and find the appropriate supervisor.
Fans of the England national team need to be desperate for penalties to put an end to the spot-kick hoodoo, according to an expert in luck and chance.
Lecturer in Psychology
Lecturer - Specialist Academic Support (Psychology)
Senior Lecturer in Psychology
Senior Human Sciences Technician (Psychology)
Associate Professor of Social Clinical Psychology and Centre Lead of the Centre for Mental Health
Lecturer in Forensic Psychology
Assistant Professor / Lecturer in Psychology
Senior Lecturer in Forensic Psychology
Lecturer in Psychology and Counselling
Senior Lecturer in Sport and Exercise Psychology
Associate Professor in Psychology
Senior Teaching Fellow in Counselling
Associate Professor of Developmental Psychopathology
Associate Professor of Psychology
Postgraduate Research Student, PGR Teaching Assistant
Lecturer, Psychology
Postgraduate Research Student/Postgraduate Research Teaching Assistant
Professor of Developmental Psychology and Deputy Head of ILD
Senior Research Fellow
Associate Professor of Movement and Cognition
Associate Head of School in Research & Knowledge Exchange
Professor in Occupational Psychology and Open Scholarship
Post Graduate Research Student
Associate Professor in Sport and Exercise Psychology
Senior Human Science Technician (Psychology)
Senior Lecturer, Psychology
Professor in Social Psychology
Associate Professor of Clinical Research
Associate Professor of Transdisciplinary Research
Lecturer in Specialist Academic Support (Psychology)
Research Associate

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/public-health:
Challenging times of the pandemic has shown us how important public health is to the way we live.
Learn more about how you can make a difference by studying public health at the University of Greenwich.
We offer degrees in public health and global public health.
You can study a full-time and part-time degree.
Mode: Full time Location: Avery Hill Campus; Greenwich Campus Subject: Early years studies; Public health
You'll gain vital knowledge and experience to be applied to any area of public health practice and our expert tutors help you gain the knowledge needed to become a public health practitioner.
Our graduate Nnamdi Onwura, encourages everyone with a desire to contribute to the promotion of a healthier society to study BSc Hons Public Health at the University of Greenwich.
We speak to Simon Yates who tells us about his time at Greenwich during 2019/2020
Student representatives monitored online participation in Public Health classes to enable lectures to be delivered via a truly 'blended approach’ and encourage live student engagement.
Study our Public Health programmes to develop specialised skills and knowledge around national public health and global public health.
Teaching Fellow in Human Sciences
Senior Lecturer in Public Health
Teaching Fellow in Public Health
Programme Lead for Public Health
Associate Professor of Public Health and Policy and Associate Head of Student Success for the School of Human Sciences
Associate Professor in Public Health and Wellbeing
Lecturer in Public Health
Associate Professor in Public Health and Infectious Disease Epidemiology
Graduate Teaching Support Assistant
Associate Professor in Public Health
Lecturer in Specialist Community Public Health Nursing

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/science:
Interested in studying a science subject?
From pharmacy to forensics, we have so much to offer.
Catch a glimpse of the opportunities available to you.
We offer a range of science degrees, from biology and chemistry to pharmaceutical sciences and forensic science.
Our extended degrees include a foundation year to prepare you for degree-level study, while our science degree apprenticeships help you to gain a degree in the workplace.
Pursue original research in development studies with a research degree (MPhil/PhD) at the University of Greenwich’s Natural Resources Institute.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Medway Campus Subject: Science
Explore new territory across diverse subjects ranging from chemistry and medicine to sustainable development with a research degree in Science (MPhil/PhD).
Discover new horizons with our broad range of Science courses.
Taught at our Medway Campus in Kent, you'll find top-of-the-range facilities and be taught by award-winning academics.
New students studying courses in Science, Technology, Engineering or Mathematics may be able to claim up to £1,000 per academic year towards travel costs.
Indianna applied to study a Biomedical Science degree just before the academic year began.
She is now embracing life at our Medway Campus.
From conservation officer to pharmacologist to food security expert, a biology degree can open the door to a huge range of opportunities and career paths.
Nutritional scientist Zoe Robinson is continuing her family's connection with the university to help people learn to take control of their health.
Research and scholarly activities in science inform our learning and teaching and complement the enterprise activities that we provide.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/social-work:
The University of Greenwich will provide you with the experience, knowledge and skills you'll need for a career in social work and social care.
Find out why our students enjoy studying Social Work.
You can study for a social work degree full-time or part-time, allowing you to fit your studies around work and family commitments.
Upon successful completion of your degree, you will be able to apply to the Social Work England to become a registered social worker.
We work with health and social care providers, including the NHS, as well as a range of community and voluntary sector organistions, and are in the top 10 in the UK for student satisfaction with social work.
A biannual peer-reviewed journal for students, practitioners and academics in the field of social work to share their research, practice experiences and varied perspectives.
Dr Panagiotis Pentaris and his research team won a highly competitive Social Work England tender.
In her own words, Senior Lecturer for Social Work, Jackie, tells us about her journey into Social Work.
Senior Lecturer in Social Work

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/sociology:
Hoping to become a Sociology student at Greenwich in September 2024?
If so, here’s why we think our sociology degrees are great!
We offer sociology as a standalone degree, or combined with history, criminology or psychology.
Our degrees are designed to hone your applied research skills in preparation for the workplace.
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Sociology
Our Sociology modules cover a range of issues including inequality and social change; gender, race and crime; and the sociology of gender and sexuality.
Find out about Meike - a Sociology & Psychology graduate and former Students’ Union president - and discover what inspired her about Greenwich and her ambition to change the world.
Take a tour of our beautiful Greenwich campus, a UNESCO World Heritage Site just a few miles from central London.
Study sociology at Greenwich and gain industry experience with our work placement module.
Discover more about our third-year student Khonaf’s placement journey!
Sharifa's biggest inspiration to come to university was her mother, to fulfil the ambitions to do better, and take up the chance her mother never could.
An interdisciplinary research and practice Centre that promotes and develops research, knowledge exchange/enterprise, public engagement, and professional development around the broad theme of social justice in local and international settings.
Associate Dean of Student Success and Professor in Applied Sociology
Associate Dean Research & Knowledge Exchange
Lecturer in Economic Sociology
Professor of Sociology and Academic Portfolio Leader for Sociology
Associate Professor in Sociology

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/teacher-education:
Senior teaching fellow Suzy Hails and primary education student Claudine Henney discuss our teaching programmes
We offer around 30 teacher education courses, including BA Hons and PGCE qualifications.
At undergraduate level, you can study primary education, or a one-year lifelong learning professional certificate in education.
Postgraduates can choose from a number of specialist PGCEs.
Our Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) will support you in gaining the skills to become a teacher in the Further Education sector.
Mode: Full time,  Part time Location: Avery Hill Campus Subject: Teacher training
Gain extensive teaching practice and a recognised teaching qualification with this Professional Graduate Certificate in Education.
Mode: Part time Location: North East Surrey College Of Technology (NESCOT) Subject: Teacher training
Our PGCE Primary (School based) course is for you.
Mode: Full time Location: Avery Hill Campus Subject: Teacher training
Our PGCE Primary (university based) course is for you.
Teach and inspire young learners with our primary education degree.
Receive teacher training and gain Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).
Secondary school teachers don't just educate; they shape the futures of young adults.
Become a fully qualified secondary school teacher with this school based PGCE course.
Turn your passion and skill with maths into a rewarding career.
Learn to motivate and nurture the next generation of students with a PGCE in mathematics at secondary level.
Interested in teaching sport?
Want a rewarding career as a PE teacher?
Begin your training at Greenwich with a PGCE in Physical Education at secondary level.
Become a biology teacher and inspire pupils to embrace the natural sciences.
Begin your training with a secondary education PGCE in science.
Want to be a secondary school chemistry teacher?
Begin your training at Greenwich with a secondary level PGCE in science with chemistry.
As a physics teacher, you will share your knowledge and enthusiasm with secondary school pupils and promote an interest in science.
Begin your training at Greenwich.
At the University of Greenwich, we're proud of our recognition and our excellent rating from Ofsted.
Find out more about our reputation and where you will study.
Our alumni Chris Ball has gone on to become Head of School since completing the PGCE Primary Education course here at the University of Greenwich.
Amelia Stockwell, Primary Education with QTS BA Hons alumna, talks us through her journey at Greenwich.
Current student Claire Kelly tells us about her experience so far studying on the Primary Education Studies (2-Year Accelerated Degree), BA Hons
Did you know you could receive bursaries of over £25,000 depending on the teaching specialism?
For example, those wishing to teach Chemistry could be eligible for a bursary of £29,000.
Current research includes the experiences and motivations of school mentors, imposter syndrome among newly qualified teachers, models of assessment in secondary science, and mastery in primary mathematics.
If you have a research proposal related to teacher education, we can help you apply to the university and find the appropriate supervisor.
Deputy Head of School, School of Education
Senior Lecturer in LLTE
Professor of Mathematics Education, National Teaching Fellow and HEA Senior Fellow
Senior Teaching Fellow in Primary Education
Quality Lead for professional placements and partnerships in ITE
Senior Lecturer in HE Learning and Teaching
Head of School of Education
Academic Portfolio Lead for Primary Education
Programme Leader for Secondary Education ITE Programmes
Programme Leader for School Based Primary PGCEs
Programme Leader for Primary Education with QTS
Programme Leader for the Primary PGCE
Senior Lecturer in Teacher Education and Lead for Primary Mathematics
Practitioner in Primary Teacher Education

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/subjects/tourism-hospitality-and-events:
You’ll attract employers if you have relevant work experience.
Greenwich's taught tourism, hospitality & events degrees offer students the chance to undertake a placement.
Hear from three Greenwich students about their placement experiences.
Choose from a range of great events, tourism and hospitality degrees.
At undergraduate level, our non-direct-entry degrees offer - with their sandwich mode - the chance to undertake a placement year and two of our taught master's now offer a 'with placement' version.
Mode: Full time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Tourism, hospitality and events
Join this direct entry Hospitality Management degree in the final year as a direct, overseas, entrant Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Tourism, hospitality and events
Join our Hospitality Management degree in Year 3 as a direct entrant Mode: Full time Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Tourism, hospitality and events
Mode: Full time,  Part time,  Sandwich Location: Greenwich Campus Subject: Tourism, hospitality and events
Join us in shaping the future of tourism and hospitality - study at our stunning campus, a UNESCO World Heritage Site in London, and get the chance to undertake a placement.
Explore the world of tourism, hospitality and events with a MSc in Strategic Tourism and Hospitality Management.
Our tourism management degree with language combines the skills you need to thrive in the tourism industry with a language for international careers.
Discover some of the reasons we think Greenwich is a great place to study Events, Tourism or Hospitality.
Daniela tells us about her experience studying Tourism Management at Greenwich
Our Tourism Research Centre is based around a network of academics, researchers and research students who all have a particular interest in tourism studies.
We’re always keen to enhance our tourism research through collaboration.
If you have a suitable research proposal in tourism, hospitality or events, we can help you apply to the university and find the appropriate supervisor.
Associate Head of the School of Management & Marketing - Research & Knowledge Exchange, Associate Professor in Tourism
Associate Professor, School of Management and Marketing
Academic Portfolio Lead – Hospitality and Tourism | Associate Professor in Hospitality
Senior Lecturer in Events Management | Programme Leader for International Event Management Masters
PhD Student
Senior Lecturer in Tourism and Events Management
Associate Professor in Marketing and Events Management
Principal Lecturer Tourism, Departmental Head of Research and Director of Tourism Research Centre
Associate Professor in Tourism and Events
Principal Lecturer in Tourism and Business School Admissions Tutor
Lecturer, Events Management
Senior Lecturer in Tourism and Events
Principal Lecturer; International Partnerships Link Tutor
Senior Lecturer in Tourism & Events, Programme Leader - BA International Tourism & Hospitality Management
Programme Leader for BA Events Management

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/visa:
Not sure if you need a visa to study at the University of Greenwich?
See our guidance on this.
Visa information if you’re planning to study in the UK
Information about arriving in the UK as an international student
Important information you need to know about visas during your studies
Information about visas after graduation, including work visas and further study
Click here for information on how Brexit affects your immigration status if you are an EU, EEA, or Swiss national
International students face similar problems with their visa conditions.
We have gathered the answers to the questions our students ask most frequently.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/finance/fees :
The majority of our online content can be found within our site search.
Our most popular content can be found in the following sections:
A full site map of our website is available online, and may help you find what you are looking for.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/ugic:
University of Greenwich International College: preparing international students for undergraduate and postgraduate studies in the UK.
University of Greenwich International College (UGIC) is an embedded college located near the main campus at University of Greenwich, offering an exciting range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses for international students.
UGIC is run by Oxford International Education Group , an educational organisation with an international reputation.
The College is located at the beautiful Bounty House near the main University of Greenwich campus.
University of Greenwich International College Address
Bounty House
Stowage
SE8 3DE
UGIC offers students a unique study experience in one of the world's most vibrant cities.
College Director Jacqui Ecoeur introduces the college's benefits and how they help students achieve their academic goals.
UGIC provides a foundation year in a wide range of academic subjects, which once successfully completed lead onto the chosen undergraduate degree with University of Greenwich.
This programme is the first year of a four year undergraduate course.
The first year takes place within UGIC, then, after successful completion of this, you will continue your degree directly with the university.
Subject routes available are:
The IY1 is the first year of a three-year undergraduate course, taught at the college, and is equivalent to your first year of study at undergraduate level.
Subject routes available are:
The International Incorporated Master's (IIM) programme focuses on equipping you with the business-related subject knowledge and the advanced study and English language skills you need to complete your postgraduate study at University of Greenwich.
This programme is designed for students who do not qualify for direct entry to the Master's programmes at University of Greenwich.
The IIM provides you with the advanced academic and English language skills you need to continue to postgraduate Master’s study.
Our course provides either one term (10 weeks) or two terms (20 weeks) of preparation for entry into a range of one-year Master’s degree at The University of Greenwich.
Pre-Sessional English is a 6 or 12-week extension course for those who may not yet meet the required English language standards for direct entry to our pathways.
See below table for information on our English language requirements and what pre-sessional course is required:
View pathway dates and fees.
Apply to Study in the UK - Oxford International
These requirements are indicative only and subject to change.
Each application is dealt with on an individual basis.
Click here to check your country specific entry requirements.
Alternatively, please contact us at ugic@oxfordinternational.com or enquire with your local representative.
International Year Zero
Five GCSE's at Grades A* - C + IELTS 5.5 (with no less than 5.5 in each component)
International Year One
80 UCAS points + IELTS 5.5 (with no less than 5.5 in each component)
International Pre-Masters
2 Term - Qualifying degree 1 Term Qualifying degree (minimum 3rd class honors) +IELTS 5.5 (with no less than 5.5 in each component)
Pre-sessional English courses are available if you do not meet the IELTs requirements
Applying with us is easy.
Complete the online application form and attach copies of all relevant academic transcripts and certificate of English language qualifications.
For questions or enquiries contact us by email via ugic@oxfordinternational.com
University of Greenwich International College is operated by Oxford International Education Group in partnership with University of Greenwich.
Oxford International is an accredited, private education provider that operates colleges, schools and English language centres across the UK and North America to help international students achieve academic success.
While studying at University of Greenwich International College you will have a fantastic choice of locations to choose from, both on and off-campus in the vibrant, diverse city of London.
On-campus accommodation for UGIC students is limited, so it is essential that you contact your local representative for more information at the time of application.
Our staff are here to help you find accommodation including off-campus options.
On-campus options include:
More information on accommodation
University of Greenwich International College, operated by Oxford International Education Group, has written a Privacy Notice to explain how we keep your data safe and respect your privacy.
View our privacy policy.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/support-and-help/courses/pre-sessional:
If you do not meet the English language requirements for direct entry onto your chosen degree, you may be able to join one of our Pre-sessional English (PSE) programmes.
These courses run in the summer and give students an immersive, in person experience at our beautiful Greenwich campus.
Students are required to present an UKVI IELTS* score before entering the course.
*For students not requiring a student visa, we are able to accept a non-UKVI IELTS
*This is the overall score required for UKVI IELTS at this entry level.
Please note that there is a minimum of 4.0 required in any skill.
The PSE course is an intensive learning experience in which students improve their knowledge of academic English while learning about the culture of the University and life in the UK.
The classes are divided into four areas:
Student will also receive regular tutorials to ensure that the learning experience is meaningful to their language needs and future degree qualification.
The PSE course is so much more than a chance to boost your English language skills before you start your university degree.
It takes time to adjust to living in a new country and settle into a new academic institution.
It is very common for students to experience a degree of culture shock when they arrive in the country.
The course is designed with an understanding of this in mind.
Students will be given the chance to develop their understanding of the written and unwritten rules of living and studying in a British Institution.
Moreover, because you will be living and interacting in an English-speaking environment, you will give your ears a chance to tune in to the local accents.
This will mean that when you start attending your degree course, you will feel ready to learn.
Students must be 18 years of age to join the course.
The maximum number of students per class is 16.
16 hours of teaching per week (Monday to Thursday)
Additional hours on Fridays for library-based research, self-study, and optional class trips.
Week 1
AM
10:00 – 12:00*
PM
1:00 – 3:00
Week 2
10:00 – 12:00
*Sample class times may vary.
Assessments are designed to prepare you for the kinds of experiences and assessments you will need to complete during your degree.
You will complete a reading portfolio, deliver an academic presentation and an assessed seminar, complete a listening test and write an extended essay.
To help you better prepare for the assessment tasks, you will complete a range of coursework and practice tasks.
You will also receive regular tutor feedback on your work, which should help you better understand and monitor own progress and prepare you for the assessment tasks.
Affordable class trips will take place to places of cultural interest, including (but not limited to):
Entry to the above attractions is free although some transport costs may be incurred if the location is not in Greenwich.
Please see the Transport for London website for the cost of Underground, bus, and Riverboat tickets.
The course has been accredited by the British Council .
For students who are unable to travel to Greenwich for their pre-sessional English classes, we can also support them with an online option.
Our online pre-sessional English course is run by our partner Oxford International.
Find out more about their English classes (ELLT) here:

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/aqf:
We have signed a pledge with the British Universities' International Liaison Association and the British Council, which declares that we are committed to:
Read more about working with Educational Agents in the Student Guide to Choosing an Education Agent .
All the representatives listed on the ‘Greenwich in my country’ page are required to provide the University of Greenwich with evidence that they have undertaken British Council agent training and have up to date awareness about UKVI Laws and compliance.
Our representatives will assist our international students with their application, provide any advice necessary, and support them with preparing and submitting any required documents.
Whilst the representative will assist in this process, international students have overall responsibility for their application and any communications.
You can read more about the framework and codes of practice through the below links:

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/living/why-study-in-the-united-kingdom:
The United Kingdom (UK) is a country with a wealth of history, a host of industrial links, a multicultural community and an array of opportunities for you to make the most of.
The UK is easy to travel to, with daily flights arriving from across the world.
Two major international airports, Heathrow and Gatwick, are within an hour's travel of our Greenwich and Avery Hill Campuses.
Medway Campus is only an hour away from Gatwick.
One of the main advantages of studying outside your own country is that you will be exposed to different cultures and experiences.
The sights, sounds and tastes of the UK are varied.
Whether you enjoy exploring cities or prefer to get out into the countryside, the UK has something to offer you.
The UK's cafés and restaurants serve cuisines from around the world as well as traditional British food such as fish and chips and Sunday roast.
Our climate is equally variable: you can bask in summer temperatures of between 18ºC and 25ºC and wrap up warm in winter temperatures averaging 5ºC.
So be prepared for all weathers.
The UK embraces people from all over the world and has a wide and vibrant multicultural society.
This is reflected in the UK's diverse religious beliefs, music, events and even fashion.
Studying in the UK has many academic and employment benefits:

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/living/medical:
Live healthily at University of Greenwich.
Find out about nearby medical services for international students.
Register at a medical centres.
Doctors in the UK are often called General Practitioners (GPs).
They are part of a team of health professionals who work in a medical practice.
We urge all international students to register with a doctor as soon as they begin their studies at the University of Greenwich.
All international students studying for six months or longer are entitled to free National Health Service (NHS)  treatment.
EEA Nationals studying for less than six months are also eligible for NHS treatment, provided you have form E128, which has to be completed in your home country.
If you are a resident of a country that has a reciprocal health care agreement you will be eligible for some NHS treatment.
Check what kind of treatment you can receive before you leave home.
Free services that are available to eligible students through the NHS include:
All students can receive free emergency medical help.
International students who are studying for less than six months will have to pay for any treatment other than emergency treatment.
Health care can be expensive so we recommend you take out medical insurance.
Endsleigh Insurance offer medical insurance plus cover for personal and valuable possessions for approximately £80 for four months.
All students have to pay for:
Our health and medical services teams will give you all the help and support you need to live and study happily and healthily.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/living/tips:
Before you travel to the UK to study at the University of Greenwich, read over this checklist of what to bring and make sure you have everything you need.
If you bring any medication with you into the UK, you will need a letter from your doctor that has been translated into English and explains what the medicine is and what it is for.
If you are undergoing any long-term medical treatment you should also bring a letter from your doctor, counsellor, or hospital specialist.
You can bring as much money as you like, in any form, into the UK, but are advised against carrying large amounts of cash.
You just need enough to last until you have opened, and transferred money into, a bank account.
Around £300 to £500 in cash should be enough.
You can bring in additional money in travellers cheques that can be cashed in banks, post offices and airports.
You will need to make sure you can pay your accommodation and tuition fees at registration.
So you may want to bring separate bankers drafts made out for the correct amounts.
Many airlines have a restrictive weight or size allowance for check-in luggage, so check with your airline before you leave.
Others airlines, such as Virgin Atlantic have discounted fares and high baggage allowances, you can check it on their website .
There are some restrictions on what you can bring into the UK and items should be for personal use only.
Visit the Home Office website for details.
The British Council organises pre-departure briefings for students coming to the UK to study.
Visit the British Council website for information or contact the relevant British Council country offices to find out if there is a pre-departure briefing in your country.
Get ready to study in the UK with the Prepare for Success interactive web learning tool for international students.
Find out about academic life, the skills needed for effective study and how to adapt to living in the UK.
Our university systems such as our buses, coaches and cafeteria, run on a cashless system.
It is very important for international students to be aware travelling to the UK without any bank cards, means you may not be able to access the university buses and coaches to travel to different campuses or buy food from the canteen until you open a UK bank account.
Before arriving to the UK, you may also apply for a Monzo or Revolut card before you arrive to use for both the university bus ticking system or the cafeteria.
If you cannot bring your bank card from home into the UK and do not want to open an account with Monzo or Revolut beforehand, then you can create a PayPal account to book tickets to use the university bus and coaches.
When using a PayPal account, please note it is a requirement for the payment to be in GBP currency.
However, if you prefer to use your home country bank card until you open your preferred UK bank account, please see a list of cards accepted:
*The part bold are accepted at both the bus/coach ticketing system and the cafeteria.
The part not in bold is not accepted by the cafeteria but is by the bus/coach ticketing system:
Visa
Visa debit
Visa electron
MasterCard
Debit MasterCard
Maestro
American Express
Diners
Discover

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/living/arriving:
When you arrive in the UK to study at the University of Greenwich, you will have a lot to take in and it will be easy to forget to do something important.
Here are some things you need to do when you get here.
Take photocopies of your passport and Biometric Residence Permit (BRP), and keep them separate from the originals.
You may also wish to copy your air travel ticket(s).
Some international students need to register with the Police.
Check your Visa.
If it says "report to police" or "must report to police within 7 days", and you are living in the London area, you must register with:
Overseas Visitors Records Office Brandon House 180 Borough High Street London SE1 Monday to Friday 9am to 4.30pm
If you are living in the Medway area, you must register at the Nationality Department at Longport Police Station.
You can get more information from the Medway Student Centre.
You must register within seven days of UK arrival and you will need your passport, two recent passport-size photographs and the registration fee, which is around £35.
You can register with a GP at a Medical Centre or Doctor's practice close to where you live.
Do not wait until you are ill.
You will need a student status letter issued by the university confirming your registration and programme duration, and a copy of your passport and visa.
Additional documents may be required.
Endsleigh Insurance provides cover specifically for international students.
If you intend to work while studying in the UK, check your visa to make sure this is permitted.
If it is not, your visa will say No Work, Work Prohibited or contain similar wording.
If you are allowed to work make sure you know the student rules for working.
It is considered a breach of your visa if you do not adhere to them.
If you intend to regularly use public transport in London, an Oyster card will save you money.
For more information, visit the Transport for London website .
An ISIC card will give you discounts on travel, shops and museums all over the world.
You will need a TV Licence to watch or record TV on demand viewing.
Find out more about TV licences here.
Set yourself a reminder to extend or renew them at least two months before their expiry dates.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/accept-your-offer:
How to accept your offer depends on how you have applied and how you intend to pay your fees.
When you accept your offer, as per your offer letter, you are agreeing to the University's Terms and Conditions .
These should be reviewed prior to accepting your offer.
Please select from the dropdown list below depends on how you have applied and how you intend to pay your fees.
If you are planning to pay for your studies yourself, and you have applied directly to us via our website, or via one of our agent representatives, you can accept your place by paying a £3,000 deposit.
Accept via deposit
If you have applied directly through our website, or via one of our representatives, and you will be paying fees via a sponsor such as a government or organisation (e.g.
US Federal Aid, Kuwait Cultural Office, Norweigan Lånekassen loan), you can accept your place by emailing us at aoc@gre.ac.uk .
You should write a short email confirming your acceptance and that you are applying for government funding.
In the email you must include your name, course and University of Greenwich applicant ID (nine digits, starts with 001).
Accept via email
If you applied via UCAS, you can accept your offer by logging into your UCAS account.
The deadline for you to accept your offer can vary depending on when you made your application.
You can check the deadlines here or on your UCAS hub .
Accept via UCAS
If you have accepted Greenwich as your Firm choice, you will also need to make a £3,000 deposit in order to be issued your CAS.
You can pay your deposit via our payment platform Convera .
If you are sponsored by a government or organisation (e.g.
If you applied, for a teacher training programme via DFE, you can accept your offer by logging into your DFE account.
You can check this and accept your offer by logging into your DFE account .
Accept via DFE
If you have accepted your offer via DFE, you will also need to make a £3,000 deposit in order to be issued your CAS.
Please note the deposit deadline for students on DFE programmes is earlier than other programmes, as the programme also starts earlier.
For September 2025 entry, you must have accepted your offer and paid your deposit (or confirmed your sponsorship) before 20 th July 2025.
International students have a guaranteed 28 days to pay their deposit and accept their offer.
If you are a sponsored student, you will have a guaranteed 28 days to confirm your sponsorship and accept your offer.
After 28 days, we should still be able to accept you, however you should check that there is still space on your programme.
You can check if your programme is closed on our closed course page .
If you applied via UCAS or DFE, you will have a separate deadline which can be viewed on the deadlines here or on your UCAS hub or DFE Apply
If you require a Student visa, you will need enough time in order to get your CAS, apply for your visa, receive a visa decision and travel to the UK.
We therefore set different deadlines during the year to ensure you have enough time to arrive and start your programme in good time.
We publish deadlines for deposits, CAS issuance and arrival around 6 months before the intake (or 3 months before the intake for January and April starters).
Once you have accepted your offer, you will be invited to our CAS Shield system via email, where you’ll need to create an account and request a Confirmation of Acceptance for Study (CAS) for your Student visa application.
Find out how to get your CAS here .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/capped-courses:
Due to the high demand for a number of our programmes at the University of Greenwich, our faculties have placed limits on the number of students that can be accepted.
Once you have received an offer to study on a capped course, you will be invited by email to secure your place by paying a deposit.
You can see below if your chosen course remains open for applications or deposits.
If the course has closed, you will need to make an application for the next available intake, or defer your offer if you already hold an offer to study with us and did not made your deposit payment before the course closed.
If you hold an offer to study a capped course with us and have not made your deposit payment, you will receive an email from us to confirm that the course has now reached capacity, and options will be provided for you on the next steps to take.
Many of our courses are very popular and some have a limited number of places.
Once you have an offer to study, you can secure your place by making a deposit payment.
September 2025
To secure your place, you must pay a pre-registration deposit of £3,000.
Once we receive your deposit, we will reserve your place for your chosen intake.
If your course becomes full before you pay your deposit, we will notify you that the course has closed, and you won’t be able to join us for that intake.
After this point, any payment you make will not secure your place.
Find out how to pay a deposit .
The deposit payment is non-refundable, apart from in certain circumstances as laid out in our charging and refund policy.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/global-greenwich-summer-school:
The Global Greenwich Summer School offers a unique, multidisciplinary opportunity to engage with international students, explore global themes, and participate in interactive academic modules — all on our iconic London campus.
Expand your perspectives, build lifelong connections, and make the most of your summer through this dynamic, globally focused programme.
Join our summer school from 11th to 24th August 2025 for an unforgettable international experience in London.
For a fee of £1700 (or £1000 for the first 10 students from TNE partner institutions), participants will enjoy a dynamic programme featuring lectures across various subjects, CV-building workshops, and cultural activities across London.
The package includes meals and on-campus accommodation.
If you're a student from another university interested in studying at the University of Greenwich for a year or a term or our summer school, please contact studyabroad@gre.ac.uk with your enquiry.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/study-abroad/outgoing:
As a student at the University of Greenwich, you have access to generous funding opportunities to study abroad at one of our partner universities or attend a partially funded international summer school.
According to UUKi , students who study abroad are more employable and often graduate with higher grades.
The amount I have learnt and the experience I have gained is enormous.
Personally, I have grown more from my year abroad than anything I have ever experienced.
- Samantha Fogden, Haaga-Helia University, Finland
A year later I feel like a new person.
I am more confident, patient, understanding, and much more resilient.
I gained a lot of skills that I could never have developed if I hadn’t studied abroad.
- Timea Palfi, University of Rijeka, Croatia
Working or studying abroad is challenging and requires a lot of courage, however, it's a very rewarding process.
The time flies so fast, and you don't even notice how much you learnt, not only about the cultures but about yourself too!
- Silvija Danauskaite, Universidad San Jorge, Spain
I cannot even begin to sum up the incredible experiences I have had, studying abroad!
I visited all parts of the country, saw animals I had never seen before, and have made friends for life.
A semester or an academic year abroad will blow your mind, expectations and any presumptions you may have.
- Rebecca Davidson, Aarhus University, Denmark
Studying abroad has been truly transformative for me.
I stepped outside my comfort zone more times than I can count.
These experiences prepared me for career paths I wouldn’t have considered before.
My time in Netherlands has left me with unforgettable memories and a deeper sense of who I am.
- Zanete Markova, The Hague University of Applied Sciences, The Netherlands
If you're a University of Greenwich student interested in studying abroad, please contact goabroad@gre.ac.uk with any questions.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/study-abroad/incoming:
Each year, the University of Greenwich welcomes students from partner institutions around the world to join us for a semester or full academic year.
As an incoming exchange or study abroad student, you’ll experience high-quality teaching, a diverse and inclusive student community, and the opportunity to study on our historic riverside campus in London.
You should apply through your home university in the first instance.
All students nominated by their home university to study at the University of Greenwich will be sent full application details by the Global Mobility team.
You need to apply by the deadlines below and pay tuition fees.
We are working towards an incoming fee-paying system and at the same time we encourage students from non-partners to apply.
Application Deadlines
It's important that we receive your application before the deadline so that you have a chance to apply for University accommodation should you wish to do so.
Please contact studyabroad@gre.ac.uk for the application form and guidance.
Greenwich offers a wide breadth of opportunities, for people from all backgrounds.
Visit us and find out more about what we have to offer.
The university offers a wide range of courses incoming Erasmus and Study Abroad students can choose from during their studies.
Study abroad and exchange students spending a term or year at the University of Greenwich can apply for university accommodation.
Spending a term at the University of Greenwich was one of the best decisions I’ve made.
The campus looks like a movie set, and studying with students from all over the world made every class feel like a cultural exchange.
I learnt just as much outside the classroom as I did inside it!
- Emma Äijälä, Helsinki Haaga Helia university, Finland

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/study-abroad/summer-programmes-abroad/_nocache:
IDRAC Summer school experience
The University of Greenwich offers students the chance to attend one month in international summer schools during the summer break.
These programmes are partially funded by the UK Government through the Turing Scheme, and you may also apply for additional support via the Global Greenwich Bursary.
To be eligible, you must be a current student at the University of Greenwich.
Recent graduates are also eligible, but they must complete the summer school/ placement abroad within 12 months of completing their degree.
Applications for the 2025 summer schools are now OPEN!
Please submit your application via this link below by the 28th February.
After the deadline, applicants may be invited to attend a short interview.
Participating in a summer school abroad offers the chance to gain international experience, explore new cultures, develop academic and personal skills, and expand your global network.
It’s also a great way to boost your CV and stand out to future employers.
Yes, financial support is available through the Turing Scheme and the Global Greenwich Bursary .
The Turing Scheme is the UK government’s programme to provide funding for international opportunities in education and training across the world.
You do not need to apply separately for the Turing Scheme.
Turing Scheme fundings are not subject to application but will be available to all the students going on a summer school and calculated according to the specific programme.
You need to apply and be eligible for the Global Greenwich Bursary.
Students must fill out an additional Global Greenwich Bursary application form to be eligible for it.
Undergraduate home students meeting at least one of the criteria below are eligible to apply for the bursary:
More details will be provided during the application process
Unfortunately, we do not provide financial support for visas or flights.
These must be booked and arranged individually by each student.
However, to support you in the process, we organise Q&A sessions that includes Flight suggestions and a session with the Visa Compliance Team to help answer any specific visa-related questions.
Summer schools are non-credit bearing and do not count towards your final degree classification .
However, they offer valuable extracurricular experience and can enhance your personal and professional development.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/albania:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Albania on its programmes.
View the entry requirements and contact us for further information.
Meet our international student Maria and find out why she’s enjoying her student life at Greenwich.
Learn more about joining the University of Greenwich as an international student.
22,000+ international students from over 100 countries
Ranked No.
1 the best UK university by StudentCrowd Awards 2023
Awarded Gold in 2023 TEF results
The University of Greenwich is a place with no limits on what you can achieve.
For over 130 years we have been helping students to explore their talents and reach their personal and academic goals.
We are a friendly and welcoming community where international students make up around 30% of our student population.
So, whichever campus you are on, you’ll soon feel at home.
Plus, all our student accommodation is open to international students.
We’ll be by your side with whatever you need, ensuring that you’re cared for and supported while you’re a student with us.
If you’re eligible, you can apply for a scholarship or bursary, contributing up to £5000 towards your tuition.
You could also earn money by taking on part-time work at the university through our Student Ambassador Scheme.
Whatever you’re interested in, you’ll find a course that’s right for you.
We offer career-focused degrees in many subject areas, including business, law, architecture, computing, design, education, health, engineering, science, humanities and social sciences.
You’ll find our standard entry requirements for most courses below.
Some courses may have different entry requirements so please visit the relevant course page for more details.
Located in historic campuses in London and Kent, we provide industry-relevant courses that are accredited by professional bodies.
You'll benefit from our modern study facilities, including advanced laboratories and libraries.
Albania-Matura (Certificate of Maturity) with a minimum grade 7
Some Bachelor's degrees allow advanced entry to year 2 or year 3, depending on your study history.
Please contact us to check your eligibility.
For some courses, you will need to have studied relevant subjects at school/college to be eligible.
Our admissions team will determine this once you apply.
For more details on English language requirements, please see our English Language Requirement page.
Pre-sessional English programmes are only available to students that have completed a UKVI IELTS exam.
Please visit our Pre-sessional English course page for more information.
For some courses, you will need to have studied relevant subjects at university to be eligible.
Greenwich has one of the most interesting curricula among London universities and offers the opportunity to learn all schools of thought, equipping you with a number of tools.
- Craig Joseph, BA Business Economics
International applicants who wish to study at undergraduate (Bachelor‘s) level can either apply through one of our trusted agents below or direct to us via UCAS (University and Colleges Admissions Service).
International applicants who wish to study at postgraduate (Master’s) level with us can either apply directly using our online application form or through one of our one of our trusted agents below.
The University of Greenwich is committed to the UK Agent Quality Framework (AQF) and pledges to create and maintain the highest standards of agent management, ensuring the UK remains the leading study destination for international students.
As an international student you will be expected to self-finance your studies, but you may be able to receive discounts from your tuition fees.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/algeria:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Algeria on its programmes.
Minimum Entry requirements for year 1 entry are as follows:
For advanced entry to Year 2 you will need to complete:
For details on English language requirements, please see our English Language Requirement page.
Pre-sessional English programmes are only available to students that have completed a UKVI IELTS.
For entry to our Master's programmes, you will need to have met the following:

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/argentina:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Argentina on its programmes.
For standard entry to our Undergraduate courses, we expect students from Argentina to have the following:
These will be considered on a case by case basis.
For entry to our Postgraduate courses, we expect students from Argentina to have the following:
For help with applications or any enquiries, please get in touch with Adam Austin (International Recruitment Officer for the Americas and UKI)

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/australia:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Australia on its programmes.
Meet our international student Huyen and find out why she’s enjoying her student life at Greenwich.
IELTS exemption: Graduate of a bachelor or masters degree from Australia.
Please note this waiver does not apply if the degree was only partially studied in Australia.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/austria:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Austria on its programmes.
Reifeprufungszeugnis/Maturazeugnis with a minimum grade of 3.0
Reifeprufungszeugnis/Maturazeugnis 2.0 or better in English when both written and oral exams have been passed.
Reifeprufungszeugnis/Maturazeugnis 2.0 or better in English when both written and oral exams have been passed

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/bahrain:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Bahrain on its programmes.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/bangladesh:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Bangladesh on its programmes.
Meet our student Abdul from the Bangladesh and find out why he loves student life at Greenwich.
Learn more about how you can join us as an international student.
There is no OIETC waiver for Bangaladesh nationals.
For certain programmes such as Psychology, Law, and Architecture, a higher English language proficiency is required.
Please see our English Language Requirement page for further information.
No OIETC waiver for Bangladesh nationals.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/belarus:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Belarus on its programmes.
Please contact the International Office, H.L.McCormack@gre.ac.uk for more information
For details on English language requirements, please see our English Language Requirement page or contact the International Office, H.L.McCormack@gre.ac.uk for more information.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/belgium:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Belgium on its programmes.
Year 1  Entry:
GERMAN: Abschlusszeugnis der Oberstufe des Sekundarunterrichts with a minimum grade of 12
FRENCH: Diplôme d'Aptitude à Accéder à l'Enseignement Supérieur or Certificat d'Enseignement Secondaire Supérieur with a minimum grade of 12
FLEMISH: Diplome van Secundair Onderwijs with a minimum grade of 12 and with 75%
Year 2 and Year 3 Entry: Please contact the International Office, europe@gre.ac.uk for more information.
Diplôme d'Aptitude à Accéder à l'Enseignement Supérieur or Certificat d'Enseignement Secondaire Supérieur/Diplome van Hoger Secundair Onderwijs/Abschlusszeugnis der Oberstufe des Sekundarunterrichts with 75% or better in English, can exempt from IELTS.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/botswana:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Botswana on its programmes.
Undergraduate (year 1): Entry to year 1 requires completion of A-levels or IB.
For details of required A-level/IB scores please refer to the individual course webpages.
Undergraduate (year 2 or year 3): Although, there are no agreed progression routes, but we can consider ND or HND for progression to year 2 or 3 entry depending on the final grade.
If you're interested in applying to the University after part completion of a degree or completion of a diploma, applications will be assessed on case-by-case basis.
Please contact M.H.Brown@greenwich.ac.uk for more information.
BGCSE or IGCSE English with Grade C or above can exempt you from IELTS.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/brazil:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Brazil on its programmes.
For standard entry to our Undergraduate courses, we expect students from Brazil to have the following:
For standard entry to our Master's programmes, we expect students from Brazil to have the following:

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/bulgaria:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Bulgaria on its programmes.
Please contact Please contact the International Office, europe@gre.ac.uk for more information.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/cambodia:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Cambodia on its programmes.
Meet our international student Chayathip and find out why she’s enjoying her student life at Greenwich.
Successful completion of a foundation programme
Year 1 pass of Cambodian Degree with a minimum grade of 70%

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/cameroon:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Cameroon on its programmes.
We can also accept Diplôme Universitaire de Technologie with a minimum grade of 12/20 (Assez bien).
Undergraduate (year 2/3): Although, there are no agreed progression routes, but we can consider Diplôme Supérieur d'Études Professionnelles (Higher Professional Diploma) with minimum grade of 12/20 (Assez bien) for progression to year 2 or 3 entry.
If you're interested in applying to the University after completion of a Higher Professional Diploma, applications will be assessed on case by case basis.
Cameroon GCSE or IGCSE English with Grade C or above can exempt you from IELTS.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/canada:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Canada on its programmes.
Nationals of Canada and graduates of a bachelor/masters degree from Canada are exempt from IELTS, EXCEPT where graduating from a university in Quebec.
Quebec Only: Pass Diplome d'Etudes Collegiales with a minimum score of 3.0 or IELTS / equivalent
For details on English language requirements, please see our English Language Requirement page
For entry to our Master's programmes, we expect students from Canada to have met the following:

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/chile:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Chile on its programmes.
Students from Chile typically require a foundation to prepare for Undergraduate study in the UK.
Please refer to UGIC , the University of Greenwich International College.
For entry to our Postgraduate courses, we expect students from Chile to have the following:

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/china:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from China on its programmes.
Senior Secondary School Graduation Certificate with a minmum average grade 70%; National College Entrance Examination (NCEE/Gokao) with a minimum average grade 65%
For advanced entry to Year 3 you will need to complete:

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/colombia:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Colombia on its programmes.
For standard entry to our Undergraduate courses, we expect students from Colombia to have the following:
For entry to our Master's courses, we expect students from Colombia to have the following:

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/cote-divoire:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Cote d'Ivoire on its programmes.
Undergraduate (year 2/3): Although, there are no agreed progression routes, but we can consider Licence grade 13 overall for progression to year 2 or 3 entry.
If you're interested in applying to join year 2 or 3 at the University , applications will be assessed on case by case basis.
For full details on English language requirements, please see our English Language Requirement page.
Completion of a Master's degree with a minimum of 13

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/croatia:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Croatia on its programmes.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/cyprus:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Cyprus on its programmes.
Apolytirion with a minimum grade of 17 or Devlet Lise Diplomasi with a minimum grade of 70%

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/czech-republic:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Czech Republic on its programmes.
Czech Republic-Maturitni Zkousce/Maturita with a minimum grade of 2.5

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/denmark:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Denmark on its programmes.
Studentereksamen (STX) or: HF/HHX/HTX/Diplomingenior with a minimum grade of 4 (in 7 point system)
Grade 9 or better in English in the final examinations of Bevis for Almen Studentereksamen (STX) and Bevis for Hojere Forberedelseseksamen (HF) are exempt from IELTS.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/egypt:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Egypt on its programmes.
Applicants who have completed the national schooling system typically require foundation, please refer to UGIC .
Graduates of MSA Egypt are exempt from IELTS

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/estonia:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Estonia on its programmes.
Gumnaasiumi Loputunnistus with a minimum aggregate grade of 4.0 and 60% in at least 2 state examination.
Grade 70% or better in English in state examination for English, can exempt from IELTS.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/finland:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Finland on its programmes.
Ylioppilastutkinto/Studentexamen (Matriculation Examiniation) with a minimum grade of 4.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/france:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from France on its programmes.
France-Baccalaureat grade 14 in English or better, can exempt from IELTS

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/germany:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Germany on its programmes.
Meet our international student Nora, a graduate studied Business Management and did a placement at Microsoft.
After graduation, she works for Amazon Web Services in Central Sales.
Find out why she’s enjoying her student life at Greenwich.
Abitur with a minimum grade of 2.4
Abitur grade 12/2.0 in English or above.
Abitur grade 12 or 2.0 in English or above.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/ghana:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Ghana on its programmes.
Meet our student Joseph from Ghana and find out why he loves student life at Greenwich.
The University of Greenwich is a popular institution for students from Ghana, with approximately 56 students currently studying on a Bachelor's or Master's degree.
Undergraduate (year 2/3): Although, there are no agreed progression routes, but we can consider ND or HND for progression to year 2 or 3 entry depending on the final grade.
If you're interested in applying to the University after part completion of a degree or completion of a diploma, applications will be assessed on case by case basis.
Ghanaian SSCE(WASSCE) English at grade C6 or above can exempt you from IELTS
To apply to our Master’s degree programmes, please contact one of the agents below

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/greece:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Greece on its programmes.
Apolytirion grade 18 or better in English are exempt from IELTS.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/hong-kong:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Hong Kong on its programmes.
For entry to Year 1, you will need to complete:
For advanced entry to Year 3, you will need to complete:
IELTS exemption: HKDSE English grade 3 or above

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/hungary:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Hungary on its programmes.
Grade of 4 or better in English from Érettségi Bizonyítvány, can exempt from IELTS.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/india:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from India on its programmes.
Meet our international student Dhanushkumar and find out why he’s enjoying his student life at Greenwich.
For those seeking advanced entry into Year 2 or Year 3, the following requirements apply:
Additionally, for certain courses, it may be necessary to have studied specific subjects during your school or college education to be eligible for admission.
Our admissions team will assess your application to determine the relevance of your academic background once you apply.
To be eligible for admission, applicants must meet one of the following English language proficiency requirements:
Standard XII Waiver: Achieve a minimum of 70% in English from Standard XII.
(Note: This waiver is not applicable to applicants from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, or Uttarakhand.)
For admission to our Master's programmes, please ensure you meet the following criteria:
A Bachelor's degree with a minimum of 55% in the final year.
However, if you are graduating from one of the following top universities: Mumbai University, Savitribai Phule Pune University (Pune University), Calcutta University, Delhi University, Bangalore University, and Madras University, a minimum of 50% in the final year is required.
Please note some specialised courses may require a four-year bachelor's degree with a minimum of 65% in the final year.
However, if you are graduating from one of the top universities mentioned above, a minimum of 60% in the final year is required.
Additionally, for certain courses, it may be necessary to have studied specific subjects at the university level to be eligible.
Standard XII Waiver: achieve a minimum of 70% in English from Standard XII.
However, please note that this Standard XII waiver is not applicable to applicants from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, or Uttarakhand.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/indonesia:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Indonesia on its programmes.
Meet our international student Wei Ming and find out why he’s enjoying his student life at Greenwich.
Achieving Senior Secondary Leaving Certificate SMA/STTB/SMA with a minimum grade of 8 in 5 subjects

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/iran:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Iran on its programmes.
Dabiristan (when studied for 4 to 5 years) with a minimum grade of 14 National University Entrance Examination (Kunkur) / Iranian Pre-University Certificate with a minimum grade of 14

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/iraq:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Iraq on its programmes.
A Levels or IB will be accepted for direct entry
Applicants who have taken the Adadiyah are required to complete a foundation programme before joining an undergraduate course, please refer to UGIC .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/ireland:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Ireland on its programmes.
Irish Leaving Certificate Higher (As per UCAS requirements for each programme)/FETAC= National Diploma with Distinction/merit profile
Nationals of Ireland are exempt from IELTS as nationals of a English majority speaking country.
For Non-Irish Nationals: Irish Leaving Certificate - O4 or H4 and above or equivalent.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/italy:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Italy on its programmes.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/japan:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Japan on its programmes.
Upper Secondary School Leaving Certificate (Kotogakko Sotsugyo Shomeisho) with a minimum grade of 4
Please contact one of our registered agents listed below for GPA recalculation services

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/jordan:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Jordan on its programmes.
Meet our international student Ibrahim and find out why he’s enjoying his student life at Greenwich.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/kazakhstan:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Kazakhstan on its programmes.
Diploma of Specialised Secondary Education / Diploma of Secondary Vocational Education (Кәсіптік орта білім туралы диплом) with a minimum grade of 4

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/kenya:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Kenya on its programmes.
Meet our student Nelly from Kenya and find out why she loves student life at Greenwich.
The University of Greenwich is a popular institution for students from Kenya, with approximately 54 students currently studying on a Bachelor's or Master's degree.
KCSE English with grades A-D can exempt you from IELTS.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/kuwait:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Kuwait on its programmes.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/laos:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Laos on its programmes.
Year 1 entry: Successful completion of a UK foundation programme
Some programmes may allow entry into year 2 or year 3 depending on your educational background
UK 2:2 equivalent: Masters with a minimum grade of 2.5
UK 2:1 equivalent: Masters with a minimum grade of 2.8

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/latvia:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Latvia on its programmes.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/lebanon:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Lebanon on its programmes.
Lebanese Baccalaureate with a minimum grade of 14
French Baccalaureate with a minimum grade of 12
For entry to our Master's programmes, you will need to have met one of the following for 2:2 equivalency:
4 years of Bachelor Degree with a minimum average grade of 12/20
American University in Beirut OR Beirut Arab University:   4 years of Bachelors Degree with a minimum grade of 70% -79%
Maitrise: bachelor degree with an average grade of 12/20
Lebanese American University: bachelor degree with a minimum GPA of 2.6/4.0

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/libya:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Libya on its programmes.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/lithuania:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Lithuania on its programmes.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/luxembourg:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Luxembourg on its programmes.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/malaysia:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Malaysia on its programmes.
Please contact the International Office for more information.
SPM English grade A-C/CEFR B2 or UEC English grade A1-C8 or 1119 English Grade C or Malaysia University English Test (MUET) Band 4 or better, can be considered for IELTS exemption

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/malta:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Malta on its programmes.
Grade C in English in Secondary Certificate or Matriculation Certificate Examination (MCE)

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/mauritius:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Mauritius on its programmes.
COHSC English grade C or above can exempt you from IELTS.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/mexico:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Mexico on its programmes.
For standard entry to our Undergraduate courses, we expect students from Mexico to have the following:
For entry to our Postgraduate courses, we expect students from Mexico to have the following:

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/moldova-republic-of:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Moldova, Republic of on its programmes.
Moldovan Baccalaureate Diploma with a minimum grade of 7.
Baccalaureate Diploma grade of 8 or better in English, can exempt from IELTS.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/morocco:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Morocco on its programmes.
Morocco-Baccalaureat with a minimum grade of 15.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/myanmar:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Myanmar on its programmes.
High School Examination/ matriculation with a minimum grade of 70%

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/nepal:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Nepal on its programmes.
For admission to our Bachelor's programmes, please ensure you meet the following criteria:

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/netherlands:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Netherlands on its programmes.
Diploma Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs  (VWO) with a minimum grade of 7.0
Grade of 8 or better in English with Diploma Middelbaar Beroepsonderwijs (MBO) or Diploma Voorbereidend Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs (VWO), can exempt from IELTS.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/nigeria:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Nigeria on its programmes.
The University of Greenwich is a popular institution for students from Nigeria, with approximately 1,276 students currently studying on a Bachelor's or Master's degree.
Undergraduate (year 2/3): Although, there are no agreed progression routes, however, if you have a 3 or 4 year University certificate or diploma you may be considered for advanced entry to one of our Bachelor's degree programmes.
Nigerian SSCE (WAEC/NECO) English C6 or above can exempt you from IELTS
In-Country Representative: Temie Adeyemi T.Adeyemi@gre.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/norway:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Norway on its programmes.
Vitnemal-videregaende opplaering with a minimum grade of 3.5
Vitnemal-videregaende opplaering grade 4 in English, can exempt from IELTS.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/oman:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Oman on its programmes.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/pakistan:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Pakistan on its programmes.
Meet our student Armaan from Pakistan and find out why he loves student life at Greenwich.
FA / FSC / ICom / DCom / HSSC / Intermediate with a minimum grade of 70%
Achieving 2 (or 1) years Masters after 2 or 3 year degree with a minimum grade of 55% for UK 2:2 or with a minimum of 65% for UK 2:1
To apply to our Master’s degree programmes, please contact one of the agents below.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/peru:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Peru on its programmes.
We usually expect students from Peru to have a Certificado de Educacion Secundaria with a minimum overall grade of 12.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/philippines:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Philippines on its programmes.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/poland:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Poland on its programmes.
Swiadectwo Dojrzałości / Matura 80% in English, can exempt from IELTS.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/portugal:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Portugal on its programmes.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/qatar:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Qatar on its programmes.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/romania:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Romania on its programmes.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/russia:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Russia on its programmes.
Atttestat o Srednem Obrazovanii  or Diploma of Secondary Vocational Education Atttestat o Srednem Obrazovanii with a minimum grade of 4.5.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/saudi-arabia:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Saudi Arabia on its programmes.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/senegal:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Senegal  on its programmes.
Undergraduate (year 1): Entry to year 1 requires completion of A-levels or IB, or Senegalese Baccalaureat with a minimum grade of 14.
Undergraduate (year 2/3): Although, there are no agreed progression routes, but we can consider your qualifications for advanced entry to our degree programmes.
If you're interested in applying to join year 2 or 3 at the University, applications will be assessed on case-by-case basis.
Completion of Diplome d'Ingenieur with a minimum grade of 14.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/singapore:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Singapore on its programmes.
For advanced entry to Year 2: completion of a Polytechnic Diploma with GPA 2.5 or above
For advanced entry to Year 3: completion of a Polytechnic Diploma with GPA 3.0 or above
IELTS exemption: GCSE or O Level English grade C or above.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/slovakia:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Slovakia on its programmes.
Slovakia - Vysvedcenie O Maturitnej skuske with a minimum grade of 2.5.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/slovenia:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Slovenia on its programmes.
Maturitetno spričevalo with a minimum grade of 4.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/south-korea:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from South Korea on its programmes.
UK 2:2 equivalent: 4 year degree with a GPA of 2.8 or above
UK 2:1 equivalent: 4 year degree with a GPA of 3.0 or above

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/spain:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Spain on its programmes.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/sri-lanka:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Sri Lanka on its programmes.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/sweden:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Sweden on its programmes.
Avgångsbetyg/Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskola (Upper secondary school leaving certificate) with minimum grade C overall (or grade 15) or Hogskoleforberedande Examen (Higher Education Prepartory Diploma) with minimum grade C overall.
Fullstandigt Slutbetyg Fran Gymnasiesk grade C in English, can exempt from IELTS.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/switzerland:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Switzerland on its programmes.
Switzerland-Maturitatszeugnis with a minimum grade 2.5/5.0 OR 5/6.0 OR 7.5/10
Or Maturite Federal with minimum aggregate 2.5/5 or4.5/6 or 7.5/10
Diplom/Diplôme; Lizentiat/Licence; Staatsdiplom/Diplôme d'Etat OR a Fachhochschule Diplom (FH)/Hautes Écoles Specialisées Diplôme OR a bachelor degree (post-2001) with minimum grade 4(Genügend)/ 3 (Sufficient) / 6 (Sufficiente) for UK 2:2 and minimum grade 5(Gut)/ 2.2 (Bien) / 8 (Bene) for UK 2:1

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/syria:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Syria on its programmes.
Bachelor (Honours) Degree with a minimum of GPA 2.5 OR 60% for UK 2:2,  or GPA 2.8 or 70% for UK 2:1

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/taiwan:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Taiwan on its programmes.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/thailand:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Thailand on its programmes.
For advanced entry to Year 2, you will need to complete:

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/tunisia:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Tunisia on its programmes.
Tunisia Baccalaureat with a minimum grade of 14

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/turkey:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Turkey on its programmes.
Devlet Lise Diplomasi with a minimum grade of 70%

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/uganda:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Uganda on its programmes.
Undergraduate (year 1): Entry to year 1 requires completion UACE with A-E grades.
For details of required UACE/IB scores please refer to the individual course webpages.
Undergraduate (year 2/3): Although, there are no agreed progression routes, we can consider 2 years of a bachelor’s degree with a good pass for progression to year 2 or 3 entry depending on the final grade.
UCE English 1-6 can exempt you from IELTS.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/ukraine:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Ukraine on its programmes.
Some Bachelor's degrees allow advanced entry to year 2 or year 3, depending on your study history
Secondary School Diploma (new system only) grade 10 in English, may be exempt from IELTS

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/united-arab-emirates:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from United Arab Emirates on its programmes.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/usa:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from USA on its programmes.
Meet our student David from the USA and find out why he loves student life at Greenwich.
We are test optional for our Undergraduate courses.
For standard entry, you will need to have the following:
For students with a GPA 2.8 or GED of 165 , you will also need ONE of the following:
If you have completed an Associate Degree in the US, you might be able to transfer directly onto year 2 of our Bachelor's programmes.
For more information please contact international@gre.ac.uk .
If you do not hold a US passport, you might be required to provide evidence of English language proficiency.
For non-US nationals completing the US High School Diploma, English can be met by passing one of the following modules at Grade 12: Communication, Composition, Fiction, Journalism, Language, Literature, Poetry, Shakespeare, Writers, Writing or similar.
For further details on English language requirements, please see our English Language Requirement page.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/uzbekistan:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Uzbekistan on its programmes.
Meet our international student Charos and find out why she’s enjoying her student life at Greenwich.
Kasb-Hunar Kolleji Diplomi (Diploma of Professional College) minimum 60% / Diploma of Academic Lyceum (Akademik Litsey Diplomi) GPA 4.0 or above / Diploma of Professional College (Kasb-Hunar Kolleji Diplomi) GPA 4.0 or above

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/venezuela:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Venezuela on its programmes.
For standard entry to our Undergraduate courses, we expect students from Venezuela to have the following:
For entry to our Postgraduate courses, we expect students from Venezuela to have the following:

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/vietnam:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Vietnam on its programmes.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/yemen:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Yemen on its programmes.
Applicants who have completed the national schooling system typically require foundation, please refer to UGIC

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/international/countries/zambia:
The University of Greenwich welcomes students from Zambia on its programmes.
Undergraduate (year 2/3): Although, there are no agreed progression routes, but we can consider a Diploma or bachelor’s degree for progression to year 2 or 3 entry depending on the final grade.
ZSC English grade C or above can exempt you from IELTS.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/visa/when-you-arrive:
When you arrive in the UK, there are a number of things that you need to do.
Firstly, we recommend that you read our guidance on arriving at the UK border so that you are prepared for your arrival at the airport.
Once you have entered the UK, you should engage with our International Student Welcome Programme , as this will give you an introduction to the university and help you settle in.
If you have a student visa in your passport, you'll need to collect your BRP visa card once you have arrived.
It's also really important to make sure that you register with a doctor's surgery so you can access healthcare.
We've explained how you can do this, as well as loads of other suggestions in our arrival tips.
The International Student Advice Service provides free and confidential immigration advice to applicants and students of the university.
Graduates may also be eligible.
Please see our guidance on accessing the service for more information.
You may find our FAQ page answers your question.
Also, you can submit an enquiry using the Digital Student Centre .
If you need our detailed advice or guidance, please use our self-referral form and we will assess your information and advise you on your next steps.
If you do not have access to your university account, e-mail us your question at internationaladvice@gre.ac.uk
Arriving at the airport or border can be an exciting, but also nervous experience!
Below you can find all the information you need for your arrival at the UK border.
If you have recently arrived in the UK, there are a number of things that we recommend that you do within the first two weeks of your arrival.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/university-of-greenwich-secures-new-3m-eu-project-to-build-trust-between-communities-and-police-across-seven-countries:
BTL-COP aims to protect vulnerable people and build safer, more inclusive communities across Europe, enhancing social learning, trust, and leadership.
The University of Greenwich is proud to announce its leadership of a major new European research initiative: BTL-COP (Building Trust and Leadership to challenge global aporophobic crime in a police Community of Practice).
A porophobia is a term invented by Spanish philosopher Professor Adela Cortina to describe hostility towards the poor and a community of practice is a group of people who share a concern and work together to improve it.
Trusted, long-term police-community engagement in such a group protects communities from crime pathways linked to poverty.
The €3 million Horizon-funded project brings together a diverse, committed consortium of 11 partners from the UK, Ireland, Croatia, Spain, Greece, Poland, and Portugal.
This cross-sector collaboration includes police authorities, judicial actors, academic institutions, youth organisations, and training providers working together to tackle poverty-driven crime and aporophobia through innovative community-police collaboration.
At the heart of BTL-COP is the development of Trust in Neighbourhood Groups (TING) , a new sustainable community of practice model proposed by project coordinator Professor Jill Jameson.
Inspired by early democratic assemblies, TING aims to strengthen long-term shared intelligence to build trust and leadership through in-depth truthful dialogue between communities and police.
The initiative includes co-created police training in leadership and community engagement, the trialling of a multi-alert device for vulnerable individuals to contact emergency services and support networks, and new problem-solving practices for safe, inclusive dialogue.
Working with key partners, including Second Wave Youth Arts, the Metropolitan Police, and EU experts, we also aim to strengthen the creative and critical skills of young people as the next generation of community leaders.
This deepens shared intelligence for resilient communities in the future.
“This is more than just a project,” said Professor Jill Jameson, Principal Investigator for BTL-COP, Professor of Education, Chair of Leadership Research, and Centre Lead for the Centre for Professional Workforce Development at the University of Greenwich’s Institute for Lifecourse Development,
“We are building on a 21-year collaboration with Second Wave and the Met to develop trust in community-police engagement for safer neighbourhoods.
By enhancing social learning, shared dialogue, and leadership in communities of practice, we aim to foster high trust, low-cost, long-term community partnerships that help protect vulnerable people from crime and build a more trustworthy, sustainable and safer Europe."
Innovation and impact
BTL-COP is designed to transform how police and communities co-learn, respond to vulnerability, and build resilience.
The project delivers:
Collaboration and strategic impact
Key partners include Second Wave Youth Arts, the London Metropolitan Police, and experts across Europe.
Together, the consortium brings over 90 years of collective experience in community-police engagement and builds on insights from previous Horizon-funded research and international aporophobia conferences.
The project supports national and international priorities including the UK Government’s Safer Streets mission and several UN Sustainable Development Goals:
Our vision
BTL-COP aspires to:
A European partnership
The Institute for Lifecourse Development at the University of Greenwich collaborates with leading partners in the UK/Europe, including:
This project has received funding from the European Union’s Horizon Europe Research and Innovation programme under Grant Agreement No.
101226104 — BTL-COP.
For more information, please contact
BTL-COP Horizon Europe Project,
The Institute for Lifecourse Development, Faculty of Education, Health, and Human Sciences, University of Greenwich
ILD@greenwich.ac.uk
BTL-COP forms part of the University of Greenwich Institute for Lifecourse Development and School of Education, Faculty of Education, Health, and Human Sciences, and is supported by the Institute for Inclusive Communities and Environments, Faculty of Law, Arts, and Social Sciences.
Funded by the European Union.
Views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European Union or the European Commission.
Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/safe-smart-sustainable-how-greenwich-research-is-shaping-the-future-of-cyber-security:
Discover how Professor George Loukas and the Centre for Sustainable Cyber Security are shaping a safer digital world - from fighting misinformation on social media to protecting your smart home from cyber threats.
Cyber security has long been considered a complex challenge - one that goes far beyond technical fixes.
It requires more than a single-discipline approach, especially in a world where both technology and the human behaviours surrounding it are constantly evolving.
As digital systems become ever more embedded in our daily lives, the need to protect them - and the sensitive data they hold - has never been more urgent.
In the UK alone, the cyber security market is projected to exceed £18 billion by 2028.
At the forefront of addressing this challenge is the Centre for Sustainable Cyber Security (CS2) at the University of Greenwich - the first of its kind globally.
This visionary centre reimagines how we tackle cyber threats by embedding sustainability into both its research focus and operational culture.
CS2 brings together experts from multiple disciplines to create solutions that are not only effective today, but built to endure the future - ensuring that cyber security remains robust, relevant, and responsible.
Leading this effort is Professor George Loukas , an internationally recognised cyber security researcher.
His work focuses on designing human-centric and data-driven applications, from building trustworthy online platforms to securing AI-powered homes.
One standout initiative is EUNOMIA , an innovative project led by Prof.
Loukas between 2018 and 2021.
EUNOMIA introduced the first social media platform designed to empower users to access the content they encounter based on trustworthiness.
Unlike traditional platforms that rely on likes or centralised moderation, EUNOMIA promotes informed decision-making by giving users control over their own data and helping combat the growing crisis of online misinformation - what the World Health Organization has termed an "infodemic."
But cyber security research at Greenwich doesn’t stop at the digital world - it also reaches into our homes.
Prof.
Loukas currently leads CHAI (Cyber Hygiene in AI-enabled Domestic Life) , a project funded by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC).
CHAI is developing a groundbreaking tool that helps everyday users detect whether their smart home AI systems have been compromised.
It’s the first application of a “ human-as-a-security-sensor ” approach in AI, showing that even non-experts can play a critical role in defending their own digital environments.
As Prof.
Loukas eloquently stated in his TEDx talk, Cyber Security for the Human World :
“When we start seeing humans as a solution rather than as a problem, things change.”
Through research that combines technical innovation with human insight, the University of Greenwich is leading the way toward a more secure and sustainable digital future - one where cyber security is not just the domain of specialists, but a shared responsibility and opportunity for all.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/revitalising-sustainability-plural-futures-for-a-changing-world:
Discover how innovative research led by Prof.
Valerie Nelson is transforming approaches to sustainability and shaping more just and resilient futures for communities and nature in today’s world.
As the world faces escalating environmental crises - from biodiversity loss and climate change to pollution and land degradation - it’s clear that current sustainability efforts are falling short.
These complex, interconnected challenges demand not just technical solutions but bold, alternative thinking.
At the University of Greenwich, researchers are rising to this challenge.
Through forward-thinking research and collaborative action, efforts are made to explore non-conventional approaches to more inclusive, resilient, and imaginative sustainability futures.
Leading these accomplishments is Professor Valerie Nelson of the Natural Resources Institute (NRI), working with colleagues from the Political Ecology, Arts and Culture Research Group .
Together, they are at the forefront of shaping decision-making processes that enable sustainability transformations in an era marked by uncertainty, geopolitical tension, and rapid change.
Beyond Conventional Sustainability Thinking
With over three decades of experience in international development and environmental sustainability, Professor Nelson champions a pluralistic approach.
Her work challenges narrow, technocratic views of nature and progress - what she refers to as "ecomodernism" - and instead embraces diverse worldviews, knowledge systems, and values.
For Professor Nelson, there are already many worlds within this world.
Revitalising sustainability means recognising those multiple realities and moving beyond control-oriented approaches to ones that are relational, inclusive, and hopeful.
The innovative research explores practical pathways toward transformative change - such as governance models that recognise non-human agency (plants, animals, micro-organisms), educational initiatives, solidarity economies, and participatory arts-based methods.
These approaches help reimagine our relationship with nature and society, breaking free from the limiting legacies of colonial modernity.
Global Recognition and Real-World Impact
This groundbreaking work has attracted significant international attention.
Professor Nelson co-authored the Transformative Change Assessment report for the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES).
The report advocates for a more holistic, positive vision of collective wellbeing - one that includes nature as an active participant in shaping our future.
To date, the report has been featured in 648 press articles, spanning 575 media outlets across 58 countries and 17 languages, underlining its global relevance and reach.
Building Pathways with Communities Worldwide
Professor Nelson’s commitment to sustainability is deeply rooted in collaborative, community-based research.
As part of the EU Horizon project ‘Transformative Change for Biodiversity and Equity in Telecoupled Agrofood Systems’, her team works with stakeholders in Cameroon, Colombia, Kenya , and across the EU .
Through dialogic and deliberative processes, they foster social learning, build trust, and co-create solutions that are grounded in local knowledge and aspirations.
Closer to home, her work with Medway Council is shaping local food and nature strategies, while a newUKRI-funded project is exploring values-based governance in coastal communities across the UK - including the Humber, Loch Foyle, the Clyde, and mid-North Wales.
In recognition of her contributions, Professor Nelson was recently appointed to the Natural England Scientific Advisory Body and the Defra Nature Futures Framework Pilot Advisory Committee.
Her research exemplifies the power of interdisciplinary, inclusive, and imaginative approaches in tackling today’s most pressing environmental challenges.
Her work not only inspires real-world change - informing policy, empowering communities, and reshaping how we relate to the natural world, but powerfully reinforces the deep-rooted commitment to sustainability in action at the University of Greenwich.
Here, sustainability isn’t just a goal - it’s part of who we are and how we shape a better world, together.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/our-future-selves-exploring-the-human-digital-twins-with-ghislaine-boddington:
How University of Greenwich Research is reimagining identity, health, and human presence in the digital age.
As technology becomes increasingly intertwined with our everyday lives, a fascinating future begins to emerge - one where we may have a digital counterpart: a twin that grows with us, learns from us, supports us, and even continues our legacy after we’re gone.
But what does it really mean to live alongside a digital twin?
Can this convergence of the human and digital realms create a better future for individuals and society as a whole?
These are the types of questions being explored by Ghislaine Boddington , Senior Researcher at the University of Greenwich and a global pioneer in digital identity and virtual interaction.
For over three decades, Ghislaine has examined how technology shapes and represents our living bodies in the digital world, turning her lifelong inquiry into impactful research and public engagement.
Her most recent initiative, Digital Human Twin – Our Future Data Selves , brings together years of academic insight and creative practice to investigate the merging of our physical and digital identities.
Digital human twins are more than avatars - they are AI-enhanced, real-time representations of ourselves, built from biometric data collected directly from our bodies.
These digital selves have the potential to revolutionise healthcare, personal development, identity management, and even redefine how we express ourselves.
In practical terms, a digital twin is created using continuous streams of biological data - such as heart rate, movement, and voice - fed into a digital avatar.
Over time, the twin begins to mirror us more closely, offering insights, guidance, and an extension of our presence in ways once only imagined.
This vision reached a global audience in December 2024, when Ghislaine wrote and presented a research documentary, Me and My Digital Twin , aired on the BBC World Service .
The documentary follows her journey to create her own digital twin, meeting with cardiologists, engineers, performance artists and tech innovators.
Together, they explore how digital twin technology is already being used to support mental and physical health, boost creativity, and enhance performance in both medical and artistic fields.
More than a glimpse into the future, the documentary highlights the real-world impact of Ghislaine’s work.
As she powerfully concludes:
“A digital twin must be more than a tool; it must be a trusted companion that reflects our essence and evolves with us.”
Backed by a strong commitment to ethical development and human-centric design, Digital Human Twin is part of a broader body of pioneering research at the University of Greenwich.
Through this work, Ghislaine and her team continue to shape a future where our relationship with technology is not only functional but meaningful - enhancing our wellbeing, preserving our identities, and deepening what it means to be human in the digital age.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/research-spotlight:
Our research has real-world impact across a huge range of areas.
From fighting disease to understanding the impact of climate change, our research is helping to make the world a better place.
Prof Josh Davis, ILD - Centre for Thinking and Learning - School of Human Sciences
Building Trust and Shared Leadership in Communities of Practice for Conflict Resolution
Diversity and Inclusivity by Design (d+iD)
The benefits of online social networks for eating disorder sufferers

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/support/centres:
The research completed in our centres & facilities make a tangible difference to business, industry & the community.
Read about our research centres here.
Research is led by experienced directors of research recognised internationally for their contributions.
They give postgraduates the opportunity to carry out leading research at world-class facilities, and provide businesses with world-leading expertise.
We influence and enhance business policy and practice, with research programmes that focus on eight key areas.
Our research has received worldwide praise & recognition.
Our researchers regularly present their work at conferences, & postgraduate students secure top positions.
Home to the research in the Faculty of Law, Arts and Social Sciences - solving real-world problems and benefitting business, industry & communities globally.
Home to the research in the Faculty of Education, Health and Human Sciences - a hub of high-quality academic and applied research into education, health, psychology and social care.
The Natural Resources Institute (NRI) is a specialist research, development and education organisation with a focus on food, agriculture, environment, and sustainable livelihoods.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/reti:
Providing advice, support, development and mentoring, Greenwich Doctoral College helps guide researchers along their career journey.
Maintaining a vibrant research community gives our researchers an invaluable platform to pool ideas, share experiences and collaborate.
Effective development encourages research excellence.
RETI delivers expert training and targeted development events to help our researchers fulfil their potential.
An 80,000-word thesis would take 9 hours to present.
Their time limit....3 minutes

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/about/intellectual-property-ip:
Find out more about exploiting research, commercialisation and accessing Intellectual Property (IP), using the resources below.
Please click here to read our Intellectual Property Policy & Guidelines.
Please note that Research and Innovation contract review/work needs to be carried out in collaboration with Paul Williams (Head of Contracts and Intellectual Property Services).
Only authorised personnel of the University are able to sign-off on such contracts as identified in the University Financial Regulations.
No-one else should sign Research and Innovation contracts on behalf of the University.
A non-disclosure agreement (NDA) is a document that, when signed, will allow one party to discuss their confidential information (including their work and ideas) with other interested third parties.
It legally binds those third parties to keep the information confidential and not to disclose it to other parties.
There are two standard NDAs available, which have been approved by the Deputy Vice Chancellor as the standard to be used when academics wish to discuss confidential matters with companies:
In addition the above, staff may also require the following types of contracts/agreements useful:
The following links also may be useful:
Dr Paul Williams, Head of Contracts and Intellectual Property Services
Email: p.williams@gre.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/frameworks:
The well-established Research Excellence Framework (REF) is the principle mechanism employed by the funding bodies to distribute QR (quality-related) funds that underpin the research base across the wide breadth of academic disciplines within UK higher education.
The REF outcome serves to provide accountability and benchmarking information reflective of that resource allocation, and to shape future funding strategies.
The REF is peer-review exercise, carried out every six or so years, in which the quality of outputs (e.g.
publications, performances, and exhibitions)  and their impact beyond academia is assessed by expert panels within subject-based Units of Assessment (UoAs), within the context of the environment that supports that research.
A newer assessment process, the Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF), is designed to increase the efficiency and effectiveness in how universities use public funding for "knowledge exchange".
The KEF is an annual, metrics-driven exercise, that seeks to review each university's engagement with seven perspectives , expressed within the context of a cluste r of similar institutions:
These focus on research partnerships, levels of working with business, public and third sector partners, impact on local growth and regeneration, and community engagement.
Knowledge Exchange is also being progressed within a set of guiding principles of the Knowledge Exchange Concordat (KEC) .
These eight principles, and the associated enablers, facilitate a supportive framework to promote effective knowledge exchange.
The concordat provides a self-reflection mechanism by which universities can review their performance across a diverse spectrum of knowledge exchange within a context of their specific priorities and expertise.
Join the Knowledge Exchange Network on Yammer

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/disciplines/agriculture-veterinary-and-food-science:
NRI
Transforming lives through research, innovation, and learning
A leader in research relating to agriculture, food and the environment
We explore the interconnections between people and natural resources, prioritising strategies which are innovative, equitable and deliver benefits for livelihoods and wellbeing.
Our cutting-edge facility will revolutionise the way you develop your products.
Gain access to unmatched analytical tools and processing expertise.
Our state-of-the-art facility provides an ideal environment for ground-breaking research into post-harvest conditions, plant pathogenic host interactions and packaging designs.
Within the Natural Resources Institute and the university’s Faculty of Engineering and Science, we have a dynamic and highly multi-disciplinary working environment that strives for a vibrant and inclusive culture of research excellence.
NRI is strongly linked with the UKs colonial past, with historic ties to many government colonial research units and institutes since the 1890’s.
We are embracing this history through a number of projects including securing NRI’s historic archive and promoting its use for research on colonial agricultural and natural science.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/disciplines/allied-health-professions,-dentistry,-nursing-and-pharmacy:
Health research at Greenwich brings together cross-disciplinary researchers, practitioners, and partners that focus on activities related to vulnerable populations across the lifecourse, with the ultimate aim of translating and applying the research conducted into professional practice and policy.
The Institute for Lifecourse Development is a key anchor resource where professionals from many different fields work closely together with researchers and stakeholders from public, charitable and voluntary organisations.
Together we are developing effective and economically sustainable lifecourse solutions and tackling some of the most significant challenges society faces.
If you or your employees would like to study allied health professions, dentistry, nursing and pharmacy we have options available.
postgraduateresearch_admissions@gre.ac.uk
Greenwich Research and Innovation (GRI)
+ 44 (0)20 8331 8238

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/disciplines/art-and-design-history,-practice-and-theory:
Engaging with the world, physically and theoretically through design, focusing on a broad range of areas within the creative professions and digital arts, architecture, landscape architecture, urban design and the built environment: Including biophilia, nature based and technological solutions, construction and health and safety.
If you or your employees would like to study art and design - history, practice and theory we have options available.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/disciplines/business-and-management-studies:
Our business and management research is critical, firmly socially engaged and policy-oriented, focused on employment and work; political economy, finance and accountability; networks and urban systems;  tourism and marketing.
The nationalisation of utilities would save the UK billions of pounds each year, according to new research by the University of Greenwich.
If you or your employees would like to study business and management studies we have options available.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/disciplines/chemistry:
Chemistry research at Greenwich has a strong biological, medicinal and synthetic theme, and its application into pharmaceutical and materials sciences disciplines.
If you or your employees would like to study chemistry we have options available.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/disciplines/computer-science-and-informatics:
Computer science research at the University is contributing strongly to current developments, in particular around cybersecurity, artificial intelligence and data science.
If you or your employees would like to study computer science and informatics we have options available.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/disciplines/engineering:
Focusing on a range of areas including: computational methods, electronic circuits and systems, engineering and product design, bulk solid handling technology, fire engineering, manufacturing technologies, materials and chemical engineering, modelling and simulation, civil engineering, environmental engineering and sustainability.
New technology can improve sound quality for
hearing implant users by a life-changing amount.
Engineering research is undertaken in our extensive purpose-built labs, which feature many unique research tools.
If you or your employees would like to study engineering we have options available.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/disciplines/english-language-and-literature:
English Language and Literature at Greenwich is concerned to highlight issues of diversity and marginality through powerful creative writing, challenging literary critical history and rigorous linguistic analysis.
If you or your employees would like to study english language and literature we have options available.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/disciplines/history:
History at Greenwich is chronologically, thematically and geographically diverse - ranging from the early modern to contemporary, across societies, politics and cultures, with particular strengths in imperial, social, gender and environmental histories.
If you or your employees would like to study history we have options available.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/disciplines/law:
Law and Criminology research is at the forefront of policy and practitioner debates on human rights, identity, crime and deviance.
Our international focus includes the impact of emerging technologies on human life, the importance of ethically sourced goods and the monitoring of supply chains, the impact of custody on offenders and the importance of giving voice to marginalised populations.
If you or your employees would like to study law we have options available.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/disciplines/social-work-and-social-policy:
Social policy, social work and education cross-disciplinary research, aims to transform global and local knowledge, policy and professional practice through theoretical, applied and practice-based  research.
If you or your employees would like to study social work and social policy we have options available.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/enterprise/access-our-expertise:
We can help you to identify and secure funding from UK and EU funding streams.
We can also help you to access skills and research through Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and provide access to our specialised research centres and facilities.
Find out more about our research centres
Our Enterprise Development Managers (EDM) work with organisations of all sizes and across all major industry sectors.
They can help identify ways in which the University of Greenwich can help you meet your business needs.
We can help with consulting on new product or service challenges and fostering business growth and development.
We can also help with setting up contract research projects or collaborating on joint ventures.
Contact our EDMs and they will guide you through the process.
GRE is here to help your organisation find expert solutions to its unique challenges, whatever those challenges may be.
Identify viable funding and support streams for your research and development projects, and collaboration opportunities.
Work with us on a project to foster innovation and stimulate business growth using this part-funded government scheme.
Exploit our research, license our technologies and access Intellectual Property.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/enterprise/access-our-equipment:
Your business can access university facilities and specialised equipment ranging from diagnostic technology to industrial machinery.
Your business can access university facilities and specialised equipment.
This can range from medical diagnostics to computational modelling to industrial bulk solids handling.
Our equipment and facilities include:
Gain access to internationally renowned laboratories and research centres, the latest technology and software, world-class industrial tools and support services.
The university boasts a range of dedicated centres and facilities with specialist technologies that you can utilise.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/governance-and-awards/research-integrity:
The University of Greenwich expects the highest standards in the conduct of all research undertaken in its name.
This includes research undertaken by staff, students, visiting or emeritus staff, associates, contractors and consultants.
In order to embed these principles, and recognising its obligations to the wider research community, to the funders of research and to society as a whole to uphold the integrity of academic research, the University of Greenwich is committed to implementing the principles and commitments of the UK Concordat to support research integrity .
The UUK concordat's five commitments are:
working together to strengthen the integrity of research and to reviewing progress regularly and openly.
Code of Practice for Research – presents the guiding principles and standards of good practice in research across all subject disciplines and fields of study in the university
The university has identified the Director of Research & Enterprise (GRE), Prof Andy Frost , to oversee research integrity at the university, and is the first point of contact for anyone wanting more information on matters of research integrity

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/governance-and-awards/research-ethics-committee:
Research ethics is important to the University of Greenwich and we're committed to encouraging a high-quality research and knowledge and exchange culture, with the highest possible standards of integrity and practice.
The University of Greenwich is committed to encouraging a high-quality research and knowledge and exchange culture, with the highest possible standards of integrity and practice.
Our frameworks, policies and governance ensure the protection of research participants and our researchers, and that our research will comply with legal and regulatory requirements.
Ethical approval is mandatory for research involving human participants and research involving sensitive subject matters conducted by students and staff at the University.
The University's Research Ethics Policy specifies which research requires ethical approval.
Where ethical approval is required, research should not commence until approval has been granted by the relevant committee.
All individuals conducting research at Greenwich should familiarise themselves with the Research Ethics Policy , the Code of Practice for Research , and the Ethical Research Collaboration Policy .
See our Research Integrity webpage for further information about these policies and related policies on research misconduct.
Our research ethics governance includes:
For information on how to apply for ethical approval and what our ethical requirements are, please see Guidance on Ethical Approval for Research .
Please read the guidance before completing the research ethics application form .
Greenwich is a subscriber to the UK Research Integrity Office (UKRIO), and we implement the principles and commitments of the UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/governance-and-awards/research-degree-committee:
The Faculty Research Degrees Committees (FRDCs) exist to oversee the registration, progression and recommendations for the award of research degrees for research students in Schools and Institutes comprising Faculties.
Contact us:
Julie Boyer, FRDC Secretary Postgraduate Research Office E-mail: postgraduateresearch_FRDC@gre.ac.uk Tel: 44 (0) 1634 883030
Further guidance, forms and more information on the Faculty Research Degrees Committee are available.
Download the Faculty Research Degree Committee Terms of Reference

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/academiccouncil/committees/research-and-enterprise-committee-minutes:
Reporting to the Academic Council , the Research and Knowledge Exchange Board is responsible for the development and implementation of the University's Research and Knowledge Exchange sub-strategy, for the University's research and knowledge exchange environment, culture and activities, and the delivery of research degree provision.
Further details are in the Board's terms of reference and membership .
The Board is supported by the following sub-committees:
The Working Groups listed below also report to the Board:
R&KEB meeting dates for the 2025/26 academic year:
For any queries, please contact the Board Secretary, Dinaz Hoey at governance@gre.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/governance-and-awards/great/ref-2021:
The REF was first carried out in 2014, replacing the previous Research Assessment Exercise.
The REF is undertaken by the four UK higher education funding bodies.
The funding bodies' shared policy aim for research assessment is to secure the continuation of a world-class, dynamic and responsive research base across the full academic spectrum within UK higher education.
We expect that this will be achieved through the threefold purpose of the REF :
The REF is a process of expert review, carried out by expert panels for each of the 34 subject-based units of assessment (UOAs), under the guidance of four main panels.
Expert panels are made up of senior academics, international members, and research users.
For each submission, three distinct elements are assessed: the quality of outputs (e.g.
publications, performances, and exhibitions), their impact beyond academia, and the environment that supports research.
In January 2019, following a sector-wide consultation, Research England issued the final guidance documents related to the REF2021 submission.
The " Guidance on Submissions " document details how UK universities should make their submissions to REF 2021 and the " Panel criteria and working methods " document describes how the REF 2021 panels will assess this research.
All staff are encouraged to read through the Guidance on Submissions and the Panel Criteria and Working Methods documents to fully understand the requirements for REF2021.
Short summaries of the key points for the different elements of REF2021 are available by following the links below:
The University of Greenwich's preparations for REF2021 are led by Prof Javier Bonet (Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Research & Enterprise), through the central REF Strategy Working Group, which has the responsibility for overseeing the University's preparations for, and submission to the Research Excellence Framework 2021.
The preparations for REF2021 are undertaken through an annual exercise know as GREAT (Greenwich Research Excellence Assessment Trials).
Find out more .
Additionally, each institution making a submission is required to develop, document and apply a Code of Practice (CoP) on the identification of staff with significant responsibility for research; determining who is an independent researcher; and the selection of outputs, including approaches to supporting staff with  circumstances.
The Code of Practice was submitted to the REF team on 7 June 2019, and we are awaiting formal sign-off by the Equality & Diversity Advisory Panel (EDAP) and Research England.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/governance-and-awards/concordat-to-support:
The University of Greenwich has a rich heritage in innovations in teaching, learning, and research and innovation.
We have bold and imaginative plans to progress these inter-related activities further.
The university has been successful in gaining the European Commission's HR Excellence in Research accreditation, demonstrating its commitment to improving the working conditions and career development of researchers.
The basis for this accreditation is based on regular critical reviews of progress that direct its future activities, expressed in a two-year action plan.
Details can be seen in the associated documents:
Overall responsibility for working towards compliance with the Concordat rests with Greenwich Research and Innovation, the work of which is supported by other groups.
This Action Plan will be updated periodically to inform on progress in working towards full compliance.
The University of Greenwich has signed up to the revised Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers 2019', commonly known as the Researcher Development Concordat.
This is an agreement between stakeholders to improve the employment and support for researchers and researcher careers in higher education in the UK.
It sets out three clear Principles of environment and culture , employment, and professional and career development .
The principles are underpinned by obligations for the four key stakeholder groups, funders , institutions , researchers and managers of researchers , to realise the aims of the Concordat.
Letter of commitment to the Researcher Development Concordat 2019
Gap Analysis 2020
Annual Report 2022
Further details can be found at https://www.vitae.ac.uk/policy/concordat

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/governance-and-awards/vitae:
Vitae strategy is developed by a national steering group which takes advice from local groups based around eight hubs.
The University of Greenwich is part of the London Hub, based at Kings College London, but also works with the South East Hub based at the University of Sussex.
Vitae provide a range of resources and advice for both researchers and their organisations to help in the development of initiatives to support early career researchers, resources the University of Greenwich draws upon to develop our own programme of support.
You can access the resources of Vitae via their website .
From their site you can view details of the Concordat , as well as Vitae's Researcher Development Framework .
Please also see Vitae's 'The engaging researcher' booklet which offers practical tips on the benefits of public engagement.
The concordat is a set of principles that underpin support for researchers, championed by Vitae, which is a national organisation funded by RCUK to provide support for doctoral research students and researchers.
Vitae is the organisation that developed and oversees the Researcher Development Framework.
Provides details on how the University of Greenwich is applying these principles and resources to support our own researchers

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/support/concordat:
The University ECR Initiative follows the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers' which was launched in June 2006.
The Concordat sets out the expectations and responsibilities of researchers, their managers, employers and funders.
It aims to increase the attractiveness and sustainability of research careers in the UK and to improve the quantity, quality and impact of research for the benefit of UK society and the economy.
The Concordat is an agreement between the funders and employers of researchers in the UK to manage researchers according to agreed principles, and to provide support for their career development.
By adopting its principles, the UK has also adopted the Code of Conduct for the recruitment of researchers specified by the European Charter for Researchers.
Recognition of the importance of recruiting, selecting and retaining researchers with the highest potential to achieve excellence in research.
Researchers are recognised and valued by their employing organisation as an essential part of their organisation's human resources and a key component of their overall strategy to develop and deliver world-class research.
Researchers are equipped and supported to be adaptable and flexible in an increasingly diverse, mobile, global research environment.
The importance of researchers' personal and career development, and lifelong learning, is clearly recognised and promoted at all stages of their career.
Individual researchers share the responsibility for and need to pro-actively engage in their own personal and career development, and lifelong learning.
Diversity and equality must be promoted in all aspects of the recruitment and career management of researchers.
The sector and all stakeholders will undertake regular and collective review of their progress in strengthening the attractiveness and sustainability of research careers in the UK.
Read the Concordat in full

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/study/postgraduate-research-funding:
There are a number of types of funding available for postgraduate research studies:
You can also view a comprehensive list of funding opportunities and download a print-friendly guide to postgraduate research funding opportunities.
Download guide for using Research Professional to find funding
Further information for international students on the fees that you will be required to pay and any discounts or bursaries that you may be eligible for.
Find out more about finance information for international students.
For further information, and to check availability and eligibility criteria, please contact the funding organisation directly.
The following information is relevant to UK and EU postgraduate students.
The UK Research Councils support postgraduate training and research by providing UK candidates with tuition fees and a maintenance grant.
Non-UK residents from the EU can apply for tuition fee only awards; non-EU residents are not eligible to apply.
Candidates must apply via their university.
Universities usually have their own internal deadlines that must be met in order for forms to be submitted before the Research Councils' deadlines (usually 1 May).
The awards are highly competitive, so early application is encouraged.
There are a number of different Research Councils in the UK, each supporting different fields of study.
Click on the links below to find out more.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/study/application-process:
Before completing the online application please read carefully the information below.
All of the following documents must be uploaded to the 'Qualification' section of the application form.
Applications that do not have the required documentation may not be considered.
Previously completed an academic qualification equivalent to a UK Degree in the following countries
National of a Majority English Speaking Country
Applicants not meeting this criteria will be required to provide an IELTS certificate, achieving 6.5 in each area, or or an acceptable, demonstrable equivalent to this.
The process for recruiting students varies within the faculties, however all online applications are initially logged with the Faculty Office, so if you have a query please contact them in the first instance.
The Faculty/Department will contact you directly to arrange an interview if they wish to take your application further.
You will be notified if your application is unsuccessful.
If you are successful you will receive an offer from Postgraduate Research Admissions, subject to clearing UKVI checks, where applicable, and the provision of evidence that you meet the entry requirements for the programme.
Please note that the recruitment process can take up to six to eight weeks.
If you need a decision sooner due to a funding deadline, please inform the Faculty and make this clear in the personal statement section of your application form.
You must respond to an offer of admission within 30 days, or by the stated start date of your programme, whichever is earlier.
If you do not respond, we will assume that you do not wish to accept the offer and the offer will be withdrawn.
To confirm your acceptance of the offer, you must sign and date the offer of admission and return it, along with any other required documents as specified in your offer letter, to Postgraduate Research Admissions by scanning it and e-mailing it to pgr@greenwich.ac.uk .
Your start date will be on your offer of admission.
Remember, you must fulfill all terms of your offer before the start date of your programme.
Please refer to our student finance pages for information on paying your deposit, providing a sponsor letter and paying your tuition fee.
Details of tuition fees
If you are an international student or require ATAS please refer to the guidance on our international student pages.
On your first day of study, you are expected to complete registration at the Student Centre and attend your Faculty induction.
Late arrivals need to notify Postgraduate Research Admissions and their Faculty of their proposed arrival date.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/study/recruitment-and-selection-procedures:
Procedure for the recruitment and selection of Post-Graduate Research Students (MPhil, PhD & Professional Doctorates)
There is no single pathway for a research student’s journey.
The research idea may originate from the candidate or within the university.
A research student may be self-funded or receive funding from another source, either from the University or a third party such as a Research Council, commercial partner or other funding body.
It is important that the recruitment process is open and fair.
Potential applicants will apply through the university's online application form once they have spoken to a prospective Supervisor or Programme Leader.
Faculties have staff identified to review and circulate these applications through the Electronic Application System accessed via the Staff Portal.
Click here for detailed information on how to apply.
Those involved in the shortlisting of applicants must be members of the interview panel and have completed the training on Recruitment and Selection of PGR students which includes guidance on open, transparent and merit-based recruitment.
The interview panel should be composed of ideally more than 2 people and normally no more than 3 people and should reflect the EDI representation expected on academic panels.
One member of the interview panel should have knowledge of the research area.
Scholarship Candidates
Faculty requirements
It is the faculty’s responsibility to arrange the interview, contact the applicant(s) and communicate with the admissions office after the interview as detailed below.
After the interview
The shortlisting and interview assessment forms need to be completed and sent from the faculty to the Admissions Office.
Please familiarise yourself with the following codes of practice.
These documents set out the standards and regulations that the university adheres to ensure a fair recruitment process for all students, and what supervisors should endeavour to provide to research students:
Academic Regulations for Postgraduate Research Awards Research Student's and Supervisor's Handbook Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) guidelines
Once a decision (reject, invite for interview or accept) has been made, the decision is placed on the online application form via the Electronic Application System.
The application form also must be referred to the Research Office via the Electronic Application System.
The shortlisting and interview paperwork, along with the contract proforma, must be submitted the Admissions Office.
The Admissions Office will then run the admissions checks (entry criteria, fee assessment, and the initial immigration assessment).
Once these checks are complete, an they will issue an offer letter via email to the applicant.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/study/roles:
The Academic Regulations for Postgraduate Research Awards and the Postgraduate Research Student's and Supervisor's Handbook provide an overview of the research supervisor's main responsibilities.
The Academic Regulations for Postgraduate Research Awards and the Postgraduate Research Student's and Supervisor's Handbook provide an overview of the research supervisor's main responsibilities; however, some of the key milestones are listed below.
A supervisor should:
Supervisors should ensure their own professional skills are kept up to date.
There have been fundamental changes in who studies for a research degree in the 21st century and why.
Allied to the increased amount of internal and external oversight it is important that supervisors keep up to date with developments in supervisory practice.
To assist this, the university organises new supervisor development sessions and bi-annual supervisor conferences where best practice and the latest developments can be shared.
The need for initial professional development and continuous professional development are now embedded in the QAA Code of Practice and also the Researcher Development Framework, which applies to supervisors and other research staff as much as research students.
Academic Regulations for Postgraduate Research Awards Framework and criteria for the assessment, examination and awarding of a research award.
Postgraduate Research Student's and Supervisor's Handbook Download the Postgraduate Research Student's and Supervisor's Handbook.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/study/rda-forms:
Research Degree Administration Forms (RDA Forms) are being converted from the MS Word version below into electronic workflows in the new postgraduate research management system, PULSE.
As forms are converted they will no longer be available on this page and will only be available in PULSE.
Communications will be circulated to PGR students and supervisors when a form has been converted.
The following forms have already been converted into PULSE and are no longer available on this page:
RDA1a/b Form – Application for FRDC MPhil, MPhil/PhD and PhD Direct Research Programme Approval
RDA1a/b PD Form – Application for FRDC Professional Doctorate in Education (EdD) – Thesis Phase Research Programme Approval
RDA1c Form – MPhil, MPhil/PhD and PhD Direct Research Student Induction and Orientation Checklist
RDA1c PD Form – Professional Doctorate in Education (EdD – Thesis Phase) Research Student Induction and Orientation Checklist
The above forms now appear in PULSE, as follows:
RDA1a/b and RDA1ab/PD – These forms have been divided into two different forms in PULSE and they are now the Approval of Supervisory Team Form and the Research Plan Approval Form.
RDA1c and RDA1c PD – These forms have also been divided into two different forms in PULSE and they are now Induction Checklist A and Induction Checklist B.
Forms in Pulse can be accessed by clicking on the PULSE link under the Research tab in the portal.
If you have any queries regarding the new forms in PULSE, please email pulse@gre.ac.uk .
If you need a form and are having trouble accessing it, please contact the Research & Enterprise Training Institute using the email address below that is associated with your Faculty:
Greenwich Business School – reti-pgrbus@gre.ac.uk
Faculty of Education, Health & Human Sciences – reti-pgreh@gre.ac.uk
Faculty of Engineering & Science (including NRI) – reti-pgres@gre.ac.uk
Faculty of Law, Arts and Social Sciences – reti-pgrlas@gre.ac.uk
Access the Reduced Tuition Fees form here.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/study/the-student-centre:
The Student Centre is here to help provide students, applicants and visitors with information, advice and guidance to a range of University of Greenwich services and student administrative tasks.
We have a base on each of our three campuses, each offering students the following services:
We can also signpost and provide access to our specialist service areas, more detail of which you can find below.
The Student Centre adheres to a number of Operational Guidelines, Policies and Statements.
The Student Centres' Information Advice and Guidance team will be available to speak to face to face at the following times during the week day.
Services co-located within the Student Centre, such as Student Finance , Accommodation and Student Wellbeing may operate different service times.
So please check the specific campus Student Centre pages below or the Specialist Services pages for more detail.
Should the Student Centre need to close all attempts will be made to communicate this to students using the portal and by the team placing an announcement.
If you would like to email us, please feel free by using: StudentCentre@gre.ac.uk
This email account is monitored by colleagues within the Student Centre where we aim to answer your query or pass it to the appropriate part of the university.
If you would like to call us, please call 0208 331 8272 (Monday to Friday 10.00 to 16.00).
This is the Student & Academic Services helpline where you will be given options to help filter your call to the best area to help with your query.
The Student Centre on your local campus is your access point for a wide range of student support services and where most students complete the registration process.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/docs/rep/gre/researcher-development-concordat:
Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers – September 2019

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/support/knowledge-management-systems-help-and-guidance:
Deriving greatest impact from the breadth of our research and knowledge exchange activities requires us to fully understand its many facets.
The tools described here, in tandem with our web presence, greatly facilitates this.
Research and knowledge exchange project development and approval system
Greenwich Academic Literature Archive
Capture, measure and report on research impact - the fundamental knowledge exchange

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/research/support/early-career-academics-network:
Greenwich Research & Innovation is working to bring together the existing faculty early career networks to ensure there is a university-wide network.
This encourages interdisciplinary understanding and collaboration, and to widens the reach of the existing networks.
The Greenwich Early Career Academic Network is for all academics in the Early Career stage, not just researchers.
Ensure you are connected by joining your faculty network.
This is where news and events are disseminated.
Faculty network leads meet monthly with GRI to coordinate the activities that can be shared across the wider university.
Invitations and information will always come via your Faculty network.
The University of Greenwich is proud to be one of the four delivery partners of the London Cluster of The British Academy Early Career Research Network .
The network is an inclusive membership body for all UK-based early career researchers (ECRs) working in the humanities and social sciences.
As a delivery partner, Greenwich participates in decision-making and reporting for the cluster and provides key headline events each year.
In 2024-25 the cluster and the Greenwich team chose to provide three linked events on the theme of the funding landscape; Interdisciplinary Sandpit , Navigating the Funding Landscape , and Grant Writing Retreat .
Each event was relevant to the next in terms of progression, providing those who attended all three with a journey from idea to funding application.
In addition, each event could also be a standalone session for those who wanted to focus on just one topic.
We received great feedback for the series, and the cluster meeting was keen for the series to be repeated.
Work is underway to book this series in again.
Watch out for the event news on the portal.
The British Academy Early Career Researcher Network is an engaging Network which creates a dynamic, evolving and supportive community that maximises career development to enrich the long-term employability of SHAPE ECRs.
We are working with our partners to develop an empowering and responsive nationwide Network: by ECRs, for ECRs which forges wider academic connections to the British Academy & the broader SHAPE community.
The Network will ensure that equity, diversity and inclusion is at the forefront of everything we do.
Professor Andy Frost, Director of Greenwich Research and Innovation

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/finance/fees/how-your-fees-status-is-assessed:
All you need to know about your tuition fee status
Your fee status is set by our Admissions Department based on the information you provide on your application form.
They may need to contact you by email to request further information if they are unable to determine your fee status.
If you are unable to provide this information, you may be assessed as overseas for tuition fee purposes.
Your tuition fee status is determined by your nationality and the country where you are ordinarily resident.
In accordance with the Education (Fees and Awards) (England) Regulations 2007 .
UKCISA (UK Council for International Student Affairs) provides further information and explains the conditions you need to meet to be entitled to pay tuition fees at the home rate.
If you disagree with your fee status classification or your circumstances have changed, you can request a reassessment of your status by completing and submitting this form:
Fee Status Appeals Form.
You will need to refer to the specific category within the regulations and submit evidence of your claim as part of your appeal.
You may find it helpful to read UKCISA's guide to the fee status regulations.
We aim to process the appeal within 10 working days, from receipt, and if this is not possible, we will convey the anticipated timescale.
Please note that by accepting an offer, you are agreeing to the terms and conditions held within that offer, including the fee status.
Fee status applies for the duration of the programme.
We do not normally change a fee status that was the basis of the offer.
You should ensure you are happy with your fee status before you start your course as in most cases your fee status cannot be amended once you have started your studies.
Your fee status could change from the start of the following academic year if you enter one of the following categories:
For any of the above cases you must be able to demonstrate that you meet the residency requirements on the first day of the first academic year of your course.
Before submitting a request to change your fee status as a current student, please read the UKCISA guidance carefully to confirm that you meet one of the eligibility criteria to change your status.
You may find that your question has already been answered on the Digital Student Centre.
Alternatively, if you need our detailed advice or continued support, please submit a self-referral [CA1] and we will assess you situation and advise you on next steps.
If you are an applicant, alumni or do not have access to your university account, e-mail us at studentfinance.gre.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/university-of-greenwich-retains-first-class-university-status-in-people-and-planet-university-league:
University rises one place from last year's rankings to 17th out of 149 universities in the UK
People & Planet’s University League is the only comprehensive and independent league table of UK universities ranked by environmental and ethical performance.
It is compiled annually by the UK’s largest student campaigning network, People & Planet.
For the 2024 People & Planet League table, the University of Greenwich made a one place improvement from joint 18 th to 17 th overall, out of 149 universities that were assessed, meaning the university retained their 1 st Class Award.
Greenwich were 5 th placed for universities in London.
Head of Strategic Sustainability at the University of Greenwich, Simon Goldsmith said:
“Although this is good news, we know there is always more to do to improve.
“Many thanks to everyone across the university that has helped us with our ongoing work on sustainability.
This year we have had many successes that all at Greenwich should be proud of”

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/articles/university/future-proof-your-business-with-apprenticeships:
Name: Steven Huggett
Company name: United Living
Job Title: Commercial Manager, Property Services
A great way to future proof your business and keep everyone motivated
Future proof your business with apprenticeships
“The construction industry is always changing.
We are now doing a lot more design and build projects, which involves a more highly skilled workforce than we've had to employ in the past”, Steven says.
Finding high-quality individuals to meet these new industry demands is a challenge, Steven explains.
“The extensive skills shortage across the industry causes problems.
Finding, retaining and motivating the right people is difficult.”
Apprenticeships are invaluable
This is where University of Greenwich apprenticeships prove invaluable, he says.
“Through these apprenticeships, people feel that the company has invested a lot of time and effort and really care.
“We have a policy of trying to internally promote where we can.
And by taking on good quality apprentices, we can allow them to progress through the business.
It's good for all aspects of the business and helps us keep our workforce really motivated.”
Steven is quick to point out that it’s not only new hires that can benefit from doing apprenticeships.
“Apprenticeships also allow our other existing employees to upskill as well,” he says.
Close links with the University of Greenwich
Steven is proud to be a University of Greenwich graduate, along with a number of his United Living colleagues.
He was keen to highlight the close working relationship between the two organisations.
“The University of Greenwich has been really good for both United Living as a business and for our individual apprentices,” he says.
“We have regular meetings with the university, and we always get good feedback on how our apprentices are progressing.
It’s a really easy process.”
Aligned with our values and goals
United Living have a clear sense of their values and goals, Steven says, and it’s crucial that all staff are aligned with them.
“This is another big advantage of apprenticeships,” he says.
“You know from day one that you’re getting someone who will be a natural fit with other team members, and who can really add something positive.”
A good example of a successful apprenticeship
“Our apprentice Charlie is a really good example of how successful apprenticeships can be.
Since joining us, he’s already been promoted a couple of times and is advancing through the business.
Charlie’s now running and managing projects all by himself, which is a great testament to him,” says Steven.
How to make the most of apprenticeships
Steven has some words of advice for any other organisation that may be considering apprenticeships.
“They’re a great idea.
Apprenticeships allow us to future proof our business.
So, take some time to think about where you want your business to be in the future and what kind of people you need to take you there.
Imagine the difference you could make by taking on staff that are keen and enthusiastic, and then giving them the space and support to develop and succeed.”
Pictured : Steven Huggett and Greenwich apprenticeship graduate Charlie Bishop from United Living.
Alumni; General public; Prospective students
Access our full subject list and find the perfect course for you.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/partnercollegehandbook:
If you are working with us (and are not a member of University of Greenwich staff) you can apply for a University of Greenwich Affiliate Account (ARMS account)
The university prides itself on its high standards and aspirations in its teaching and learning procedures.
Partner College teaching staff are entitled to participate in some staff development programmes at the university.
For more information please contact partnercollegesadmin@gre.ac.uk .
University staff development opportunities Staff development offered by the university staff development team.
The sharing of good practice across the Partner College Network is an important means of raising standards in programmes delivered by partners.
Student regulations, policies and procedures for academic assessment, including plagiarism.
Student regulations, policies and procedures Regulations, policies and procedures which include students' academic experience and wider university life.
Plagiarism (page 94) University Academic Regulations governing plagiarism.
Moodle and Turnitin Materials and information on Moodle, Turnitin and the portal.
This information is intended for staff in partner colleges to help guide QA and franchised students on what services are available.
The information in this section applies to University of Greenwich registered students only.
Please refer to the relevant college information systems for information about directly funded students.
Find out about financial help students can access in the new HE landscape.
The advice and guidance on fees provided under the links below are relevant to Partner College Students only .
Partner QA students should be referred to their relevant College websites.
Student finance and financial support Advice and rates for tuition fees, bursaries and scholarships and other financial support available to current students.
Access to Learning Fund Additional support to UK full-time or part-time undergraduate and postgraduate students facing financial difficulties.
Bursaries and scholarships Bursaries supplement primary sources of funding and are usually non-repayable.
It is important that you know where you can turn for help and advice while you are at university
Student ID card To access library services and computing accounts, you will need to have a student ID card.
Students' Union The Students' Union is at the heart of student life at the University of Greenwich.
Student's Union in colleges Advice from the NUS on setting up a student union body in a college.
Support for students with disabilities and students from 'hard-to-reach' groups.
Disability and dyslexia centre services Information, guidance and support for disabled students.
*AccessAbility Project Our *AccessAbility ambassadors provide first-hand experience of the achievements and challenges of university life.
Fast Track Admissions service for Partner College students progressing onto their next programme without the need to complete an application form .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/partner-colleges/bird-college:
The College is within easy reach of central London and Greenwich.
The College’s emphasis is on student-centred learning with bespoke programmes to enable young performers to identify and develop their individual set of specialised skills.
Bird College has an exceptional faculty with a unique breadth of experience in the theatre industry.
That experience is combined with excellent professional qualifications and the College regularly achieves a 100% pass rate for its final-year students, with a large majority of students being awarded either a First Class or Upper-Second Class degree.
Students are also taught by a team of visiting lecturers and guest choreographers, many of whom are ex-students of Bird College, who have gained international reputations in their specialist field.
The College’s graduates have an outstanding national and international reputation within the performance industry, and many are award-winning artists.
Studying at Bird College provides a wealth of opportunities for research, cultural activities and performance experience.
Students train on a single-site campus which provides a superb environment for study, including a refectory, gym and an innovative theatre space for performances.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/partner-colleges/flourish-learning-trust:
With a reputation for high standards, expert tuition and a specialism in SEND training, Flourish Learning Trust delivers exceptional training opportunities and specialist outreach services to educational professionals across North and East London.
Flourish Learning Trust is based in Walthamstow, East London.
The Trust includes a group of welcoming and flourishing specialist schools, the excellent Professional Development and Outreach Services including two highly successful Project SEARCH internship programmes with Barts Health NHS Trust.
Whilst each of the schools ( Joseph Clarke School and Whitefield School ) and Professional Development Services education have their own distinct identity, they all work closely together to share expertise, research and best practice in order to support our continuous improvement.
The Foundation Degree was the stepping stone I needed to become a teacher and then a Lead Behaviour Interventionist.
I now travel across the Middle East, America and Europe working with children with behavioural needs.
- Thaubaan Toyyuab

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/partner-colleges/hadlow:
Study courses in agriculture, horticulture, and the management and handling of animals at Hadlow College – one of our local Partner Colleges.
The University Centre Hadlow is a dedicated part of Hadlow College offering a rural campus setting for our courses in partnership with the University of Greenwich.
There are currently 600 students learning at Hadlow College.
Hadlow College is set in the heart of the Kent countryside near Tonbridge amid 265 acres of prime arable land, woodland, lakes and other natural habitats.
The site includes residential accommodation on-campus with further en-suite accommodation a short distance away.
All of the higher education programmes at Hadlow are delivered in partnership with the University of Greenwich.
Students benefit from small class sizes and one-to-one contact time with tutors whilst gaining a degree from a highly respected and recognised institution.
Programmes include International Agriculture, Animal Conservation and Biodiversity, Applied Animal Behavioural Science and Welfare, Zoo Husbandry and Management, Aquaculture and Fisheries Management, Equine Training and Management, Equine Sports Therapy and Rehabilitation and Commercial Horticulture.
The campus includes a fully-functioning commercial farm, which is home to the College flock, lambing sheds and 150 acres of paddocks for our llamas, pigs, goats, chickens and ducks.
Situated alongside the farm, the College has a state-of-the-art Animal Management Unit housing over 200 species, a 120-seat lecture theatre, examination rooms and a commercial dog-grooming salon.
Their facilities include a dairy, with a herd of 120 cows, and the Grove Farm complex, run as a commercial fishery, with a fully-stocked fish hatchery and restored fishing lake, providing students with practical aquatic management experience.
With orchards, 10 acres of landscaped gardens maintained by staff and students, and commercial enterprises such as a garden centre, tea room and farm shop selling produce grown on-site, the College's excellent facilities provide students with genuine commercial experience.
University Centre students also benefit from dedicated 'university hubs' for their exclusive use.
These can be used for quiet study, for socialising with friends or discussing tutorial topics with classmates.
Discover more about the University Centre Hadlow on the College’s website .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/partner-colleges/lsec:
With sites across Bromley, Bexley, Greenwich and Orpington, LSEC works at the heart of the community by supporting businesses with their skills needs, creating strong partnerships with schools and local authorities and inspiring students to achieve excellent results.
Located just ten minutes from Orpington station and accessible by rail, road and bus, the University Centre sits in the heart of Orpington with easy connections to London and the South East.
University Centre students benefit from dedicated learning environments for their exclusive use.
These can be used for quiet study, socialising with friends or discussing tutorial topics with classmates.
A well-stocked Learning Resource Centre and fully equipped IT suite are also available, all complimented by experienced lecturers and university centre staff.
The courses are affordable and employment-focused, so if you are looking to study for a degree without the hassle and expense of moving away from home or are worried that increasing living costs could stop you from achieving your ambitions to upskill or progress your career with a degree.
Think again.
We blend academic and vocational learning, so you will gain the skills employers want and the confidence you need to start or get ahead in your chosen career.
Courses offered include foundation degrees, HNDs and honours degrees, higher technical qualifications and apprenticeships.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/partner-colleges/midkent-college:
Study courses in Construction, Engineering (Mechanical and Electrical), Civil Engineering and Building Services at a dedicated specialist centre in Kent’s County Town.
University Centre Maidstone is a part of MidKent College, which is set in a spacious higher education campus just 10 minutes from the town centre, students benefit from fully-equipped classrooms and workshops, in a welcoming and professional environment.
MidKent College’s university-level offer is built around economic growth and demand for jobs.
The Construction and Engineering sector in the South East is thriving, and further growth is anticipated.
The College is committed to ensuring that Kent’s employers have the knowledge, skills and experience that they need to thrive and the College is partnering with the University of Greenwich to achieve this.
Students benefit from small class sizes and increased personal tutorial time while gaining a degree from the university.
The College and the University are incredibly proud of our students and the successful careers they progress to during and after their time with us.
Graduates are now working on high profile construction and engineering projects including the Nepicar Industrial Park, Wrotham Heath, the Panattoni Industrial Park, Aylesford, along with various domestic housing building projects in Kings Hill, Leybourne, and Ashford.
Discover more about MidKent College

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/partner-colleges/nescot:
Located in Ewell, near Epsom, NESCOT attracts thousands of students each year from London, Surrey and surrounding areas.
Benefit from our dedicated accessible teaching and support teams, experienced in delivering Higher Education for over 60 years at Nescot.
Our library and academic support teams are an integral part of the programme.
The smaller group sizes means that students can see lecturers modelling best classroom practice first hand.
Whichever qualification you choose, you can be confident that taking your education further with Nescot College will give you the tools to dramatically improve your career prospects.
We've been providing Higher and university-level education at Nescot for more than 60 years and run our courses in partnership with The University of Greenwich.
Satisfaction
Nescot is very highly regarded by its students.
In the National Student Survey 2020-21, 93% of Higher Education students were satisfied with their course, way above the national average of 75%.
The College was "significantly above benchmark" in all 27 categories of the survey.
Nescot, located in Ewell, near Epsom, attracts several thousand students each year from London, Surrey and surrounding areas.
We are on the outskirts of London, in a safe and well-connected area.
We’re within easy walking distance of two train stations, Ewell East and Ewell West, and there are buses linking us to Morden underground station and Kingston.
We have a large free car park with easy access to the M25, A3, A23, A24 and A21, and we’re halfway between Heathrow and Gatwick.
We’ve invested £55 million in our campus, giving you access to great facilities.
Whatever you study, you’ll be able to take advantage of brand-new onsite facilities like our newly refurbished gym, hair and beauty salon, refectory, day nursery, library, theatre, free distance learning courses and our osteopathy and sports injury clinics.
Our friendly lecturers and tutors are dedicated to helping you reach your full potential.
Our staff are experienced tutors, but also have substantial experience of working in the relevant industry, too, so you can understand what your future career could be like.
Our students also value being taught in smaller groups, rather than attending large lectures.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/partner-colleges/north-kent:
The College offers high quality Higher Education programmes that have a strong vocational focus and have been designed to prepare its graduates to succeed in an increasingly competitive job market.
The College offers dedicated areas to students studying one of the university-level programmes.
These can be used for quiet study, for socialising with friends or for discussing tutorial topics with classmates.
Each University Hub study area has full access to computers and printing facilities.
You will benefit from expert lecturers and links with industry, alongside partnerships with some of the top universities.
Whatever your study programme, personal needs and interests, the college is focused on giving you a positive student experience from your initial interest right through until your graduation and beyond.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/partner-colleges/plumpton-college:
Set within 800 hectares in the beautiful South Downs National Park, Plumpton College is 12 miles from Brighton.
The College has one of the largest college farms in the UK, Lambert Farm, which is home to their Sussex beef cattle, sow pig unit and flock of 550 sheep.
A recent £15million investment in state-of-the-art campus facilities and equipment enables students to benefit from the latest technological and best practice developments in the land and environment industries.
A brand new environmentally friendly AgriFood Centre opened on the campus in 2023, featuring training kitchens, conference facilities and an onsite café.
Our extensive Animal Management Centre houses over 179 distinct species and features fully equipped laboratories and a purpose-built Veterinary Nursing Training Suite.
Our Equine students enjoy outstanding facilities including a horse walker, show jump field, stabling for 40 horses, and indoor and outdoor arenas with outstanding views of the South Downs National Park.
With 10 hectares and 30,000 bottles of award-winning wine produced each year, we are the UK’s centre of excellence for wine education, training and research.
The only Higher Education facility in Europe that offers university degrees in wine business and production taught in English.
One Garden Brighton is the home of the college’s horticultural centre of excellence, a space for training and education open to the public.
The campus buildings are nestled within the beautiful walled gardens, where students design, plant and maintain the grounds as a showcase for innovation.
Plumpton College offers a wide range of subjects, and each course has been designed to ensure you gain the right skills needed for employment.
All our courses, which are delivered in partnership with the University of Greenwich, are highly regarded by employers and we are proud of our excellent graduate employment record.
Courses are available in the following areas:  Sustainable Agriculture, Animal Management, Environmental Studies & Conservation, Equine Management, Sustainable Horticulture, Veterinary Nursing, Veterinary Physio, Wine Business, Wine Production, Viticulture & Oenology.
During your time with us, you will have the chance to enjoy commercial work experience, which is a valuable opportunity to gain hands-on practice while developing contacts within your chosen industry.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/partner-colleges/the-woolwich-college:
The Woolwich College London is a dynamic and innovative institution dedicated to providing quality education that empowers students to achieve their academic and professional goals.
Established with a vision to make education accessible, The Woolwich College London (TWCLONDON) specialises in offering a wide range of programmes, from vocational diplomas to higher education diplomas and Foundation Degrees in Healthcare and IT Sectors.
TWCLONDON is committed to accessible, industry-driven education that empowers students for successful careers.
TWCLONDON programmes offer tailored schedules with weekday, evening, and weekend classes, allowing students to balance work and family commitments seamlessly.
Through a blended learning approach, there is a combination of on-campus sessions with online classes for added convenience and engagement.
With small class sizes, students benefit from personalised attention and active participation in every session.
Designed specifically for mature and working students, this college supports both professional and academic growth effectively.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/docs/rep/communications-and-recruitment/partnerships-proposal-form:
If you are interested in building impactful, sustainable, and mutually beneficial partnerships, please download the partner proposal form and return the completed form to the International Partnerships Team.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/collaborations/prospective:
Transnational Education (TNE) is central to our internationalisation strategy, and we are committed to developing impactful, sustainable partnerships that will advance the work of the University and our partner institutions.
There are many reasons to apply to become a collaborative partner of the University of Greenwich, but here are our top five:
With an institutional history going back over 120 years and almost 20 years experience of specifically engaging in collaborative provision overseas, University of Greenwich is a market leader in the field of international partnerships.
Each collaborative programme or partnership receives dedicated academic support through a named Link Tutor who schedules regular visits to meet with staff and students at the partner institution.
Link Tutors also provide invaluable, ongoing support to ensure a successful partnership, and partners also benefit from the academic specialisms of our Link Tutors.
University of Greenwich provides staff and students at our collaborative partners with access to our huge range of electronic learning resources including electronic journals and other materials, which means that our partners can benefit from many of the same resources offered on-campus in the UK, no matter where they are located in the world.
With a vast selection of subjects offered at both undergraduate and postgraduate level and covering subjects such as architecture, design and construction, business, computing, education, engineering, health and social care, humanities, law, social science and science, we offer something for everyone and can also work with partners to tailor programmes and provide an element of localisation to boost student employability.
We are an institution with ambitious plans: we aim to be positioned within the top 50 institutions in the country and in the top 10 in London.
We welcome partners who share our aspirations and vision.
The University remains open to exploring new opportunities through the following types of partnership models.
Franchised Programmes: this refers to existing (or sometimes, modified versions of existing) University of Greenwich programmes which have been approved for delivery on campus, and which may also be approved (‘franchised’) for delivery by an external partner.
Validated Programmes: these are new programmes devised and developed by a partner (or jointly with the University of Greenwich) using the University of Greenwich’s protocols, which are then approved (‘validated’) by the University for delivery by that partner as a University of Greenwich award.
Externally Validated Programmes: these are programmes devised and developed by a partner to its own specifications and approved (‘validated’) by the University of Greenwich as equivalent to a University of Greenwich award.
Articulation Agreement: these involve a formal link between UoG and an external partner, providing a guarantee that a cohort of students who achieve an agreed standard in a programme at the partner will be able to progress to a particular stage of an award-bearing programme in the UoG, provided there is a close curriculum ‘fit’ for articulation purposes.
Progression Agreement: The University recognises progression from a programme a student has completed at a partner institution, either to the beginning or to a more advanced stage of an award-bearing programme in the UoG.
Applications are received on an individual basis.
Joint award: A programme developed jointly with at least one other institution, which may also have degree awarding powers, leading to a Greenwich award, or a degree awarded jointly by both institutions.
Dual Award: A programme of study jointly delivered by a partner institution and the UoG leading to the granting of both a Greenwich award and that of the partner institution.
If you are interested in building impactful, sustainable, and mutually beneficial partnerships, please download the partner proposal form and return the completed form to the  International Partnerships Team.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/collaborations/prospective/current-tne:
Discover our partners, their campuses, and programmes offered in Europe.
Discover our partners, their campuses, and programmes offered in Asia and Oceania Partnerships
Discover our partners, their campuses, and programmes offered in the America.
Discover our partners, their campuses, and programmes offered in Africa.
We live in a global age in which education and research span traditional national and international boundaries.
Greenwich’s future, like its past must mark us out as a beacon in a network of international collaborators.
Our Global Greenwich strategy and action plan 2019-2024 affords us the opportunity to further enhance our international impact and ensure consistency and parity of experience between on our-campus and TNE provision.
Click here to read more about our Global Greenwich 2019-2024 Strategy.
The British university system is widely acknowledged as one of the best in the world.
Learn more about our quality standards

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/benefits/discounts:
The Alumni and Fundraising team has teamed up with university partners to offer alumni access to discounts.
We're pleased to offer alumni the chance to access £10 tickets to home fixtures for Charlton Athletics men’s team during the 2025/26 season.
Please see full list of the fixtures .
To receive your discount code , please email alumni@gre.ac.uk and include your full name, Alumni ID number (if known), and the match you wish to attend.
Once we have confirmed your details, we will contact our Partnerships team who will confirm your discount code.
Each code can be used to purchase two tickets and are only valid for the stated fixture.
Please note, where applicable that tickets are available, the deadline is 12pm Friday for all weekend fixtures as this allows time for your request to be processed by the Partnerships team.
How to redeem your ticket once you've received your code
Coming soon: stay tuned for further updates on our £5 themed match days - a highlight of the calendar!

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/totum-pro:
Start saving today with TOTUM, the benefits service for graduates and professional learners.
As a member of the alumni community you can enjoy exclusive access to TOTUM Pro, a new benefits service designed especially for graduates and professional learners.
TOTUM (formerly NUS Extra) memberships are available to eligible students, professionals, and apprentices in the UK.
There are two TOTUM memberships to choose from, TOTUM and TOTUM+.
Membership offers graduates and professional learners discounts from 100s of brands across the high street and online, including Samsung , Apple , TUI , Domino's and ASOS .
TOTUM is a free digital discount membership providing access to 100s of online offers.
TOTUM+ is a paid membership which includes a physical card to redeem in-store discounts.
TOTM+ membership also includes reduced supermarket bills, a free government approved 18+ ID, and 100,000s of discounts in over 90 countries worldwide.
All from just from £14.99!

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/benefits/libraries:
As a member of the alumni community, you have access to campus libraries and online journals.
Alumni library membership is open to all members of the alumni community for £30 annually.
With an alumni library membership you can:
Due to the university’s licensing obligations, alumni are unable to use university computers or any electronic information products, other than online catalogues and specific alumni-only resources as outlined below.
If you live or work in the Medway Council area, you may be able to access Drill Hall Library for free as a member of the public.
See the following link for more information.
Register your alumni library membership account
To register an account with the Library Services Team:
For questions about your library membership, please email librarymembership@gre.ac.uk .
Please note that you do not require a paid-for library membership to access these online journals.
However, you will need to:
If you have further questions about accessing these journals, please contact the Library Services Team at library@gre.ac.uk .
Open access resources for alumni
The Library Service Team have put together an extensive collection of open access resources to support alumni who are interested in further study, research and lifelong learning.
Explore all the resources they have collated for alumni .
If you have any questions about your library membership or access to online journals, please visit the Library webpage .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/campus/sports:
There are sports facilities spread across the three campuses of the university.
Our fully air-conditioned gym caters for all your fitness needs.
It has a full range of cardio-vascular and resistance machines and a range of dumbbells with personal trainers available.
Our gym has both male and female changing facilities, inclusive of showers and lockers available.
The gym shares a space with the campus café, so why not chill out with a coffee after your workout?
All prices are 4 monthly unless otherwise stated:
Prices are subject to an increase on September 1st every year.
Fees are due up front and in full.
Opening hours may vary during the summer and Christmas holidays.
The sports hall on the Avery Hill Campus is purpose built to offer the best opportunities for indoor sports.
The hall has a sports specific vinyl floor and is marked out for a number of different sports:
The Sports Hall is open 7 days per week and bookings are taken from 09:00 – 22:00 weekdays and 09:00 -18:00 weekends
Active Life Community Classes free to staff and students (March -April)
Sports Hall hire per hour - £20
Sports Hall hire per hour - £60
£1.7m investment in sport on the Avery Hill Campus at University of Greenwich has resulted in our all-weather sports pitches, enabling most of our student sport to be played on campus.
Not many other London universities can say that!
Sand dressed hockey pitch for our men's, women's and mixed hockey teams is also used by our lacrosse teams and for casual football.
The 3G Rubber Crumb Pitch suitable for Football, Rugby, American football and lots more.
Pitches are available to hire all year round (excluding Grass Pitches when times of renovations take place).
Times vary according to the season.
Opening hours of 9am – 9pm are available for outdoor facilities.
University of Greenwich offers a secure set of football pitches that can cater for 11v11, 9v9, 7v7 & 5v5 for mini soccer.
Sparrows Farm acts as a home hub for numerous community and grassroots football and rugby clubs throughout, both the football and rugby seasons.
Sparrows Farm offers both male and female changing rooms, toilets and facilities for any users with accessibility or disability needs.
3G
The University of Greenwich plays host to local Hockey Clubs that allow for both a student playing pathway, along with a community and grassroots sports development link, which contributes to hosting weekly training and fixtures on our sand-based hockey astro.
The University of Greenwich boasts 6 outdoor Tennis Courts at our Avery Hill Campus, with the addition of equipment available to rent from our Sport & Active Life Engagement Team.
Tennis Courts can be booked through our sports@gre.ac.uk email address
Telephone: Sport & Active Life Engagement Office: 020 8331 8088
Email: sports@gre.ac.uk
Our gym is located in the basement of the Dreadnought building.
This has a range of cardio, resistance and functional fitness.
We are open 07:00-21:00 weekdays and 09:00-17:00 weekends
If you buy a gym membership for Avery Hill or Greenwich, it allows you to use all three gyms.
To purchase a membership follow this link: Gym Membership | University of Greenwich Online Store
Our gym is in the Sports hall building located in the lower grounds of the university (next to the Deep End building).
We are open 12:00-20:00 weekdays only
Medway Gym Only
To purchase a Medway only membership follow this link: Sports Activities | University of Greenwich Online Store

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/student-services/completing-your-studies:
The information below is designed to help finalists (current students in your final or only year) to make the most of the support and resources available to you as you begin to prepare for the end of your studies.
Finalists have a lot to think about and many of you may also be juggling your studies with work and family commitments.
We want to make things easier for you and to prepare you for the ways you can continue to benefit from your membership of the University community of staff, students and alumni.
The Student Wellbeing Team offers a range of mental health, wellbeing, disability and dyslexia support to help you achieve your full personal and academic potential, including one-to-one counselling, group workshops and Spectrum Life a 100% confidential, in the moment, support service that is designed to support you as a university student.
Spectrum Life is available 24/7, 365 days a year offering help with things like: stress, anxiety, low mood, financial worries, loss & grief, relationship problems, substance misuse concerns and much more.
Our dedicated Academic Support Team are here to support and prepare you for the Exam and Assessment period with specialist workshops, extended one-to-one appointments and drop-ins.
You can also access a range of articles designed to help you develop your academic skills.
Your personal exam timetable can be viewed on the Student Portal by clicking on the 'Timetable' quick link and selecting 'My Timetable' and the appropriate exam weeks or via the Greenwich Mobile app.
Discover a range of exam resources on the Exam Hub page and find answers to your questions in our Examination FAQs .
We aim to publish all student results letters on the Student Portal within 10 working days of the Progression and Award Board (PAB) meeting.
Although your results will not be posted to you, it is important to update your contact details as they will be printed on student letters.
This is where your final certificate and transcript are posted, and (if applicable) is a requirement of your student visa.
Your results letter(s) will continue to be available on the Portal for up to 90 days following completion of your studies.
An academic transcript is a record of your academic achievement whilst studying at the University and includes a breakdown of modules and results.
You will receive a final and official academic transcript with your certificate upon graduation.
Please check the Certificate and Transcripts pages for more information.
If you have any questions about repaying your student loans, please visit the Government's website for the latest information.
The University of Greenwich Citizens Advice Bureau can provide you with free debt advice and after you join the alumni community, you can also get in touch with your local Citizens Advice Bureau.
Your student IT and Library accounts will be disabled 90 days after you have completed your studies
Once you have completed, you will receive countdown emails and see a notice on the Portal page to give you plenty of warning.
Before you leave, you need to return your library resources and use up any unspent print credit.
When your account expires, you will not be able to access your files, your university e-mail or any other resources which you access via your university login or email address.
This includes our student Portal, Student Records, our Digital Student Centre and other services.
Find out how to prepare for leaving the university here .
All members of our alumni community can become library members.
Find out more in the "joining our alumni community" section below.
We know that graduation ceremonies are important opportunities to celebrate your hard work and achievements with loved ones.
For more information, visit our Awards ceremonies website .
If you are an international student, and you want to stay in the UK to work or undertake further study, you will need to apply for a new visa.
The International Student Advice Service provides free and confidential immigration advice to University applicants and students.
Recent graduates may also be eligible to use this service.
You might find that completing a further course will enhance your career options.
Also, if you really enjoy your subject, progressing to the next level will allow you to deepen your knowledge and specialise in certain aspects of your field.
If you are interested in post-graduate study, find a programme at the university by browsing the online postgraduate prospectus and finding out how to apply .
International students will need to consider their visa options and we recommend you start planning as soon as possible.
Home tuition fee-paying Greenwich graduates may be eligible for the Greenwich Progression Bursary on your postgraduate tuition fees.
Overseas/International fee-paying Greenwich graduates may be eligible for the International Scholarship Award .
(Terms and Conditions apply)
The Employability and Careers Service can help you gain the confidence, skills and experience to achieve your career ambitions.
You receive support with CVs, job applications, careers fairs, internships, mentoring, graduate jobs, mock interviews and more.
This service is open to current students and recent graduates (those who graduated in the last two years).
Thinking of starting or developing a business?
The University's Generator is a centre for business and social enterprise which can help students and recent graduates develop ideas via workshops, mentoring, and other financial and non-financial support.
You are also encouraged to join Ask Alumni , the University’s online community for students, staff and alumni.
This community will help you to broaden your professional networks, seek career insights, and receive e-mentoring from a Greenwich graduate in an industry that interests you.
You will automatically join the alumni community – a global network of more than 250,000 former students – as soon as your student status has come to an end (90 days after you receive your results).
This membership is free and lifelong.
There’s nothing that you need to do in advance of joining, except update your contact details via the Student Portal when prompted during your final year.
Take a sneak peek at the benefits and services you can immediately enjoy once you join the community.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/stories/submit:
Share your memories of Greenwich with the alumni community.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/about-us/governance/information-compliance/privacy:
The University of Greenwich is committed to processing personal data in line with Data Protection legislation.
Find out about the ways in which it does this.
Privacy notices
More information about the University of Greenwich's privacy notices to its students, staff, and other data subjects.
A template privacy notice is available for staff for local use.
Data Subject Rights
More information about the rights that data subjects have.
Privacy procedures
A list of privacy-related procedures, including the Data Processing Activities Register .
Data Transfers and Data Sharing Protocol
Information for staff who need to set up a data sharing agreement.
Privacy Impact Assessments
Assessments into the risk of a loss of privacy for individuals will be made by staff in certain circumstances.
Automated Decision Making and Profiling
The University of Greenwich conducts very little automated decision making (computerised processing with no human intervention).
What processing it does can be viewed here.
How to make a Subject Access Request
If the University of Greenwich holds data about you, you can make a request for that information under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) or UK Data Protection legislation.
How to make a Third Party Request
The University of Greenwich will in some instances consider disclosing third party personal information to third parties, where this is allowed by law.
Records retention
Information and Records Retention Schedules are lists of the information and records which are held in each of the Faculties and Directorates.
Staff and students can access these, members of the public can make a request for a copy from compliance@gre.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/giving/hardship-fund:
Your donation provides vital support to students experiencing financial hardship.
Through the newly launched Annual Fund, you can provide emergency assistance to students who find themselves in unexpected financial need.
Your support can ensure that a student is able to focus on their studies.
The number of students who need financial support is rising due to the ongoing cost of living crisis.
The combined cost of food, energy, travel, and accommodation is one of the most pressing issues our students are facing on campus today.
A recent survey by the Greenwich Students’ Union found that:
Last year, we received thousands of applications to support students facing hardship.
We were not able to support all of the students who applied through donations.
There are hundreds more we could help with your support.
With your help, we’ve already offered an additional £10,000 to fund the food voucher scheme which provides students in need with a £20 food voucher.
Your donation will help an additional 500 students.
Through the newly launch Annual Fund, your donations will go further and help students with essential living costs and provide emergency assistance to students in crisis.
Here are some of the ways your donation might be used to help students in need:
For students with limited resources, any unexpected cost can land them in genuine financial hardship.
Whatever your gift size, through the combined donations to the Annual Fund, you will make a demonstrable impact and directly support students in need, helping them overcome short-term financial crises and stay on track.
Through generous donations from alumni, the Greenwich Student Fund has provided a £10k boost for student food vouchers.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/giving/scholarships:
Although we hope that most young people will decide to come to university, we know that it is difficult to make important life decisions when you feel restricted by financial worries.
Getting the grades is not always enough.
Students have to consider how they will pay for their tuition, accommodation and living costs.
They may need to balance their time with work or looking after loved ones.
They may also be the first in their family to go to university and not feel confident that they are making the right choice.
Through the combined donations of our alumni and supporters from the newly launch Annual Fund, student scholarships funding can:
When bright, capable people miss out on university and other life-changing opportunities, we know that there is a much higher cost to society - which is why we need your help.
If you would like to establish a new scholarship or extend one of our existing scholarships to additional students, please contact Mary Ivers , Associate Director, Alumni and Fundraising.
Below are some of the university's established scholarships.
Together, we're not just providing scholarships.
We're building a more inclusive, compassionate world - one student at a time.
Donate today and help us give an Education without Boundaries.
Give an opportunity to a student who has overcome adversity, engaged with the University of Greenwich during their current studies, and have been nominated by a teacher or adviser.
John’s [donor] support has been indispensable to my academic and personal development.
Not only has his generosity meant that I have been able to pursue my PhD with financial and institutional support, but it has opened a space for me to push my research to new and exciting places.
- Sebastian Rose, Recipient, History Research Scholarship

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/giving/student-futures:
Your donation empowers students to develop the skills, experience, and mindset to thrive in their future careers.
By supporting the Annual Fund, you're not just easing financial burdens – you're unlocking opportunities.
Your gift enables students to dive into career-boosting internships, skill-building workshops, and entrepreneurial ventures without the stress of mounting debt or juggling multiple jobs.
Your donation propels students from classroom to career, funding vital experiences that shape future leaders and innovators.
The impact of your generosity ripples far beyond campus, fostering a workforce primed to tackle tomorrow's challenges.
Through the Annual Fund, you're not just supporting students, you're shaping the future of industries and communities.
Join us in bridging the gap between education and employment.
Your regular donation will ensure the Annual Fund isn't just changing lives – it's building careers.
Your support could help:
Through crowdfunding and hands-on volunteering with Bee Sustainable, students gain employable skills while changing the lives of bees.
Abdirahman Ahmed, founder of Urban Rise which supports young people’s financial literacy, accessed university crowdfunding to grow his social enterprise.
Thank you from all us at Greenwich.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/alumni/giving/our-supporters:
Together, alumni and friends make a huge impact, empowering our students and opening up opportunities.
Our alumni and friends are a force for change – whether through financial contributions, championing our cause, or lending a helping hand, they are a testament to the transformative power of our shared Greenwich experiences and education.
We are grateful to our generous supporters, whose commitment enables an education without boundaries for our students.
Meet a few of the extraordinary individuals who embody the spirit of giving back, leaving a mark on the lives of countless students.
Their stories will inspire you, reminding us that each of us has the power to be an agent of positive change, united by the common thread of Greenwich’s legacy to provide education.
The University of Greenwich Alumni Awards recognises outstanding alumni who have demonstrated excellence and for their extraordinary impact on our community.
John graduated in 2017 with a MA in History following a long and successful career.
Returning to his studies 50 years later has inspired John to give back as a donor and volunteer.
Byron is an award-winning entrepreneur and business start-up expert who gives back because he wants to enable and empower students and fellow alumni to achieve whatever they want.
The contribution our alumni mentor make is truly invaluable.
We spoke to members of our mentoring community who wanted to share the importance of mentoring and why they became a mentor.
Santander Universities UK enable students to have the full Greenwich experience through unique international study and employment opportunities.
James is the Greenwich Hong Kong Alumni Association Chair helping to develop our alumni community globally.
James recognises the importance of the alumni community in enriching social lives and providing support.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/for-schools/activities/taster-days:
Our range of Taster Days offer students a real taste of a subject they enjoy and are contemplating studying at university
Give your students a real taste of a subject they enjoy and are interested in studying at university.
Through our range of subject-specific Taster Days students, in year 12 and 13, or FE year 1 and 2, can get a real taste of a subject they enjoy and are contemplating studying at university.
Attending a Taster Day allows students to learn more about their subject of choice through a sample lecture and to gain an insight into studying at university through a practical session delivered by University of Greenwich academics.
Included in the visit is an overview of entry requirements and other relevant information about the application process.
It has given me a really good insight into what it takes to go to university.
Student, English Taster Day
I have attended a few specialised 'tasters' now over the years and I think today has got to have been one of the best!
Teacher, Paramedics Taster Day
The Government's Careers Strategy uses the Gatsby Benchmarks to set out a range of requirements that schools and colleges must meet.
We have matched all of our activities to these, and this activity can support you with meeting benchmark 2, 4 and 7.
We accept individual bookings from students in Year 12 and 13, and FE Year 1 and 2 students, as well as group bookings from teachers and careers advisors.
If you have any accessibility requirements which you would like to inform us of for any of our events, please email us at outreach@gre.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/for-schools/activities/subject-talks:
Subject specific talks delivered by University of Greenwich academics at your event, school or college
The university is committed to contributing to the community by sharing our expertise and facilities in support of raising aspirations and inspiring your students.
Our lecturers and subject specialists can visit your school or college and deliver talks on a range of subjects and degree specialisms, including:
Our series of twilight lectures are delivered virtually by academics via Teams and cover a range of subject areas to complement students sixth form or college studies and to provide an insight into studying these disciplines at degree level.
Subject areas covered in the series include:
Our Twilight Lectures for 2024-25 are still being confirmed and events will be available to book on our webpages.
We welcome bookings from students and teachers/advisers.
It's important to stay safe online, please see our Safeguarding Policy which provides details about staying safe at online events and webinars.
"Students found it extremely useful to gain an insight on this course.
You kept them engaged and positive about the many opportunities available to them when they leave college.
Our Politics teacher was really inspired and we are hopeful to continue our collaboration"
Teacher, Politics Subject Talk
We have matched all of our activities to these, and this activity can support you with meeting benchmarks 1, 2, 4 and 7.
Teachers and careers advisers from our schools and colleges can contact us to discuss their needs for students in year 12 and 13, or FE year 1 and 2.
As these talks are in high demand, advance notice is advised.
Twilight lectures are open to all and are aimed at students currently studying at Level 3.
Both students and their teachers are welcome.
Students are permitted to attend independently.
All twilight lectures take place on Tuesdays from 5:00pm - 6:00pm.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/for-schools/activities/epqs:
GREat Skills is a programme of workshops designed to support students to develop key skills relevant to their academic learning and their preparation for the transition to university and beyond.
“I really enjoyed the GREat Skills Workshops, I thought they were really interesting, well presented (never boring) and I think very useful.”
Teacher, Barking & Dagenham College
GREat Skills offers a variety of academic, personal and transferable skills workshops delivered by our trained student ambassadors and staff, aimed at students from our targeted schools and colleges .
The GREat Skills workshops are suitable for all level 3 students, studying A levels, BTEC, IB, T Levels, Access courses or equivalent.
The workshops are designed to support students currently completing a piece of academic work, those who are due to complete one in the near future or those who would benefit from the opportunity of being able to build on key skills relevant to their future studies within a Higher Education setting.
These sessions are also particularly suitable for students taking the Extended Project Qualification (EPQ) as they cover many of the main skills which students develop and are expected to demonstrate within their projects.
This practical workshop helps myth-bust the notion that “academic writing” is a complex piece of work.
The activities focus on the skills students will need for any piece of academic-style writing they may have to complete, e.g., an EPQ log; university-level essays; or an apprenticeship/work report.
Techniques explored in this workshop include objective thinking; reading the question; and the importance of proofreading.
Active Listening & Communication
Attention to Detail
These workshops are all delivered using an application named Mentimeter , a highly interactive format which allows students to engage directly with the content.
For this, we ask that teachers permit the use of phones, tablets or computers during these sessions.
Our trained student ambassadors and staff are able to deliver the GREat skills workshops in person or virtually across a variety of platforms.
To find out about pre-recorded versions of these workshops, please click here.
These workshops are usually 45-60 minutes in duration.
Dates and times can be agreed to fit in with the timetable for your students or your study programme.
We encourage all participants to register their details with us, so that we can evaluate our workshops and the schools/colleges we work with.
If you would like to learn more, you can find further information on our GREat Futures webpage .
We also encourage all participants and teachers/advisers to provide feedback at the end of our workshops, which supports us to improve the content and quality of our workshops.
Students who successfully participate in a minimum of 4 of our outreach activities during their Level 3 studies and who will be joining us for their undergraduate studies in September 2025, will potentially be eligible for nomination by school staff for a substantial cash scholarship of £2000 .
Further details on the eligibility criteria can be found on our GREat Skills Scholarship page.
“The Plagiarism workshop was excellent – exactly what our students needed and delivered in an interactive fashion.”
Teacher, Northfleet School for Girls
If you would be interested in booking or finding out more about our GREat Skills Programme, please contact us at outreach@gre.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/sustain/get-involved:
There are a number of ways that you can get involved with sustainability at the University of Greenwich.
Whether you can commit to weekly volunteering or just a one-off event, we welcome everyone to come #MakeTheirChange.
This summer we are moving from our Green Rewards programme and we will be launching an exciting platform to help students and staff embrace actions that  save money,  improve wellbeing and also help the planet.
Also keep up to date with events and activities via the portal and our social media channels.
Remember too our Green Week is in November so  you can really get to grips with great experiences that are good for you.
In Green Week you can also contribute to our annual sustainability survey to tell us what you think about sustainability at Greenwich and what more you can do!
The Green Ambassador Programme brings together students who are passionate in sustainability to learn and make changes through hands-on volunteering experience.
The programme is organised by Sustainable Development Unit and students will work with staff in different sustainability projects.
This volunteer programme consists of two parts- meetings and volunteering experience:
The Edible Garden Volunteer will actively participate in the maintenance, cultivation, and support of our edible garden.
This role is essential for creating a welcoming and sustainable green space that benefits students, staff and our wider community, promotes environmental awareness and fosters a sense of wellbeing.
See here for more information around the garden.
Read the full job description here .
The Clothes Swap Volunteer will play a vital role in the planning and execution of our clothes swap events, aimed at promoting sustainable fashion practices, reducing clothing waste and fostering a circular economy within the university.
This volunteer will assist in organising, setting up, and managing the event to ensure it runs smoothly.
The Content Creator Volunteer will play a crucial role in helping the Sustainable Development Unit communicate its mission to a wider audience.
This volunteer will be responsible for creating engaging and informative content across various platforms to raise awareness about sustainability, engage our staff and students with sustainable initiatives and to support the University in meeting its sustainable commitments.
The Biodiversity Monitoring Volunteer will participate in conducting ecological surveys (e.g.
birds, mammals, aquatic life) at Avery Hill Campus.
The role is essential for monitoring and documenting flora and fauna on campus, which helps generate data for future biodiversity management plans.
Bargain Corner (located in Medway Campus) is open exclusively to students, offering second-hand essentials like kitchenware, soft furnishings, and small household items at very low prices.
As a Green Ambassador, you’ll help run the shop, create engaging displays, and chat to your fellow students – all while gaining valuable skills and experience.
The shop also supports sustainability and circular economy goals by giving donated items a second life and reducing waste on campus.
Ambassadors will be awarded a certificate by Sustainable Development Unit stating their voluntary hours upon completion of the programme, as well as other recognitions throughout the year.
The aim of this programme is to gather passionate people, exchange ideas and create change together.
If you are passionate in sustainability you are welcome to join!
Application is now open and close on 5 Oct 2025.
You must be a UoG student.
Please demonstrate your interest and competencies in the specific role to increase the chance of success.
Successful applications will be notified by 8 Oct 2025.
If you are successful, you will need to attend an in-person meeting on 21 Oct 2025.
Any questions please contact sustainability@gre.ac.uk
If you are a member of staff and would like to get involved, you can!
We have two opportunities available, both residing at our Avery Hill Campus.
You will actively participate in the maintenance, cultivation, and support of our edible garden.
This role is essential for creating a welcoming and sustainable green space that benefits students, staff and our wider community, promoting environmental awareness and fosters a sense of wellbeing.
You will learn about organic growing, how to plant and importantly able to harvest what we grow!
No experience is required, we will provide the tools and training.
Volunteering sessions are every Wednesday, 12-2pm .
If you would like to get involved please email edible-garden@greenwich.ac.uk .
You will participate in conducting ecological surveys (e.g.
The project encourages anyone, whether you are a complete starter, not knowing a bee from a blackbird through to experts, to take part.
Participants can choose the sessions they want to join, but we encourage joining as many as possible to learn more about biodiversity.
Monitoring activities will take place bi-weekly on Tuesdays, 12-2pm.
If you would like to get involved please fill out this form or email sustainability@greenwich.ac.uk .
A Living Lab offers real life research opportunities to students and staff at the university to help progress sustainable development and tackle real-world sustainability challenges.
Living Labs bring together knowledge of academics, students and external stakeholders to collaborate on projects and create transformational solutions.
Past living lab projects have included:
Read more about Living Labs here.
The university offers many opportunities for students and staff to audit our sustainability activities.
These are listed below.
If you would like to participate please contact us at sustainability@gre.ac.uk.
Let us know if you are interested in undertaking your own audits and provide recommendations and reports as part of your assessed work or not if you are a student, and if a staff member we can help develop your skills to help you undertake your own audits or other projects.
Environmental Management System Audits: We encourage staff to become internal auditors to help ensure we are meeting best practice and compliance requirements.
We currently have 10 trained auditors from across our university.
We also provide opportunities for students to undertake shadowing audits to help develop skills and experience in auditing and report writing, If you would like to be trained or are interested in supporting our audits please ask for David Jackson via sustainability@gre.ac.uk
Green Rewards & GREen Hub: The university run Green Rewards for 30 months until July 2025, a platform rewarding staff and students for the eco-actions they have taken.
In September 2025 we will be launching The GREen Hub, the go-to place to learn more and get actively involved with sustainability encouraging you to take more sustainability actions.
The platform will help staff and students make green commitments and share these directly with us via social media and our feedback form, so that GREen Hub can celebrate these with the world and so that we can calculate the positive impact you can all make.
Look out for our GREen Hub launch in September.
We look forwards to helping you help Greenwich, your communities and the planet become more sustainable.
Green Champions Network (GCN) : Green Champions (we have over 90 now!) are invited to deliver their own departmental sustainability audits and to share recommendations and actions with Yee Ng your Sustainability Engagement Officer and GCN coordinator.
Training and resources are available to assist you.
Through our Living Lab programme we have students undertaking their own audits and assessments of our sustainability performance.
We have seen great work by students over the last few years auditing and reporting results in areas such as waste,  water, energy and biodiversity.
Students are invited to participate in the Fairtrade Audit programme auditing our evidence in support of our bi-annual  audit programme.
In the past we have been grateful for the many students that have volunteered for this to help universities and also to develop their skills and experience.
Get in touch sustainability@gre.ac.uk if you want more information.
Sustainability Committees: A Greenwich Students' Union Officer sits on our Sustainability Management Committee, meeting every 3 months.
Please liaise with them to raise any issue directly to this Committee (we can give you the contact details as the member changes annually).
Students are also invited to be student reps on our Sustainable Food Sub Committee and the Ecosystems Services Sub Committee.
Student engagement with these groups is important and very much welcomed.
During our annual Green Week (November) we ask for staff and student feedback about sustainability at Greenwich and how we can engage you  better.
Please  complete our short MS form  so we can better help you.
If you can't wait then email us your thoughts anytime at sustainability@gre.ac.uk  Staff also have an opportunity to feedback your thoughts about sustainability at Greenwich via the annual staff survey.
Watch our for other surveys throughout the year via the Portal and our Social Media Channels.
Our students have done some amazing things including the development of a Green E-zine by our Humanities Students, delivered Clothes Swaps , created sustainability focused comms and engagement materials, supported our community garden , they have developed wildlife - citizen science wildlife monitoring programmes, volunteered in our Chaplaincy Bargain Corner shop selling everyday, used items for pennies!
We have also created a Sustainability Moodle course to help you learn more about key issues  of sustainability and how these relate to your lives studies and futures.
Please complete this.
Our staff deliver sustainability everyday within their work and often beyond it.
Our team of Green Champions are tasked with creating Sustainability Action Plans that focus on sustainability actions in their areas of responsibility.
We have seen staff develop guidance for running green events,
We are proud and grateful for our staff and students that contribute to our campus and our communities by actively involved in their communities and through simple actions such as litter picking and reporting issues and also watering the plants in the edible garden at Avery Hill when the plants look a bit thirsty!
We know there is a huge amount more our students and staff are doing to make this planet a better place.
Feel free to  tag us in your social media or just send us your stories  so we can celebrate and share these more widely.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/being-nature-positive-at-the-university-of-greenwich:
Find out more about our work to protect the natural world and support nature on our doorstep during February and our ‘Green Greenwich’ campaign
Protecting the world’s natural environment is essential for our survival as a species.
At the University of Greenwich, we are proud to be recognised for our ambitious sustainability work and to undertake world-leading research to help protect nature, while supporting livelihoods in the UK and in many parts of the developing world.
However, we’re also keen to do our part to protect the natural word closer to home, and to maximise the benefits of being nature positive for our students and staff.
According to the Mental Health Foundation , individuals with access to nature are also usually happier, calmer and more creative and focused.
Time in nature is associated with lower levels of anxiety and depression, and those who spend time in nature are more likely to engage in sustainable endeavours such as recycling and seasonal eating.
Our three campuses boast an incredible 6.7 hectares of natural land (9 football pitches in size), which provide rich, valuable habitats to over 250 species, some of which are nationally protected.
We also have amazing parks and green spaces near each campus.
Our Medway campus has extensive woodland, lawns, log piles, bat boxes and beehives, and is a peaceful place to enjoy the birds that live there.
At our Greenwich campus, we are establishing wildflower beds and pocket meadows.
In our Stockwell Street building there are 14 landscape roof areas, with ponds, flower beds and trees.
Occasionally there are even nesting ducks and foxes, living two floors above the street in the centre of Greenwich.
Our Avery Hill campus is surrounded by nature-rich meadows, hedges and ponds.
It is home to the Avery Hill Edible Garden, with its extensive forest garden that not only grows fruit and nuts but is also home to hedgehogs, dormice, birds of prey and many species of birds.
The produce harvested in Avery Hill, including honey from our own hives of bees, is available to everyone, providing healthy eating options for students on a budget.
It is also open to the public to use and learn how to garden, with nature walks and nature focused guest lectures too.
To find out more visit: https://www.gre.ac.uk/sustain

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/university-of-greenwich-wins-greener-greenwich-award:
The university won the Greener Greenwich award at the borough’s annual Best of Royal Greenwich Business Awards
Over 330 local entrepreneurs, business owners, investors and stakeholders gathered for the 2024’s edition of the annual event, which was held at the InterContinental London – The O2.
A total of 14 awards were awarded as well as Business of the Year.
Sponsored by The 02, the University of Greenwich was awarded the Greener Greenwich award.
The award “ celebrates organisations that are taking an active role in tackling the climate crisis and improving environmental sustainability.
The award recognises those businesses that are working hard to reduce their carbon footprint and environmental impact.”
The university was involved in the awards in multiple ways.
Dr Hetty Sun, Associate Professor and Associate Head of the Executive Business Centre, Research and Knowledge Exchange at the Greenwich Business School was a judge for the awards.
The university also sponsored the Entrepreneur – Under 30 category.
The award for Entrepreneur – Under 30 went to digital womenswear fashion label, TULASI, that specialises in creating garments to wear in real life as well as on digital avatars so they also exist in virtual environments
Prof Jane Harrington, Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive Officer of the University of Greenwich said:
“We are delighted to have won the Greener Greenwich award.
Sustainability is at the core of our mission and so it is rewarding to have the hard work of so many at the university recognised as part of this award.
“We are also proud to support the awards.
The university is entrenched in the local community and our commitment to fostering entrepreneurship in the borough is reflected by our sponsorship of the Entrepreneur – Under 30 award.
Congratulations to all the nominees, and a special congratulations to TULASI, a very worthy winner.”

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/available-now-our-annual-sustainability-and-sustainable-development-goals-report-202324:
We are proud to announce the release of our ninth Annual Sustainability, now including our Sustainable Development Goals Report.
This report is key for tracking our progress and reinforcing our commitment to environmental responsibility.
This report for 2023/24 proudly celebrates our significant progress in sustainability and celebrates the positive sustainability impact our staff and students deliver.
Please review and share this excellent work.
This year, we achieved joint 18th place in the People and Planet University League table , highlighting our commitment to making a positive impact.
The report also reveals that we ranked joint 89th globally in the Times Higher Education Impact Ranking , out of 1,700 universities worldwide.
These accomplishments are made possible thanks to the ongoing dedication of our staff and students, whose daily actions and positive behaviours play a vital role in achieving our sustainability goals.
Professor Jane Harrington, Vice-Chancellor and CEO, said:
At Greenwich we recognise the importance of sustainability, and it is great to see how much we have achieved so far.
I look forwards to supporting the commitments and actions of our staff and student communities as we continue our path to further sustainability innovation and positive impact in the years ahead.
Much of the progress we’re making is driven by individuals within our academic and professional services teams.
Teaching staff have been integrating sustainability into their courses, while other staff members have been focused on reducing our environmental impact through energy-saving initiatives and resource reuse.
Our students continue to make a notable difference, with over 1,513 bags of items donated to the British Heart Foundation through our end-of-term reuse scheme.
However, we acknowledge that there is still room for improvement, such as increasing our recycling rates through better waste segregation, reusing hot drinks containers, and encouraging both staff and students to engage more with our green spaces to promote well-being and foster a greater awareness of nature.
To learn more about sustainability at Greenwich, read our full Annual Sustainability Report for 2023/24.
All of your amazing work contributes to our Sustainability Strategic Action Plan which sets out what we have achieved so far and what we plan to do between now and 2030.
We encourage you to explore the report and get inspired to take even more action.
If you’d like to contribute your work to the 2024/25 Annual Sustainability Report, please complete this form or email us at sustainability@gre.ac.uk .
This report demonstrates our work and commitment towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Current staff; Current students
The latest news from around the university.
Access staff and student resources through the University Portal.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/articles/public-relations/marking-the-start-of-cop29:
As part of our Green Fortnight, we are marking the start of COP29 by showcasing the impactful contributions of UoG academics, staff and students, dedicated to addressing climate change.
Every year, COP unites member countries each year to set global climate goals, define responsibilities, and evaluate climate action strategies.
At the University of Greenwich, we take pride in the work of our academics and staff who are dedicated to tackling these pressing issues.
Here, we highlight some key contributions to both the university community and beyond.
Dr Alistair Bogaars: TRAN 1028 - A sustainable transport module exemplifying sustainable curriculum integration
The TRAN 1028 Sustainable Transport module, led by Alistair, is designed to immerse students in the critical issues surrounding sustainable transport planning and management.
Dr Colin Coulson-Thomas: Is misinformation delaying climate action?
Colin addresses the global environmental and climate crises, shedding light on how misinformation and disinformation are being used to discredit and delay necessary climate action.
Dr Emilio Costales: Moving the dial towards sustainable systems through carbon literacy and PRME leadership
Emilio explores how grassroots initiatives can drive social and environmental transformation, often complimenting political action.
Dr Karen Brickman: Education for Sustainable Development - creating the next generation of change makers
Karen is dedicated to advancing Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) and has championed numerous initiatives to support this mission, driving change within the university and across the academic community globally.
Dr Lianfeng Quan: Embedding sustainability in finance education
Lianfeng’s initiative to integrate sustainability into the MSc Principles of Finance (PoF) module reflects a commitment to embedding sustainable finance principles throughout the School of Accounting, Finance and Economics.
Dr Maria Nikolaidi: Advancing decarbonisation through central banking and ecological macroeconomic mod
Maria’s research explores how central banks and financial systems can help achieve decarbonisation targets, thereby supporting global climate change mitigation efforts.
Dr Myrtle Emmanuel and Dr Dave Hockham: Mental health inequalities in African Caribbean Communities
Myrtle and Dave’s work addresses mental health inequalities faced by African Caribbean communities, particularly in the context of the global climate crisis, which disproportionately impacts marginalised populations.
Dr Ratnes Alahakone: The Menopause Project Team - setting a new standard for inclusive oraganisational culture
The Menopause Project Team (MPT) at the University of Greenwich, comprising of Anna Radley, Vanessa Roots, Dr Ratnes Alahakone and Maureen Montague, has been pivotal in initiating and advancing the university’s journey towards menopause awareness.
Emma Connor: Advancing sustainable local enterprise through co-creation and ethical consumerism
Emma’s work focuses on advertising strategy for sustainable production, ethical consumerism and local entrepreneurship.
Lynette Lisk: Using #GreHacks and Hack for Good to tackle real-world challenges.
Lynette runs the #GreHacks scheme and co-delivers the Hack for Good bootcamp to equip students with practical work experience, resilience and essential soft skills.
Professor Özlem Onaran: Towards a Purple-Green New Deal – economic and social policies for sustainable futures
Özlem and supporting academics, have been exploring solutions to create a sustainable, inclusive and equitable economy through a "Purple-Green New Deal".
Dr Anna Constantino: Is language the missing link in sustainability learning?
Anna’s work explores how global challenges, particularly those related to climate change and social justice, can be effectively addressed at the local educational level through language pedagogy.
Dr Benz Kotzen: Innovative landscape and nature-based solutions for sustainable futures
Benz’s research and outreach advocates for harmonious coexistence between technology and nature to address climate, urban sustainability and food security concerns.
Dr Dave Hockham and Dr Pamela Zigomo: DOTS, is inclusive design the missing piece in the climate crisis?
Dave and Pamela’s broader work at the University of Greenwich, notably the "DOTS Knowledge Exchange" (Design through Open Third Space), offers a framework for creating equitable partnerships.
Dr Louise Hewitt: Advancing justice and institutional integrity through the Innocence Project London
Louise’s work centres on providing access to justice for convicted individuals who maintain their innocence but have exhausted the appeals process.
Dr Rob Amos: Developing a sustainability toolkit for PhD students – empowering the next generation of change makers
Rob Amos and his team are developing an innovative Sustainability Toolkit which aims to guide PhD students in identifying how their research contributes to sustainability objectives.
Professor Jorge Lopes Ramos: Using embodied practice for narrative environments
Jorge’s research has addressed a fast-growing, yet significantly unresearched area of investigation: immersive, participatory and interactive theatre, and he now applies his research to translate sustainability concepts.
Dr Jennifer Patterson: Cultivating a nature-focused curriculum for sustainable futures background
Jennifer has developed nature-focused education through the integration of sustainability and outdoor learning into early years education.
Phil Gurnett: Using simulations to foster activism and advocacy in healthcare education
Phil Gurnett has worked with Dr Lydia Mainey and Dr Ryan Essex to empower students to see themselves as active participants in political processes that shape the healthcare system.
Dr Wim Melis: Using AI and integrated systems for improved sustainability
Wim’s work addresses current limitations in computer hardware architectures for AI and explores how renewable energy systems can work together within buildings and community projects.
Lynn Gallagher: Advancing sustainable practices at Medway School of Pharmacy (MSoP).
Lynn has led two complementary initiatives within the Medway School of Pharmacy (MSoP) that focus on enhancing sustainability in healthcare education and laboratory operations.
Dr Conor Walsh, Dr Indika Pahalagedara: Counting the cost - life cycle assessment establishes impact of our food on the environment
Dahlia Zayed: Building a Sustainable Legacy through Alumni and External Partnerships
Dahlia’s work emphasises creating strong connections between alumni, external partners, and the university’s sustainability goals.
Lynne Martin: Medway Campus Bargain Corner – using the circular economy model to support students
A small initiative to help international students prepare for the UK’s colder climate has become both a social support service and a sustainability project.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/sustain/team:
Learn about the sustainability team and how to get in contact.
Our Sustainability Team sits within the Estates and Facilities Directorate.
The team supports all areas of the University to better understand and implement environmental improvements.
We work closely with staff, students and external stakeholders to share best practice, encourage behavioural change and collaborate on strategy.
We are active members of the Environmental Association of Universities and Colleges, the London Universities Environment Group, the London Higher Sustainability Network and the Universities Alliance Sustainability Network.
We actively contribute to the sustainable discussion, in addition to supporting events both inside, and outside of the Higher Education sector.
The whole team are certified as Carbon Literate under the Carbon Literacy Project.
You can contact us and staff listed below on sustainability@greenwich.ac.uk.
Simon has been with us at Greenwich since 2013.
Simon is responsible for leading the delivery of sustainability, developing our strategy and policy including the Sustainability Strategic Action Plan, Net Zero Plan, implementing a range projects, communication master planning and forming crucial bonds with our external partners.
He is also the Chair of the London Higher Sustainability Network.
David has been with us at Greenwich since November 2019.
He is responsible for the Environmental Management System (ISO 14001), in addition to a diverse project portfolio including aspects of ecosystem services, circular economy, engagement and data management.
David's career started with four years at the Bat Conservation Trust, before moving into the wider world of sustainability, spending three years leading the delivery at an acute NHS Trust in Essex.
In his spare time he can often be found painting, promoting the positive word of sustainability or exploring the natural surroundings of his local area!
Jemima joined the Sustainability Team in June 2024.
They are responsible for delivering various projects under the Sustainability Action Plan.
Namely, improving the university's recycling rate and embedding circular economy practices, as well as identifying and mitigating climate risk.
Jemima's sustainability career started in the waste industry, engaging with residents to improve recycling rates in several inner London boroughs, before moving into the knowledge economy sector, ensuring development in King's Cross is sustainable and equitable.
Outside of work, Jemima is a keen runner and you'll often find them running to campus, red-faced but very happy!
Yee has been at Greenwich since January 2023 and oversees engaging students and staff in sustainability.
Yee works to achieve our net zero and circular economy ambitions by ensuring that our 25,000+ students and 2,-00+ staff all take positive sustainability actions on campus in their studies, at home and in their careers.
Fariha has been part of the team since October 2023 and assists the sustainability team in delivering environmental and social sustainability projects at a strategic, operational and grassroots level to support value-driven change within the university.
Having previously worked in the music industry to create sustainable awareness, her passions lie in aligning arts and culture to climate and social justice.
Daniela has been part of the team since September 2023 and assists the Sustainability Team across a number of different projects to gain a wide variety of key skills that are key for employability.
Her work is mostly focused on content creation and assisting with our sustainable campaigns in addition to leading our End of Term Reuse Project.
Daniela will sadly be leaving us in July 2025 and we will be advertising shortly to fill our Student Sustainability Projects Officer role.
Please  email sustainability@gre.ac.uk  if interested or keep an eye out for the advert on the UoG Jobshop pages.
Are you a student passionate about the environment?
Do you have an innovative idea on how we can improve our sustainable performance?
We would love to hear from you!
Keep a look out for our paid student jobs (one a year) and our Volunteering Opportunities (throughout the year) to work with the Sustainability Team.
If you would like to find out what its like to work with us, take a look at some past student experiences .
The wider estates team are also specifically tasked in the delivery of sustainability outcomes.
These are involved in roles including strategy, project lead and management to reduce our environmental impacts.
Email: travel@greenwich.ac.uk
Simon has been with us for over 10 years, and he is responsible for delivering the Travel and Green Transport Plan.
This includes seeking to reduce the carbon footprint of our fleet and wider scope three travel related impacts and of the university.
Noel is responsible for the development and implementation of the building services strategy across the Estate.
This, ensures investments and decisions drive down our energy, carbon and water footprints.
Noel liaises closely between university, our contractors and others to maintain progress against our goals.
He is a central figure in our decarbonisation and net zero to 2030 planning.
email: sustainability@gre.ac.uk
Foon joined the university in June 2025 as our Energy Manager.
He has responsibility for identifying and helping implement efficiencies that support our Net Zero carbon commitments.
Foon has over 30 years of experience a deep and broad level of expertise and his work is underpinned by a passion for leveraging both human behaviour and smart technologies to optimise energy efficiency.
He has won many awards for his work including 2021 Awarded Energy Manager of the Year from EMA.
Georgie delivers specific capital projects and supports the Capital Projects team by helping recognise and respond to sustainability relate issues identified within the programmes the university delivers.
She liaises closely with the Sustainable Development Unit to help co-ordinate and develop solutions and actions.
Her role helps us to improve the processes and systems we have to help us meet our sustainability ambitions.
email: estatesprojects@greenwich.ac.uk
This paid position will work with our award winning catering contractors BaxterStorey to identify and deliver further improvements in their sustainable food delivery.
The position will be advertised in summer 2025.
If you are interested please contact sustainability@gre.ac.uk and we will provide further details including job application deadline dates.
As Academic Lead for integrating sustainability into the Curriculum Shape programme, Tracey has responsibility for helping provide the academic insights to ensure we are most effectively integrating sustainability within the development and roll out of training and further ESD support for our teaching staff.
Tracey is integral to ensuring that we are making progress and impact and also working to ensure our research work, much sustainability focused, relates closely to our teaching offer.
The University is entered into an Integrated Facilities Management Contract, awarded to Sodexo.
Sodexo operate the facility services including Security, Porters, Cleaning, Maintenance and Grounds.
All staff are required to ensure sustainability expectations are met in their roles; with their insights and expertise, environmental benefits will be achieved in partnership with the University.
A Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Team was budgeted with the contract and those members can be found below.
You can contact the Sodexo Sustainability Team on socialimpact.UOG@sodexo.com
Jui joined Sodexo in April 2024 and comes with 15 years’ experience in both private and public sectors in India, Southeast Asia, Africa, & Europe.
She worked on a wide range of Social Impact and Sustainability projects, including Agri-Insurance and Technology solution for World Bank Group, Water and Energy for Food Production for USAID and Positive Impact Financing Models.
Apart from her existing role at Sodexo, Jui is also a Business Advisor to Khadi London and GVK on Regenerative Agriculture and Sustainable Fashion.
She is a mentor for London School of Economics MSc.
Social Entrepreneurship and Innovation department and a visiting faculty teaching CSR and Sustainability at multiple Universities, she is also a Trustee for a homeless shelter, Crawley Friends Housing Association in UK.
Shraddha is the Sustainability Manager at Sodexo and has been working with the University of Greenwich since November 2021 to deliver the sustainability objectives across Sodexo’s services and support the university in achieving their targets.
Previously, she was Travel Plan Coordinator at Sodexo and was working with GSK, encouraging staff to commute sustainably.
Outside of work, you can find her travelling to experience natural environments or inside practicing new baking techniques!
Zoé joined Sodexo in October 2023, after completing a master’s in marketing Strategy and Innovation at Bayes Business School in London.
Her role is to drive Sodexo's Social Impact strategy, improve customer experience, and support the University of Greenwich in enhancing the student experience and engagement.
With a Bachelor's degree in International Business and living in Asia and the Middle East for over 10 years, Zoé brings a diverse international perspective.
Fluent in multiple languages, she leverages her multicultural background to create programs that resonate with students, having recently experienced studying abroad.
Adarsa recently completed (2025) her MSc in Construction Project Management at University of Greenwich (UoG).
With background in Environmental Engineering and Civil Engineering, she is currently working as a Sustainability Coordinator with the CSR & Sustainability Team for Sodexo on the UoG contract, where she supports the integration of sustainable practices into projects and facilities management processes.
The GSU shares our passion in wanting to minimise impacts on the planet and across all activities.
The Greenwich Students' Union (GSU) and Sustainability Team collaborate closely on a number of initiatives, with elected GSU Officers often having sustainability at the heart of their manifestos.
More information about the GSU's sustainability improvements can be found on their Green GSU website .
Our partnerships connect us with the wider community, to enable collaboration, share knowledge, and make progress on local and global sustainability goals.
Whether it is an outreach opportunity, project collaboration or learning relationship, we want to hear from you.
There are plenty of opportunities to work our staff and students to develop new initiatives to deliver a better future for all.
We have forged a number of partnerships over the years to drive forwards the sustainable agenda.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/sustain/action-areas/energy-and-carbon:
To tackle these issues the university committed to achieving Net Zero.
Our Net Zero Action Plan highlights the processes needed to meet our carbon reduction targets:
The University has already made significant progress on its decarbonisation journey and this will be completed through our own investments and also partnerships with our local authorities that are developing district heating networks that will serve our Medway and Greenwich campuses.
This has meant that although we will fully decarbonise our Avery Hill and Medway campuses by 2030 we will wait to 2033 to fully decarbonise the Greenwich when we will connect to the borough’s district heating network.
We will offset emissions the remaining emissions for our estate and business travel emissions from 2030 achieving carbon neutrality for these emission sources.
We will continue to purchase zero carbon electricity.
Transparency is crucial and it should be noted that other Scope 3 emissions, such as procured goods and services, employee, or student commuting, have been excluded at this stage but will be considered as a future second phase target for the University to progress to net zero in its full sense.
All of these Scope 3 emissions are however reported to national reporting schemes including the Higher Education Statistical Agency EMR Report .
Planet Mark externally verify our carbon footprint each year, showcasing that the University is accurate, and transparent over our data collection, calculations and analysis.
This footprint is aligned to the targets of the Net Zero Action Plan.
You may see organisations (including our university) mention either Location-based, Market-based, or both values when referring to electricity consumption and carbon emissions.
This is because electricity footprints can be calculated in two ways:
Market-based values are seen as more accurate, however, location-based values are used when comparing organisations nationally because some organisations do not know, or have a lack of choice on how their electricity is generated.
This makes sector comparisons easier.
Reports should say which methods they are using.
Regardless of methods, all electricity consumption will have Transmission and Distribution Losses – Scope 3 emissions – lost electricity through the grid network because of technical issues and equipment failures.
It can be argued that with Market-based factors, if on a 100% renewable tariff an organisation does not need to reduce consumption because emissions are zero.
However, reducing the consumption will have financial benefit, and by reducing consumption the organisation is opening up the demand for others to join the tariff that will collectively reduce emissions.
Our 2023-2024 Carbon Footprint Report provides insights in our emission progress (both Location and Market-based emissions values are included for electricity).
Members of Planet Mark need to make an annual 5% reduction in Scope 1 & 2 emissions to recertify.
At Greenwich, we reduced our absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions (market-based) by 25.7% in addition to seeing a 10.9% per employee reduction compared to the previous year.
We have over 2,500 rooms across our halls of residences and it is important that we are able to separate out their footprints from our other buildings due to the domestic usage of students.
All of our halls of residence, except for Daniel Defoe have electric heating.
Daniel Defoe has heating providing by a Combined Heat and Power Plant (CHP) running on wood pellets, with gas boilers as backup.
In addition to those in our ownership, all of Medway halls and half at Avery Hill (Howard, Tudor, Parr, Cleeves) are under operation of a Private Finance Initiative (PFI) contract and are therefore managed separately.
McMillan, a third-party hall in Greenwich also houses some of our students.
We still have influence over these halls, so these areas are included in behavioural change campaigns.
Aligning to our Net Zero Plan, the electricity emissions are calculated using the Market-Based method, meaning that the electricity emissions are zero.
The Scope 1 & 2 emissions for all halls across ownership can be found below and highlights the differences between efficiency and opportunity.
Scope 3 includes water, waste water, waste and transmission and distribution losses.
Together this analysis helps to illustrate the innovations taking place across the halls but also where knowledge can be shared to reduce emissions across halls ownership.
Investment will be required in order to make our Net Zero 2033 target a reality.
The University has currently invested into the following projects:
We are planning to:
If you have an idea for a carbon saving get in touch with us at sustainability@gre.ac.uk .
It is not only large-scale investment required however; we all have a responsibility in minimising our consumption of utilities and products.
A number of initiatives have been established to encourage positive change and reduce our collective environmental impacts.
If you what to get involved, or have a new engagement idea get in touch with us at sustainability@gre.ac.uk .
Make Your Change is our internal engagement campaign, encouraging students and staff to take small, personal actions from saving energy to buying better.
We all have the power to make a positive difference no matter how small the action.
For example, if every student reduced their showers down to just 4 minutes we would save approximately 259’000 litres of water a week (assuming an average of 4 showers a week per student at 10 minutes with 9 litres of water used per minute per student).
End of Term Reuse encourages students to donate unwanted items to local charity.
Managed by students and operating every Christmas and June, it focuses on waste reduction but also educates on better choice.
On average students have donated 3 tonnes of items each year, including clothes, kitchen equipment, books and non-perishable food.
This also saves 30 tonnes of carbon emissions annually.
Green Champions are dedicated staff members across the University, helping to drive positive change.
We currently have over 60 Green Champions who have co-created our unique approach that helps staff meet their sustainability objectives.
We believe that using the passion and expertise of our staff we can develop ideas and deliver these that will create significant environmental progress.
Planet Mark are a carbon foot printing verification body, helping organisations to be transparent and accurate in their carbon emission target setting.
Forming part of the Business Certification, and assisting the Net Zero Action Plan, w ith Plant Mark’s support, and with identifying new data sets, our carbon footprint will continue to reflect our total University contribution, and lead to further opportunities in reducing it.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/sustain/action-areas/our-buildings-and-estate:
We are working to ensure that our Medway and Avery Hill Campuses are Net Zero by 2030 and Greenwich by 2033.
Many of our buildings across our campuses are breath-taking architectural gems; from movie-rich and historic buildings in a UNESCO World Heritage site at the Greenwich campus dating from the 17th Century, through to the Victorian Winter Garden at Avery Hill and the Edwardian ex-Royal Navy site at Medway campus.
Our estate does not just include these historical landmarks however, we also have the modern, and award-winning Stockwell Street Library, refurbished Grade 2 listed Dreadnought building and modernised halls of residence all added to create a diverse campus landscape.
Each building provides its own challenges for sustainability.
All buildings have water and energy use monitoring with a rolling-programme of investment to ensure they meet our educational purpose whilst reducing environmental impacts.
All new buildings and refurbishments over £5m are required to meet at least BREEAM ‘Very Good’ (if refurbishment) and Excellent and a building energy performance rating of EPC B as standard (if new build).
We also have to ensure they can effectively adapt to the future impacts of climate change.
Stockwell Street provides a great example of how the University has made a commitment to sustainability through its £80m investment in a new BREEAM ‘Excellent’ rated building.
This building, built on a ‘brownfield site’, was designed to be highly energy and water efficient.
It also has 14 landscaped roofs that cover the equivalent of 12 tennis courts, providing a wide range of teaching, learning and growing spaces and areas for biodiversity.
All recent building projects have been refurbishments of existing buildings, upgrading them to meet the varied and changing needs of our stakeholders.
This approach enables us to maintain much of the interesting character of our estate and also ensures that we can reduce the sustainability impacts of building new.
Recent examples include the Dreadnought Student Hub in Greenwich, the Student Hub in Medway and the Sports Sciences relocation at Sparrows Farm.
We seek to ensure that our estates are as user friendly as possible and you will find our campuses, particularly the areas for learning and teaching are peaceful as they either have pedestrian priority being ‘walking campuses‘ or have speed restrictions and clear delineation between pedestrians and vehicles.
We seek to ensure we can provide spaces buildings that are accessible for all users, although there are challenges particularly in our Grade 1 listed scheduled monument buildings.
With the redevelopment and renewal of our estate we are making our buildings more accessible and where this is not yet possible ensuring through our room booking and engagement with our less able students we are able to provide a teaching environment to meet their learning needs.
We also offer free public access to many parts of our estates including the Steven Lawrence and Heritage galleries and the historic grounds of the Greenwich maritime estate in Greenwich and also the Winter Garden at our Mansion site on the Avery Hill campus.
The opportunities for student and staff research projects is significant.
The University is keen to make available its data, for example on our energy metering information.
We can engage students to identify further ways we can manage and reduce our energy and carbon use.
Research on how we use buildings and systems and how we can influence more sustainable behaviours provides useful, interesting and rewarding opportunities for both student and staff.
Potential funding for estate based projects that deliver sustainability benefits mean staff and students can consider their environments and develop innovative solutions to existing sustainability challenges.
Contact the Sustainability Team to find out how you can use the estate as a ‘living lab’ or contact them for the project proposal form.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/sustain/action-areas/waste-and-procurement:
Waste impacts us all, and from the individual to large business, everyone produces it.
On average, each person in the UK throws away their own body weight in waste every seven weeks and the average household in the UK produces more than a tonne of waste every year!
Whilst a proportion of waste is unavoidable, there is significant amount of waste which is produced unnecessarily due to the overconsumption of items.
Our generation has significantly reduced over the years; from an annual average of 1,100 tonnes during the first 7 years from a 2009/10 baseline to under 700 tonnes from the next 7 years to 2022/23 (not including construction waste) and is equivalent to 200 African Elephants!
Our KPI recycling rate target is 70% (matching what is estimated to be the amount of typical waste that can be recycled).
Despite our generation of waste falling over the past seven years however, our recycling rate currently sits at 36% (2022-23) which demonstrates the challenges associated with best practice education and developing new processes.
Our central waste collector (Suez) have a zero waste to landfill approach, with all general waste being sent for Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF); incinerated for the creation of energy.
Our Waste Action Plan is ambitious and lays out adaptable targets and steps over the next five years to suit the University’s changing business needs and performance whilst meeting the overarching objective supported in our Sustainability Policy to meet and exceed our 70% recycling rate KPI.
Legal compliance is a necessity and will continue to be managed through the Environmental Management System (EMS).
The below examples are of the initiatives, innovations and collaborations taken by our students and staff to push towards waste reduction and a circular economy approach in all activities.
Around campus you should see waste posters on each bin, whether in a teaching building or halls of residence.
These have been designed to convey what should and should not be placed into each bin in a simple and visual manner.
Communications from the Sustainability Team will also be sent periodically, to both students and staff to remind of best practice and to find out if there are any specifically problem areas of issues occurring.
Watch the video to understand why recycling is so important, with our own waste collectors Suez and interviewed by Hubbub.
All items must be clean.
No other items should be placed in the bin.
Wash items before throwing.
Clear sacks MUST be used in internal recycling bins.
This helps to spot any contamination.
If there is too much other waste or items not clean, then the bag has to be disposed of as general waste.
The University is liable for contamination fines.
Remember to check to see if it can be recycled.
Black sacks MUST be used in internal waste bins.
This helps in identifying the generate waste and recycling waste.
General waste is sent to incineration facilities and burnt to generate electricity.
No waste is sent to landfill.
Food waste bins are only found in the café and eating outlet areas at each campus.
Clear sacks MUST be used in internal food waste bins.
Food waste is sent for anaerobic digestion and turned to compost.
If the waste is contaminated it will cause issues and we can be liable for contamination fines.
Glass bins are located within the waste compounds across each campus, with dedicated glass bags/bins within the halls of residence to be moved and collected outside.
Glass is recycled.
Assorted household batteries only
Battery bins are located in a variety of places around the campuses (i.e., Dreadnought and Queen Anne at Greenwich, The Dome, Accommodation Office and FM Office at Avery Hill, and Pembroke, Drill Hall Library and Hawke at Medway).
Batteries are specially collected once the bins are full and are recycled.
There are some additional types of waste that are typically generated through specific operations or activities across the campuses.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/sustain/action-areas/travel-and-transport:
Our Transport Plan provides the context and the approaches being made to enable users to reduce their car dependency, using alternative, healthy and low carbon options.
A travel plan aims to reduce car use and increase sustainable modes of transport (walking, cycling and public transport) but the benefits go beyond the environment and extend to health, fitness and wellbeing.
Click here for travel information about how to get to our campuses.
The below travel hierarchy illustrates what questions we need to ask ourselves to identify whether transport is required, and what modes are available.
The coronavirus pandemic of 2020 has highlighted the advancing flexibility of technology, and how we can adapt to these changing circumstances whilst enabling studying and work to continue.
The Transport Team undertake research into the commuting habits of staff to better understand modal split and also to help calculate the Scope 3 Carbon emissions from these activities.
This is published with the Sustainability Annual Reports and contribute towards our total carbon footprint analysis.
Over the past few years we have been working hard to increase alternative options, with decreasing the carbon footprint and utilising innovative new technologies.
Sequestration data and calculation provided by Conor Walsh (UoG Natural Resources Institute)
NFI, 2018.
Preliminary findings of the extent, composition, health and nature of woodland oak in Britain.
National Forest Inventory, Forestry Commission
Krejza, J., Světlík, J.
and Bednář, P., 2017.
Allometric relationship and biomass expansion factors (BEFs) for above-and below-ground biomass prediction and stem volume estimation for ash (Fraxinus excelsior L.) and oak (Quercus robur L.).
Trees, 31, pp.1303-1316.
Short, I., 2013.
The potential for using a free-growth system in the rehabilitation of poorly performing pole-stage broadleaf stands.
Teagasc.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/sustain/action-areas/food-and-catering:
Our Sustainable Food and Fairtrade Policies outline our ambitions on the food on offer whilst taking action to ensure those producing the ingredients are treated fairly.
Sales data is monitored, and the policies are reviewed annually via the Sustainable Food Sub-Committee, with progress reported annually to the Sustainability Management Committee .
The food at the University is provided by BaxterStorey, Sodexo and Greenwich Students' Union.
We also seek to use our buying power as a University to support local producers and businesses .
It is important to ensure we work with the best partners to deliver the most sustainable food that we can.
To help this we have strict procurement requirements when we retender our catering contract (this was last retendered in May-July 2024) .
Our Invitation to tender requires: The Contractor/ Partner will as a minimum: Re-accreditation with Food for Life Gold within 3 months of contract start and the commitment to meeting the university Sustainable Food Policy, Sustainability Policy, Fairtrade Policy, Carbon Management Plan from contract start date.
Every three months we meet with catering partners, key UoG staff including the sustainability team and student representatives to ensure that progress against the our Sustainable Food and Fairtrade strategies are being met.
Catering is within the scope of our Environmental Management System and our caterers on site operations and progress against Policy targets are audited.
A case study of sustainable improvements made at one of our outlets, The Dome (Avery Hill) can be found here.
To maintain the following accreditations:
The University is committed to using, selling and promoting Fairtrade products through all its outlets.
Fairtrade is all about getting better and safe farming working conditions, and for us high quality, ethically produced products.
Check out our dedicated Fairtrade Page to learn more, and get involved with our annual Fairtrade Fortnight event, illustrating the importance of treating farmers fairly.
Did you know that 2.5 billion disposable cups are used every year in the UK?
What’s worse is that less than 1% of them are recycled!
With an inner plastic sleeve, disposable cups are difficult to recycle and are a commonly contaminated item in recycling waste streams.
Individual actions do make a difference.
Please remember to always bring your reusable cup.
If you don’t have your own cup, do not worry, there is a variety to choose from at each outlet!
Don’t forget to check around the café, you may come across a small small signposted tray with bags of coffee grounds.
Coffee grounds make excellent fertiliser for gardens, so please do take a bag or two.
You can add the grounds to a compost bin or directly into the soil, and they can even help to keep the slugs and snails away.
It may not seem much, but hundreds of bags will be used over the year, so this saves on waste and helps you to go organic in the garden.
The University has water fountains installed around its campuses as well as free water stations in all catering outlets.
Look at our campus maps for their location.
You can ‘grow your own’ at Avery Hill’s Edible Garden.
Students and staff and welcome to volunteer and learn how to grow fruit and veg, make friends get some exercise and fresh air.
– Follow this link for more information .
Our Stockwell Street building also has large fruit and vegetable gardens that are tended to by students and staff and is part of our wider urban agriculture research .
We are planning a edibles grow space at Medway too.
Watch this space.
We have beehives at all campuses with Avery Hill campus produced honey for sale at the Village Shop.
Look out for our orchard planted through support by the Orchard Project .
It’s located across from the Edible Garden (below the tennis courts).
Visit from July when the apple and pear and other fruits begin ripening.
If you are interested in learning how to prune orchard trees then get in touch.
As part of our Make Your Change Initiative you can make a positive difference through actions to reduce the carbon footprint associated with the university’s catering.
Not only is reducing meat consumption good for your health ( study ) is is also good in reducing your carbon footprint.
Simply halving meat consumption to less than 50 grams a day, food-related emissions fall by a third, saving almost a tonne of CO 2 each year, equivalent to an economy return flight between London and New York.
Greenwich’s catering suppliers now provide a larger range of vegetarian and vegan options and partake in meat free days during Veganuary and Green Week.
So why not try a meat-free day and even that one portion will make a difference.
Read more here.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/sustain/action-areas/natural-environment:
Our grounds are managed sensitively; limiting the use of herbicides, protecting habitats and balancing conservation practices to ensure you can enjoy the outdoor areas, so please do explore the areas around you
We have 6.7 hectares (9 football pitches in size) of natural land across our campuses.
To date we have recorded over 300 animal species, including around 25 species listed as vulnerable so in extra need of conservation.
Our Ecosystems Services Policy sets out our overall vision and aims for how to achieve a balance between natural conservation, education and wellbeing enjoyment.
6.7 hectares (9 football pitches) of natural land
Over 250 species identified
Beehives present on each campus
Avery Hill Community Garden and Orchard
Educational opportunities for students and community
Our Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP) 2020-2025 outlines how our policy will be transformed into reality.
With a wealth of expertise on our doorstep, we aim to lead by example; showing our students and staff how correct management can bring both human and biological improvement.
Split into four areas (below), the objectives consider the wider ecosystem services with assessing organisational impact and opportunity.
HO1 To maintain & enhance the biological diversity of campus natural land
HO2 To balance the conservation opportunity with amenity needs
MO1 To develop a system of monitoring the success
EO1 To integrate biodiversity into University life (students & staff)
EO2 To maintain areas of natural land for educational purposes
EO3 To provide suitable training to associated grounds & estates staff
NO1 To integrate biodiversity net gain across our capital projects (including designs to & not already to BREEAM standard)
Protecting our natural landscape and improving the benefits gained is down to an individual and collective effort.
We would like to thank all those who have gone an extra mile to ensure our natural landscapes are well managed and looked after.
The plans and strategy are agreed through the university’s Ecosystem Services Steering Group, formed of Academics, Estates and Facilities staff, led by the Sustainability Team.
We encourage all staff and students to explore the biodiversity of the estate, and where possible seek to incorporate what can be learned from it within teaching and learning in addition to enjoying the beauty it provides.
Ecosystem Services are the benefits provided by ecosystems that contribute to human survival and enhance our wellbeing.
They can be direct, indirect and can be spilt into four categories (provision, regulation, supporting and cultural)
They could help reduce summer solar and heat gain through tree planting, reduce run off and flooding, provide spaces to improve wellbeing and reduce particulate pollution.
Financial benefits can be calculated.
Natural Capital research on woodlands, in 2015, on behalf of DEFRA concluded that per year; recreational value accounted for £1.7billion, CO 2 sequestration for both deciduous and coniferous trees totalled £813million, biomass for timber totalled £174million.
Biodiversity refers to all the variety of life that can be found on Earth (plants, animals, fungi and micro-organisms) in addition to the diverse communities that they form and habitats in which they live.
The greater diversity of species the higher ecosystem productivity and no matter how small, all organisms have a part to play.
Recent declines in biodiversity are largely attributable to man-made causes and being aware of these issues we must all manage these impacts to prevent further loss.
What will you find whilst exploring?
Let us know what wildlife you see and you will be helping us monitor the success of our plans.
Will you see the first hedgehog, or the return of newts?
Record your sightings here; register, search for your campus under ‘activity’ and submit your sightings.
Avery Hill Campus:
We all have the power to make a positive difference no matter how small the action
Find out how the University of Greenwich applies sustainable development across all of its activities.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/docs/rep/communications-and-recruitment/sustainability-strategic-action-plan-24-30:
This Sustainability Action Plan sets out what we have achieved so far an what we plan to do between now and 2030.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/docs/rep/information-and-library-services/greenwich-curriculum-framework:
Our Curriculum Framework will help us deliver excellent service and support for students.
By adopting consistent programme structures, we will simplify processes and streamline programme administration

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/sustain/student:
Find out how you can live and learn sustainably whilst studying at the University of Greenwich.
As a student at the University of Greenwich, you have joined a community wanting to make a positive difference.
Globally, 80% of students want their institution to do more on environment issues ( NUS Skills Survey ) and at home over 95% of Greenwich students say that sustainability is important ( from our Annual Sustainability Survey ).
They want to act and make a difference.
It is therefore no surprise that our students expect to see us act on sustainability as part of their university experience.
Whether your ambition is to be a nurse, biomedical scientist, film director, accountant, musician, engineer or fashion designer, sustainability is the game changer for all professions.
We want to help you navigate your future career to tackle global concerns whatever industry you're in.
The University employability services can help you prepare.
Contact us to find out how your future career can help tackle climate change, reduce environmental impacts, and drive positive influence.
We are aiming to ensure that all students graduate with sustainability knowledge and you can find out here about the work we are doing to support our teaching staff .
It is not only the environment that benefits; you will also witness financial and social improvements.
Our Engagement Strategy sets out we will engage our students and staff to bring about positive change throughout all activities and processes.
90,000kWh of energy saved in halls through Student Switch Off
3 tonnes of items donated to charity every year
Leading on national campaigns
Volunteering to maintain a clean campus environment
Changing behaviours for a better planet
Join the Green Ambassador Programme!
We bring together students who are passionate in sustainability to learn and make changes through hands-on volunteering experience.
We have key focus areas throughout our operations and services where we are actively seeking improvement.
Find out more here.
Living Labs are open innovation systems that encourage staff and students to address real life sustainability challenges.
Find out how to be more sustainable while living in student halls.
Learn about how to be sustainable in your house.
Listen to our previous Student Sustainability Project Assistant talk about her role working with the Sustainability Team.
The GREen Pod is a podcast series created by students and volunteers, with support from the Sustainability Team.
Whether you’re looking to brush up on knowledge, learn something new or delve into a specific niche, there’s a show for you.
We have put together some key resources to help you on your sustainability journey.
Start learning here.
On these blog pages, you will find past student and staff experience, more sustainability resources and additional information about past campaigns.
As a student, you can access an introduction to Sustainability through the Moodle site .
Login with your UoG account> Click "All modules"> "University of Greenwich"> "Welcome to Greenwich"> "Going Green at Greenwich"
You will learn what sustainability is, sustainability strategies and policies at Greenwich, what you can do in halls, what you can do on campus, and how you can get involved.
Each of the eight short courses will reward a badge on completion with it's points and overall success contributing to further CV development and education opportunities.
More info can be found here .
We want to help you navigate your future career to tackle sustainability concerns whatever industry you are looking to be involved in.
Contact us to find out how your future career can help tackle climate change, reduce environmental impacts and drive positive influence.
As part of the Sustainability Careers focused Green Week, we have invited speakers from different sectors to talk about Green Careers.
The SDGs are 17 goals, signed by all 193 UN countries in 2015, that outline the vision for a sustainable world by 2030.
Through innovations and collaboration, we can bring about positive change on a local and global scale.
What SDGs are most relevant to you, and what you can do to help turn their aims into a reality?
Can you link these into your projects and coursework?
We were the 58th University nationwide to sign-up to the Hedgehog Friendly Campus initiative.
Anyone can be involved and there are a lot of activities to do.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/sustain/staff:
Find out how you can incorporate environmental principles into teaching and inspire our students.
Make a difference at the University of Greenwich by joining a community with sustainability at their hearts.
It is not just about greening the campus (though we are proud of that), but developing new ways of thinking, learning, implementing a better future for us all and making a positive impact right now.
It is no surprise that our employees also expect to see us act on sustainability as part of their university experience.
Our Annual Sustainability Surveys consistently return figures of over 90% from both academics and professional staff wanting impact within our university.
Future student industries in the UK are also seeing the importance of global issues; 98% of NHS staff believe sustainability is important for health & care systems whilst 71% of manufacturers who made positive changes are now seeing its financial benefits.
In education, following on from a 10 year study, the UN produced a short video on how high education is assisting the sustainable agenda.
Together we can educate our students and across our departmental teams make positive changes.
Sustainability Champion Network established
Embedding sustainable learning into teaching
These goals recognise the interlinks between poverty, economic growth, social needs and environmental impact.
We can bring about positive change on a local and global scale.
What SDGs are most relevant to you, and how you are contributing to them in your work or teaching?
To support staff to understand more about sustainability, the university has created the Green Greenwich Foundation course, which takes about 1 hour to complete.
The course will:
Complete the course here .
For more info please see here .
Help us expand the potential of this great professional development tool:
The university is keen to share our learning and materials to support other organisations to implement a programme like this.
Please feel free to share your experiences and this offer with others.
If you're an external organisation that wants to apply such an initiative then email sustainability@gre.ac.uk
At the end of May 2025 there were 90 champions contributing to sustainability action.
Whether you are teaching or researching into economics, healthcare, law, design or architecture, sustainability can be included and will be an important consideration within profession challenges.
Many of the global challenges we face will be solved through the integration of sustainability across our curricula.
The Sustainability Team has developed a series of workshops and videos for staff to understand and apply sustainability into their work.
Note: some of these links will only be accessible for UoG staff.
The online session provides an overview of how Sustainable Development Unit (SDU) supports academics to embed sustainability into their programmes, e.g.
guest lecture, induction, advice about sustainability integration into your programme.
It will be on 14th Aug 2025, 2-3pm.
Book via Horizon link above.
Contact sustainability@gre.ac.uk for additional information.
The increasing demand for sustainability integration into programs is growing.
Students, employers are asking for it and the university requires it too.
This online workshop will illustrate, using the UN Sustainable Development Goals, how you can find ways of relating your programs to sustainability and use this to develop new learning and teaching approaches.
It will be held on 19th Aug 2025, 11am-12pm.
Unless we have a good understanding of what the climate crisis is, what the science tells us and what we need to do about it, then critically we won’t be able to act, individually or collectively.
Staff will find out how you can help us reduce our carbon footprint in this 45-minute session.
We believe that SDGs can relate to all of our subject areas and we encourage all teaching staff to engage with the SDG Teach In (organised by SOS-UK).
This 25-minute session will explore the SDGs and illustrate how it can be applied to your subjects in remarkably easy ways.
As a requirement of the Curriculum Framework all programmes will integrate sustainability to ensure all students graduate with the knowledge to tackle real world problems.
During the summer of 2025 pilot delivery workshops are being conducted to test the most effective ways to engage and support our teaching staff.
All staff will have the opportunity themselves to attend workshops to understand the relevance and importance of sustainability and help academics create effective learning outcomes of particular relevance to the subject being taught.
The roll out of the training and the integration of sustainability within validation and revalidation processes will continue over the coming years.
For staff keen to explore sustainability and start considering it sooner in their programmes then please utilise the training support and resources above and below.
Please review this page to access additional support to help you integrate sustainability into in your teaching and learning offer.
A staff led Community of Practice is available for staff to share and understand approaches to sustainability teaching and learning, shared by our own academic community.
If you are interested in attending future events please contact sustainability@gre.ac.uk
This group is supported by the university's Academic and Learning Enhancement  team to  better understand and  consider how sustainability can effectively be integrated into our teaching practices.
If this is of interest please contact sustainability@gre.ac.uk
Feel free to share with students.
How can you be more sustainable at work?
We all have the power to make a difference, no matter how small the action.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/sustain/strategy:
Information on strategy, policy, the Sustainability Management Board, and our Environmental Management System.
Our goal is sustainability excellence in everything we do.
By 2030, we will be recognised as a leader, putting sustainability at the heart of our teaching, research, partnerships and services to help to build a more sustainable society .
Sustainability Strategic Action Plan
Our Sustainability Strategic Sustainability Plan (SSAP) sets out our ambitions to deliver positive impact across areas where we have influence.
This sets out our ambition, underpinned by the Priorities and targets we will deliver against.
This is our high level plan which will be supported by detailed delivery plans that will be integrated into our strategic delivery.
It relates to all students, staff and  partners and we hope it inspires us all to become sustainability leaders.
Our Priorities are:
The SSAP is underpinned by our Sustainability Policy.
We have a policy consultation every two years, with an annual sign off by our Vice-Chancellor and is audited as part of our ISO 104001 environmental management certification.
Our annual sustainability reports provide our progress against KPIs and key projects.
The overarching Corporate Strategy; This is Our Time reflects our responsibility from the Vice-Chancellor in delivering sustainability across teaching, research and operations.
The new Curriculum Framework , launched in 2025, pushes for this teaching, embedding sustainability across all disciplines so our students know how their skills can solve real world problems.
The university will c reate a green and sustainable university and actively encourage and support sustainable development and principles of sustainable learning and teaching practice in curriculum development and delivery.
This is Our Time Corporate Strategy, Page 20
In recognising our own impacts as a University, our ambitious Net Zero strategic plan commits us in bringing down our carbon footprint by eliminating the burning of fossil fuels in our operations in addition to reducing our business travel emissions by 50%.
An in-depth analysis of our carbon footprint can be found here .
Our Estates Strategy builds from the concept of net zero in how we integrate sustainability into our buildings with our Green Travel Plan helping our staff and students make greener and healthier travel choices.
This document highlights examples of some of the key strategy areas we deliver against and includes KPI’s we seek to achieve.
We know that sustainability cannot be delivered unless we create effective partnerships with stakeholders from within the university to a global level.
We work closely with the Partnership Hub and this work illustrates how the university has played an active role engaging and motivating local partners and university staff to create more sustainable communities.
The governance of sustainability starts at the top.
Our Sustainability Management Committee (SMC) is chaired by Deputy Vice Chancellor, Professor Andrew Westby, who has written a signatory of intent .
The group has representatives across our Faculties and Directorates at a senior level for a collaborative approach to sustainable development.
One of the elected Students' Union Officers is present to ensure everyone has an equal voice in making strategic decisions.
The Terms of Reference provides how the group operates and how it manages the review of KPI's and policies.
Sub-committees for specific action areas are established, and feed in when required.
SMC minutes are fed into the Strategy Programme Board that comprises the Vice Chancellor in addition to the senior leadership team.
The university provides funding for the staffing and delivery of projects within the Sustainability Team, including ecosystems services, circular economy, carbon efficiency and engagement.
The UN defines ESD as: “a vision of education that seeks to balance human and economic well-being with cultural traditions and respect for the earth’s natural resources.” The student demand for sustainable development has never been higher, and with the climate and biodiversity crises, it has never been more importance to educate and support our students in navigating these great challenges.
As a teaching institution we must ensure our students have the necessary knowledge and skills to deal with local to global issues, and regardless of career sector can drive forwards positive change for a sustainable legacy.
In 2015 we started our approach in delivering ESD by presenting opportunities to our Academic and Quality Standards Committee.
In 2025 the University launched the new Curriculum Framework to explicitly embed real-world problems linked to the UN Sustainable Development Goals into curricula.
Over the next two years (May 2025-September 2027), every programme will be reviewed as part of the Curriculum Shape project to align it to the framework, with the last programmes being rolled out by September 2028.
Progress reporting the integration of sustainability within our curriculum as part of the Curriculum Shape project will be via Strategic Programmes Board biannually.
You can view our courses for a greener future list here.
We know that a sustainable society cannot be delivered without collaboration, research and partnership, with a variety of our students and academics incorporating sustainability into their research which you can view samples of here .
The institutional lead for the Curriculum Framework is Professor Jenny Marie, Pro Vice-Chancellor Education, Professor Vanessa Lemm, Deputy Vice-Chancellor & Provost has ultimate responsibility for this and the Student Success Sub Strategy.
Our Estates & Facilities Directorate (EFD) is proud to operate to international ISO14001:2015 (Environmental Management) standards.
IS14001 is a voluntary international standard set through environmental management systems (EMS) to reduce impact and risk.
An EMS is a set of processes and practices that enable organisations to reduce environmental impacts, increase operating efficiency and integrate sustainability thinking into operations.
It requires senior leadership in addition to operational innovation and collaborations to allow developments without overusing limited resources.
This includes waste, energy and utilities, transport, construction, training, legal requirements, emergency plans and natural grounds management.
Our EMS allows us to increase cost savings and efficiency, reduce environmental risks and ensure collaboration occurs between staff.
Where issues occur, ‘non-conformances’ are raised that require corrective action to route cause, ensuring the issues do not arise again in the future.
We have a team of staff and students ( contact us if you want to join ) who conduct internal audits to our processes to an annual programme.
Externally, surveillance audits occur annually, with a full re-accreditation compliance audit every three years done against strict criteria.
We have been accredited since 2012.
Find how our core principles become reality.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/sustain/research:
Solving the many social and environmental challenges, including climate change, that we face requires universities to lead, support and deliver sustainability-focused research.
University of Greenwich researchers are making significant contributions across our Faculties on a range of projects.
Our Research and Knowledge Exchange Sub-Strategy states that “ we will measure our focus on local, national and international impact in alignment with the UN Sustainable Development Goals, responding to some of the world’s biggest challenges by developing sustainable solutions” , along with noting that “there is a central commitment to sustainability which runs through this sub-strategy”.
We encourage staff to apply a sustainability lens within their expert areas to identify new perspectives.
This creates opportunities for interdisciplinary research across our research community and in collaboration with other universities and partners locally, across the UK and throughout the world.
The University’s Natural Resources Institute is a leader in natural resources research, promoting efficient management and use of renewable natural resources in support of sustainable livelihoods.
Research is primarily focused on developing and emerging economies.
The Institute for Inclusive Communities and Environments takes an interdisciplinary approach in binging together key research centres that can deliver solutions to many of the worlds social and environmental challenges.
Find out more about our research and individual projects delivered by our research centres.
We know that a sustainable society cannot be delivered without collaboration and a range of partnerships.
The University of Greenwich is working with partners across the world on a range of sustainability focused research projects.
These are often in partnership with local educational institutions, government agencies and commercial organisations.
We work on commercial and funded projects that are delivering outcomes essential for humanity and the planet and we are keen to collaborate with anyone sharing our ethos to use research as a power for good.
Find out more about our partnerships .
The Sustainability Development Team provides training for researchers, highlighting how this topic can be an asset to research and introducing tools to help in the application of sustainability in the process of research development and delivery.
Contact Greenwich Research and Innovation for more information.
You can contact the Sustainability Development Unit by email: sustainability@gre.ac.uk .
The university has an Ethical Research Collaboration Policy which sets the minimum expectations on academic staff at the University of Greenwich.
As research and knowledge exchange usually requires collaboration with external partners (through funding, access to resources, conferences/workshops and other similar fora etc) there may be circumstances where it is inconsistent with the ethical stance of the University of Greenwich to engage in a collaboration with a particular partner, either in general, or for a specific activity, where that activity might be inconsistent with the aims and objectives of the university.
This policy provides further guidance to meet our ethical responsibilities.
Our academics are leading the way in impactful research to tackle the global issues of climate change and environmental degradation.
To view the case studies below, click on the profile pictures or to view all case studies, please click here.
Meet Professor Kevin Lam
Meet Dr Elinor Thompson
Meet Dr Parag Acharya
Meet Dr Colin Joseph Coulson-Thomas
Meet Dr Michael Talbot
Meet Dr David Luke
Meet Professor Colin Hills and Dr Nimisha Tripathi
Other staff members are doing amazing things and making huge impacts on student success.
Meet Dr Maria Nikolaidi
Meet Dr Keren Darmon
Meet Emma Connor
Meet Daniela Danzerova
Meet Evie Keane
Meet Thomas Rabensteiner
Meet Dr Alexander Guschanski
Meet Jeff Powell
Meet Dr Lianfeng Quan and Dr Vicky Lee
Meet Dr Lili Yan & Dr Olufemi Sallyanne Decker

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/sustain/articles-and-resources:
The Sustainability Team is available to provide advice, training and support to help staff and students better understand and apply global topics into their work and studies at Greenwich.
If you would like to learn more around the global issues, please find below a series of links to videos, websites, organisations and projects that will explain, inspire and enable learning, action and change.
Unless we have a good understanding of what the climate crisis is, what the science tells us and what we need to do about it, then we won’t be able to act, individually or collectively.
The Sustainability Team has developed this 45-minute session to offer you insight into a key issue relating to your learning.
As part of the careers focused Green Week, we have invited speakers from different sectors to talk about Green Careers.
Check out the latest sustainability updates.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/postgraduate-courses/engsci/agrsustdev:
You are viewing entry Viewing year 2025/26.
View alternative
2026/27 .
Learn how agriculture and its environment should be adapted to future change with a Master’s in Agriculture for Sustainable Development from an award-winning institute.
This course is for graduates and professionals looking for greater knowledge and expertise in sustainable agricultural development.
You'll gain a strong understanding of the fundamentals of crop production, such as adaptation to climate and other environmental changes.
You then explore how this expertise can help to design effective food production systems without placing unsustainable demands on the environment.
The emphasis is on agriculture in tropical or developing countries, but the approaches can be used globally.
The course integrates natural, social and economic sciences.
It draws on our unrivalled expertise in an array of disciplines, including crop production, pest and disease management, postharvest technologies, climate change adaptation, and agricultural economics and marketing.
The course is taught on our Medway Campus and delivered by world-leading scientists from the award-winning Natural Resources Institute, who are working on sustainable agriculture projects around the world.
We use real global case studies in our teaching, and you'll have an opportunity to play a meaningful role in current research projects.
Benefit from small class sizes, quality supervision, and access to cutting-edge research facilities and resources.
Select your preferred
to view up to date information.
£11,325
         /£17,975
Loading...
Course information is currently unavailable for this programme.
Please contact course-info@gre.ac.uk for more information.
Fellow in Soils
At NRI, we hold high professional standards and place the student experience at the heart of all we do.
We have over 80 academics publishing work of internationally leading quality, with 22 professors involved in research leadership.
Many of our staff have become Fellows, Senior Fellows and Principal Fellows of the Higher Education Academy.
If you are a UK citizen or have permanent residency from outside the UK
An undergraduate (honours) degree at 2:2, or above, in Agriculture, Biology, Plant/Crop Science, Agricultural Economy or a relevant subject.
Applicants are encouraged to provided proof of a research project undertaken within their degree.
Applicants without a degree that have professional qualifications or relevant professional experience may be considered.
Applicants from other degree backgrounds may be considered.
For more information, use our contact form or call us on 020 8331 9000 .
You can also read our admissions policy .
You can also read our admissions policy.
The University of Greenwich accepts a broad range of international qualifications for admission to our courses.
For detailed information on the academic and English language requirements, please find your country in our directory.
Alternatively, please contact us at international@gre.ac.uk .
If you cannot find your country on this list, please contact international@gre.ac.uk .
Yes
Find out more on our Recognition of Prior Learning pages.
This course is taught by lectures, seminars, and practical lab-based investigations.
We use case studies to help you build teamwork and creative problem-solving skills that are valuable in industry.
You also take an independent research project.
This gives you the opportunity to carry out original research in a well-equipped department, supported by staff with diverse interests and experience.
We limit class sizes to enhance the learning experience.
The average class size on this course is around 10 students per year.
Class size depends on your choice of optional modules.
Our courses are designed to give you the space for exploratory and independent study.
You'll work towards individual and group assignments and undertake the preparation/follow-up work associated with lectures, seminars, integrative assignments and laboratory classes.
A research skills module will shape your approach to independent learning, especially for your research project.
We encourage students to take advantage of a range of related extra-curricular opportunities.
The faculty hosts regular seminars from NRI staff and external visitors on a range of diverse topics.
If you are studying full-time, you should expect the workload to be similar to a full-time job.
For part-time students, this will reduce in proportion with the number of courses you are studying.
Students will be assessed through a variety of methods, such as:
University policy is to give feedback on assignments within 15 working days of the coursework submission date.
Examination results will be available within 28 days.
Each academic year runs from September to June.
Full teaching timetables are not usually available until term has started.
For any queries, please call 020 8331 9000.
University is a great investment in your future.
English-domiciled graduate annual salaries were £10,500 more than non-graduates in 2023 - and the UK Government projects that 88% of new jobs by 2035 will be at graduate level.
(Source: DfE Graduate labour market statistics: 2023/DfE Labour market and skills projections: 2020 to 2035).
Whether you choose to live in halls of residence or rent privately, we can help you find what you're looking for.
University accommodation is available from £126.35 per person per week (bills included), depending on your location and preferences.
If you require more space or facilities, these options are available at a slightly higher cost.
Accommodation pages
We offer a wide range of financial help including scholarships and bursaries .
This bursary is worth £700 for new undergraduate students with a low household income, entering Year 0 or 1 who meet the eligibility criteria.
The Greenwich Bursary
Following the UK's departure from the European Union, we are supporting new EU students by offering a substantial fee-reduction for studying.
The EU bursary
We want your time at university to be enjoyable, rewarding, and free of unnecessary stress, so planning your finances before you come to university can help to reduce financial concerns.
We can offer advice on living costs and budgeting, as well as on awards, allowances and loans.
Funding your studies
Graduates of the MSc Agriculture for Sustainable Development will be equipped for careers in the agricultural research and rural development sector.
Potential future workplaces include NGOs, ministries, funding agencies and national and international research institutes.
Graduates may also continue onto a research degree (MPhil/PhD), which will train you for research leadership roles in agriculture and rural development.
We have a team dedicated to enhancing student employment outcomes.
This includes an Employer Partnerships Manager, who works with companies to provide placement and employment opportunities.
Our team will also help you understand the jobs market, produce effective CVs, and prepare for a graduate job and placement applications in your final year.
More about Careers.
Our Medway halls of residence are all located on-campus, with facilities include an on-site café, launderette and bar.
And the halls are located within minutes of the historic Chatham dockyard and Chatham and Gillingham town centres.
With student-run social events, modern ensuite rooms and communal shared spaces, you’ll find that living in halls of residence will be a highlight of your University of Greenwich experience.
Rooms start at £172.06/wk and include Wi-Fi, utility bills and 24-hour residential support.
Our Medway accommodation boasts 350 rooms with 24/7 security, and resident car parking permits are available.
We allocate you a personal tutor, who you meet soon after you join the department.
Their role is to support your personal and academic development and act as your point of contact for queries or problems.
We help new students over the first few weeks with our faculty and department induction.
This covers the first week of term 1 (September) and term 2 (January).
We'll also help you discover the academic and social landscape at Medway Campus.
We've got plenty of other courses for you to choose from.
Browse our postgraduate courses or check our related courses below.....
Visit our environmental science degrees page .
Visit our science degrees page .
Select from the dropdown below.
If you are a UK student or have settled/pre-settled status (EU) and you want to study full-time then you apply through the Universities and Colleges Admission Service (UCAS).
If you are a UK student or have settled/pre-settled status (EU) and you want to study part-time then you can apply directly via our online application form.
If you are from outside the UK, you can apply via UCAS, directly via our online application form or via one of our in-country representatives.
If you require a student visa, you cannot study part-time at undergraduate level.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/foundation-degrees/engsci/applied-animal-behaviour-and-conservation-qa-only-fdsc-plumpton-college:
This course focuses on the fundamental scientific aspects of animal behaviour and welfare in addition to the issues relating to their study.
The FdSc Applied Animal Behaviour and Conservation programme enables you to gain a thorough knowledge and understanding of the established principles of Animal Behaviour, Welfare and Conservation and their development within industry.
The programme also enables you to gain knowledge and understanding of the principles of business management and apply this in a relevant work-related context.
An ability to apply underlying concepts and principles outside the context in which they were first studied and employ those principles in Animal-related industries or other work-relevant context, will allow you to gain the experience required for future careers.
You’ll benefit from working with our wide range of species including aquatics, companion large animals, exotics and small mammals in the Animal Management Centre, gaining experience in handling and management experience.
This programme incorporates key business skills, providing you with the sound skills and knowledge that you’ll need.
There are excellent links with the industry, and host regular guest speakers and visits to other centres, including a visit to Mankwe Wildlife Reserve, South Africa, as part of the Wildlife Conservation module.
You'll be able to discover 3000 large mammals on the reserve, which is made up of 42 species plus over 250 types of bird, plus a wide variety of amphibians, invertebrates and reptiles.
The course is offered by one of the university's partner colleges: Plumpton College, based at Lewes, East Sussex.
56 ( view full requirements ) (full requirements below)
P300
Plumpton College
TBC
         /TBC
Validated / Quality Assured (QA) Programmes: these are programmes approved (‘validated’) and quality assured by the University of Greenwich for delivery by one of our Partner Colleges.
They lead to a University of Greenwich award.
The programme is delivered by a team of highly experienced and dedicated staff, with expertise in a range of disciplines within the animal sciences and related fields.
Staff teaching on the programme benefit from maintaining strong professional links to organisations in the animal industry, operating at both a local and national level.
Typical Offer: 56 Points
Qualifications : two A-Levels/Extended Diploma/Advanced Technical/International Baccalaureate/Access to HE
We consider a wide range of Level 3 qualifications with UCAS Tariff points, specifically:
A-Level : two subjects (CD) and must include one in a STEM-related subject.
BTEC National : Extended Diploma (MPP)
C&G Advanced Technical : Extended Diploma 1080 (MPP)
International Baccalaureate : 24 Points overall.
Access to HE : 56 Points
We also consider applicants with relevant industrial experience if over 21 years of age.
We expect a minimum of five GCSE’s, including Mathematics, English Language and a science, all at grade 4 or above (grade C or above under the A*-G system).
Students with English as a second language will be required to have gained IELTS at 6.5 overall with 6.0 in Writing.
We welcome applications from mature students.
For more information, contact the HE Office ( HEoffice@plumpton.ac.uk ).
Learning takes place through a combination of timetabled learning and independent study.
You can view more information about how each module is taught within our 'What you will study' section.
Seminars and workshops enable you to discuss and develop your understanding of topics covered in lectures in smaller groups.
You will also be able to meet your personal tutor.
Timetabled learning may fall between 9am and 9pm depending on your courses and tutorials.
Class sizes on the programme are typically between 15-20 students, depending on the modules and year of study.
In the first year, all modules are compulsory and class sizes will not vary, apart form in some practical sessions, where groups may be divided to ensure high standards of animal welfare can be maintained and to ensure appropriate supervision of students.
In the second year of the programme,  group sizes can be slightly smaller.
Students are also encouraged to undertake their own personal study.
Whilst this enables the student to pursue their own areas of interest, this time also sets the foundation for a future of lifetime learning - an essential in the rapidly evolving animal welfare industries.
You should expect the workload to be similar to a full-time job.Each module you study towards this degree is worth 15 or 30 credits.
These represent around 150 or 300 study hours respectively.
If you receive 100 contact hours for a 30-credit module, you should expect to commit 200 hours to independent study to complete it successfully.
You can view how each module is assessed within our 'What you will study' section.
Each course has formal assessments which count towards your grade.
Some courses may also include 'practice' assignments, which help you monitor progress and do not count towards your final grade.
We aim to provide feedback on assignments taken at the college and to release examination results within 15 working days.
The academic year runs from September to June.
For any queries, contact the HE office ( HEoffice@plumpton.ac.uk )
Safety equipment Students will be required to fund their own equipment and protective clothing and steel toe capped boots for working with animals on site.
Field trips The cost of field trips is activity dependant.
Some are free, while others may require a contribution.
You are not obliged to pay for field trips in order to complete your course.
Resources Course texts and other study resources are available from Library.
You may wish to purchase your own copies.
You receive a small allowance for printing costs, which you can top up if required.
The College’s Inclusive Learning and Development Department offers dedicated support for HE students, this can take the form of one-to-one support, exam access arrangements.
Students who have a learning disability are able to access support with making an application to the Disabled Students Allowance (DSA) from the College’s Inclusive Learning and Development Department.
The Library boasts a collection of over 8,000 books, covering a range of key subject areas within land-based curriculum.
The Library also provides students with access to a variety of magazines, periodicals and academic journals through online databases.
We offer impartial careers guidance to all of our students, email careers@plumpton.ac.uk to explore your next step or to book an appointment – we’re here to help.
Browse our foundation degrees or check our related courses below.....
Visit our computer science and computing degrees page .
Visit our engineering degrees page .
If you are a UK student or have settled/pre-settled status (EU) and you want to study full-time, you can now apply through clearing via any of the following channels:
If you want to apply for a later intake, visit the how to apply page .
If you are a UK student or have settled/pre-settled status (EU) and you want to study part-time, you can now apply via any of the following channels:
If you are from outside the UK, you can now apply via any of the following channels.
For more information, contact us at international@greenwich.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/postgraduate-courses/engsci/foodsaf:
Our Master’s in Applied Food Safety and Quality Management is designed for professionals working in food manufacturing who wish to boost their career with a new qualification.
On this course, you'll learn about the requirements for providing safe and wholesome food to consumers with our specialist course in applied food safety and quality management.
We follow the farm-to-fork approach to address a wide variety of food safety and quality management issues.
Topics include good governance and national control systems, food inspection and testing services.
You'll cover the management of food safety and quality across the supply chain, as well as how to design and implement safety and quality management systems to meet national and international legislation.
The course is research-informed and is taught by staff at the award-winning Natural Resources Institute (NRI), with its unique knowledge base and industry experience.
September; January
Accredited by the 
                                    The Institute of Food Science and Technology (IFST)
Dr Stacey Duvenage leads this course.
An undergraduate (honours) degree at 2:2, or above.
Applicants from other backgrounds may be considered.
You are taught through a combination of interactive lectures, discussions, and tutorials, with the use of appropriate and relevant case-studies.
Our taught modules are research-engaged and most have a practical component that relates to the theory you cover in the classroom.
Individual research projects help you learn to adapt and apply specific methodologies to unfamiliar problems.
We restrict our class sizes to enhance the learning experience of students.
Class size is dependent on module options choice.
You can begin the course in September or January.
Graduates from the programme have gone on to secure jobs in food quality assurance, technical management, product development, food policy, inspection and enforcement, food analysis, post-harvest handling and storage, as well as academia and research.
The course leader has the overall responsibility for your course and will be your first point of contact.
We also allocate you a personal tutor, who you meet soon after you join the department.
Visit our human nutrition and health degrees page .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/undergraduate-courses/ach/architecture-with-foundation-year-ba-hons:
You are viewing entry year 2026/27.
Accredited by the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) and Architects Registration Board (ARB), this is your first step to a broad range of degree subjects, including a career in architecture.
Architecture with Foundation Year equips students with ways of seeing, developing methods of critical thought, designing projects and creative technical skills to support progression on to the more in-depth study of architecture required over the subsequent three years of the degree.
Alongside architecture-specific learning you will gain a broad range of more general university skills, to set students up for success at undergraduate level study across a broad spectrum of subjects.
Following on from Foundation Year students will be able to either join the standard three-year architecture degree graduating with the same award or change subject to pursue an alternative career and degree pathway.
64 ( view full requirements ) (full requirements below)
K101 G BA/ArchFY
Design and Creative Industries
4 years full-time
2026/27 fees To be confirmed
Accredited by
                                        
                    the 
                                    Royal Institute of British Architects
Accredited by
                                        
                    the 
                                    Architects Registration Board
You will be taught by an experienced team of experts, which includes senior academics, technical officers, and practitioners with industry experience.
Trained postgraduate researchers may also contribute to seminar teaching with the module leader.
Teaching is informed by our research and industry expertise.
Architecture offers an exciting opportunity to learn new skills, challenge yourself and think about the world you want to live in, all guided by the caring and always inspiring tutors at Greenwich.
- Gus Richards, BA (hons) Architecture Graduate, 2023
We also accept applications if you wish to transfer from another institution, and have already studied 1 or 2 years of a relevant course at level 4 or 5 and wish to continue your education at the University of Greenwich.
For entry : Applicants with professional qualifications will be considered on an individual basis.
For exemption : If you hold qualifications or courses from another higher education institution, these may exempt you from courses of this degree.
Note: Direct entry or transfer into the later stage (i.e., Stage 6 (which is Year 3)) of the BA (Hons) Architecture is NOT permitted.
This is in order to ensure that all students meet the ARB/RIBA professional body criteria for validation.
The typical student intake per year averages 100-110.
Lectures are normally attended by larger groups, and seminars/tutorials by smaller groups.
This can vary more widely for modules that are shared between degrees.
Outside of timetabled sessions, you are also expected to dedicate time to self-study.
This may involve further reading and research, preparing coursework and presentations, and preparing for tests and exams.
You can use our Stockwell Street Library and online resources to support you in these activities.
In addition, during the week you can also:
Each module you study towards this degree is worth 15 or 30 credits.
We aim to give feedback on assignments within 15 working days.
For any queries, please use our contact form .
2026/27 fees To be confirmed.
Trips : Any compulsory field trips are funded by the school.
Trips organised by the Architecture team are not compulsory, but you bear the costs if you choose to attend.
Resources : For Architecture, Landscape and Design courses, you will produce portfolios of large format plots plus CNC/3D printed models etc.
Costs will vary but could reach £250 a year for printing and paper, £100 for model making, £50 for site visits and £200-£300 for a field trip.
Software : We provide Adobe software and Lynda.com online video tutorials.
A selection of specialist CAD and visualisation/modelling programmes are available to students through our computer suite at Stockwell Street.
Any licenses for software outside of our range will come at your own cost.
This course is designed to prepare students for progression into year-out practice in the architectural profession, leading to advanced level study in RIBA/ARB part 2 MArch in Architecture.
Therefore, students are not required to take work placements or internships in addition to this pathway.
As well as becoming architects, graduates can pursue opportunities in computer-aided design, animation, urban design, interior design, arts and media, project management, graphic design and the construction industry.
Employability activities take place all the time at Greenwich and students are encouraged to take part in as many opportunities as possible.
The central Employability and Careers Service provides support for students preparing to apply for placements and graduate roles, such as CV clinics, mock interviews and employability skills workshops.
In addition, your School has a dedicated Employability Officer who will be organising work-related activities throughout the year which will help you to build you industry knowledge and networks.
More about careers .
Living in halls of residence is a great way to make new friends and get into the social side of university life.
With four great locations, all minutes away from the campus and the centre of historic Greenwich , you will be at the heart of one of the most beautiful university settings in the UK.
Rooms start at £146.30/wk and include Wi-Fi, utility bills, access to our on-campus gym and 24-hour security - and just a 10-minute train journey to central London.
Students based at our Greenwich campus can also choose to live the Student Village at Avery Hill , which is only a short ride on our free shuttle bus.
We want you to make the most of your time with us.
You can access study skills support through your tutor, our subject librarians, and our online academic skills centre.
Where appropriate, we provide support in academic English and mathematics.
If you need to use particular IT packages for a specific module, we provide training for this.
The School provides pastoral support throughout your studies with us.
Students have a personal tutor, and there are also a range of student services including Wellbeing.
Browse our undergraduate courses or check our related courses below.....
Visit our architecture degrees page .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/undergraduate-courses/ach/architecture-ba-hons:
Our architecture degree, accredited by the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) and the Architects Registration Board (ARB), is your first step to a professional career in architecture
You'll learn to use design software and gain visual communication and drawing skills.
You will also study architectural practice, the histories and contemporary theories of architecture alongside sustainability and technology.
Successful graduates will gain exemption from the RIBA Part 1 examination.
120 ( view full requirements ) (full requirements below)
K100 G BA/Arch
3 years full-time
Teaching is informed by our research and writing.
The End of Year Show was a fantastic opportunity to get valuable feedback and build confidence to discuss my designs publicly.
- Yasemin Taylan, BA Architecture Graduate

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/undergraduate-courses/engsci/building-studies-hnc-lsec-orpington-campus:
Join this HNC in building studies and develop a deep understanding of the design, function and construction of buildings, preparing you for managerial positions in the construction industry.
The HNC Building Studies will give you broad and balanced knowledge of the design, function, construction and statutory requirements for buildings.
You'll develop your practical skills in construction technology and sustainability, health and safety, quantity surveying, and project and risk management.
The course combines high-level academic study with practical elements.
It enables you to become a member of the Chartered Institute of Building and Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Possible roles following graduation include contracts manager, property manager, building contractor, project manager and construction manager.
London South East Colleges - Orpington Campus
2 year part-time
For fee information related to this course, please see fees section below
Typical UCAS points for Clearing entry: Please contact our Clearing team: 020 8331 9000 | Open Live Chat .
Please contact our Clearing team: 020 8331 9000 | Open Live Chat
No
Class sizes vary by module.
Lectures are normally attended by larger groups, and seminars/tutorials by smaller groups.
All students will have opportunities for 1-to-1 time with their tutors.
For any queries, please email HE@lsec.ac.uk .
Information coming soon.
Visit our construction degrees page .
Study a course in construction or quantity surveying and lay the groundwork for a career in a rapidly increasing industry.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/undergraduate-courses/business-school/business-marketing-ba-hons:
This programme offers direct entry into business with marketing at either Level 5 or Level 6, with a curriculum designed to build both depth and flexibility in your understanding of business and marketing.
At Level 5, you’ll gain a strong foundation in applied skills - understanding customer behaviour, managing projects, and making informed operational decisions.
At Level 6, the focus shifts to strategic thinking, creativity, and addressing global challenges in a socially and environmentally conscious world.
You will also choose from three final-year project options tailored to your goals: a traditional dissertation, a consultancy project with a live client, or the Business Creation Project for entrepreneurial development.
Applied learning is embedded throughout.
Our digital marketing suite, for instance, simulates a real agency environment and supports collaboration through the latest Mersive interactive technology.
Careers in specialist strategic marketing areas are popular with business with marketing graduates, especially within retail management, consultancy, small to medium businesses and start-ups.
72 ( view full requirements ) (full requirements below)
N1NN G BA/BWM
Management and Marketing
1-2 years full-time
£9,535
* The Department for Education has indicated that it intends to raise the Home tuition fee limit from £9,250 to £9,535 for 2025/26.
Home tuition fee limits: Find out more
IMPORTANT: Please note, this programme is recruiting ONLY for Year 2 and Year 3 Full-time entry (i.e.
only taking 'Direct Entry' students).
As such, disregard Year 1 of the full-time structure set out below, as this relates to the no-longer-offered, 3-year version of this degree.
For any mode OTHER than full-time which may be offered, please contact the University for exact details of the modules which will be studied.
We are an experienced team of academics and industry professionals.
Trained postgraduate researchers also contribute to seminar teaching with their latest research-led insight.
Our teaching is informed by research and consultancy work.
Typical UCAS points for Clearing entry: 72.
Please call our Clearing Line or join live chat now to discuss your options.
If you don’t meet the criteria, please do speak to one of our clearing advisors by calling our Clearing Line or join Live Chat now to discuss your options.
Contact us for details.
Outside of timetabled sessions, you'll need to dedicate self-study time (around 20-30 hours per week) to prepare for coursework, presentations and exams.
You can use Stockwell Street library and online resources to support further reading and research.
Your overall workload consists of contact hours (lectures, seminars, etc), independent learning, assessments, and field trips.
Each credit equates to around 10 hours of study.
Contact hours may vary depending on your modules.
We aim to provide feedback on assignments and to release examination results within 15 working days.
Further costs may include (but are not limited to):
Career opportunities are available with a specialist strategic marketing focus in general management within retail, consultancy, small to medium enterprises and business start-up.
The University’s Employability Team may advertise internship opportunities which are made available to the University and which the team feel are appropriate for University of Greenwich students.
Internships are usually shorter opportunities ranging from 5 working days to 6 months and may be part-time or full-time.
Depending on the nature and duration of the internship it may be something that can be done alongside study or it may be something that can only be done over the summer.
If your internship is eligible, you can receive a Certificate of Industrial Studies .
Yes - Our Employability Service is here to bring you one step closer to your dream career through 1-2-1 guidance, flagship events and workshops, job opportunities, mentoring and more.
Their service is free and tailored to ensure you have access to the best career opportunities.
Find out more at: https://www.gre.ac.uk/careers
Access study skills support through your academic tutor, our subject librarians and our online academic skills centre.
If you need support to use particular IT packages for a specific module, we provide training for this.
We also offer a range of activities to support you throughout your studies during GRE Fest, which includes several workshops that support our students and provide useful information.
All students will also be assigned an academic tutor as the first point of contact for any academic queries.
At Greenwich Business School, you can access comprehensive support through our dedicated teams.
The GBS Student Support team handles course-related matters via the Digital Student Centre.
Our Faculty Student Advisors (FSAs) provide pastoral and welfare support to first-year students.
Interested in starting your own business?
Our Generator Team helps students start and grow businesses, The Generator also runs the Enterprise Challenge and #GreHacks competition annually.
Visit our marketing and advertising degrees page .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/undergraduate-courses/engsci/chemical-engineering-beng-hons:
This chemical engineering degree will equip you to become a professional engineer able to solve real problems with practical solutions.
Our three-year degree in chemical engineering explores a range of topics relevant to cutting-edge research, new technologies and emerging growth areas in chemical engineering.
These topics include engineering science, particle technology, management, pharmaceutical development and bioengineering.
Our undergraduate engineering courses share common Year 1 modules.
You will then have the choice of continuing on the same course or switching to another if it better matches your interests.
With the skills of a professional engineer, you'll be equipped to enter careers in the chemical and process engineering, pharmaceutical, and food and beverage industries.
H800 M BEng/ChEng
We offer an extended degree in this subject that you can access with lower entry requirements.
Engineering
£9,535
         /£17,500
Accredited by
                                        
                    the 
                                    IChemE
Senior Lecturer in Chemical Engineering
Welcome to our chemical engineering course.
When you join us, you'll be taught by an experienced team whose expertise and knowledge closely reflects the modules of this course.
The team includes senior academics, professional practitioners with industry experience, lab technicians, and external experts who provide guest lectures on some modules.
Our PhD researchers also offer lab support, which our undergraduate students find very useful.
Learning from qualified and attentive lecturers creates an enriching daily experience for everyone.
It’s always a pleasure to come to the University of Greenwich every week.
- Yanis Allam, BEng Chemical Engineering
Applicants are required 24 points or grade D from: A Level Maths or BTEC: Engineering/Applied Science
We offer an extended degree in this subject with lower entry requirements.
Our extended degrees include a foundation year to prepare you for degree-level study.
Common first year modules across Engineering programmes results in large lecture groups of 100+ students.
However, in order to enhance your learning experience, practical class sizes typically vary from 10 to 30 students depending on the module.
Similarly, tutorials operate in the same way as practical sessions with class sizes varying according to the nature of the module being studied.
At university, you must develop the ability to work more independently than you have done before.
In the early stages of the degree, you will receive a higher level of support from module leaders and personal tutors.
In years 2 and 3, you will need to demonstrate an increasing ability to build upon material delivered in lectures and laboratories through independent reading.
Greenwich graduates should be able to think and work independently, analytically and creatively to solve problems.
Whilst the university tries to ensure that part-time attendance is one day of the week only, this cannot be guaranteed for every programme and subsequent years.
For further information regarding part-time timetables contact fes-courseinfo@gre.ac.uk
Safety equipment Engineering students are provided with safety boots and protective headwear in addition to lab coats and non-prescription safety glasses.
You'll be expected to pay for prescription safety glasses (approx.
£90+) if you choose to purchase them.
Professional memberships The standard professional memberships attached to accredited courses are covered by your tuition fees.
You are welcome to take up additional professional memberships at your own cost.
Resources Course texts and other study resources are available from the Drill Hall Library.
You also receive an allowance for printing costs, which you can top up if required.
Students go to a range of companies and organisations of varying sizes for their placements, including large multi-national firms, government agencies, the NHS and small to medium sized companies engaged in research, analytical services and manufacturing.
Students can undertake a summer placement for between 6 weeks to a maximum of 3 months, which is acknowledged by the award of a Certificate of Industrial Experience.
Students are also encouraged to apply for sandwich placements lasting between 9-12 months which sit between the second and third year of the degree.
The Faculty expectation is that students are as far as possible treated like other employees of the company or organisation.
It is expected that students on sandwich placements will be paid throughout their time with the company.
In some cases, students on summer placements have had expenses only covered by the company.
Students on sandwich placements are required to pay a reduced fee to the University for their placement year.
These courses are designed to provide you with the knowledge and skills to work as a professional engineer.
Career options include roles in chemical and process engineering, pharmaceutical industries and food and beverage (one of the largest employment sectors in the UK).
You could also pursue postgraduate study.
Interns can gain valuable employment experience within the faculty – subject to resources.
Personal tutors will be able to advise students on where to access programme internships.
We have an Employer Partnerships Manager developing relationships with companies to provide placement and employment opportunities.
Other members of the team focus on helping students to develop their knowledge of job markets, production of effective CVs, cover letters and application forms, understanding HR selection processes, preparing final year students for graduate job applications and applying for placements.
Visit our Employability & Careers Service pages.
We are ambitious for all our students and we want you to make the most of you time with us.
You can access support to improve your study skills through your tutor, our subject librarians and our online academic skills centre .
We have a Learning Skills Coordinator and a writing Fellow, both of whom support students in improving their writing skills.
Additional Maths support is also available through the Drill Hall library.
All students are allocated a personal tutor throughout the duration of their studies
Students within the Faculty of Engineering and Science have a Retention and Success Officer (RSO) whose role it is to provide an additional layer of support for student engagement, and provision for extenuating circumstances, withdrawals and interruptions, Faculty level resit and Personal Development Planning enquiries.
The University wide STAART (AccessAbility Retention and Transition) programme encourages and supports students with a disability, providing support for disabled students.
Visit our chemical engineering degrees page .
Could you be a catalyst for change like Shivani?
Watch our chemical engineer in action around our high-tech laboratories.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/undergraduate-courses/engsci/civil-engineering-beng-hons:
Study our accredited three-year civil engineering degree for careers in a rewarding profession that helps to shape our society and surrounding environments.
Civil engineers provide habitation, transportation, a clean environment and protection against natural risks.
On this civil engineering course, you will study a range of modules in areas such as construction management and technology, engineering geology, hydraulics and soil mechanics.
You also have the chance to study water engineering, bridge design and the design of concrete structures.
Career options for civil engineering graduates include roles with consulting engineering companies, contracting organisations, and national and local government.
The degree is accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators on behalf of the Engineering Council for meeting the partial academic requirements for registration as a Chartered Engineer.
This degree is accredited by the Joint Board of Moderators (JBM) comprising the Institution of Civil Engineers, Institution of Structural Engineers, Institute of Highway Engineers, the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation and the Permanent Way Institution on behalf of the Engineering Council for the purposes of partially meeting the academic requirement for registration as a Chartered Engineer (CEng).
Candidates must hold a masters or doctorate accredited as further learning for CEng to hold accredited qualifications for CEng registration.
See JBM's website for further information and details of Further Learning programmes for CEng.
H200 M BEng/CE
Institution of Civil Engineers
Institution of Structural Engineers
Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation
Institute of Highway Engineers
Permanent Way Institution - The Institution for Rail Infrastructure Engineering
Senior Lecturer in Civil Engineering
Welcome to our civil engineering course.
Upon reflection, I believe the most valuable aspect of my university experience was the opportunity to connect with other students, graduates and lecturers.
- Destiny Ojo, BEng Civil Engineering graduate 2022, Graduate Design Coordinator
It goes without saying I wouldn’t have landed my job without my degree… Completing your degree is an amazing achievement.
- Tom Carter, BEng Civil Engineering graduate 2021, Site Engineer
Applicants are required to have Level 3 Science or Maths.
However, in order to enhance your learning experience, practical class sizes typically vary from 5 to 30 students depending on the module.
Students go to a range of companies and organisations of varying sizes for their placements, including large multi-national firms, clients, consultants, contractors, government agencies, and small to medium sized companies engaged in design, construction, maintenance and supply chain activities.
Previous students have worked in: rail, water, highways, ports, structural design offices, construction and client organisations.
These courses are designed to provide you with the knowledge and skills to work as a professional engineer.
Career options include roles in construction, the water industry, and environmental and coastal defence.
You could also pursue postgraduate study.
Visit our civil engineering degrees page .
From construction to transportation, civil engineers have to be forward-thinking.
Engineering student Viktor gives a quick tour of this fascinating profession.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/undergraduate-courses/engsci/construction-management-bsc-hons:
Our construction management degree provides a solid platform for careers in project management within the building and construction industries.
Modules include contract administration and construction law, as well as engineering principles.
By the end of the course, you'll know how to manage the complex design and construction processes of major building projects and ensure all parties work to a co-ordinated plan.
This course is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Building, which means you can work towards chartered membership as a chartered construction manager or chartered builder.
K252 G BSc/DCM
Accredited by the 
                                    Chartered Institute of Building
You will be taught by an experienced team which includes academics with a mixture of senior academics and professionals with practical experience.
The diversity of the team means that the course retains and develops important links to professional practice.
Our research and consultancy work informs academics, and over 90 per cent of our lecturers hold a teaching qualification.
For entry : applicants with professional qualifications and/or four years of full-time work experience will be considered on an individual basis.
The typical student intake per year averages 20-30.
Teaching is informed by our research and consultancy work, which is ongoing and regularly shared with students.
Outside of timetabled sessions, you are expected to dedicate time to self-study.
This may involve further reading and research, preparing coursework and presentations and preparing for tests and exams.
You can use our Stockwell Street Library and online resources to support you in these activities.
If you receive 72 contact hours for a 30-credit module, you should expect to commit 228 hours to independent study to complete it successfully.
Construction site visits and field trips form an integral part of the learning process, allowing you to put theory into practice.
For site visits and field trips, you will need to pay your own travel and subsistence costs.
This course can be taken in sandwich mode, which means you can take a year to work in industry between your second and final years of study.
Sandwich placements are relevant to your degree subject and are paid roles.
It is the very best way of preparing you for successfully finding a job quickly when you graduate.
Sandwich placements last for between 9-13 months.
Work-based learning module placements are normally one day a week for either one or two terms depending on the number of credits available from the module.
Sandwich placements are paid roles whereas work-based learning module placements are normally unpaid.
The skills you acquire through studying our courses will prepare you for careers in a wide range of industries and jobs.
Graduates  have a multitude of career options to pursue, working for both public and private sector clients, in specialist and generic consultancy roles.
Roles may be focused upon any combination of managerial, software or technical skills.
This course is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Building.
Students are encouraged to take up Summer internships during the Summer holidays, though it is up to the student to find them.
Support is available to students from the Employability and Careers Service when applying for placements and internships.
More about careers.
You can access study skills support through your tutor, our subject librarians, and our online academic skills centre .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/postgraduate-courses/engsci/construction-project-management-msc:
Grow your knowledge of the built environment and update your skills to meet the demands of the modern construction industry with a Master’s in Construction Project Management.
Our MSc Construction Project Management will teach you how to match design and production to the needs of the market for built space - an issue at the very core of the construction and property industries.
You'll learn how to plan and control the allocation of resources and respond creatively to volatile economic conditions.
Specific modules cover topics such as development economics and planning, applied project management, risk management, building integrated systems and technologies.
Graduates of this Construction Project Management course will have a host of career options, including project management roles with property developers, construction contractors, local and central government, and regeneration agencies.
Accredited by
                                        
                    the 
                                    Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors
Senior Lecturer in Built Environment
You will be taught by renowned professional and academic experts with specialisms in the field of construction, property and surveying practices.
Classes are held in the world-class facilities of Stockwell Street and are taught in small numbers in order to maximise contact time with tutors.
Our research and consultancy work informs academic delivery.
An undergraduate (honours) degree at 2:2, or above, in a Built Environment subject such as, Civil Engineering, Construction, Surveying or Architecture.
Applicants without a degree that have relevant professional experience or membership of an appropriate professional body may be considered.
In a typical week, you will have lectures, seminars, and workshops which may include critiques to discuss your work with colleagues and tutors.
Visiting lecturers will also be made available in each term for specialist lectures, workshops and tutorials.
Theory courses will be taught alongside other master's programmes to encourage subject crossover and multidisciplinary views.
Contact hours may fall between 9am and 9pm, depending on your elective courses and tutorials.
Students also take part in shared/collaborative modules with students on other built environment course, providing a perfect opportunity to develop skills in group and teamwork.
Numbers can vary more widely for modules that are shared between courses.
Outside of timetabled sessions, you are also expected to dedicate time to independent study (around 8-10 hours per module per week).
Every module will involve further reading and research.
You may also be expected to spend time preparing for classwork such as presentations and group discussions, and for assessed coursework and examinations.
You can use our Stockwell Street library and online resources to support you in these activities.
Your assessment will include coursework, portfolio submission, presentations, reports and examinations.
Each module has formal assessments which count towards your grade.
Some module may also include practice assessments, which help you monitor progress and do not count towards your final grade.
In each case you will be provided with feedback to help you monitor progress and improve your performance.
If there any site visits or field trips, students may need to pay their own travel costs.
This course is aimed at cognate individuals from built environment and architectural background seeking management and leadership roles within the construction, property and surveying practices industry.
It also designed for mid-career people preparing to make the transition into the construction and property industries.
We have a dedicated employability team for postgraduate students to consult about opportunities relevant to the course.
They work closely with professionals in industry to ensure you are well-prepared for the workplace and have begun to build your professional network by the time you graduate.
The central Employability and Careers Service also provides support for students preparing to apply for placements and graduate roles, such as CV clinics, mock interviews and employability skills workshops.
All students on Built Environment courses with us get access to Microsoft Project and RICS BCIS online.
As a master's student with us, you will be a member of a larger creative community.
Joining societies such as RICS will also help you network, build skills, and present new opportunities.
We also provide pastoral support throughout your studies.
You will have a personal tutor and access to training in study skills, dissertation preparation, methods and ethics.
You can also access advice on employability and careers.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/undergraduate-courses/engsci/electrical-electronic-engineering-beng-hons-ext:
Study an extended degree in electrical and electronic engineering with lower entry requirements than a standard degree but the same modules.
This electrical and electronic engineering course starts with a foundation year to prepare you for degree-level study.
The degree covers fundamentals such as electrical circuits and control and instrumentation, electromagnetic waves, and the design of communication networks.
You will carry out a project in a subject of your choice and develop your professional skills through modules designed to prepare you for a successful career in engineering.
Popular areas for our graduates to enter include telecommunications, control or electrical power, and emerging technologies.
H609 M BEng/EEEf
Accredited by
                                        
                    the 
                                    Institution of Engineering and Technology
Accredited by
                                        
                    the 
                                    Engineering Council
Teaching Fellow and Principal Lecturer
Welcome to our electrical and electronic engineering course.
Typical UCAS points for Clearing entry: 64.
GCSE requirement: GCSE grade 4/C in one of the following: Maths, Science or Physics
Common first year modules across Engineering courses results in large lecture groups of 100+ students.
Whilst the university tries to ensure that part-time attendance is one day of the week only, this cannot be guaranteed for every course and subsequent years.
Safety equipment Engineering students are also provided safety boots and protective headwear in addition to lab coats and non-prescription safety glasses.
Students would be expected to pay for their own prescription safety glasses (approx.
£90+) if they choose to purchase them.
You could work in a wide range of electrical and electronics applications, from telecommunications to control or electrical power to emerging technologies, finding roles across a wide range of organisations.
You can also start your own business or pursue postgraduate study.
Personal tutors will be able to advise students on where to access course internships.
The University wide STAART (AccessAbility Retention and Transition) course encourages and supports students with a disability, providing support for disabled students.
Visit our electrical and electronic engineering degrees page .
Are you a pioneer, fascinated by new opportunities?
Join Teodor for a glimpse into the fascinating world of electronic engineering.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/undergraduate-courses/engsci/electrical-electronic-engineering-beng-hons:
Discover pioneering approaches to today’s industry challenges on this professionally accredited electrical and electronic engineering degree.
This electrical and electronic engineering degree explores the fundamentals of electrical and electronic engineering, including electrical circuits, control and instrumentation, electromagnetic waves, and communication networks design.
You will also learn about pioneering approaches in this field and how to apply these to real-world problems.
A project in a subject of your choice will help develop your professional skills through modules designed to prepare you for a successful career in engineering.
The Institution of Engineering and Technology accredits this degree on behalf of the Engineering Council.
H600 M BEng/EEE
Associate Professor, Academic Portfolio Lead for Electrical and Electronic Engineering
Welcome to our electrical and electronic technology engineering course.
Common first year modules across Engineering courses results in large lecture groups of up to 100 students.
Similarly, in the second and third year, some core courses taken by all students will be equally large, while optional courses are restricted to 20-30 students per group, enabling close interaction with lecturers.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/postgraduate-courses/engsci/foodinnov:
Contribute to healthy living and lifestyles and be a part of new products with this Master’s in Food Innovation.
This MSc in Food Innovation is aimed at graduates and professionals looking to build careers in the food science industry (and especially in product development).
The course builds your knowledge and understanding of how ingredients are developed and launched, from concept to completion.
It is based on the expertise of staff working in areas including human nutrition and public health, food chemistry and microbiology, product development, packaging, food safety, legislation, and sustainability.
The course prepares you for a career in product development science, with expertise in food and nutrition.
You'll develop insight into the development of healthy and nutritious food and learn how to enhance sustainability and creativity within food chains.
Science
Want to find out what studying Food Innovation at the University of Greenwich is like?
Hear from one of the academics who teaches the course, Dr Nazanin Zand.
Dr Micael de Andrade Lima leads this course.
Applicants should have:
* A relevant Bachelor's honours degree (UK equivalent) class 2:2 or above (or an overseas equivalent).
* If there is no degree relevant, a professional qualification and experience in the field of food science and technology may be acceptable.
* Applicants from other backgrounds may be considered.
Please email the Programme Leader at fes-courseinfo@gre.ac.uk .
In some cases, it may be possible to consider your prior learning and experience.
Applications are reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
Please note: there is no reduction in fees.
This course is taught by lectures, seminars, workshops and lab-based exercises, with the use of practical case studies.
You'll gain teamwork experience to simulate an industrial setting as well as the critical thinking and problem-solving abilities which are important for modern pharmaceutical practice.
For specialist modules, our classes are usually limited to 20 students in lab sessions and 40 in lectures.
This helps to create familiarity between students and staff and ensure a great learning experience.
The modules that run across several courses can have larger classes sizes, which are typically broken down into smaller groups.
We encourage students to take advantage of a range of related extra-curricular opportunities available within the university and elsewhere.
Graduates from this course emerge with the knowledge and skills to pursue careers at government level, working in competent authorities.
They can also pursue careers in the food industry as food technologists, including product development, or in the hospitality sector.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/undergraduate-courses/engsci/bsc-forensic-toxicology:
Our BSc Forensic Toxicology is the UK’s only undergraduate course dedicated to this field preparing you for careers in forensic science, hospitals, or research labs.
With millions of chemicals in existence, there is little wonder why it is important to understand the effects of these substances on the body and the methods capable of their detection.
The relevance of drug use and abuse in forensic casework can be illustrated by statements such as "the drug made me do it" which is a very common defence argument leading to more lenient sentencing and reduced culpability.
You will graduate with the strong quantitative and analytical skills necessary in forensic toxicology.
Among many topics, you will learn about many different types of drugs, how they act on the human body, how they are detected, how to report evidence of drugs, and defence arguments used in the court of law.
You will also gain an appreciation of topics such as crime scene sciences, biology, chemistry and physiology.
Whether you are interested in a career involving clinical toxicology or are enticed by research involving novel crossover specialisms such as entomotoxicology, anthrotoxicology, ecotoxicology and pharmacogenetics, this course will prepare you for your career of choice.
F400 M BSc/FT
We are a dedicated team with academic, research, pharmaceutical and forensic practitioner experience.
Trained postgraduate researchers also contribute to teaching.
Our teaching is informed by research and state-of-the-art analytical techniques.
Applicants are required to have Level 3 Science
Applicants are required 32 points or grade E from one of: A Level Biology, Chemistry, Physics, or BTEC Applied Science/Biomedical Science/Forensic Science
Our forensic science courses allow close student and staff interaction, we pride ourselves on this level of familiarity.
Some of our more generic first year modules may have larger group sizes, for example up to 100 in lectures.
However,  it is more usual for our subject-specific modules in that year to be much smaller, with 30-40 students per class.
In the second and third years there may still be some larger groups but as students start to specialise this figure is typically reduced to 15-25 students per class.
Safety equipment Science students are provided with lab coat and safety glasses free of charge.
Students can undertake a summer placement for between 6 weeks to a maximum of 3 months which can be related to a credit rated course at level 6, or can be undertaken for work experience, acknowledged by a Certificate of Industrial Experience.
Our degree in Forensic Toxicology will prepare you for many exciting careers spanning forensic science, whether you are interested in working for a forensic science provider, hospital or research laboratory.
We are ambitious for all our students and we want you to make the most of your time with us.
All students are allocated a personal tutor throughout the duration of their studies.
The academic support available will enhance student performance.
Students within the Faculty of Engineering and Science have a Retention and Success Officer (RSO) whose role is to provide an additional layer of support for student engagement, and provision for extenuating circumstances, withdrawals and interruptions, Faculty level resit and Personal Development Planning enquiries.
Visit our forensic science degrees page .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/postgraduate-courses/engsci/global-environmental-change-with-industrial-placement-msc:
Gain a solid foundation in environmental science, data analysis, and land/water-use interactions with this exciting Master’s in Global Environmental Change.
With our MSc Global Environmental Change, you'll develop the knowledge and skills to address some of the world's major challenges.
Your study topics include climate change, environmental law and policy, meteorology and sustainability.
This wide-ranging programme reflects the strength of unique expertise held within our prizewinning Natural Resources Institute (NRI).
Our recent interdisciplinary research ranges from practical areas with a direct relevance to climate adaptation - such as agricultural practices - to issues of equity and environmental economics.
NRI academics who run modules for the MSc Global Environmental Change have contributed to global initiatives such as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) assessment reports.
The Industrial Placement component offers invaluable career development support.
You will have the chance to engage with professional development advisors, peer mentors, and industry employers through training sessions and networking events.
This experience will enhance your professional skills and provide the opportunity to pursue a one-year internship with a relevant employer in the field.
2 years sandwich
Accredited by
                                        
                    the 
                                    CHES/IES
Option Set 1
Students are required to study the following compulsory modules.
Students are required to choose 15 credits from this list of options.
Students are required to choose 30 credits from this list of options.
Option Set 2
Students are required to study the following compulsory modules
Students are also required to choose 15 credits from this list of options.
Students are also required to choose 30 credits from this list of options.
Option Set 3
An honours degree (at least 2.2 or above).
OR an equivalent professional qualification in an appropriate subject.
* Applicants from other backgrounds may be considered.
In some cases, it may be possible to consider your prior learning and experience if it is specifically relevant to the programme.
This might include research undertaken as part of your work experience or involvement in non-governmental organisations or projects.
Our taught modules are research-engaged.
These are delivered through a combination of interactive lectures, discussions, and tutorials, with the use of appropriate and relevant case-studies.
Most modules have a practical component that relates to the theory you cover in the classroom.
The industrial placement is an opportunity to put into practice the knowledge and experience you gain during your first year on the programme.
You will engage with current industrial systems, processes, and practices, which contribute to your professional development as a scientist.
An industrial practice placement should typically last 11 months, with a maximum of 48 weeks, and a minimum of 35 weeks (only if required by the student placement search process).
A workplace mentor supports you during your placement, helping you to set objectives and goals, and ensuring you receive appropriate training.
You will also be allocated an academic mentor who monitors your written work.
The academic mentor will engage with you to ensure your placement is running smoothly.
This interdisciplinary course prepares graduates for a range of careers, from non-governmental and developmental organisations to civil service roles in key areas such as environmental management, forestry, agriculture, etc.
Graduates who take a practical laboratory project can take specific skills into industry an industrial setting.
The independent research project also gives you insight into research degrees (MPhil/PhD) and future careers in academia.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/postgraduate-courses/engsci/glob-envi-change:
1 year full-time

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/postgraduate-courses/eduhea/global-health-management-msc:
You are viewing entry year 2025/26.
Our MSc Global Health Management course will provide you with a solid grounding in management and leadership in global health.
You will learn to apply management theories and data handling skills to address real-world health problems.
The programme is ideal for those who are keen to develop their management strengths for a career in Health and Social Care, Health Management Consultancy, or International Development.
This Master’s degree Global Health Management provides critical management perspectives for global health and healthcare leaders to innovate and lead tomorrow’s health service provision at local, national, and global levels.
The programme is designed to help students develop core competences and capabilities for managing strategically, leading innovation and systems change, managing human and non-human resources, applying core principles of health economics and finance, critical thinking, and judgement, and implementing research.
Human Sciences
Hear from our programme leader about this course and how it can help future global health managers respond to public health challenges.
Welcome to our MSc in Global Health Management.
Your teaching comes from an experienced team of lecturers.
These include academics and practitioners with a wide range of experience.
100 per cent of our teaching team holds a teaching qualification.
They bring a wealth of professional, cultural and personal experiences to the teaching environment and have taught in institutes around the world.
Our research profile is equally international and is used to enrich teaching and learning on this course.
An undergraduate (honours) degree at level 2.2 or above.
Some lectures are delivered online, which allows you to study flexibly and arrange your studies around your other commitments.
It also requires a lot of discipline and you will need to dedicate enough time for self-study.
You learn online using a Virtual Learning Environment (VLE).
This allows you to access electronic study resources and forums to discuss course material and work collaboratively with others.
You also have access to online resources via our library.
Outside of timetabled sessions, you will need to dedicate time to self-study to prepare for coursework, presentations and exams.
Our library and online resources will support your further reading and research.
You can also join a range of student societies.
Your overall workload consists of contact hours (lectures, seminars, etc), independent learning, and assessments.
For full-time students, the workload should be roughly equivalent to a full-time job.
For part-time students, this will reduce in proportion with the number of modules you are studying.
On this course, students are assessed via a range of employment-related activities.
These may include academic posters, oral presentations, reports, work based projects, small scale research, essay and exams.
Some modules may also include 'practice' assessments, which help you to make continual improvement.
The MSc Global Health Management has been designed to provide graduates with all the skills and knowledge required to take up employment across diverse sectors including:
Our services are designed to help you achieve your potential and support your transition towards a rewarding graduate career.
The Employability and Careers Service provides support when you are preparing to apply for placements and graduate roles.
It includes CV clinics, mock interviews and employability skills workshops.
Each School also has its own Employability Officer, who works closely with the industry and will provide specific opportunities relevant to your own course.
As a student in the School of Human Science, we help you develop your career goals and your personal profile through the dissemination of your work.
This can be through conference presentations, professional posters, publication, and, if appropriate, bids for funding.
You can also join societies and take part in university life, such as becoming a Student Representative.
Our students have repeatedly won awards for their leadership and contribution to the university.
Visit our health and social care degrees page .
Visit our public health degrees page .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/postgraduate-courses/engsci/global-sustainable-development-msc:
Despite progress in many aspects of global development over recent decades, about 735 million people experienced hunger in 2022, an increase of 122 million since 2019.
Degradation of our natural resources – land, water, forests, and biodiversity – continues at alarming rates.
These challenges are exacerbated by climate change and violent conflicts in many parts of the world.
Tackling these challenges and ensuring a better future will require sustainable development and Transformative Change (TC) – change that is disruptive, systemic, occurs at relatively large scales, and involves a reconfiguration of technology, economy, institutions, and society.
Our Global Sustainable Development MSc will provide you with an in-depth understanding of Development Studies theory and practice, including different conceptions of human, societal and environmental changes.
Drawing on real-world-lessons from various domains (economic, environmental, social, and institutional), sectors (agri-food, energy, education, and financial services) and contexts (developing and developed countries), you will develop the capacity to critically discuss, analyse, and evaluate sustainable development and TC.
You will develop hands-on skills in sustainable development design and planning, project management, research, and impact evaluation methods, and familiarity with systems modelling and relevant software.
The MSc will enhance your communication, networking, and community-engagement skills.
At NRI, we maintain professional high standards and place the student experience at the heart of everything we do.
Over 80 of our academics publish work in leading international journals, with 22 professors involved in research leadership.
The course leader is  Dr Md Mofakkarul Islam.
An undergraduate (honours) degree at 2.2, or above, in Development Studies, Geography, Environmental Studies, Agriculture, Economics, Social Sciences, Business Studies or a relevant subject.
Applicants who do not have the above may be considered on a case-by-case basis provided they possess appropriate work experience.
In such cases, applicants will need to submit a portfolio of evidence and participate in an interview.
This course is taught by lectures, seminars, visits and fieldworks, IT/computer lab sessions, supervised research, and guided studies.
You'll work towards individual and group assignments and undertake the preparation/follow-up work associated with lectures, seminars, integrative assignments and IT/computer lab sessions.
Our interdisciplinary MSc will make you employment ready for opportunities in government and NGOs worldwide, as managers, policy makers and researchers who can analyse, facilitate, plan, and lead transformative change towards sustainable development.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/postgraduate-courses/ach/international-and-commercial-law-llm:
With our LLM in International & Commercial Law, you’ll discover more about the legal framework governing the international community and the legal issues surrounding global markets.
Knowledge of world trade - and the legal framework surrounding it - has never been more important.
On this course, you'll look beyond national jurisdictions and get to grips with the issues of public international law and international commercial law.
You can study one of three endorsed pathways or follow the non-endorsed pathway.
The three endorsed pathways are: Business Human Rights & the Environment; Intellectual Property; and Ocean Law & Policy.
To gain an endorsement, you will need (after starting your studies) to: gain approval to study for the endorsement; and gain approval for - and then complete - a dissertation which must be on an area related to the endorsement; and thirdly study the compulsory, 30-credit, module* that relates to the endorsement.
(*For Ocean Law & Policy, the module compulsory for the endorsement is ‘The Law of Maritime Security: Navies & the Rule of Law at Sea’; for Intellectual Property, the module compulsory for the endorsement is ‘Intellectual Property Law’; and for the Business Human Rights & the Environment, the module compulsory for the endorsement is ‘Business Human Rights & the Environment’.) If you are interested in any of the endorsed pathways, please contact the LLM team by email at law@gre.ac.uk for full information, including details of each endorsement’s compulsory and optional modules and the overall course structure.
As an LLM student, you'll be assessed through coursework, class presentations and a dissertation, so you acquire a broad range of skills.
Complete your law degree at Greenwich - and get a US law degree in just 15 extra months
Graduates of University of Greenwich law degrees have a fantastic opportunity to progress on to the JD programme (Juris Doctor - the American law degree) or LLM programme with our partners at Mitchell Hamline School of Law (MHSL), in Minnesota, USA.
This pioneering agreement between the two universities, means that our graduates can complete their JD programme in only 15 months rather than the full three years.
Mitchell Hamline School of Law is also offering up to 50% scholarships (depending on the student application) to Greenwich graduates.
For further information please contact law@gre.ac.uk .
Law and Criminology
An undergraduate (honours) degree at 2:2, or above, in Law, or a relevant subject.
In a typical week, learning takes place through a combination of lectures and seminars.
You will be able to discuss and develop your understanding of topics covered in lectures in seminar sessions.
Contact hours may fall between 9am and 9pm, depending on your elective modules and seminars.
Lectures, seminars or tutorials are normally attended by smaller groups.
Numbers can vary more widely for modules that are shared between degrees.
Outside of timetabled sessions, you will need to dedicate time to self-study to prepare for coursework and presentations.
Our Stockwell Street Library and online resources will support your further reading and research.
Your overall workload consists of contact hours (lectures and seminars), independent learning, and assessments.
On this course, students are assessed by extended essays and a dissertation.
We aim to give feedback on assignments within 15 working days.
Further costs will include the purchase of books for your studies and some photocopying.
There is the possibility of a placement thorough our Pro Bono Scheme but this is not guaranteed.
.
Graduates may take up careers with international institutions or non-governmental organisations, or pursue university teaching and further research.
The University's Employability and Careers Service (ECS) provides support when you are preparing to apply for jobs.
Support includes CV clinics, mock interviews and employability skills workshops.
You can access study skills and academic writing support through your tutor, our subject librarians, and our online academic skills centre.
Where appropriate, we provide support in academic English.
The School of Law & Criminology provides pastoral support throughout your studies with us.
Students have a personal tutor and access to training in study skills, dissertation preparation, methods and ethics and have access to advice on employability and careers.
Additionally, joining societies such as the University's student Law Society or initiatives such as the Innocence Project London can build skills and present new opportunities.
Visit our law degrees page .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/postgraduate-courses/bus/international-business-with-placement-ma:
2024/25 .
The MA International Business with placement degree is designed to address evolving market dynamics and employer expectations.
As the business landscape becomes increasingly interconnected and technology-dependent, this programme bridges both theoretical knowledge and practical skill application.
Through a curriculum containing current research and international academic theory, the degree equips students with an analytical approach, managerial decision-making, and real-world problem-solving skills.
We will provide you with a comprehensive understanding of global business strategies, sustainability, network analysis, international trade, and cross-border operations.
You will gain insights into how businesses operate in diverse cultural, political, and economic environments, developing the skills necessary to navigate and lead in the global marketplace.
You'll develop a range of intellectual and practical skills, preparing you to become a specialist in the international business sector, capable of driving innovation and growth in a global knowledge economy.
This degree includes the opportunity to enhance your employability - and elevate your career - with a placement year, working full-time for a company.
It’s a chance for you to immerse yourself in an industry, apply your knowledge and put theory into practice.
It should also help you develop your professional skills and assist you in starting to make industry connections.
Graduates with work experience are highly sought after by employers and often secure higher-level positions.
Business, Operations and Strategy
September; January; April
Year 1
These modules will be assigned to the student's record automatically.
Year 2
Welcome to our Master's in International Business.
Your teaching team includes accomplished lecturers and practitioners with vast experience in business network analysis, business management and strategy.
An undergraduate (honours) degree at 2:2, or above, in a relevant subject.
You'll be able to discuss and develop your understanding of topics covered in lectures in smaller group sessions.
Please contact the Programme Team for details.
Outside of timetabled sessions, you'll need to dedicate time to self-study to prepare for coursework, presentations and exams.
Our Stockwell Street library and online resources will support your further reading and research.
You can also join a range of student societies, including the Business Society .
Students will be assessed through:
University policy is to give feedback on assignments within 15 days.
Examination results will be available within 15 days.
Academic year:
On this degree you will undertake, in your second year, a placement.
The University will help as much as possible, before and during your placement, to ensure you make the most of this valuable experience but it is your responsibility to find - and secure - your placement.
Greenwich Business School students have previously undertaken their placement with companies operating in a wide range of different sectors - retail and e-commerce, hospitality, media and advertising, events, and finance.
Work placements are a minimum of 40 weeks and a maximum of 46 weeks of full-time paid work.
Placements are usually paid at competitive rates for entry level roles in your chosen industry.
The University will promote paid opportunities to you.
Graduates pursue their management career in a wide range of multinational companies, non-government and public sector organisations.
Some might find employment in small and medium enterprises in international trade, and local or central government.
Some of our graduates have joined ABN AMRO, Accenture, CNN, Hertz and Kerry Group.
The University is committed to supporting your journey towards a rewarding graduate destination.
Services available to students include CV, cover letter and application tips, interview support and events such as placement fairs and networking evenings.
In addition, our Employability Service’s support is available to students up to two years after their graduation.
You can find out more about Greenwich’s Employability Service at: https://www.gre.ac.uk/careers
Access study skills support through your academic tutor, our subject librarians and our online academic skills centre.
We also offer a range of activities to support you throughout your studies during GRE Fest, which includes several workshops that support our students and provide useful information.
The GBS Student Support team handles course-related matters via the Digital Student Centre.
Our Generator Team helps students start and grow businesses, The Generator also runs the Enterprise Challenge and #GreHacks competition annually.
Visit our student helpdesk in Queen Mary Building (Room 240) Monday to Friday, 9am-5pm, for in-person assistance.
Visit our business and management degrees page .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/undergraduate-courses/business-school/international-business-ba-hons:
Our degree in international business provides the skills and experience you need for a successful career in the global business environment.
This course covers the theory and practice of international business, exploring business management and organisational functions, international strategies, and different international business environments.
We introduce you to the socio-economic implications of international business, looking at business ethics and corporate social responsibility, emerging markets, and economics.
Overall, this international business degree provides a critical understanding of the contemporary issues at work in the international business world.
You’ll have the opportunity to spend a year abroad on the new Turing Scheme student exchange programme and/or to take an optional placement year in an international organisation.
Popular careers for international business graduates include banking and finance, IT, and logistics.
Our graduates have found roles with companies such as JP Morgan, PwC, HP, and Ericsson.
This programme is accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI).
On successful completion of the 3 full-time years of this degree, eligible* students will automatically be awarded a CMI Diploma in Management & Leadership, and gain Foundation Chartered Manager (fCMgr) status.
(*Please note that terms and conditions apply and certain students - because of their study choices or entry point - may NOT be eligible for CMI accreditation and/or the CMI Diploma.
Please contact the Programme Leader (their details can be found lower down this page) for more information on this.)
N120 G BA/IB
Accredited by the 
                                    CMI
International Business student, Ishan, talks you through his experience as a student and - from embracing opportunities and stepping outside your comfort zone - gives you his top tips.
Senior Lecturer in Business and Management
Average intake per year is 70-80.
Lectures sizes are normally 30-240, and seminars/tutorials are 15-30.
This varies by module, if shared between degrees.
Work placements are optional, and you are responsible for arranging your placement with support from the university.
Previous Greenwich Business School students have secured their placement year with organisations such as the NHS, Nomura, RSK, Charlton Athletic, Disney, Enterprise Rent-A-Car and more.
Sandwich placements are 9-12 months of full-time paid work.
A sandwich year is taken between the second and third years of study.
Sandwich placements are usually paid at competitive rates for entry level roles in your chosen industry.
The Employability Service will only promote paid opportunities to you.
Our previous graduates have found employment in banking and finance, IT, logistics and many other sectors, working for companies such as PwC, JP Morgan, HP and Ericsson.
Others have gone on to postgraduate study and started their own businesses.
If your internship is eligible, you can receive a Certificate of Industrial Studies.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/postgraduate-courses/bus/intbus:
This master’s in International Business will prepare you to become a specialist in the international business sector.
The MA International Business is designed to address evolving market dynamics and employer expectations.
You will develop a range of intellectual and practical skills, preparing you to become a specialist in the international business sector, capable of driving innovation and growth in a global knowledge economy.
£13,000
         /£18,700
If you are an ambitious individual looking to further your career and set yourself apart from other working professionals, then an MBA from the University of Greenwich is for you.
The typical student intake per year is up to 60.
Lectures are normally attended by 120-320, and seminars/tutorials by 15-30, based on the 2018 intake.
This varies by module, particularly if they are shared between degrees.
The university's employability team is committed to supporting your journey towards a rewarding graduate destination.
We provide a professional service to empower you to achieve your potential and offer support for two years after graduation.
Services include:
More about our career services .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/postgraduate-courses/bus/international-events-management-with-placement-ma:
Like managing events and want to develop as a professional?
Study this Master’s in International Events Management and get the opportunity to undertake a placement as part of your degree.
The events industry is dynamic and rapidly growing global industry that requires both commercial and creative expertise.
Increasingly, organisations are investing in live events to create memorable experiences for customers, motivate employees, and to develop impactful brand marketing.
As the industry evolves, the importance of sustainability, responsible and ethical event management, and cultivating future event leaders cannot be overstated.
If you aspire to enhance your management potential within the events sector while improving your transferable skills, this MA International Events Management is the ideal course for you.
In this programme you'll learn how to plan and deliver events with a strong emphasis on sustainable and critical practices.
You'll gain an appreciation for the broader environmental, cultural, and political contexts in which events take place, positioning you to make informed and responsible decisions.
Our modules also focus on innovation, technology, marketing, financial management, entrepreneurship and leadership, all of which are crucial for developing your skillset as a forward-thinking events professional.
We are proud to be the inaugural programme to be endorsed by the Association of Event Venues , and to be formally recognised by the Institute of Event Management (IEM) through their Higher Education Course Recognition Programme.
These endorsements ensure that our content aligns with current industry expectations and standards.
Located in the heart of London, this programme includes a live event module, site visits, work experience, internship and placement opportunities to support students in putting theory into practice and gaining important professional development opportunities to enhance their CV and career opportunities.
You’ll study at our stunning riverside campus.
Students are required to choose 45 credits from this list of options.
Students are required to choose 0 credits from this list of options.
Welcome to our Master's in International Events Management.
We are an experienced team of academics and industry professionals with vast experience in the events industry.
For entry: Applicants with professional qualifications and/or work experience in the events industry will be considered on an individual basis.
The typical student intake per year is up to 20.
Lectures are normally attended by 30-45, and seminars/tutorials by 15-30, based on our 2018 intake.
You can also join a range of student societies, including the Events Society .
On this course, you will be assessed through coursework and a dissertation.
Graduates pursue opportunities in senior positions in a wide variety of roles connected with events and events management.
This may include events management companies, PR firms, local authorities, performing arts companies, festivals, conference venues, theatres, hotels, sports venues or concert halls.
Visit our tourism, hospitality and events degrees page .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/postgraduate-courses/bus/eveman:
Do you like managing events and want to develop as a professional?
Study our Master’s in International Events Management in the heart of London.
You'll get a chance to apply for placement or work experience opportunities on the MA International Events Management degree.
In this film, three Greenwich students - including an Events Management student - talk about their placement experience.
For exemption: If you hold qualifications or courses from another higher education institution, these may exempt you from courses of this degree.
Yes - Find out more at: https://www.gre.ac.uk/careers

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/undergraduate-courses/ach/landscape-architecture-ba-hons:
Our accredited landscape architecture degree provides the professional skills to design the future spaces around us.
Improve and refine our daily lives via the creation of sustainable public places.
Teaching takes place in our state-of-the-art Stockwell Street Building, which is home to the School of Design.
Here you will be working in our extensive design studios whilst also interacting with other design and creative disciplines.
This amazing building contains a large interior living wall and many green roofs, which are used for teaching and research projects.
You'll study a range of approaches to landscape design, from public spaces and waterfronts to town planning, urban development and regional strategies.
As well as design studio work, you'll learn about the history and theory of landscapes, ecology, conservation, and digital communication.
Our Landscape Architecture programmes encourage innovation and experimentation alongside practical approaches, allowing students the freedom to develop cutting-edge and workable design solutions to some of today’s environmental and social challenges.
Your course portfolio will support employment opportunities in leading landscape architecture practices in the UK and around the world.
Our landscape architecture degree is the only course of its kind in London and is accredited by the Landscape Institute.
Completion enables our students to start on their ‘Pathway to Chartership’ as Associate members of the Landscape Institute.
K310 G BA/LArch
Accredited by
                                        
                    the 
                                    Landscape Institute
You will be taught by an experienced and motivated team of Landscape Architecture experts, in small classes and in the world-class facilities of the Stockwell Street building.
Teaching is informed by research and practice, from urban design, social justice and environmental consultancy to horticulture, living wall, and green roof research.
About the staff team .
You will need to attend an interview and submit a portfolio for this course.
The typical student intake per year averages between 10-25.
The small class-sizes ensure a highly supportive environment for learning through 1-to-1 tutorials and group presentations.
Outside of the timetabled sessions, you are also expected to dedicate around 20 hours per week to self-study.
Our Stockwell Street Library and online resources will support your further reading and research.
You can also participate in the following:
Each module you study towards this degree is worth 15 or 30-credits.
The main focus of the teaching is on design projects, where you visit a landscape site and develop, through 1-to-1 tutorials and presentations, a design proposal.
As well as drawings and models for the project, you will create technical reports that include material and planting specifications, and prepare history and theory essays.
Trips organised by the programme team are not compulsory, but you bear the costs if you choose to attend.
Resources : You will produce portfolios of large format plots plus CNC/3D printed models etc.
Costs will vary but could reach £250 a year for printing, £100 for model making, and £50 for visiting the sites.
Software : We provide a range of software free and also online video tutorials.
In the university you will also have access to AutoCAD, Rhino, Grasshopper, ArcGIS, the Adobe Creative Suite and many other platforms.
This course is designed to prepare students for progression into year-out practice in the landscape architecture profession, which leads to advanced level study.
Opportunities are available in Landscape Architecture, Landscape Planning and Urban Design.
Recent graduates have gained employment in the public and private sectors in the UK and worldwide.
Many have continued to design and work on leading landscape projects such as the London Olympic Park, Gardens by the Bay in Singapore and the Eden Project.
Throughout the degree, students develop portfolios of design projects that support them in gaining employment in world-class landscape architecture practices in the UK and abroad.
Award-winning student work can be seen on our blog, The Landscape .
Visit our landscape architecture degrees page .

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/postgraduate-courses/ach/landscape-architecture-mla:
Our Master of Landscape Architecture (MLA), accredited by the Landscape Institute, is for graduates who wish to take the next step towards becoming a professional landscape architect.
Throughout the course, you'll develop your skills and knowledge of design, history, theory, professional practice, technology, ecology, sustainability, horticulture, and digital representation.
You'll have the opportunity to study specific modules covering landscape design, landscape urbanism and theory, and plant technology.
The course is taught in a new building equipped with design studios, digital workshops and green roofs.
The Master of Landscape Architecture establishes the social, ecological and design processes that are fundamental to the field but encourages innovation and creativity as well.
The course will appeal to anyone who wishes to pursue a professional career in the profession of Landscape Architecture, including graduates who wish to make a career change towards this area.
Welcome to our Master's in Landscape Architecture, which is taught from within the School of Design.
You will be taught by an experienced team, which includes senior academics and leading art, architecture, landscape and urban design practitioners from across London.
You will benefit from international guest lectures and presentations from those working in areas such as art, design, landscape architecture and urbanism.
Suitable applicants will be required to submit a portfolio and attend an interview .
The design projects are the main focus of teaching.
Teaching is carried our through a combination of lectures, seminars and workshops.
Teaching takes place 2-3 days per week.
You should also expect to undertake 2-3 days a week of independent learning depending on your prior experience (around 8-10 hours per module per week).
Each module will involve further reading and research.
You will also spend time preparing for presentations, group discussions, and assessed coursework.
You can use our Stockwell Street library and online resources to support in these activities.
On this course, students are assessed by coursework.
Design modules provide weekly feedback, which provide guidance in developing your design and research work.
Each course has formal assessments that count towards your grade.
Landscape Architecture has been taught at University of Greenwich since 1965, so many graduates find employment through the expansive alumni network in London, across the UK and overseas.
Some Landscape Architecture graduates work in architecture, landscape architecture or urban design practices.
Other graduates have joined government design and planning offices to develop urban strategies and policy.
Some graduates have also followed further studies through doctorate research.
The School of Design has an Employability Officer for postgraduate students to consult about opportunities relevant to the course.
We place great emphasis on helping you reflect upon your practical and theoretical work in a larger critical context.
You will develop writing and presentation skills through a variety of assignments that go beyond standard essays and reports.
Our students hone their writing skills (journalistic, creative and academic) through descriptive, analytical and critical writing, presentations and hands-on use of digital media tools.
You'll also develop professional skills by working with others to see projects of varying sizes through from idea to completion.
All students on creative courses at the School of Design get free access to Adobe Creative Cloud and Lynda.com.
Each year we organise a graduate show where our students can showcase their design projects.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/undergraduate-courses/ach/law-extended-llb-hons:
Our extended law degree starts with a foundation year to prepare you for degree-level learning.
You go to study the same modules offered on the three-year LLB course.
You will study essential areas of legal knowledge such as public law, land law, equity and trusts, contract law, criminal law and tort law.
In your final year, you choose from a range of specialist modules, including commercial law, intellectual property law, financial services law, and international law.
With links to a range of legal, and related, employers in London, you'll have - as a law student - access to a range employability events, including talks and networking opportunities.
You can also apply to assist volunteer lawyers on real cases at the university's Legal Advice Centre or apply to assist with the Innocence Project London.
M2FY G LLBSW
Fees information
A module - Law 1074 Financial Services: Law, Regulation and Practice has been accredited by the prestigious Chartered Institute.
We continually review our courses to ensure they meet the evolving needs of students, employers, and professional bodies.
We’re currently reviewing the modules for this course, with the goal of finalising the content by May 2025.
In the unlikely event that the modules aren’t confirmed before the start date, we will help you find an alternative course.
Students are required to choose 90 credits from this list of options.
You will be taught by a range of lecturers who are experts in their field.
Lecturers include senior academics and legal practitioners.
The School of Law is research active, and this research also informs our teaching.
Approximately 95% of our lecturers hold a teaching qualification.
Find out more on our Recognition of Prior Learning pages Note: Direct Entry into year 1 or year 2 or year 3 (i.e.
the second, third and fourth years) of this course is NOT permitted.
Find out more on our Recognition of Prior Learning pages
Note: Direct Entry into year 1 or year 2 or year 3 (i.e.
The typical student intake per year averages 100-130.
Lectures are normally attended by larger groups, and seminars/ tutorials by smaller groups.
This varies depending on the level of study and if modules are shared between degrees (i.e.
final-year options may experience smaller class sizes).
This course can be studied part-time in some circumstances, but students may still need to attend on several/most weekdays, as required by their timetable.
Contact us for more details.
Students must conduct their own reading, assignments, presentations and preparation for exams.
You can use Stockwell Street library and online resources to support your reading and research.
Additional support classes are available in some modules via Adobe Connect.
Students are encouraged to attend guest lectures and take part in placements, internships and mentoring schemes with a variety of employers in the legal and regulatory sectors.
The Legal Advice Centre enables students to work closely with volunteer lawyers and professionally qualified members of academic staff to provide advice to the public.
The Innocence Project London enables students to apply to work on real cases and participate in extracurricular activities.
Each 15 or 30-credit module you study represents around 150 or 300 study hours respectively.
So, if you receive 72 contact hours for a 30-credit module, you should expect to commit 228 hours of independent study to complete it successfully.
£5,760  for Year 0*; £9,535 each for Years 1-3*
£17,500
Trips: The cost of field trips is activity dependant.
Some may be free, while others may require a contribution.
Resources: Course texts and other study resources are available from our Stockwell Street Library, but you may wish to purchase your own copies.
You will have the option to select a module for which you will be required to undertake a short-term placement.
The module will be assessed on your reflection on this placement and how you can apply your knowledge to the workplace.
Many placements are found through our network of industry contacts, and students are supported in securing these.
Placements are normally one day a week for either one or two terms depending on the number of credits available from the module.
Placements are usually unpaid.
Graduates may choose to go on to undertake the further study and training required in order to qualify to practise as a solicitor or barrister in England and Wales.
They can also pursue careers in fields that require graduates with strong analytical and communication skills.
Greenwich LLB graduates have gone on to become solicitors, advocates and barristers, paralegal and legal assistants, compliance officers and underwriters.
They have also pursued careers in teaching and the civil service, the financial sector and NGOs.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/undergraduate-courses/ach/law-with-criminology-llb:
You will study essential areas of law, including Criminal Law and Public Law.
In your final year you will be able to choose a specialist law module, such as Immigration Law, Company Law or Family Law.
You will also study Criminology modules such as Foundations of Criminology and Policing and Society.
The curriculum will be complemented by a range of employability opportunities that you can apply for.
These include mentor programmes with relevant organisations, assisting lawyers in our Legal Advice Centre, the Innocence Project London, our Community Street Law Project, and moots and mock trials.
ML10 G LLB/LawC
The Innocence Project London (IPL) is a law clinic and registered charity based at the University of Greenwich
Students are required to choose 75 credits from this list of options.
This degree course employs a range of innovative teaching and learning methods.
Lectures and seminars are dynamic and interactive.
You will be taught by an experienced team of lecturers, who are experts in their field, including senior academics and practitioners with legal or criminal justice experience.
Teaching is informed by our research and consultancy.
Approximately 90% of all our lecturers hold a teaching qualification.
Find out more on our Recognition of Prior Learning pages Note: Direct Entry into year 2 or year 3 of this course is NOT permitted.
Note: Direct Entry into year 2 or year 3 of this course is NOT permitted.
If approved, this course will run for the first time from September 2023 so we are unable to give an indication of class sizes.
Outside of timetabled sessions, you'll need to dedicate self-study time (around 20-30 hours per week) to prepare for seminars, coursework, presentations, tests and exams.
In addition, you can also apply to participate in a variety of activities beyond your studies which may help to supplement your general awareness and understanding of the subject:
Resources: Module texts and other study resources are available from our Stockwell Street Library, but you may wish to purchase your own copies.
You will have the option to select a law placement module* for which you will be required to undertake a short-term placement.
(* As above, the course and all modules are currently subject to validation.)
This degree has been designed to set graduates up for a wide range of professions.
While this course is new, graduates from Greenwich's existing LLB course have gone on to become solicitors, advocates and barristers, paralegal and legal assistants, compliance officers and underwriters.
A background in criminology can also lead to employment in human services, including the police and prison, probation and security services, youth offending services, drug and alcohol counselling, The Home Office, UK Visas and Immigration, and HM Revenue & Customs.
This degree will help students to develop strong analytical, problem-solving and communication skills - all providing a solid foundation for other occupations in the public and private sectors.
Alternative career paths might include careers in teaching and the civil service, the financial sector, NGOs, social work, child protection, mental health, journalism, civil service, local government, and charities.
Students are encouraged to take up summer internships during the summer holidays, though it is up to the student to find them.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/undergraduate-courses/ach/law-llb-hons:
Our law degree offers wide a range of legal knowledge, which includes optional modules in family law, commercial law, company law , contract law, environmental law and international law.
Graduates of University of Greenwich law degreeshave a fantastic opportunity to progress on to the JD programme (Juris Doctor - the American law degree) or LLM programme with our partners at Mitchell Hamline School of Law (MHSL), in Minnesota, USA.
Call us to discuss 020 8331 9000 ( view full requirements ) (full requirements below) Course/institution codes M100 G LLB
M100 G LLB
The School of Law is research active and this research also informs our teaching.
Approximately 95% of all our lecturers hold a teaching qualification.
Typical UCAS points for Clearing entry: Call us to discuss 020 8331 9000 .
This varies depending on level of study and where modules are shared between degrees (i.e.
You can use Stockwell Street library and online resources to support further reading and research.
Many placements are found through our network of industry contacts, and students are supported in securing placement opportunities.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/postgraduate-courses/bus/marketing-management-with-placement-ma:
Study our MA in Marketing Management to advance your skills and knowledge - whether for careers in consultancy or in-house - and get the opportunity to undertake a placement.
Study our MA in Marketing Management programme to embark on a transformative journey that combines cutting-edge marketing strategies with a global perspective, all within the dynamic landscape of digital business.
This degree also offers students the chance to undertake, as part of the course, a placement.
The programme offers learners two distinct pathways for focused specialism in Year 1:
The programme unlocks students' leadership potential, enhances technical skills, and equips them to apply theoretical concepts in real-world marketing challenges through consultancy projects, simulation game, case studies, and live projects.
Our digital marketing suite, for instance, provides the authentic experience of working in a marketing or advertising agency.
It’s perfect if you’re taking part in a group project, as you can bounce ideas off each other using the latest interactive Mersive software.
The Strategic Marketing pathway emphasises a global focus, preparing students for success in our fast-changing, globalised business landscape.
Graduates gain the strategic marketing knowledge and skills needed to lead and shape the future of marketing, whether launching a new career, advancing in their current role, or making a career change.
The Advertising and Marketing Communication pathway fosters creativity and problem-solving in brand management, grounded in analytical and creative thinking.
It guides students on a creative journey and teaches them how to apply digital skills and customer insights to craft effective advertising strategies and communication campaigns.
Accredited by the 
                                    CIM
Opened in late 2023, our Digital Marketing Suite is designed for students on certain modules on a number of our marketing degrees.
With the digital tools it offers, it’s a great space for working together, getting hands-on and diving into marketing.
Students are also required to choose 45 credits from this list of options.
Welcome to our Master's in Marketing Management.
Your teaching team includes accomplished lecturers and practitioners with vast experience in the marketing industry.
Applicants without a degree that have a minimum of three years' relevant professional experience may be considered.
For entry : Applicants without a degree that have a minimum of three years' relevant professional experience may be considered.
Please contact the Programme Leader for details.
You can also join a range of student societies, including the Marketing Society .
You will be assessed through:
Our marketing graduates are currently working as consultants and as marketing and marketing communications managers for companies such as PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), Co-op Group, Italian automotive technology manufacturer Magneti Marelli and Norwegian food products manufacturer Mills DA, as well as various private companies, non-profits and government organisations around the world.

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/postgraduate-courses/bus/marketing-management-ma:
Accredited by CIM and EFMD, this career-focused Master's offers two specialist pathways—Strategic Marketing or Advertising & Marketing Communications—designed to help you thrive in today’s global marketing landscape.
Co-designed with industry professionals, the course blends academic rigour with hands-on experience.
You’ll work on real campaigns in our Digital Marketing Suite , collaborate with clients via our student-led agency Gen C , and tackle live business challenges through consultancy projects and simulations.
Choose your pathway:
You’ll learn from expert academics and industry speakers, and benefit from career support including mentoring, networking events and employability services.
Graduates have gone on to work with top global brands like Google, Coca-Cola, PwC, Ogilvy and Unilever, as well as NGOs, start-ups and public sector organisations.
The degree is recognised by the CIM and EFMD, with additional module-level accreditations: Transformational Leadership through Transferable Skills (ILM) and Digital Marketing (IDM).
Accredited by the 
                                    European Foundation for Management Development
The MA in Marketing Management is taught by academics with strong industry experience in consultancy, brand strategy, digital media, tourism, luxury, and financial services.
Many of our teaching staff have led international campaigns, guided digital transformation, and conducted market research.
This mix of academic insight and real-world expertise gives students a solid foundation and a clear understanding of global marketing trends and challenges.
For more information, please contact the Programme Leader.
You can also join a range of student societies
Yes - find out more at: https://www.gre.ac.uk/careers

New sentences found on https://gre.ac.uk/postgraduate-courses/bus/mba-global:
The MBA Global is created to help students enhance their intellectual and professional abilities as excellent leaders and managers globally.
The MBA Global Programme is designed for recent graduates and early-career professionals and enables them to enhance their knowledge of global business.
It provides a comprehensive understanding of global issues and supports students in their quest to become effective global leaders.
Learning on the programme will rely mostly on real-world industry scenarios.
This is to ensure that participants are equipped with the necessary skills and theoretical knowledge required to address contemporary business-related issues.
The programme will explore a wide range of subject areas including dynamics of global business and practice, global entrepreneurship and innovation, ethics and global corporate citizenship, leading and managing change, international data analytics, financial resource management, simulated learning project, business consultancy project, global supply chains, strategic management and leadership, marketing and sales in the future economy and work-based project.
The MBA Global programme respond to the needs and expectations of employers by equipping students with the necessary hard and soft skills required to not only compete in the world of work but also to thrive and take up higher management positions as global business leaders.
We also offer the MBA Global with placement , which offers students the opportunity to do a one-year industry placement with any organisation of their choice.
Executive Business Centre
£17,350
         /£20,000
A brief introduction to our MBA Global programme, hear from our lectures and students to learn what we offer here at University of Greenwich.
Learners will be taught and supported by an experienced team of lecturers with a wealth of hands-on expertise across all fields of business administration.
Applicants who are UK citizens or have permanent residency will normally hold an undergraduate (honours) degree at 2:2, or above.
Applicants who are from outside the UK will normally hold an undergraduate degree in any subject with a minimum pass of 2:2, or equivalent overseas qualification.
If English is not an applicant’s first language, an IELTs score of 6.5 (with minimum 5.5 in each skill) or equivalent is normally required.
Professional qualifications deemed to be of equivalent standing will be considered on an individual basis.
Learning takes place through a combination of timetabled learning in lectures and seminars and independent learning.
Seminars and workshops enable them to discuss and develop their understanding of topics covered in lectures in smaller groups.
Students will also be able to meet their personal tutor/mentor.
All students will have opportunities for one-to-one time with their mentors/personal tutor.
We encourage students to learn independently with support from their lecturers and mentors to achieve goals and broaden knowledge through online learning and independent reading.
Timetabled learning includes some time for to learners engage in independent learning on campus and to prepare their assessments in class.
Learners will benefit from formative and summative assessments that are authentically created to personalise their learning experience.
The assessments are fundamentally work-based and uniquely individualized, which enables learners to demonstrate their ability to incorporate in-class insights to their work life.
Learners will have the opportunity to engage with various assessments including essays, business reports, vlogs, key account plans, tender submissions, pitch documents, group presentations, individual presentation and business wargame reflections, which can be collated in learning diaries.
Preparation for summative assessments is spread through the term and supplemented by a range of shorter-term preparatory exercises.
These formative exercises do not contribute to the final assessment but are marked and used to provide detailed feedback and assist learners in preparing their summative assessments.
Our MBA Global graduates pursue management careers in a wide range of multinational companies, non-government and public sector organisations.
Our Business School Employability team is committed to supporting your journey towards a rewarding graduate destination.
More about our careers services .