# Site: https://www.hud.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 489
# --------

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk:
Find your perfect opportunity
Speak to our friendly team to chat about your options.
Apply online and you could receive an instant offer or be asked to call us for a decision.
Our graduates: Haashim, Natalie, Srosh, Tyra, Marlon and Rukhsar have reached new heights in their careers following on from their time at Huddersfield, with the help of our facilities, support and work placements.
See what Huddersfield has to offer by attending our campus or online Open Day.
Discover research with real global impact at the University of Huddersfield.
Simply complete our form to receive your prospectus through the post.
The awards we’ve won don’t just make us feel proud.
They give you an idea of why Huddersfield is an excellent place to study and work.
Huddersfield is a vibrant, cosmopolitan town with great transport links to cities such as Leeds , Manchester and London
About the university
Resources and Policies
Get in touch
© {{date}} University of Huddersfield - All rights reserved.
VAT registration number 516 3101 90.
The University of Huddersfield is a member of Yorkshire Universities .
View our cookie policy , Freedom of Information Statement , and copyright and disclaimer .
Alternative telephone number 0330 1232288 (calls to this number are charged at the national rate).
© {{date}} — Copyright

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/study:
Search for undergraduate, postgraduate, research degrees and apprenticeships.
Study for a bachelor's degree.
Study for a Master’s, PGCE, PhD and more.
Information on applying and enrolling on a course as an international student.
Study for a degree while you work.
Study online for a degree or short course.
Search for undergraduate, postgraduate, research degrees, apprenticeships and Distance Learning (online).
Types of university qualifications and degrees explained
Huddersfield has undergraduate courses in a number of subjects.
So there's sure to be something for you.
Use these pages to find out all you need to know about tuition fees, loans and other scholarships and bursaries that you might be eligible for.
Bradford is the fourth largest metropolitan district in England and is located in the picturesque region West Yorkshire.
It is known for its diverse cultural and food scene.
Leeds is one of the largest cities in the UK, with a thriving and energetic feel to it.
It’s also one of the biggest business cities in the country, making it a good location for your graduate career.
Manchester is the second biggest city in the UK, known for its fast-paced and vibrant culture and rich music scene, amongst other things.
As a major UK city it has everything you need from great shops to high quality restaurants and bars to exciting leisure activities and experiences.
Sheffield is a large city set against the backdrop of the picturesque Peak District.
It has a rich industrial history and was nicknamed the Steel City for its contribution to steelwork which dates back to the 1600s.
York is a charming historical city in North Yorkshire, with a history that dates back to the Roman times and can still be seen today through its preserved historic buildings and ancient ruins.
As such, it’s a tourist hotspot, attracting visitors from all over the world.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/uni-life:
Take a look at the reasons why you should make the University of Huddersfield your first choice.
HudLets, run by the Students’ Union is your go-to place for finding high-quality accommodation close to the University.
Huddersfield is a budget friendly option for being a student.
Not only is it one of friendliest towns, it also offers a low cost of living, including being the second cheapest in the UK for student rent.
You’ll create memories whilst at university that stick with you for a lifetime.
Discover what opportunities are waiting for you, from joining societies to part-time work and experiencing new cultures.
Beautiful countryside, great shopping, big nightlife, sporting legends… they’re all on your doorstep when you're living in Huddersfield.
Our campus offers you fantastic facilities.
From specialist laboratories, studios and performance spaces to a modern library and computing equipment.
You’re never far away from our dedicated staff and resources to help you navigate through your personal student journey.
If you really want to know about student life around these parts, it’s best you hear it straight from our current students.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international:
Search for undergraduate, postgraduate, research degrees, distance learning courses and apprenticeships.
Discover tuition fees and scholarship opportunities.
Discover our application process and make an application to the University using our online application form.
Browse our entry requirements look up tool to find the entry requirements listed for your country.
When you join the University of Huddersfield, you'll join a diverse and welcoming community of over 4,000 international students from over 100 countries around the world (HESA 22/23).
We’re renowned for our teaching - our staff rank first in England for the proportion with higher degrees and teaching qualifications, as well as being top five for those holding doctorates*.
So, you’ll learn from some of the best, helping you to be the best.
Internationally recognised
We're rated Five Stars with QS (2023).
This international benchmarking system renders Five Star universities as world-class in areas such as Teaching, Employability, Facilities, Innovation, Internationalisation and Inclusiveness.
We were also recognised at subject level in the 2025 QS World University Rankings by Subject.
Performing Arts achieved a ranking of 37th in the world, and Petroleum Engineering was ranked inside the top 100 globally.
We had eight subjects ranked inside the top 300 in the world, and more ranked subjects – 14 – than ever before.
Work ready graduates
We ensure our students don’t just learn it, they do it.
Placements and real-world experiences are a key part of our courses at Huddersfield.
We support students into placements across the UK and around the globe, in a range of industries which have included companies from KPMG to HSBC, Panasonic to Vivienne Westwood.
We’re proud to be in the Top 20 in the UK for placement years in industry (HESA Student Record 2022/23).
*HESA – January 2025.
Excludes specialist universities and universities with fewer than 100 academic staff.
Browse undergraduate and postgraduate degrees, English language preparation and pathway programmes.
Explore our upcoming overseas visits and online events.
Get practical information about the University of Huddersfield in one handy guide.
At Huddersfield, you'll join a community of students from over 100 countries worldwide.
Join one of over 60 Global Societies, and discover the many global events that take place throughout the year.
Information on your arrival and enrolment at the University.
Already applied to the University of Huddersfield.
Get updates on the status of your application and plan your next steps.
Get tips and key dates to plan your arrival and enrolment at the University.
Get advice, support and guidance through all stages of your journey to Huddersfield.
Discover the different ways you can make your application to Huddersfield.
Discover the many support services available to you, from guidance with your application to support with your visa.
With over 200 courses across a variety of subjects, the University of Huddersfield is sure to have something for you.
You can learn more about the subjects at Huddersfield below:

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/clearing:
With over 200 courses and multiple awards under our belt, the University of Huddersfield is sure to have something for you.
There are many reasons you might enter Clearing:  some students want to change course or university, some decide to apply for the first time after getting their results, and others look for a new course if their grades weren’t what they expected.
Hear from our students about their experiences with Clearing.
What happens after you apply to Huddersfield through Clearing?
Our students and staff have provided some great top tips to help you through the Clearing process.
If you have a question about Clearing, chances are someone else has already asked it.
With a gold-rated student experience and outcomes, Huddersfield is budget-friendly for accommodation, but also has a strong community of commuters if you want to stay at home.
Clearing opens on 5 July, and is the time when you can apply for courses that still have places available, whether you've already applied to university or not.
The way you enter Clearing depends on the situation you're in and we have lots of advice to help you.
We’re here to support you on your challenging days, and celebrate the good days.
That’s why when you come to Huddersfield, you’ll reach new heights.
Applying from overseas?
please see our International Clearing pages.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/our-awards/tef:
The University of Huddersfield has been awarded an outstanding Gold rating, the highest accolade attainable, in the latest Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF 2023).
The University has been awarded gold in its overall rating, as well as gold in the student experience and in the student outcomes categories.
These ratings reflect the University’s unwavering commitment to providing an exceptional student experience and fostering excellent student outcomes.
These ratings were awarded in 2023, for four years.
Notably we were the only university in Yorkshire and the Humber and the North West to achieve Gold ratings across all three aspects of the TEF among those announced in September 2023.
In fact only 13 other Universities, out of the 96 announced in September 2023, were Gold across all three ratings!
“Thank you to everyone involved in our submission, and to all colleagues and students in our community who work so hard to deliver excellence in everything we do.”
-
The Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) is a national Government exercise to establish the quality of Higher Education, via the Independent Regulator in England, the Office for Students (OfS).
The ratings are therefore an established mark of teaching quality as well as recognising the student experience and opportunities available to our students to develop the skills and knowledge valued by employers.
The TEF assesses undergraduate courses, and awards are decided based on metrics, a University written submission and student contributions submitted via Student Unions.
This information is evaluated by an independent panel of experts, who were particularly impressed by our:
The academic experience and assessment practices at Huddersfield were rated as Gold.
This includes ensuring that our students are taught by stand-out lecturers, meaning they’ll learn from some of the best, helping them to be the best.
Our approach to supporting our students to achieve their goals was rated as Gold.
This includes our continuing investment in top-class facilities, support services and working with our Students’ Union to provide an exceptional student experience.
Our approach to achieving positive outcomes for our students was rated as Gold.
This includes our award winning Global Professional Award scheme which helps to set our students apart from other graduates and develop valuable qualities that we know employers are looking for.
All students should have confidence that they’ll receive the highest quality university education and can go on to achieve positive outcomes from their higher education experience.
TEF helps inform student choice by shining a light on the quality of the courses available and providing a clear indicator of excellence.
You can find out more about the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) on the Office for Students (OfS) website .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/uni-life/why-huddersfield/reach-new-heights:
We encourage our students to aim high.
To seize opportunities that go beyond their degree.
To join societies, become student ambassadors, compete in competitions, go on placements and even set up businesses.
That’s why when you come to Huddersfield, you’ll reach new heights .
Computer Science student Haashim was able to secure a 13-month placement with Honda Motor Europe as part of his course.
On this placement he gained hands-on experience through working on actual vehicles, as well as developing soft skills, such as communication which made him feel more comfortable with working in the professional world.
As a commuter student , he credits the close proximity of the university to his home for allowing him to get a high-quality education without incurring the costs that come with moving away from home to study.
When he graduates, he hopes to work as a Business Analyst, supporting businesses in using the latest technologies to support their operations.
Natalie was the first person in her family to go to university, and chose to study Social Work at Huddersfield after being impressed by the course talk at an Open Day and the placement opportunities on offer.
During her studies, she undertook a 90-day placement with Kirklees Council at an enhanced mental health unit, which allowed her to put her course theory into practice and gain deeper insight into the role of a Social Worker.
Since graduating, she has secured a role with one of the Big Four (the world's four largest professional services companies consisting of Ernst & Young, Deloitte, PricewaterhouseCoopers and Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler) as a Senior Management Consultant.
She specialises in people management, which involves ensuring that employees have the resources they need to succeed in their careers.
Broadcast Journalism graduate Srosh was both a student ambassador and course rep during his time at Huddersfield, which helped to build confidence and communication skills.
He also joined the RadioHud society and hosted his own show, which led to him becoming Head of Programming.
On his course, Srosh made use of the news room and ‘news days’ to try out different media roles and get familiar with equipment that he’d later use in his career.
His work placements at Leeds TV and BBC Radio Leeds were the first steps in what’s already an impressive media career.
Since graduating, Srosh has worked for Sky News in the 2019 General Election, BBC Radio Leeds, BBC Look North and BBC Inside Out.
He’s now a journalist and producer at BBC Sports News, working on the BBC News Channel and 1, 6 and 10 o’clock bulletins.
Product Design graduate Tyra transferred to Huddersfield in her second year so that she could commute to uni instead, not only to be closer to family, but to keep the cost of living down too.
Finding that this also came with an increase in standard of teaching and one-to-one time, she was able to improve her skills and get to grips with new technology like 3D printers.
In her final project work, she designed a Glucose earring for monitoring blood sugar levels in people with diabetes, which led her to being a finalist of the ' 2020 Global Grad Show '.
Tyra’s placement at Project Group led to a full-time job after graduating.
She’s now a Design Manager, using equipment like the 3D printers at Huddersfield to test and refine new designs and components before they are mass produced.
While studying Fashion , Marlon took advantage of the support and expertise from our Enterprise Team to start the process of setting up his own business.
Giving him space to explore and experiment with ideas in a supportive environment, Marlon’s time at Huddersfield taught him how to communicate in the business world and pitch ideas, as well as gain professional guidance from dedicated advisors.
He also made use of the Maker Space in the Barbara Hepworth Building, a collaborative workspace for creatives to come together to share ideas, with tools, equipment and resources designed for students with interests in fashion, textiles and digital design .
Marlon is the founder of Reclaim Tentwear , taking abandoned tents and upcycling them into sustainable clothing – all while tackling festival waste.
As well as gaining her Law degree , Rukhsar completed our Global Professional Award ,  improving application and interview skills, which helped her to get part-time jobs in the ambulance service and clinical education .
She also sharpened her legal skills and grew her network while taking part in the Supreme Court Competition .
Aiming to empower women in law, since graduating Rukhsar co-founded company The Legal Lynk , and works to promote equality and build connections – all while training to become a barrister .
During her time at Huddersfield, Rukhsar worked closely with her tutor and the wellbeing team , who supported her throughout a sudden illness to make sure she was able to not only continue her studies, but achieve her ambitions too.
Find out more about undergraduate study at the University of Huddersfield - aspiring to be one of the top universities in the UK.
With over 500 courses there is sure to be something for you.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/open-days:
Want to know more about what Open Days are and how to prepare for one?
See our University Open Days guide
Book 27 September Open Day
Undergraduate Open Day Wednesday 15 October 2025 On-campus
Book 15 October Open Day
Book 22 November Open Day
Huddersfield Railway Station will be closed from 30 August – 28 September to complete major works.
If travelling to Open Day by train, please check with your service provider for information on how your journey may be affected.
Diversions and rail replacement bus services will be in operation.
Visit our campus, meet staff and students, ask questions and see what Huddersfield is like for students.
The best way to find out how postgraduate studies could improve your credentials is to come and visit us.
Meet local colleges, local employers, and apprenticeship teaching teams.
Our online events and webinars are your opportunity to find out more about our online courses and distance learning offering at the University of Huddersfield.
A chance for international students to find out what the University of Huddersfield has to offer, all from the comfort of their home.
An online event.
This guide is here to help you get the most out of an Open Day.
We’ve done our best to make the information relevant to all Open Days, no matter where you’re looking at studying.
An Open Day is an event run by universities for people who are interested in studying there.
Usually they are held on campus but sometimes run online so you can attend from the comfort of your home.
To put it simply, an Open Day is all about you.
It’s your chance to see the campus and meet staff, before you make a decision about which university is your first choice.
So take the time to learn all you can and enjoy it.
You can also find out about the town or city where the university is based and look around the different accommodation options if you are thinking of moving away from home.
Good planning can make the day enjoyable and ensure you find answers to all of your questions.
This guide is a good place to start your planning.
Clearing happens in August every year around the same time as A Level results day.
It’s a process that allows you to search for available places across universities if you haven’t got a place or wish to change your course and/or university.
Most universities will run a Clearing Open Day for students who have received an offer of a course place through Clearing.
It gives you the opportunity to see the campus, meet staff and ask any questions you may have before starting university.
These will usually involve a live chat with maybe a webinar by the different departments in the university.
For example at Huddersfield our academics run a webinar for each of our subject areas.
These webinars involve a short talk by the academic followed by questions and answers.
Other universities will most likely do something similar.
It means you can still learn about a university and the course you’re interested in without needing to visit the campus.
Most universities hold their Open Days before the end of Summer term in June and then again in Autumn term between September and December.
You might find it useful to create an Open Day calendar to plan which universities you’d like to visit.
A calendar is also handy to record which events you’ve booked onto.
The UCAS deadline is in January for courses that start in the following September.
So we recommend you visit an Open Day before this date, however there is no limit to when you can start going to Open Days.
If you’d like to start your research earlier then you can.
The first year of college would be a good time to think about which university you’d like to attend and book an Open Day.
You may be thinking “ Why are Open Days important?
” and “ Should I go to an Open Day?
”
Choosing a university is a big decision and it’s important you get it right.
By actually visiting the campus, speaking to the staff and students and having a look round in person you should then feel confident that you have all the information you need.
Your top choice uni might look really great in the prospectus but when you visit you might get a different impression.
Here are a couple of reasons that make Open Days worth it:
You should go to as many Open Days as you’re able to, though you don’t have to visit any.
First of all, decide if location or subject is more important to you.
Then narrow down your choices.
Next it’s worth looking at dates and locations – you may be able to combine Open Days at universities in the same area into one trip.
This could save you money and time.
This is down to personal preference but as a guide you should aim to spend at least 2-4 hours at an Open Day in order to get the most out of the day and visit the town or city where it is located.
Most days will run talks and tours so it’s worth planning your day based around what you’d like to attend.
The main thing to remember is to wear whatever you feel comfortable in and remember there’s no uniform required once you’re a student.
It’s probably best to go for smart casual clothing, for example wearing jeans is fine and keep in mind that you might be meeting academic members of staff so you’ll want to make a good impression.
Remember you will be spending a portion of the day outdoors and may have to move between buildings, or different campuses in some cases, so make sure you have a coat and comfortable shoes.
It’s a good idea to involve your parents or carers when visiting universities.
They will be interested in seeing where you'll be spending the next three years or more and will want to feel comfortable with your final choice.
Open Days also give parents the opportunity to get answers to any specific questions they might have.
Plus, it’s often good to get a second opinion too!
At the University of Huddersfield, the safety of our students is incredibly important.
A checklist for before the day and on the day.
Be prepared and make the most of each Open Day.
Here are 12 questions to ask academics and students when at an Open Day.
They'll help you decide if it's the right university for you.
Choose which open day you would like to book onto.
It’s important that you use the day to ask those questions that will help you decide on what course you want to study.
Remember to be proactive and speak to students and tutors at the University to get a real insight into the student life.
You could ask:

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/order-a-prospectus:
Your journey with Huddersfield University starts here.
Order or view your prospectus to find out more about our courses, accommodation, student experience and much more.
Want a reminder of the important stuff?
Our pocket prospectus contains the key info and sign posts you to all the detail online.
Our Postgraduate and Research Prospectus is your go-to guide for applying to and studying at the University of Huddersfield.
Find out about your study options, student life and much more in this helpful international guide.
Find out what life is really like at Huddersfield by chatting to one of our existing students.
Explore our range of courses that can be studied 100% online

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/our-awards:
Our mission is to be an inspiring and innovative University of international renown.
Through awards, we are gaining recognition for our outstanding work towards achieving this vision.
Read more about the awards we are proud to have won:
We’re ranked 1st in the world for Reduced Inequalities in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings for 2025, which celebrate commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by the United Nations.
The apprenticeship provision at the University of Huddersfield has been graded as OUTSTANDING.
This is the highest possible grade that Ofsted can award.
We’ve been awarded the University Mental Health Charter Award in recognition of our continued progress in supporting the mental wellbeing of students and staff.
This makes us one of only 15 universities to win the award!
Huddersfield Business School has been named the Business School of the Year at the prestigious Times Higher Education Awards 2023.
Leading educationalists from around the world have selected the University of Huddersfield as the first winner of the Global Teaching Excellence Award (2017).
We won the award for the best university employability strategy at the National Graduate Recruitment Awards 2021 for our activity, including our Global Professional Award scheme.
In June 2024, the University was named as the Most Improved University in the United Kingdom by QS in their World University Rankings.
Institutions receiving this award have shown the most improvement in their ranking over a five-year period.
In May 2024 Huddersfield was placed top in the UK in the global Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2024, a ranking of the world’s best universities that are 50 years old or younger.
In April 2017, the University joined the Times Higher's world top 200 “young universities”.
In 2015, the University of Huddersfield was named the New University of the Year at the Educate North Awards.
A panel of more than 20 leading figures from the fields of education, business and politics selected the winners, who were announced at a ceremony in Manchester.
And in November 2013, the University was awarded the Times Higher Education University of the Year.
The award was in recognition of a University 'that has demonstrated exceptional performance in the past academic year’.
In 2012 the University was named the Times Higher Entrepreneurial University of the Year, followed in 2022 with the Queen’s Award for Enterprise...
The University relies on strong leadership.
Headed by Vice-Chancellor, Professor Bob Cryan CBE who has won a number of awards for leadership.
We are invested in building our profile and reputation globally, continuing to foster strategic partnerships and collaborations.
In 2014, we were awarded the Times Higher Education Best University Workplace and topped the tables in all four main categories...
In 2021, the University’s Centre for Precision Technologies earned a Queen’s Anniversary Prize for its role in advanced measurement in smart manufacturing.
It’s one of the most coveted honours in UK Higher Education.
In 2019, the University’s role in future-proofing the rail network earned a Queen’s Anniversary Prize .
The prize recognised the innovations made by the Institute of Railway Research to track, rolling stock and safety of the rail network.
In 2015, the University was awarded the Queen’s Anniversary Prize for expanding the global boundaries of new music .
We have a lot to be proud of.
Take a look at the awards we have won over the last few years.
News articles about the awards we've won.
We excel in enterprise and innovation and in 2012, the University was named the Times Higher Education Entrepreneurial University of the Year.
This was followed up in 2013, when Professor Elizabeth Towns-Andrews, the University’s 3M Professor of Innovation won the Queen's Award for Enterprise Promotion.
In 2022, we were awarded the Queen’s Award for Enterprise for International Trade .
Learn more about our awards for enterprise.
Headed by Vice-Chancellor, Professor Bob Cryan CBE who in 2013 was awarded the Guardian Higher Education Award for Inspiring Leader and won the Leadership Award at the Educate North Awards in 2015.
In 2019 he won the Examiner Business Person of the Year award.
Our leadership and management team have also been shortlisted in the Times Higher Education Leadership and Management Awards and in 2015 we won Outstanding Contribution to Leadership Development at the prestigious Times Higher Education Awards.
In 2019 the University's HR Staff Development Team won the CMI Outstanding Innovation and Delivery Award for their work on a study programme for managers at the University.
This programme helps managers achieve the CMI's Level 7 Award and gain chartered status.
We are invested in building our profile and reputation globally, continuing to foster strategic partnerships and collaborations with world-class academic institutions to create a world-leading and inspiring student experience.
Amongst the best in the world
In the 2025 QS World University Rankings, we have been named as one of the top universities globally for the following subjects*:
*QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025
Reducing inequalities
We ranked 2nd in the world (top in the UK) for Reducing Inequalities in THE Impact Rankings*, with over 1,100 universities having submitted evidence for THE 2024 - recognising our work to widen opportunities for students from all backgrounds, both within the UK and around the world.
*THE Impact Rankings 2024
World-leading
We are in the top 50 UK universities for Research Power, and three quarters of all our research is world leading and internationally excellent**.
Over 60% of our research environment is classified as world-leading and internationally excellent, especially in Music, Biological Sciences, Architecture and Built Environment, Social Work and Social Policy, History and Communication and Media Studies**.
**REF2021
Award-winning
In 2022, we were awarded the prestigious Queen’s Award for Enterprise in the category of International Trade.
In 2020 and 2023 we were proud to be recognised with 5 stars by QS (an international ratings organisation).
We’re now ranked 524th in the world in the 2026 QS World Rankings, retaining our position in the top 550 globally.
We’re also ranked 230th in Europe (out of 685), a rise of 16 places on our 2024 placing in the 2025 QS World Rankings - Europe.
THE World University Ranking 2025
The University of Huddersfield is ranked 501 – 600 in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2025.
In 2014, we were awarded the Times Higher Education Best University Workplace and topped the tables in all four main categories in a survey carried out amongst staff in higher education across the country.
The University has been a member of the Athena SWAN Charter since 1st October 2015 and in 2020 renewed its Bronze Award for Gender Equality.
The University of Huddersfield’s innovative approach to helping students find work after graduating has seen the institution win the best university employability strategy award at the National Graduate Recruitment Awards 2021.
Different programmes at the University ensure that undergraduates are preparing for the world of work throughout the duration of their courses, and it is also helping to improve the employability skills of local graduates and non-graduates on work placement schemes around the campus who are at risk of long-term unemployment without these interventions.
96.8% of our undergraduate students go on to work and/or further study within fifteen months of graduating
(HESA Graduate Outcomes 2018/19, UK domiciled, other activities excluded.)
The Global Professional Award (GPA) is studied alongside an undergraduate degree* to give students valuable skills and attributes that we know employers are looking for.
By completing the GPA, student will also receive a GPA certificate from the University of Huddersfield.
This award, alongside the specialist subject skills and knowledge students gain as part of their degree, could help to set them apart from other graduates.
*full-time, undergraduate first degrees with a minimum duration of three years.
This does not include postgraduate, foundation, top-up, accelerated or apprenticeship degrees.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about:
The University of Huddersfield is made up of a diverse community of almost 20,000 people from all walks of life.
The University is right at the heart of a vibrant town centre, and our work has been proven to make a difference within the UK and around the world.
A close-knit and friendly campus welcomes people from around the world, where award-winning academics work with students at all levels of study to ensure they are well-prepared for the world of work and highly sought after as graduates.
Students at Huddersfield can learn from the best to help them be the best:
We don’t research for the sake of it - our work really matters, and has been proven to make a difference in communities across the world:
We will focus on preparing you for life after study by developing skills to get you noticed as a highly sought-after graduate:
The University of Huddersfield has five academic schools.
Find out what subject areas are covered by each academic school.
The University of Huddersfield relies on strong leadership.
Learn about the Senior Management Structure including the Vice-Chancellor's Office, deans and directors.
The University of Huddersfield is a great place for teaching and learning.
These key facts show why Huddersfield is the place to be.
Find out more about our commitment to corporate social responsibility and the impact the University has on the local community.
Explore the ‘greener side’ and you’ll discover we’re more than just a great place to learn.
The University of Huddersfield became a university in 1992.
Explore the history behind our university including anniversary celebrations for 2025.
Learn more about our innovative buildings and the historic significance of their patrons.
Honorary awards are conferred on an annual basis during the University's award ceremony weeks in July and November.
We have been honoured with many Royal visitors over the years - approving achievements and opening new buildings and facilities.
The University Council is the principal decision-making body in the University.
Find out more about its structure and members.
Whether you have a general query or want to get in touch with one of our members of staff, here you will find all the contacts you need.
Our Media Relations Office deals with all media enquiries, issues press releases and organises interviews with academics.
We offer a wide selection of events including VIP lectures, music concerts, theatre, exhibitions and much more.
View our consolidated financial statements, including copies of current and historic University of Huddersfield audited financial statements.
The QAA provides guidance and support to help UK universities provide the best possible student experience of higher education.
Find out about the Legal and Charitable Status of the University and its Council and Committee members.
Information Governance at the University ensures necessary safeguards for, and appropriate use of, personal and University information.
Find out more about our commitment to creating opportunities for people who may otherwise be excluded from higher education.
Offering the opportunity for International students to undertake selected University of Huddersfield postgraduate courses in London.
Find out about the team, policies and governance.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/our-buildings:
We are constantly investing in new innovative buildings, incorporating dramatic design, dynamic shape and key environmental features, creating world-class facilities for students and staff.
2016 marked the 175 th Anniversary of the Young Men’s Mental Improvement Society, a predecessor institution of the University when we also began a process of renaming many of our buildings, introducing names of important figures connected to areas of the University’s work.
Below you can learn about our buildings and the historic significance of their patrons.
Barbara Hepworth Building
Bronte Lecture Theatres
Charles Sikes Building
Cockroft Building
Daphne Steele Building
Emily Siddon Building
Harold Wilson Building
Haslett Building
University Multi Faith Centre
Joseph Priestley Building
Laura Annie Willson Building
National Health Innovation Campus
Oastler Building
Ramsden Building
Richard Steinitz Building
Schwann Building
Sir John Ramsden Court
St Paul's Building
Sovereign Design House
Spärck Jones Building
Student Central Building
The Barbara Hepworth Building is the home for art, design and architecture.
The University of Huddersfield has constructed a dramatically-sited, £30 million building that is the home for the study of art, design and architecture at the University.
Named the Barbara Hepworth Building – after the famous West Yorkshire-born sculptor – its main frontage overlooks the picturesque Huddersfield Narrow Canal that runs through the heart of the University’s campus.
It will be the first building on a former industrial site cleared in 2016, now known as the Western Campus.
The new home for the School of Art, Design and Architecture will occupy about 20% of this site, leaving some 20,000 square metres and scope for at least four more buildings as part of the University of Huddersfield’s rolling programme of development.
Learn more about the Barbara Hepworth Building or if you're interested in how it was built then please visit the project page.
Joseph Priestley (1733-1804) was a chemist and a (dissenting) clergyman, but also well known for his support of the American and French revolutions and a long-standing opponent of the slave trade and religious bigotry.
He was born on March 13, 1733, in Birstall, West Yorkshire.
In 1766 Priestley met Benjamin Franklin who interested him in electricity and which led Priestley to discover the conductivity of carbon and write his History and Present State of Electricity (1767).
In 1767 Priestley moved to Leeds, where he lived next to a brewery and soon discovered that carbon dioxide was being formed leading to his invention of "soda water".
He went on to prepare and study other gases such as nitric oxide and ammonia, collecting them over mercury which led to his greatest discovery of oxygen in 1774.
Priestley hated all oppression but by supporting the American and French revolutions and opposing religious bigotry he became an unpopular figure, particularly with the government.
This led him, in 1794, to emigrate to the United States.
In the USA, Priestley was revered and to commemorate his scientific achievements, the American Chemical Society named its highest honour ‘The Priestley Medal ’.
Priestley continued preaching in the USA.
President John Adams was among those who attended his sermons and George Washington made him a welcome visitor to his home.
Picture of Joseph Priestley (line engraving by T Holloway, 1795) reproduced by kind permission of of Wellcome Images.
Opened in 1883, the Ramsden Building was the first purpose-built educational building on the University of Huddersfield campus.
Edward Hughes, the architect, had been trained in the London offices of Sir Gilbert Scott, worked in the fashionable Gothic revival style.
He also designed Huddersfield Market Hall, Huddersfield Bank and Spring Grove School.
The cornerstone of the building was laid by the Warden of the Worshipful Company of Clothworkers on 21 October 1881; its building costs amounted to £20,000, raised by public subscription and generously supported by grants from the Clothworkers’ Company and the Science and Art Department.
The façade of the building is adorned by four lions holding shields which bear the coats of arms of the Clothworkers’ Company, Huddersfield Corporation and two major local landowners and industrialists, Sir Thomas Brooke and Sir John William Ramsden.
In July 1883 the building housed a Fine Art and Industrial Exhibition, which was opened by the Duke of Somerset.
329,639 people visited the Exhibition, among them The Duke and Duchess of Albany (The Duke was the fourth son of Queen Victoria).
Sir John Ramsden Court is one of the oldest surviving industrial buildings in Huddersfield.
Described in 1778 as Mr Atkinson’s ‘new wool warehouse ’, it stands alongside the Sir John Ramsden Canal, which had been authorised by an Act of Parliament in 1774 to connect Huddersfield to the River Calder at Cooper Bridge.
The location is at its junction with the later Huddersfield Narrow Canal and adjacent to Aspley Basin, the port of Huddersfield.
The Ramsden family purchased the manor of Huddersfield in 1599, and this Sir John had succeeded to the title in 1769, aged 13 years.
The Sir John Ramsden Canal, as it was known, took six years to complete and cost £11,974-14s-4d, of which Sir John paid £11,500.
The Canal was 3¾ miles long, had nine locks and a rise of 93 feet from Cooper Bridge to King’s Mill.
It was used for traffic from 1780 onwards and enabled direct trade between Huddersfield and Hull.
The later Huddersfield Narrow Canal, built under the terms of an Act of 1794, enabled navigation via the Standedge Tunnel, to Ashton under Lyne and thence to Manchester and Liverpool.
Sir John Ramsden Court represents the entrepreneurial spirit which placed Huddersfield at the centre of the remarkable developments of the Industrial Revolution, as textile and transport technologies changed the world.
Today it is home to the University’s international development office and careers staff – both areas which continue this entrepreneurial spirit in their support of Huddersfield students.
Frederic and Henrietta Schwann were inspired to provide vocational education for the town of Huddersfield.
In 1841 five young men employed and encouraged by Frederic set up a Young Men’s Mental Improvement Society.
Together with about 30 others they then began night classes.
Henrietta was a leading light in the Female Educational Institute, one of the first of its kind in the country.
Unfortunately no images of Henrietta remain in existence.
The Society was soon renamed the Mechanics’ Institute, and together the two Institutes are the direct precursors of today’s University of Huddersfield.
Born in Huddersfield, the son of a banker, in 1833 Charles Sikes joined the Huddersfield Banking Company.
He went on to be one of the most influential bankers of his day, pioneering the introduction of the Post Office Savings Bank, forerunner of today’s NS&I, one of the UK’s largest savings organisations.
In a letter published by the Leeds Mercury newspaper in 1851, Sikes proposed the establishment of savings banks in working class organisations.
He then developed the concept in a pamphlet entitled Good Times, or, The Savings Bank and the Fireside.
Existing savings banks run by local volunteer trustees were few and far between and had inconvenient opening hours, so Sikes proposed to use the burgeoning mechanics’ institutions – such as the one founded in Huddersfield in 1841, the precursor to this University – as branches of the nearest trustee savings bank.
Sikes then suggested to Chancellor of the Exchequer, William Gladstone, that the Post Office should take on this role.
Sikes’s proposals were controversial and were considerably revised, but were eventually accepted by Gladstone, and the Post Office Savings Bank began in 1861.
By 1881 Sikes was managing director of the Huddersfield Banking Company and was knighted in recognition of his role in the creation of a scheme that, it was stated by the local newspaper, had meant “thousands of working men, women and children received their first lessons in thrift”.
Image credit; Kirklees Museums & Galleries.
Born to a cotton weaving family in Todmorden, John Cockcroft would become the best known scientist and engineer in Britain and a Nobel Prize winner.
In the 1930s, as a researcher in Cambridge, his development of what is now known as the Cockcroft-Walton particle accelerator revolutionised experimental nuclear physics, producing the first artificial splitting of the atom, the discovery of the neutron, and many other breakthroughs.
By 1939 he was a professor and during WWII he made a major contribution to the improvement of radar.
He was involved in the project to develop nuclear explosives, but after the war he became a leading advocate for the peaceful potential of nuclear power, founding the Atomic Energy Research Establishment at Harwell.
Sir John – knighted in 1948 – was Britain’s representative at the International Atomic Energy Agency and at the conference that led to an atomic weapon test ban treaty.
He presided over the development of the Rutherford High Energy Laboratory – named after his mentor Ernest Rutherford - and was involved the creation of CERN, the European Organisation for Nuclear Research.
His Nobel Prize for physics was awarded in 1951.
In 1959 he became the first Master of Churchill College in Cambridge, established to improve Britain’s technical and scientific education.
Image credit; National Portrait Gallery, London
The Brontë sisters, Charlotte (1816–1855), Emily (1818–1848), and Anne (1820–1849), are world renowned 19th century novelists.
Born in a village about 12 miles north of the campus, the sisters lived much of their lives at Haworth and knew this area of West Yorkshire very well.
Like many of their contemporary female writers, they originally published their poems and novels under male pseudonyms: Currer, Ellis, and Acton Bell.
Their stories were famous for their passion and originality.
Charlotte's Jane Eyre was the first to know success, while Emily's Wuthering Heights , Anne's The Tenant of Wildfell Hall and other works were later to be accepted as masterpieces of literature.
There is a particular connection to Huddersfield through Red House (built in 1660 and now a museum).
It was home to a family of cloth merchants and manufacturers.
Mary Taylor, who lived there, is considered an early feminist and was a close friend of Charlotte Brontë.
Charlotte Brontë's second novel, Shirley, is about the Luddite uprisings in the Yorkshire textile industry during the industrial depression of 1811-12, and much of it is set at the house.
Picture of Charlotte Bronte by JH Thompson reproduced by kind permission of the Brontë Society.
The development of search engines that are vital to the operation of the Internet owes a huge amount to the pioneering work of Karen Spärck Jones, who was born and received her schooling in Huddersfield.
Her mother was Norwegian – during WWII she worked for her homeland’s government-in-exile – and her English father was a chemistry lecturer.
After university study in the 1950s, Karen joined the Cambridge Language Research Institute and worked on the issue of how computers could determine meaning from language.
As part her work she transcribed the whole of Roget’s Thesaurus on to punched computer cards.
This led to what became internationally important research in the field of information retrieval.
During the 1960s – long before the dawn of the World Wide Web – she developed techniques that would later be fundamental to web-based search tools.
The author of nine books and hundreds of articles, Karen Spärck Jones was a noted teacher who campaigned for more women to enter computing.
She was awarded a professorship in 1999, received many honours and academic distinctions and was active in the Computer Laboratory of Cambridge University until the end of her life.
Image produced by kind permission of Markus Kuhn – University of Cambridge
Hailed by his thousands of supporters as the “Factory King”, Richard Oastler (1789-1861) was an impassioned campaigner on behalf of children who were “doomed to labour from morn till night” in the mills of a rapidly industrialising Britain.
He launched his campaign in a letter headed “Slavery in Yorkshire” that was published by the Leeds Mercury in October, 1830.
Oastler was a supporter of the campaigner against the slave trade, William Wilberforce, and in his public letter he compared the plight of British factory workers to the “hellish system” endured by African slaves in the Colonies.
This dramatic intervention meant that he became the highly active figurehead of an important social campaign that would lead to legislation that curtailed the hours worked by both children and adults.
Between 1820 and 1838, Oastler was steward of the Fixby estate near Huddersfield, but eventually he fell out with its absentee owner.
After dismissal from his post he was imprisoned for debt between 1840 and 1844.
Huddersfield had been the springboard for much of Oastler’s campaigning.
His legions of supporters rallied to help provide for him whilst in jail and eventually raised the money to free him.
On his release on 20 February, 1844, he headed a procession of thousands who entered the town in triumph.
Oastler has been much celebrated since, for example in the name of the local teacher training college which merged into what is now the University in 1970.
In the early 20 th century, engineering was seen as an almost exclusively male domain.
Caroline Haslett made it her life’s work to alter this attitude.
She was also an important campaigner for women to have greater understanding and make maximum use of electricity in the home, to lighten the burden of domestic chores.
The daughter of a Sussex railwayman, she entered the engineering industry as a secretary, but soon sought a transfer to the production side and obtained qualifications in both general and electrical engineering.
In 1919, she became the first secretary of the Women’s Engineering Society, editing its journal and battling prejudice among employers and educational institutions against allowing female workers and students.
When the Electrical Association for Women was founded in 1925 – in order to “popularise the domestic use of electricity” – Caroline Haslett was its secretary and the organisation rapidly grew until it had 10,000 members throughout the UK.
It continued in existence until the 1980s.
Her campaigning and her administrative skills earned a CBE in 1931 and a Damehood in 1947, the year in which she was appointed by the Government to the British Electricity Authority, which had oversight of the newly nationalised industry.
Image produced by kind permission of The Institution of Engineering and Technology Archives
Now a public concert hall, St Paul’s was one of a number of so-called ‘Commissioners’ churches, built to serve the needs of a growing population and in response to the rise of Nonconformity.
Designed by John Oates in a plain Early English style, the architect’s only extravagance was the spire.
The foundation stone was laid on 13 November 1828 and it was consecrated on 24 June 1831.
John Kirk & Sons were responsible for re-ordering the internal arrangements and additions to the chancel in the 1880s.
The Bishop of Wakefield preached the last service to be held at St Paul’s on 15th April 1956.
Sited within the boundary of the University campus, facing Queensgate, it was leased from the Church Commissioners, for such activities as music, examinations, etc, following its de-consecration.
Architects Hugh Wilson and Lewis Womersley were responsible for the restoration and conversion of the building after its purchase in 1980.
It is dominated by the organ commissioned from local organ builder Philip Wood, an instrument of national significance used for examinations by the Royal College of Organists.
In recent years St Paul’s has housed the University's Graduation Ceremonies.
Photo credit: Image K004271 reproduced courtesy of Kirklees Image Archive.
This building is named after Lord Wilson, former Prime Minister of the UK .
He was born on 11 March 1916, in Cowlersley, Huddersfield .
A scholarship took Harold to Oxford University, where he was a highly successful student.
His exceptional skill at statistics and grasp of economics meant that during the Second World War he played an important part in the UK’s civil service, overseeing coal production.
He earned admiration for his achievements in this role, but in 1945 Harold Wilson turned to politics and was elected Labour MP for Ormskirk in Lancashire, and in 1963 he became leader of the party.
At the 1964 General Election, Harold Wilson’s Labour Party won power; he was therefore Prime Minister for most of the “Swinging Sixties”, as the era of the Beatles and fashionable Britain was dubbed.
Labour lost a general election in 1970, but Harold Wilson returned to power in 1974 until he stood down in 1976.
He remained a backbench MP until 1983, when he accepted a life peerage and took the title Baron Wilson of Rievaulx.
This commemorates the North Yorkshire abbey and lands of that name, where the Wilson family had been farmers for many generations.
Lord Wilson dominated British politics for more than a decade.
Significant developments in education, civil liberties, health, housing, transport and foreign and commonwealth policy occurred during his premiership.
The Harold Wilson building was built in 1999 and is home to the School of Human and Health Sciences.
He was its director for 23 years, as it grew spectacularly from an experimental weekend into an annual event of global renown, able to attract many of the world’s leading performers and composers including Berio, Cage, Boulez, Xenakis and Stockhausen.
He retired from the University in 2004 (he first began lecturing in 1961), and was made Emeritus Professor, in recognition of his work which helped the Music Department establish its international reputation for contemporary composition and research.
His book Explosions in November describes the first 33 years of the Festival and he is also author of the definitive work in English and Hungarian on the composer Ligeti.
Compositions by Professor Steinitz have been broadcast and recorded and he has received worldwide recognition for his contribution to the promotion of new music.
Sovereign Design House is an art gallery and a coffee house called the Toast House café; it's located on the University campus next to the Barbara Hepworth Building.
It is a grade II-listed former bath house, originally built by local firm Thomas Broadbent and Sons for their foundary workers.
At its peak, the bath house’s 16 showers catered for 120 men as they came off shift.
The roof had to accommodate an enormous water tank and in the basement there was a powerful boiler.
This dictated the multi-storey form of the building, but it also has design features inspired by the influential 20th century American architect Frank Lloyd Wright.
The University hosted a special opening event that was attended by a number of staff from Broadbents, including former employees who had used the bath house.
During her maiden speech as a Member of Parliament, the late Jo Cox, focused on what binds us together as human beings rather than what divides us.
The Jo Cox More in Common Centre embodies this philosophy by bringing together students, staff and visitors of all faiths in a welcoming space right at the heart of campus.
The 10,800 sq ft two-storey centre includes a community space which is used for events, activities or simply to spend some time relaxing, a congregational hall, separate male and female Muslim prayer rooms, ablution facilities, Christian and multi-faith rooms and a Chaplain’s office.
Some of the University’s counselling and learning support services are also located in this contemporary and restful space.
The is the first building at the University to conform to the WELL Building Standard, achieving WELL Platinum Certification in 2024, a system which sees buildings adhere to standards for better health and wellbeing through improved air, water, light and other factors.
Find out more about the Jo Cox building.
Laura Annie Willson MBE was born in 1877 in nearby Halifax.
As one of the founding members of the Women’s Engineering Society, the first female member of the Federation of House Builders, and a founding member of the Electrical Association for Women, Laura was indeed a trailblazing engineer.
As a member of the local Women’s Social and Political Union and branch secretary of the Women’s Labour League, Laura was one of the first two women in Yorkshire to be imprisoned for her political beliefs as a suffragette.
Laura’s political endeavours led to many people’s lives changing for the better.
This was also the case with her work as an engineer, which included the construction of 72 houses for workers in Halifax, setting up canteens for working women, and developing housing estates that had the latest gas and electrical appliances installed.
The Laura Annie Willson Building is home to the Centre for Precision Technologies , the Institute for Railway Research and The Smart House

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs:
We welcome applications from diverse backgrounds and strive to be an accessible, inclusive employer, removing barriers for all.
Find out more about our approach to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion , including our commitments and accreditations as a Disability Confident Employer, Stonewall Top 100 Employer, Athena SWAN Bronze Award holder and Race Equality Charter Bronze Award holder.
See all the current vacancies available at the University of Huddersfield
As a valued member of staff at the University, you will have access to a wide and comprehensive range of benefits to support you both in and outside of work.
Here’s an overview of our job application, interview and selection process
Find out more about HR
Find out more information if you're thinking about moving to Huddersfield
Find out more about more opportunities
Guidance for applicants
Find out about working in Applied Sciences
Find out about working in Arts and Humanities
Find out about working in the Business, Education and Law School
Find out about working in Computing and Engineering
Find out about working in Human and Health Sciences

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news:
News stories about the Holocaust, talks by survivors and research.
News stories about Sir Patrick Stewart
From artificial intelligence to sustainable fashion and from energy conservation to waste management - discover how our researchers are making a real difference.
Our staff have expertise across an impressive range of disciplines and specialities and are known for their commitment to innovation, entrepreneurship and knowledge exchange.
Research articles written by University of Huddersfield academics.
An archive of all news videos.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/informationgovernance/dataprotection:
The University takes individuals’ privacy very seriously and is committed to compliance with its obligations under data protection law.
The General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (GDPR) and the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA) (together the “Data Protection Legislation”) govern how the University collects and uses individuals’ information and the rights of individuals in respect of that information.
The University is obliged to comply with the 6 data personal data principles of the GDPR:
How we comply with the above requirements is set out in the University’s Data Protection Policy .
The University of Huddersfield takes your rights under Data Protection Legislation very seriously.
To find out more about your rights under Data Protection Legislation .
The University describes in general terms how personal data is handled.
These descriptions are called "Privacy Notices" and links to the University’s privacy notices are set out below.
In addition, specialist areas such as the Podiatry Clinic will have their own notice which they can provide you with on request.
The University’s Data Protection Officer is responsible for managing the University’s Data Protection compliance as well as coordinating data protection requests from individuals.
The Data Protection Officer can be contacted as data.protection@hud.ac.uk .
Further general guidance is also available from the Information Commissioner's Office .
Please see the University’s Data Protection portal for staff, which includes data protection guidance and the answers to frequently asked questions.
Good records management, information security and adherence to the University retention schedule will help the University comply with the Act.
The way our staff go about their daily tasks is vital to this.
Please see the Records Management and Information Security webpages for further information.
If you need to notify the University of a suspected data breach, please complete the Data Breach Evaluation Form.
Download the PDF regarding CCTV Code of Practice
Find out more about Data Breach Reporting
Find out more about Guidance for Staff
Find out more about the Record of Processing Activities

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/constitutionalandlegalmatters:
The institution was incorporated as a Higher Education Corporation (HEC) on 21 November 1988 by virtue of the Education Reform Act 1988 (ERA) (Commencement No.
2) Order 1988.
The Further and Higher Education Act 1992 (section 77) enabled Higher Education Corporations who were Polytechnics to change their name to University and on 16 June 1992 the Privy Council gave its consent to the new name of the Corporation, and our official, and preferred name, The University of Huddersfield.
University of Huddersfield Queensgate Huddersfield HD1 3DH
As a higher education corporation, the University is not registered with Companies House and does not have a company registration number.
For further information, including the University’s Instrument and Articles of Government please view the University of Huddersfield's governance web pages .
The University has charitable status as an exempt charity under Schedule 3 of the Charities Act 2011.
It is therefore subject to charity legislation but is not required to register with the Charity Commission and is not regulated by it.
As an exempt charity, the University does not have a registered charity number.
In 2018, the Office for Students replaced the Higher Education Funding Council for England as the independent regulator for higher education in England.
The Office for Students was set up by the Higher Education and Research Act of 2017 and it published its new regulatory framework in February 2018.
The University Council is the principal decision-making body in the University, please View the Council and Committee member profiles
Mental Health Matters
Professor Bob Cryan CBE DL FREng
Inspiring Digital Enterprises Award
Mr Rhys Davies
Airedale Hospital and Community Charity
Bradford Grammar School
Leeds Diocesan Board of Finance
Anglican Minority and Ethnic Network (AMEN)
Hollybank Trust
Yorkshire Film Archive
Colne Valley Museum
Huddersfield Mrs Sunderland Music Festival
One Community Foundation
Feel free to view our full audited consolidated financial statements for the latest financial year, or even view our previous years accounts, at our Financial Statements page.
Please click on the following link for the University's current Modern Slavery Statement
Previous years' Statements are listed below:
Modern Slavery Statement 2017
Modern Slavery Statement 2016

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/maps:
Huddersfield is in West Yorkshire, conveniently located between Leeds and Manchester.
Here you can find everything you need to help you with your journey including directions to the University , no matter where you are coming from.
Queensgate Huddersfield West Yorkshire HD1 3DH
Tel : 01484 422 288
Approx journey times (by car) to Queensgate Campus
Queensgate 3D Campus Map and Accessible Route Map.
Walking Route between Queensgate and Southgate campuses.
Road maps of Huddersfield centre and surrounding areas.
See Huddersfield in relation to other parts of the UK.
Town centre parking and alternative car parks located close to the University.
Learn more about our campus and its accessibility.
Campus Map
You can view a visual representation of our Queensgate (Huddersfield) campus using this 3D perspective map.
Accessible Campus Map
Please note : you will need to have a certain level of access on your card to enter at certain points on the route.
Please contact Estates if you have any queries on tel: 01484 472351 or email: estates@hud.ac.uk .
Walking Route Map
You will find a safe walking route between Queensgate and Southgate campuses.
We've included a map from Google (above) to make it easy to see the surrounding area of the town.
Below, you can also find PDF maps of the town and the United Kingdom.
See an overview of main roads leading to and from Huddersfield town.
Town Road Maps
Our local authority, Kirklees Council, has some useful roads and travel information on their website .
See Huddersfield in relation to other parts of the UK by taking a look at this map, suitable for print.‌
Colour (PDF, 47KB) | Black & White (PDF, 59KB) ‌
This map also lists most major mainland motorways.
UK Motorways (PDF, 30KB)
Coming to Huddersfield by car?
Find out more about car parking at the University and around the town.
The closest major airport to the University is Manchester International Airport, which connects with most international cities.
For further local and national transport information click the links below.
Directions to the Queensgate Campus from the bus and railway stations .
http://www.thetrainline.com/buytickets/
http://www.mytrainticket.co.uk/ (My train ticket provides rail journey planning and is an online impartial retailer that sells train tickets for all UK train companies to all National Rail destinations, London Underground stations and over 275 Plusbus locations.)
http://www.kirklees.gov.uk/visitors/ (Kirklees Council Visitors Guide)
http://www.wymetro.com/ (Metro (West Yorkshire) Link to local journey planner and live departure information)
http://www.northernrail.org/ (Northern Rail Website, local train information and journey planner)
http://www.nationalrail.co.uk/ (National Rail Enquiries)
http://www.tpexpress.co.uk/train-destinations/huddersfield/overview/ (TransPennine Express - purchase tickets for travel from any UK train station with no online booking fees)
http://www.sustrans.org.uk/ A charity enabling people to choose healthier, cleaner and cheaper journeys.
As a student, no matter how old, you can get a Metrocard for use on all buses and trains in West Yorkshire.
You can get more information from the Metro (link as above) website or by visiting your local train or bus station.
Metrocards are also available from any Post Office.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/contact:
Below is the general University contact information.
Phone number: +44 (0)1484 422288
Lines are open from Monday to Thursday between 8:30am and 5:00pm and on Friday between 08:30am - 4:00pm .
Alternative telephone number +44 (0) 330 1232288 (calls to this number are charged at the national rate).
study@hud.ac.uk
+44 (0)1484 472625.
Responding to Telephone calls
Monday to Friday 10.00am – 4.00pm .
international.enquiries@hud.ac.uk
+44 (0) 1484 957505
International Student Experience Team – Online Drop-In Service
sfo@hud.ac.uk
+44 (0)1484 472210
hudlets@hud.ac.uk
01484 258601
studentrecords@hud.ac.uk
+44 (0)1484 473330
students.union@hud.ac.uk
+44 (0)1484 473555
Responding to emails.
Monday to Friday 10am – 5pm.
Unable to take telephone calls at present.
You can contact individual members of staff through the University's online contacts directory .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/business:
Get in touch and find out what we can offer you
Improve your competitiveness, productivity and performance with our specialist support on this government-funded programme
Our programmes offer support for business growth and development
The University's ground-breaking academic research
Read about how we have supported organisations reach their goals
Meet your recruitment needs with our remarkable students and graduates
Our exceptional spaces and equipment can support your projects and events
Our established and custom-made training and development opportunities include degree apprenticeships, leadership programmes and bespoke courses
Our Enterprise team is here to help grow an idea into a successful business
Contact the Business Development Team to chat about equipment and facilities available.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/informationgovernance/cookiepolicy:
This policy explains how we use cookies on the University's website.
It has been written to reflect the University’s new cookie banner which was installed in March 2024.
More details about how cookies work can be found on this page .
Types of personal information that is collected when users visit the University’s website, and how this information will be used, is available within the University’s privacy policy .
The policy applies to all staff, students and external users who visit the University’s external website.
A cookie is a small text file that is stored on the computer or a user’s mobile device when a user visits a website.
The University uses them to:
Necessary Cookies - Necessary cookies, also known as essential cookies or functional cookies, are small pieces of data stored on a user's device by websites or applications to enable core functionality and ensure the proper functioning of the site or service.
These cookies are essential for the University’s website to work properly and provide basic features such as page navigation, access to secure areas of the website, and remembering a user’s preferences.
Necessary cookies do not require user consent because they are essential for the performance of the website and are usually set automatically when the user visits the site.
They do not collect personal information and are typically session-based, meaning they are deleted when you close the browser session.
The website user can set their browser to block or alert them about these cookies, but this will mean some parts of the site might not work.
Marketing Cookies - Marketing cookies, also known as advertising cookies or tracking cookies, are small pieces of data stored on a user's device by websites or advertisers.
These cookies are designed to track a user’s behaviour across websites, allowing advertisers to deliver targeted advertisements based on a user's interests and browsing history.
Marketing cookies collect information such as the pages visited, products viewed, and interactions with ads.
This data is used to create a profile of a user's preferences and habits, enabling more personalised and relevant advertising experiences.
Analytical Cookies - Analytical cookies are small pieces of data stored on a user's device by websites or third-party services for the purpose of collecting information about how users interact with the website.
Unlike marketing cookies, which focus on tracking user behaviour for advertising purposes, analytical cookies are primarily used to gather data on website usage patterns, such as which pages are visited most frequently, how users navigate through the site, and what features they interact with.
This information is then analysed to gain insights into user behaviour, improve website performance, and optimise the user experience.
Analytical cookies typically do not contain personally identifiable information and are used to understand trends and patterns rather than targeting individual users for advertising purposes.
The University regularly audits the cookies it uses and reviews the purposes for which they are used.
This information will be audited periodically, particularly when the University makes any changes to the website that impacts on the cookies it uses.
Most web browsers allow some control of cookies through their browser settings.
To find out more about cookies, including how to see what cookies have been set, you can visit this site Learn All About Web Browser Cookies | Know Cookies
To manage the type of cookies installed on a user’s devices for the University of Huddersfield, click on the icon below which appears on the bottom right of any University website page.
Any queries or concerns about the use of cookies on the University website should be sent by email to data.protection@hud.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/informationgovernance/freedomofinformation:
The Freedom of Information Act came into force on 1 January 2005.
The Act gave the public the statutory right (subject to appropriate limitations) to find out if a public authority held specified information and, if so, to be provided with access to it.
The University of Huddersfield is fully committed to complying with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act.
Anyone has the right to ask for information held by the University from anywhere in the world.
Requests must be made in writing and will be responded to within 20 working days of receipt.
The University’s Freedom of Information Officer co-ordinates the University’s responses to requests for information and is responsible for the University’s Publication Scheme where certain information is proactively published.
The Freedom of Information Act relates to general information about the University.
Some information relating to the environment may come under the Environmental Information Regulations 2004 and information about individuals (staff, students etc) is dealt with separately under the terms of the General Data Protection Regulation and Data Protection Act 2018.
You may find the Information Commissioner's Office Plain English Guide to Freedom of Information useful.
Further information about the Freedom of Information Act can be obtained from the Information Commissioner’s Office .
Compliance Statistics
Every public authority is required to adopt and maintain a publication scheme setting out the classes of information it holds
If you are unable to find the information you are looking for please make a written request
Further details about charges and fees
Information i f you wish to complain about the way the University has handled your request
The University of Huddersfield web site links to many third party information providers
Published Datasets

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/informationgovernance/copyrightanddisclaimer:
All information presented on this system is deemed to be the copyright of the University of Huddersfield unless stated otherwise.
Copyright is implied irrespective of whether a copyright symbol or a copyright statement is displayed.
The copyright of any information presented on this system must not be infringed without the written consent of the University of Huddersfield or the owner of the copyright.
The University of Huddersfield will take reasonable care to ensure that it does not knowingly infringe the copyright of anyone.
If it is suspected that information on this system is infringing the copyright of someone, The University of Huddersfield should be informed so that appropriate action can be taken.
The University of Huddersfield acknowledges all trademarks.
The University of Huddersfield will take reasonable care in preparing the information presented on this system.
However the security, fitness for purpose and the accuracy of such information is not implied and cannot be guaranteed.
Anyone who uses this information (and this system), does so at their own risk and shall be deemed to have indemnified the University of Huddersfield from any injuries or damages arising from such use.
The University of Huddersfield reserves the right to immediately remove any information on this system that is the subject of legal objection, once notification of legal objection has been received.
Computing and Library Services reserve the right to immediately remove any information presented on this system, that is considered to be putting the University of Huddersfield or its services at risk.
Links to external websites:
Hyperlinks from the website of The University of Huddersfield at www.hud.ac.uk are subject to acceptance of the following terms -
The University will use all reasonable endeavours to deliver courses in accordance with the description in the course finder pages of this website.
We review all optional modules each year and change them to reflect the expertise of our staff, current trends in research and as a result of student feedback.
We will always ensure that you have a range of options to choose from and we will let students know in good time the options available for them to choose for the following year.
We will only change core modules for a course if it is necessary for us to do so, for example to maintain course accreditation.
We will let you know about any such changes as soon as possible, usually before you begin the relevant academic year.
Sometimes we have to make changes to other aspects of a course or how it is delivered.
We only make these changes if they are for reasons outside of our control, or where they are for our students’ benefit.
Again, we will let you know about any such changes as soon as possible, usually before the relevant academic year.
Our regulations set out our procedure which we will follow when we need to make any such changes.
When you enrol as a student of the University, your study and time with us will be governed by a framework of regulations, policies and procedures, which form the basis of your agreement with us.
These include regulations regarding the assessment of your course, academic integrity, your conduct (including attendance) and disciplinary procedure, fees and finance and compliance with visa requirements (where relevant).
It is important that you familiarise yourself with these as you will be asked to agree to abide by them when you join us as a student.
You will find a guide to the key terms here , where you will also find links to the full text of each of the regulations, policies and procedures referred to.
For this information please view our Extended Facebook terms page.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/informationgovernance/accessibility-statement:
This accessibility statement applies to this website hud.ac.uk, courses.hud.ac.uk.
Subdomains with their own accessibity statements reliant on external software are noted below.
This website (any fully qualified domain name ending in .hud.ac.uk) is run by the University of Huddersfield.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille:
email webteam@hud.ac.uk
call 01484 473421
We’ll consider your request and get back to you in two working days.
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, contact the web team (email webteam@hud.ac.uk or call 01484 473421 ).
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS).
University of Huddersfield is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard due to the non-compliances listed below:
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons:
We are not aware of any content on the website which fails to meet the minimum required accessibility guidelines documented in the WCAG2.1 specification.
We are not claiming ‘disproportionate burden’ on any problems that have been found so far.
Many of our older PDFs and Word documents don’t meet accessibility standards - for example, they may not be marked up so they’re inaccessible to a screen reader.
Some of our PDFs and Word documents are essential to providing our services.
For example, we have PDFs with information on how users can access our services, and forms published as Word documents.
By March 2023, we plan to either fix these or replace them with accessible HTML pages.
Any new PDFs or Word documents we publish will meet accessibility standards.
PDFs and other documents - The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they are not essential to providing our services.
Any new PDFs or other documents we publish will meet accessibility standards.
Live video – we do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations
Pre-recorded media published before 23 September 2020 is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations
As part of our quarterly website release schedule, we aim to accommodate any functional changes to the technical accessibility of the Website/Coursefinder in line with the WCAG 2.1 standards.
Accessibility issues that are raised, are typically addressed in the next immediate release of the website.
Where an accessibility issue is raised that requires immediate redress, a fix will be applied as soon as is possible.
The University uses Google Lighthouse and SiteImprove to benchmark our performance and to inform any future accessibility developments.
This statement was prepared on 18 September 2020.
It was last reviewed on 7th July 2022.
https://www.hud.ac.uk was last tested on 1 July 2020.
The test was carried out by our internal development team (contactable at webteam@hud.ac.uk ) as part of the quartly release roll out of updates to the site templates.
Testing is done during development/maintenance of the templating framework used to build the content of the page.
The testing is carried out automatically as part of the build process of the templates using example content (Lorem Ipsum).

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate:
Search for undergraduate courses.
What is an undergraduate degree?
Find out more and see the different types of undergraduate degree qualifications
Everything you need to know about tuition fees, student loans and financial support.
Find out why the University of Huddersfield is a great first choice for undergraduate students.
When it comes to student life at Huddersfield, our students are best placed to give you the low-down on what it's like here.
Read their profiles to discover their experience of applying to and studying here, and get a feel for if the University of Huddersfield is the right place for you.
Now you’ve submitted your UCAS application here’s what to look out for next.
Our campus offers you fantastic facilities, from specialist labs, studios and performance spaces, to a modern library and computing equipment.
Our current students and online community share their favourite parts of Huddersfield just for you.
Whether it’s joining a society, finding part-time work, enhancing your CV or getting support setting up your own business, find out about the opportunities that await you at Huddersfield.
There are lots of reasons to attend an Open Day:
At a Huddersfield University Open Day, you can explore our award-winning campus, low-cost accommodation and hear from students and teachers.
Come and join us!
Book your place now .
What is the SU, how does it support you, and how can you get involved?
The Schools and Colleges Liaison Service offers impartial information, advice and guidance about Higher Education.
Read about our plan for a carbon neutral campus and how we’re responding to the climate emergency.
Undergraduate, or Bachelor’s degrees, are the first level of degree in Higher Education.
After you graduate from an undergraduate degree (a Level 6 qualification), you may continue on to postgraduate study (a Level 7 qualification), such as a Master’s degree.
Undergraduate degrees usually take three years full-time, often with the option of an additional placement year.
The most common types of undergraduate or first degrees are Bachelor of Arts (BA) and Bachelor of Science (BSc), but there are others such as Bachelor of Education (BEd), Bachelor of Engineering (BEng), Bachelor of Laws (LLB) and Bachelor of Music (BMus).
There are also integrated Master’s degrees, which combine undergraduate study with postgraduate study , such as MSci or MEng.
See the types of university qualifications and degrees explained.
Most undergraduate degrees can come with honours, which is an indication of the quality and depth of study, such as achieving a certain grade or submitting a good dissertation.
Honours degrees will have (Hons) after the type of degree, for example BA(Hons) or BSc(Hons).
There are more ways to study at degree level than you think.
Combine subjects, take a placement year, learn online, or even while you’re working, on a degree apprenticeship .
Study in a way that suits you.
See what Huddersfield has to offer by attending our campus and online Open Days.
Here's what you need to know about applying to the University of Huddersfield.
Keep up to date with everything related to studying at Huddersfield.
We’ll let you know when our Open Days are available for booking, send you helpful reminders of deadlines for applying, tips such as writing your personal statement, insights into student life and updates related to studying with us.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/postgraduate:
Search for postgraduate courses and research degrees.
Similar in structure to undergraduate courses, but more advanced, allowing you to gain more specialist skills and knowledge.
Explore a topic of interest in great depth, contribute to your field of study and make a real-world impact.
Visit our campus, and learn more about postgraduate study and the options and support available to you.
Studying a postgraduate degree is a fantastic investment in your future, whether you are progressing on from undergraduate study, returning to education or changing your path, a postgraduate degree will help boost your career prospects, develop your skills and knowledge and allow you to delve deep into a subject you are passionate about.
Whether you choose postgraduate study or research at the University of Huddersfield, you’ll learn from experts in their field, gain hands-on real-world experience, access state-of-the art facilities and contribute to the latest research.
Explore our webpages below to get a feel for postgraduate student life at Huddersfield.
We are offering a variety of research scholarships, studentships and tuition fee waivers.
With over 100+ scholarships available, this bespoke range of financial support will enable you to pursue your passion and carry out innovative projects.
Find key information on postgraduate tuition fees and how to finance your studies.
Explore the different funding options available to you, including loans, scholarships and a 10% alumni discount for home students.
Learn about the different postgraduate qualifications available and determine the right pathway for you.
Read more on why you should choose Huddersfield
Are you a current undergraduate student at the University of Huddersfield?
Discover the benefits of continuing on to postgraduate study with us.
Learn about our students' experiences of applying to and studying at Huddersfield.
Our students are the real experts on postgraduate study at Huddersfield.
Chat to them on Unibuddy for more insight into student life.
We offer a selection of postgraduate courses via distance learning, which gives you the flexibility to study online, anywhere, anytime.
If you have any questions about our postgraduate taught or research programmes please contact us on +44 (0)1484 472 625 or email study@hud.ac.uk .
“I never considered doing a postgraduate degree at another university, mostly due to the incredible staff and lecturers who not only helped me with my Master’s application but who have also been there with me all the way, even now while I’m doing my PhD.”
PhD Investigative Psychology
The Graduate School fosters interdisciplinary research and ensures a thriving and equitable research environment for all.
As a postgraduate student at Huddersfield, you’ll have access to a range of specialist and bespoke support services and activities designed to help you thrive in your academic studies.
Learn more about flexible and part-time postgraduate study.
Key facts relating to your enrolment on a research course at the University of Huddersfield.
Key facts relating to your enrolment on a taught course at the University of Huddersfield.
Information about regulations and policies for current students.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/apprenticeships:
Search for apprenticeships.
Apprenticeships are a way to study for a university qualification while working.
As an Apprentice, you'll spend part of your time at the University and the rest at your place of work, benefitting from on-the-job training enhanced by your university education.
Find out what an apprenticeship is and the benefit of studying for a qualification this way.
Everything Employers need to know about apprenticeships, registering your staff and funding.
View all of the apprenticeship courses at the University of Huddersfield.
Learn what you need to do if you're interested in an apprenticeship.
The cost of an apprenticeship is paid for by your employer, however much of that cost can be covered by the Levy.
Here are a few useful resources that will help you on your journey to becoming an apprentice.
Our Campus offers you fantastic facilities.
At the University of Huddersfield, you'll find services and support networks to help you get ahead in your studies and social life.
These courses are for anyone working in healthcare who would like to further their career.
These courses are aimed at anyone in a managerial role or developing into one who wants to learn how to manage themselves, others and projects.
Discover more about our new Secondary Maths Teacher Degree Apprenticeship
Although we always try and ensure we deliver our courses as described, sometimes we may have to make changes for the following reasons:
Discover all of our apprenticeship related news.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/distance-learning:
Search for distance learning courses.
Our distance learning courses at the University of Huddersfield allow you to study 100% online and gain respected qualifications, from short CPD courses to Master’s degrees, from anywhere in the world.
With multiple start dates available for many of our courses, you can begin your studies throughout the year - whenever is most convenient for you.
Our courses are designed with your career in mind and will enable you to enhance your knowledge, skills and experience and apply your learnings to your professional or academic role.
At Huddersfield, all our distance learning courses are delivered by academics from the University of Huddersfield, meaning you’ll benefit from the same high standards in teaching excellence as our on-campus students.
Distance learning, also known as ‘online learning’, is where you study your degree online, through a virtual learning environment (VLE).
On these courses, your teaching and learning materials and university resources are available online, giving you the flexibility to study anywhere, anytime and fit your studies around your commitments, such as work and family.
Our distance learning courses have been specifically designed for online delivery with the latest online teaching pedagogy at the forefront of our design principles: your course will be engaging, interactive and applicable to your current profession or interest.
When you choose distance learning at the University of Huddersfield, you'll join a diverse community of students and professionals sharing knowledge and pushing the boundaries of their respective fields.
And you’ll utilise industry-leading Virtual Learning Environment Brightspace to guide your learning experience.
Our Distance Learning Unit is home to specialist staff who are committed to ensuring that our online teaching and learning material is accessible to all.
We can recommend and provide training on assistive technologies and software which can support a range of learning styles and additional needs.
Find information on tuition fees and funding your studies.
Browse our distance learning subject areas to find the right online course for you.
Book your place on one of our upcoming webinars, or watch past on-demand webinars to meet our academics and discover more about our career-focused online courses.
Find out more about distance learning and how it works on our FAQs page.
Read our blogs for insight into online learning and the career paths that our courses can lead you on, from our students, staff and academics.
Find out about the experiences of the students studying our online courses.
You'll have online access to our first-class student support provision, to help ensure that your studies run smoothly and you can achieve your goals.
Brightspace is our Virtual Learning Environment where you’ll be able to access your teaching and learning materials and work your way through your programme of study.
Through our online library, you’ll have access to 523,000 electronic books and 125,000 journals covering a wide array of subject areas.
We also have subject specialist librarians who you can contact online, as well as an IT Support helpline.
You’ll be able to book free online appointments with our knowledgeable Careers Advisers, and have access to a 24/7 e-guidance service for quick questions, CV/application guidance and feedback, and events, all online.
You’ll also have access to our online JobShop, where you can browse work experience and paid employment opportunities; a nd when you graduate, you can make use of our 'here for life' offer of lifetime careers support.
Our Disability Services team work with students who have specific learning difficulties such as dyslexia, ongoing mental health issues, long term medical conditions, hearing impairments, visual impairments, autism and physical or mobility difficulties.
If you have additional learning or study requirements because of a disability, you can contact the team who will work with you to identify the impact of your disability on your studies and coordinate the support or adjustments you may need.
Togetherall is our 24/7 online support network which you can use to access confidential advice, peer support and dedicated support programmes.
Watch our short film to discover the fantastic range of features of Brightspace, our online workspace for distance learning students at the University of Huddersfield.
Study online, from anywhere, any device.
When you complete your course, you’ll have the opportunity to visit Huddersfield in-person to attend your graduation ceremony.
Here, you’ll be able to celebrate your success and meet your coursemates and tutors in-person.
Begin your distance learning application using our online portal.
Admissions policies and data protection information for postgraduate applicants.
Got a question?
Or want to sign-up to receive useful distance learning updates?
Complete our short form and a member of our enquiry team will be in touch soon.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/study/qualifications:
Combine subjects, take a placement year, learn online or even while you’re working – study in a way that suits you.
A Bachelor’s Degree is available either full-time or part-time, usually three years (full-time) often with the opportunity of a placement year.
The BA and BSc are two of the most common types of Bachelor’s degrees.
However, there are also a number of subject specific qualifications, most of which can be studied at Huddersfield.
One year full-time so you can build on a foundation degree or HND qualification and go on to degree level.
Some courses combine undergraduate and postgraduate.
Meaning you’ll study for four or five years with a placement.
Study from wherever you are using online learning tools and learn at your own pace, part-time or full-time.
Paid for by your employer, this is hands-on learning in an industry setting.
Learn more about Degree Apprenticeships.
Dr Hayley German explains the difference between a Management MSc and an MBA in this article on the Distance Learning blog.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects:
Here are the subjects available to study at the University of Huddersfield.
Each subject shows the routes to learning we provide for it:
(Undergraduate, Postgraduate, Research Degrees, Distance Learning)
Accounting and Finance (Undergraduate, Postgraduate, Research Degrees, Distance Learning)
Acting and Performance (Undergraduate, Postgraduate)
Architecture and the Built Environment (Undergraduate, Postgraduate)
Artificial Intelligence (Undergraduate, Postgraduate, Distance Learning)
Art and Illustration (Undergraduate, Postgraduate)
Biomedical and Life Sciences (Undergraduate, Postgraduate, Research Degrees)
Chemistry (Undergraduate, Postgraduate, Research Degrees)
Chemical Engineering (Undergraduate, Postgraduate, Research Degrees)
Criminology and Policing (Undergraduate)
Computer Science (Undergraduate, Postgraduate, Distance Learning)
Civil Engineering (Undergraduate)
Cyber Security (Undergraduate, Postgraduate, Distance Learning)
Design (Undergraduate, Postgraduate)
Education (Undergraduate, Postgraduate, Research Degrees, Distance Learning)
English (Undergraduate, Postgraduate)
Electronic and Electrical Engineering (Undergraduate, Postgraduate)
Environment (Undergraduate, Postgraduate)
Fashion and Textiles (Undergraduate, Postgraduate, Research Degrees, Distance Learning)
Film (Undergraduate, Postgraduate)
Forensic Science (Undergraduate, Postgraduate, Research Degrees)
Games Development (Undergraduate)
Health Professions, Social Care and Social Work (Undergraduate, Postgraduate)
History (Undergraduate, Postgraduate)
Housing (Distance Learning, Postgraduate)
Journalism and Media (Undergraduate, Postgraduate)
Law (Undergraduate, Postgraduate, Research Degrees)
Logistics and Operations (Postgraduate)
Marketing (Undergraduate, Postgraduate)
Management and Leadership (Undergraduate, Postgraduate, Research Degrees, Distance Learning)
Mechanical and Automotive Engineering (Undergraduate, Postgraduate, Research Degrees)
Music (Undergraduate, Postgraduate)
Music Technology (Undergraduate)
Nursing and Midwifery (Undergraduate, Postgraduate, Research Degrees, Distance Learning)
Optometry and Vision Sciences (Undergraduate)
Pharmacy (Undergraduate, Postgraduate, Research Degrees)
Photography (Undergraduate, Postgraduate)
Psychology (Undergraduate, Postgraduate, Research Degrees, Distance Learning)
Sport, Exercise and Nutrition Sciences (Undergraduate)
Sustainability (Undergraduate, Postgraduate)
Teacher Training (Undergraduate, Postgraduate)

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/study/fees:
Find key information on tuition fees and funding your online studies.
We want to make sure you understand exactly what your fees will cover.
As part of its admission process, the university is required to determine the fee status and eligibility to study in the UK of all its applicants.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/study/near/bradford:
Bradford is the fourth largest metropolitan district in England and is located in the picturesque region of West Yorkshire.
And its location provides easy access to a number of universities in the West Yorkshire area, including the University of Huddersfield.
The University of Huddersfield is near to Bradford ; in fact, it takes just 30 minutes on average to drive from Bradford city centre to the University of Huddersfield.
Alternatively, if you travel by public transport, there are regular buses from Bradford to Huddersfield town centre, with a journey time of around 45 minutes, or direct trains every hour with a journey time of around 40 minutes.
If you want to explore Bradford from Huddersfield, the city has lots to offer.
At the University of Huddersfield, we offer a wide variety of career-boosting courses which fall within the subject areas listed below.
From our high-quality teaching and work placement opportunities to our state-of-the-art facilities and location in a town with a low cost of living , the University of Huddersfield is great choice for you and your prospects.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/study/near/leeds:
As a major city it has excellent transport links to university towns and cities across the West Yorkshire region, including Huddersfield – home to the University of Huddersfield.
The University of Huddersfield is near to Leeds and commuting between the two couldn’t be easier.
You can catch a train from Leeds to Huddersfield in around 18 minutes and these services run regularly throughout the day.
Alternatively, if you drive, you can head straight down the motorway from Leeds to Huddersfield, with an average journey time of around 40 minutes.
If you want to explore Leeds from Huddersfield, the city has lots to offer.
Leeds is a shopper’s paradise with everything from quirky independents stores to high street brands and designer stores.
Whether you’re looking for Instagrammable bars, lively nightclubs, quirky cocktail bars or classic pubs, Leeds nightlife offers something fun for just about everyone.
According to the Cheapest UK Cities for Student Accommodation League Table 2025, Huddersfield is a top 5 UK location for cheap student rent , whereas the ranking for Leeds is 69.* In fact, the average weekly student rent cost in Huddersfield is £136 cheaper than Leeds.*
So if you’re looking for a university town with a low cost of living, that will leave you with more money to spend on social activities and health and wellbeing, Huddersfield is a sound investment.
* Student Crowd 2025

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/study/near/manchester:
As a major UK city it has everything you need, from great shops to high quality restaurants and bars to exciting leisure activities and experiences.
And it is within easy reach of a range of universities across the north of England, including the University of Huddersfield.
The University of Huddersfield is near to Manchester and you can easily travel between the two.
You can catch regular direct trains to Huddersfield from both Manchester Piccadilly and Victoria station, with a journey time of around 30-35 minutes.
Or if you’re travelling by car, you can get to Huddersfield from Manchester in around 50 minutes.
When it comes to cities with fun things to do, Manchester is pretty much unrivalled and there really is something for everyone.
So if you want to explore Manchester, from Huddersfield, here are some of the things the city has to offer.
According to the Cheapest UK Cities for Student Accommodation League Table 2025 Huddersfield is a top 5 UK location for cheap student rent , whereas the ranking for Manchester is 70.* In fact, the average weekly student rent cost in Huddersfield is £140 cheaper than Manchester.*

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/study/near/sheffield:
Sheffiel d is a large city s et against the backdrop of the picturesque Peak District .
It has a rich industrial history and was nicknamed the Steel City for its contribution to steelwork which dates back to the 1600s .
Today it is a bustling modern city, and with its large central transport hub , Sheffield is well connected to various university towns and cities in Yorkshire, including Huddersfield – home to the University of Huddersfield.
The University of Huddersfield is near to Sheffield .
You can drive from Sheffield to Huddersfield in around an hour depending on the traffic conditions.
Alternatively, there is a direct train from Sheffield to Huddersfield, which takes around 1 hour and 15 minutes.
If you want to explore Sheffield from Huddersfield, the city has a lot to offer.
As you’d expect in a big city, Sheffield has a bustling nightlife offer where you’ll find clubs, bars, pubs and restaurants to suit a range of taste s .
There are also plenty of venues where you can enjoy non-drinking nighttime activities such as bowling, bar sports and arcade games.
According to the Cheapest UK Cities for Student Accommodation League Table 2025 Huddersfield is a top 5 UK location for cheap student rent , whereas the ranking for Sheffield is 21.* In fact, the average weekly student rent cost in Huddersfield is £30 cheaper than Sheffield.* This means that you could save around £120 per month on rent when living in student accommodation in Huddersfield.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/study/near/york:
The University of Huddersfield is near to York and can be reached directly by train i n just 50 minutes.
Or if you drive, you can travel from York to Huddersfield in as little as an hour , depending on the traffic conditions.
If you want to explore York from Huddersfield, the city has lots to offer.
Like most cities, you’ll find high street favourites as well as a range of independent shops scattered around York city centre.
There’s also the Shambles, a cobbled medieval shopping street, home to cafes, boutiques and a range of shops selling everything from sweets and chocolates to jewellery to clothes.
Despite being a smaller city, York has plenty to offer in terms of nightlife from upmarket bars to low-key pubs and everything in-between.
There are plenty of non-drinking related nighttime activities that you can get involved in too such as ghost tours and boat cruises.
According to the Cheapest UK Cities for Student Accommodation League Table 2025 Huddersfield is a top 5 UK location for cheap student rent , whereas the ranking for York is 53.* The average weekly student rent cost in Huddersfield is £81 cheaper than York.*

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/uni-life/why-huddersfield:
There’s loads to think about when choosing a university, from the big decisions like where you’ll live, to the (no less important) small stuff, like whether you can get one-to-one support when you need it.
Spoiler: of course you can.
So, other than teaching and support staff who take the time to listen, why else should you choose Huddersfield?
Well… those very same lecturers are among the most qualified in England, ranking in the top five for how many of them hold doctorates, while also being second in the country for winning National Teaching Fellowships .
So, you’ll be learning from experts who are as knowledgeable as they are welcoming.
You probably want to study somewhere that’s doing something about the climate, right?
How about somewhere that’s got a whole ten-point plan for the planet?
Starting with planting one tree for every student who enrols (that could be you) and ending in net zero.
Being in the heart of West Yorkshire, you’ll find the whole town’s really welcoming.
And it’s one of the most affordable places you can live , too – so what you save on rent, you can spend on nights out, books, clothes, or an extra treat or two in your weekly shop…
You’ll want a university that prepares you for the world of work by giving you the chance to get some real, relevant work experience while you study.
That’s why 100% of our students get the opportunity to do this, whatever their course.
If you want to improve your career prospects – and maximise your earnings in the future – Huddersfield may well be the place for you.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/uni-life/accommodation:
Looking for student accommodation?
Huddersfield has you covered.
HudLets has a variety of accommodation types to choose from, no matter what you’re preference.
HudLets is the University’s approved accommodation service, run by Huddersfield Student’s Union .
They work with halls of residence and private landlords to ensure you, as a student, have access to high quality accommodation at a fair price during your studies.
Welcome to HudLets!
We’re a lettings agency run by Huddersfield Students’ Union for students at the University of Huddersfield.
Our friendly staff team is here to help you with any question no matter how big or small via email HudLets@hud.ac.uk , over the phone on 01484 258601 or at our office in Student Central on campus.
All the Halls, Houses and Studios listed on the HudLets website are subject to a quality assessment and must achieve a minimum standard to provide you with the best.
They don’t charge students any admin fees and all the deposits are protected within a deposit protection scheme.
As well as this HudLets is here to provide support when booking your accommodation and beyond.
Whether that is in person at the HudLets office on campus, Floor 5, Student Central,  via Email hudlets@hud.ac.uk or by calling 01484 258601 .
HudLets is committed to providing the best quality of service for students, which can be characterised by five key points:
We have a range of accommodation available to choose from, so no matter what you’re looking for or what you hope to get out of your university experience, there’s sure to be a place for you here.
Booking with HudLets you will have the option to view, compare all the approved Halls, and get access to amazing cash back offers.
These include halls operated by iQ Student Accommodation (Aspley House, Little Aspley House and Castings House) and Capitol Students (Saw Mill and Snow Island.)
Looking for a little more privacy?
HudLets has a range of dedicated student studios and apartments with a kitchen, bathroom, sleeping area and a range of other facilities depending on your budget.
HudLets only works with reputable private landlords who go through a thorough approval process.
Offering a wide range of houses in the Huddersfield area.
These houses can be rented as a whole for a group or on a room-by-room basis and have a range of amenities available.
Deciding on your accommodation is a big deal.
Find out everything you need to know about how to book with HudLets.
Whether you’re choosing between living at home or in Halls, here’s our Guide to exploring Huddersfield
These include halls operated by iQ Student Accommodation (Aspley House, Little Aspley House and Castings House) and HOST (Saw Mill and Snow Island.)
Find out more
Book a viewing

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/uni-life/cost-of-living:
These days, everyone needs to stretch their budgets a little further.
And that’s no different for students.
But at Huddersfield, you’ll find a cost-conscious university located in a budget-friendly town.
And that’s not all.
We know it can be a challenge to balance your bank balance while also trying to make the most of your university experience, so we want to help.
This page is the perfect resource to help you maximise your time with us, without blowing your budget.
What’s more, we can help during your time with us, through financial advice, student discounts and a whole host of facilities that support a lower cost of living.
Not only is it one of the friendliest towns, it also offers a low cost of living, including being a top 5 UK location for cheap student rent* .
In fact, the average amount students pay for rent in Huddersfield is just £125 a week compared to the UK average of £203 (or £399 in Central London!).
This means that you could save around £300 a month on rent compared to the typical cost in the UK.
The lower cost of living in Huddersfield means that you could have more money to spend on social activities and health and wellbeing, making your uni experience better.
As well as tuition fees (you can read about those on our fees and finance page ), you’ll need to think about the cost of food and groceries, materials for your course, travel and spending money for social activities.
Don’t worry though, as a student, there are plenty of discounts available to you.
Got questions about student loans, funding or anything finance related?
You can find out more information or book an appointment with our Student Finance Office.
Our Social Sport sessions are FREE , and a perfect way to stay active, take a break from your studies and meet new people.
No previous experience is required and all equipment is provided for free.
See what sessions are available and sign up for a free KAL account to start booking!
Our campus offers a range of facilities, amenities and services to help you budget and make your money go further.
All halls of residence are located just a few minutes’ walk away from campus, with prices for halls starting from as low as £95 per week for a bronze room.
There are plenty of opportunities on offer through the University for you to earn money through paid work while you're here.
Hello, I'm Lily and I study Sport, Exercise and Nutrition at the University of Huddersfield.
Here are my tips that I use to make the most of my budget and fit in everything I need with the current cost of living.
Hiya, I am Chunye, a final year BA (Hons) TESOL international student.
The reasonable cost of living in Huddersfield was one of the reasons for my decision to study here.
I’m James a final-year Software Engineering student from Brighouse.
I love listening to music with hip-hop being my favourite genre.
In my spare time, I create digital art and play the keyboard.
Huddersfield’s average weekly rent cost is £78 cheaper than the national average, which could save you around £300 a month on rent compared to the typical cost in the UK.
Huddersfield’s also cheaper than most other university towns and cities in Yorkshire and Greater Manchester!
Comparison on UK rents based on Student Crowd’s ‘Cheapest UK Cities for Student Accommodation League Table 2025’.
View the full table
(* Student Crowd 2025 )

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/uni-life/experience:
Your experience as a university student will create memories that stay with you for a lifetime.
The University of Huddersfield has great opportunities for students, from joining a range of societies with the Students’ Union, to building your network of friends or even experiencing new cultures through global societies and events.
Here are just some of the ways to make the most of your time at university.
Get involved in a society, sport or volunteering.
With over 100 sports clubs, societies and academic societies the Students' Union has something for everyone.
Make friends from around the world, and experience different cultures and traditions as part of our global societies.
Discover a full calendar of events, from Lunar New Year to Global Week.
Every year the University recruits a team of students to create content for the student blog and social media.
Would you like to join the team?
Student Ambassador's support a wide range of events and activities including Open Days, HE Experience Days, University Visit Days and visits to schools and colleges.
The JobShop is a place for students to find part-time work while at University.
University is a fantastic time to explore the world of entrepreneurship.
Huddersfield has an award-winning Enterprise Team with state-of-the-art facilities housed in the 3M BIC (Buckley Innovation Centre) .
The team is on hand to help you get your business venture, freelance service, or self-employment idea off the ground and guide your ideas and dreams into reality.
Find out how the Enterprise Team can support you on your journey.
We know how much employers value graduates who have real-world experience on their CV and that is why we encourage our students to make the most of the opportunities available during your time at Huddersfield.
Join exciting student teams and compete in national competitions designed for specific courses!
At Huddersfield, we offer the Global Professional Award alongside your degree so that you gain valuable qualities that we know employers are looking for.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/uni-life/explore-hud:
Why Huddersfield?
It’s a great question.
Let’s tell you a bit about our town…
Huddersfield is the starting point for your ambitions.
It’s where you can Reach New Heights.
You wouldn’t be the first.
Did you know that Huddersfield has produced some truly great figures; two Prime Ministers, Gold-medal winning Olympians, Academy Award-nominated actors and even a Time Lord!
But it’s not just the people that put Huddersfield on the map.
Beautiful countryside, independent shops, big nightlife, stunning architecture, sporting heritage: they’re all on your doorstep when you’re living in Huddersfield.
So, if you’re wondering ‘why Huddersfield?’, it might be time to take another look…
Huddersfield is in a great central location in the UK.
It’s around three and a half hours north of London by car.
Leeds and Manchester are both just a quick train ride away.
And good connections to the M62 and M1 mean it’s easy to reach the rest of the UK by car or bus.
So, travelling to see your family or friends for a weekend should be a doddle.
Did you know?
Huddersfield is a town, not a city.
It has a population of around 140,000 people.
There’s also a ten-year vision, called the Huddersfield Blueprint , designed to create a thriving modern-day town centre.*
There are lots of things to think about when choosing a location for university, especially what it's like to live there.
At the centre of it all – Huddersfield is a friendly Yorkshire town, surrounded by the beautiful countryside and with easy connections to neighbouring cities; Leeds, Manchester and Sheffield.
You’ll find plenty of places to eat, drink, shop, relax or catch up with friends, all within a town that has ambitious plans for future development.
Huddersfield has around 20,000 students which means there are loads of options for things to do when you’re studying at the university.
From nights out to sports to the arts, you’re never short of choices in Huddersfield.
There are plenty of choices when it comes to a great day or night out, whether you’re looking for loud and upbeat or nice and relaxed.
If you’re into the arts, whether that’s music, theatre, literature or creating your own masterpieces, we’ve got you covered.
With a strong sporting heritage behind it, Huddersfield has plenty of activities for those who like to stay active.
When it comes to nightlife, there are some great party venues for you to dance the night away including student favourites Parish Bar and Camel Club.
They have regular cheap drinks and deals, especially for students with TOTUM cards.
And if you’re looking for something to do in the daytime, there’s plenty of options to shop with the Kingsgate Shopping Centre and two independent shopping arcades.
Plus, 2025 sees the opening of the Kingsgate Leisure complex which includes a 6-screen cinema, luxury bowling, games arcade, state of the art climbing centre, karaoke, interactive darts and a whole host of dinning options.
Huddersfield has a strong cultural heritage, from the Grade I listed buildings to long running cultural events including Huddersfield Literature Festival and the acclaimed Huddersfield Contemporary Music Festival.
Get your fix of culture at the Lawrence Batley Theatre right across the road from the University.
You’ll find a diverse line up of entertainment, comedy, dance, live music, theatre and cabaret.
Looking for something creative to do?
Creative Kirklees is a free guide to arts and creative events, news and opportunities in the Kirklees area of West Yorkshire.
Enjoy the active life?
Huddersfield and the surrounding areas offer no end of opportunities to stay in shape.
Hiking, cycling and climbing are all popular outdoor pastimes in and around the Pennine Hills.
Huddersfield also has a proud rugby and football heritage.
Rugby League was born in Huddersfield in 1895 and the Huddersfield Giants Super League team plays regularly at the John Smith’s stadium.
The stadium is also home to Huddersfield Town AFC, who were promoted to the Premier League in 2017.
Both teams have a loyal fan base in the town.
It also hosts non-sporting events and concerts, recent performers include Little Mix and Take That.
The Cultural Heart sits at the very centre of the Huddersfield Blueprint – Kirklees Council’s ten-year vision to create a modern-day town centre that boasts a diverse and exciting offer.
These plans are about making Huddersfield a great place to live, work and visit, and allowing businesses to thrive.
The Huddersfield Blueprint focuses on six key areas of the town centre, including Station Gateway, St Peter’s, Kingsgate and King Street, New Street, the Civic Quarter and the new Cultural Heart in the Queensgate area.
By strengthening the Cultural Heart, the town centre, as well as the surrounding areas, will become more vibrant and successful.
The enhanced offer will increase footfall and will provide long-term support for the area’s already strong collection of small and independent businesses.
Find out more about The Kirklees Cultural Heart
Looking for things to do and places to visit?
Or to find out what living or visiting Huddersfield is really like?
When you’re not studying, Huddersfield has some great places to hang out.
From partying all night to enjoying the amazing countryside, we've got it all.
Our students blog regularly about their time in Huddersfield, you can read their blogs to find out more .
by Lily Harvey
Tips that I use to make the most of my budget and fit in everything I need with the current cost of living.
by Wiam Id Boumsoud
My favourite places to eat, socialize, and visit with friends.
by Ana-Maria Chevderara
Find out what I love about being here as an international student.
Images of Castle Hill courtesy of Alex Beldea.
Images of the Huddersfield Blueprint courtesy of Kirklees Council.
*Huddersfield facts and stats source: kirklees.gov.uk

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/uni-life/our-campus:
A university is only as good as its campus, thankfully, we think there’s lots to love about ours.
At the University of Huddersfield, we want to provide you with the very best buildings, facilities, equipment and services to ensure your time at university is the best it can be.
That’s why we have so much to offer, and it’s all located on a closeknit campus that’s easy to navigate and bursting with opportunity.
You’ll find lots of information on this page about the various buildings on site, our Students’ Union , Library, food and drink outlets, accommodation and onsite safety policies and services.
If you want to learn more, why not book an Open Day?
On campus you’ll find all academic schools, the library, quiet study spaces and research facilities alongside green spaces, places to eat and even a gym.
We’ve spent £198m on major campus investments since 2015, and have fantastic facilities including specialist laboratories, studios and performance spaces .
There's also a working canal that runs through the heart of our campus with a tree-lined towpath, perfect for those downtime moments.
A whistle-stop tour of our campus!
Think you’ll get lost?
Think again.
Here at Huddersfield everything is accessible in one location so you’re only a short walk away from everything you need.
Our buildings range from an historic 19th century church through to modern buildings including the home of Art, Design and Architecture the Barbara Hepworth building.
The University has a long history from its founding as the Young Men’s Mental Improvement Society in 1841 through to the present day.
We have a range of buildings making up our campus
One of our newest buildings and the start of our National Health Innovation Campus.
Students and graduates can get free help and advice for self-employment, freelancing and business start-ups, no matter where they are in their journey.
Discover how we’re shaping the future of healthcare education.
Join student Ruth as she takes you on a tour of the University’s state-of-the-art Daphne Steele Building, part of our National Health Innovation Campus.
Explore cutting-edge learning spaces, including immersive simulation rooms, clinical labs, and real-world training environments like the Simbulance, Acute Ward and Podiatry Clinic.
Designed to prepare the next generation of healthcare professionals, this facility offers hands-on experiences across a range of healthcare disciplines.
Student Central, our learning and leisure centre, combines access to the library, computing, sport, leisure and eating space all under one roof.
You can meet friends and relax before lectures or grab a bite to eat and catch up with your reading list – Student Central is the hub of the campus where you’ll find everything you need.
The University’s £22.5 million Student Central building is the hub of campus where you can find:
Student Central at the University of Huddersfield.
Study at a time that’s right for you with all the information you need to hand in our library at the heart of our campus.
Play team sports or maintain a healthy body and mind by getting involved in fitness classes and gym facilities on campus and at KAL Fitness Centres across the district.
With 12 outlets across seven locations, Huddersfood offers perfect pitstops for caffeine fixes and relaxing spaces to grab a bite to eat.
Like the sound of life at Huddersfield?
Dig into some of the detail, search for your course of choice or explore our accommodation offering.
Then you can really start to see yourself here…
Search our course pages for undergraduate, postgraduate and research courses at the University of Huddersfield.
HudLets is a student accommodation office run by Huddersfield Student’s Union and works with halls of residences and private landlords.
We’re committed to helping you feel safe and secure while you’re here, which is why we provide a range of services and underpin everything with inclusive policies that ensure everyone can get the best out of their time with us.
As a student at Huddersfield, you’re never far away from dedicated staff and resources to help you navigate through your personal student journey.
Find out about some of the facilities, practices and procedures that help the University to be a safe, welcoming and inclusive environment.
With a range of campus buildings to cater to the needs of all students and their courses, our campus boasts:
Find out more about our buildings
The Enterprise Hub is a great facility for students and graduates who want to run their own business or freelance.
Along with support from experienced Business Advisors you have access to free hot desk office facilities including:
Discover more
The first building on our new Southgate site and the start of an exciting project that will improve health outcomes and lead innovation in healthcare across the North of England.
The Daphne Steele Building brings together public-facing facilities including award-winning student-led clinics and will be a focus for entrepreneurial academic activity.
Learn more about the Daphne Steele building
Our Library is pretty special.
It contains:
It's open seven days a week during term time and round the clock for most of the year, plus our computer lab is open 24 hours a day all year round.
It's not just stuff and things though, you'll also be able to call on support from:
Specialist subject librarians - real people trained to help you find the info you need
The Huddersfield UniApp, which includes your personalised timetable.
ActiveHud is the University’s onsite exercise and fitness facilities.
Their mission is: more people, more active, more often and they’re working hard to ensure more people on campus can get involved in physical activity.
Not only that, by when you sign up to the competitively priced memberships (from as little as £18 per month) you can get access to gym, swim and fitness classes on site and make use of Kirklees Active Leisure facilities across the region.
It’s important for students to keep themselves fed and hydrated during busy days, so we provide a range of outlets across campus so they can grab a bite to eat between lectures.
And with Huddersfield town centre on your doorstep, there are plenty of places to eat, drink and unwind after a long day.
Our Student Support services are designed to provide you with a friendly and supportive environment when you need them most.
Whether you’re looking for some advice or more intensive support, we can help.
We’re committed to keeping our students safe no matter what their needs.
That’s why we provide a range of support services and Inclusive facilities, all underpinned by our EDI framework to promote equality at the University.
Find out more about campus safety
Find out more about our EDI policies
We have so many satisfied students at Huddersfield, who have found our campus to be open, inclusive and full of services and outlets that enhance their university experience.
But don’t just take our word for it…
Find out more by reading some of our Student Blogs!
Muryum is studying Architecture and takes you through a typical day in her first year.
Freya takes us through her favourite campus spots.
What will be yours?
Find out what it’s like studying at Huddersfield from someone who’s been there.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/uni-life/support:
Whether you study at undergraduate or postgraduate level, you'll soon discover that you're never far away from our dedicated staff and resources to help you navigate through your personal student journey.
We offer a friendly and supportive environment for all.
Our Student Support services will be there for you when you need them – from practical advice to more intensive support – to help make your time here at Huddersfield run as smoothly as possible.
Help and support is available to help you through your journey to becoming a student here at Huddersfield.
We are committed to ensuring that you get all the support you need at each stage of your university journey.
We help you to focus on life after you have graduated to ensure that your hard work pays off and you achieve your ambition
Throughout your time at the University, Computing and Library Services will make sure you have access to all the resources you need
The University Disability Services provides confidential advice and guidance, with a focus on you and the support you need
Here at Huddersfield we celebrate diversity and strive for equality of opportunity
We help current students and graduates prepare for self-employment, freelancing and starting their own business
There may be times when you have concerns or become worried and it is at these times that we can support you
We welcome students returning to Higher Education after doing something else in life
There are a number of study resources to help you achieve your goals and ensure you are well-prepared to tackle student life in Huddersfield.
Our International Student Support Advisors can assist you with many issues you may face during your studies.
Do you need information, help, support or advice?
Do you not know where to turn?
Do you just want to chat to a friendly face?
Visit iPoint.
Families and friends can make a big difference to student success, providing emotional and practical support during their time at university.
Tuition fee information and information about financing your studies can be found on our ' Undergraduate fees and finance ' webpages.
These pages also include details on how to apply for your tuition fee loan, information about the maintenance loan, undergraduate scholarships, and financial help for parents in higher education.
Finance information for postgraduate students can be found on our ' Postgraduate fees and finance ' webpages including information on postgraduate tuition fee loans funding for PGCE and PgDipE courses and Progression bursaries.
If you've got a specific query and want to get in touch please email sfo@hud.ac.uk .
At the University of Huddersfield we understand that as a care experienced* student you may have additional questions and concerns about your University experience.
We are committed to ensuring that you get all the support you need at each stage of your journey from pre application right through to graduation.
You will have the support of a dedicated Support Coordinator for Care Leavers before you start and throughout your time with us.
We will work with you to create a confidential bespoke support plan designed to help you achieve your full potential during your studies.
To find out more about the support we offer please contact us at careleavers@hud.ac.uk .
Visit our fees and finance webpages to see if you are eligible for a care leavers’ bursary .
For more information please see Student Finance England's guidance.
We offer personalised support based on your individual needs.
This could include:
*The University of Huddersfield shares the broader definition of ‘care experienced,’ as this term is more inclusive of the range of care settings someone may have experienced.
The term ‘care experienced’ refers to anyone who has spent time living with foster carers under local authority care, in residential care (e.g.
a children’s home) looked after at home under a supervision order, or in kinship care with relatives or friend, either officially (e.g.
a special guardianship order) or informally without local authority support.
We know you're coming to university to undertake your course, meet new people and broaden your horizons.
However, we also help you to focus on life after you have graduated to ensure that your hard work pays off and you achieve your ambition.
We offer all our students careers advice for life , meaning you can access support for the duration of your career.
The Careers and Employability Service is here to help you find work opportunities and to apply.
Our team will give you one-to-one guidance to help you work out your career options and provide you with information, advice and guidance.
Some of the resources that you'll get access to when you join us include:
We also offer a number of online resources.
The Careers and Employability resource hub, MyCareer, is a home to the JobShop, where you can access hundreds of vacancies from organisations that want Huddersfield's students and graduates.
We also have resources such as useful tools such as an interview simulator, help with psychometric tests, assessment centres and a number of employer videos, providing a valuable insight into employers' perspective on key aspects of what they're looking for.
We also have the Graduate Careers Explorer, an online resource and information about different industry sectors, allowing you to search for opportunities based on the course you studied and it provides sector-specific information.
What our students love about Huddersfield is that there's a real focus on practical career advice, emphasis on work placements and a variety of opportunities for students.
The University's JobShop advertises jobs that are ideal for students.
They can range from working in retail, to the Students' Union, and even working in the University Library as a Student Helper.
Andy Rhodes, Sports Journalism BA(Hons) student
For more information or if you have any questions, visit the Careers website , follow us on twitter: @HudUniCareers , or get in touch at careers@hud.ac.uk
Throughout your time at the University, Computing and Library Services will make sure you have access to all the resources you need to take your degree to the next level.
We provide high quality and customer-focused services, having held the Government Customer Service Excellence ® standard for many years.
Our National Student Survey results show a high level of satisfaction with the library and computing facilities at the University.
IT Support provides and maintains access to the University’s computing, Wi-Fi and printing facilities, and online resources such as the University's virtual learning environment, student email, electronic library resources and more.
IT support is available through the Help Centre, based in the Library, and via a telephone helpline.
Training on using various software, hardware and assistive technology is also available for all students, through workshops or one-to-one support.
The Library has an extensive range of information available including books, journals, e-books and online resources to support your studies.
They also lend out laptops.
Open every day during term time, and with most of its resources available to access online from wherever you are, the Library is always there to support your learning.
Help is available during normal working hours at our Help Desk and online guidance is always available via HudHelp .
Heritage Quay is the official archive for the University of Huddersfield and acts as the guardian of the archives of other organisations, families and individuals dating back over 200 years.
Highlights include material relating to Sir Patrick Stewart; Ted Hughes; Rugby Football League; England Netball; Brass Bands and British Dance Bands.
For more information, visit the Heritage Quay website .
For more information about what support we offer at Huddersfield visit the Computing and Library Services website , or email us at library@hud.ac.uk .
You can also follow us on social media:
The University Disability Services provides confidential advice and guidance, with a focus on you and the support you need.
You can find full details of what they offer on the Disability Services webpages.
The Service works with students with a range of disabilities and long-term conditions that have a significant impact on their ability to study.
This includes specific learning difficulties such as dyslexia, long-term medical conditions such as diabetes, mobility or physical disabilities or conditions, hearing impairments, visual impairments, social communication difficulties such as autistic spectrum conditions or mental health issues.
Our main aim is to work alongside you to get the right support in place at the right time as we believe that nothing should stop you achieving what you're capable of.
We appreciate that it can sometimes be difficult to discuss your disability so, we'll give you the time you need as well as clear information about what support we can offer, who we will share the information with and why.
Here are some of the things we can help you with:
The University has worked with Go Higher West Yorkshire to create a guide for disabled learners who are moving into Higher Education .
The transition pack offers a range of advice, guidance and support ion topics such as the terminology used in Higher Education, what supporting information you may need to provide, who to contact to discuss your requirements and much more.
To find out more about how the University supports disabled students with the transition from college to University, and throughout your studies, please have a look at the section of the Disability Services web site specifically for applicants .
Here at Huddersfield we celebrate diversity and strive for equality of opportunity.
The University of Huddersfield is an equal opportunities institution.
We have developed several policies to ensure that we do not inadvertently exclude groups by our practice or our culture (perceived or real).
We aim to create conditions where staff and students are treated solely on the basis of their merits, abilities and potential, regardless of gender, age, race, caste, class, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origins, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, family responsibility, trade union activity, political or religious belief, or age.
More information about our equal opportunities policies and the University Equal Opportunities Policy Statement can be found in our equal opportunities policy document.
Whatever your faith you'll find the Faith Centre a relaxing and calming place to be and unwind.
The Faith Centre is home to the Community Lounge - a vibrant, busy, welcoming space where you can meet new friends and enjoy free tea and coffee.
It’s is a great place to explore and discuss spiritual issues with like-minded individuals.
We have a range of worship, prayer and ablution facilities on campus.
You can also take part in interfaith events or request a prayer from our chaplains.
There are prayer rooms for all faiths, which can be used for individual and group prayer or faith group meetings.
It doesn’t matter what your beliefs are, everyone is welcome at the Faith Centre.
You'll get a warm welcome and have the chance to chat with like-minded people.
There are rooms for worship, meditation and prayer as well as ablution facilities.
Find out more on the Faith Centre website .
Here at Huddersfield, we help current students and graduates prepare for self-employment, freelancing and starting their own business.
Taking the first step towards running your own business can seem like a real challenge.
We're here to support you right from the beginning to help you grow your seed of an idea into a successful business.
Our Enterprise Team supports students and graduates with their business ideas and ventures, and to meet other like-minded peers during their degree or after they graduate.
They are based in the Enterprise Hub, a business incubation space with hot desk office facilities available to students and graduates.
The Enterprise Hub is located on the second floor of the 3M Buckley Innovation Centre on Firth Street.
The Enterprise Team will help you when starting your own business by providing business advice and support, funding opportunities and office facilities.
Their welcoming, interactive Enterprise Workshops and Business Boot Camps on enterprise-related subjects are an ideal starting point for those who want to increase their business awareness.
Enterprise support is open to all students and graduates of the University who have viable business or self-employment propositions and can evidence high commitment and enthusiasm for their business idea.
For more information, or if you have any questions, visit the Enterprise website or get in touch by emailing enterprise@hud.ac.uk .
University life is a great experience where you will make lots of new friends and learn lots of new things.
However, there may be times when you have concerns or become worried and it is at these times that we can support you.
A healthy body and a healthy mind is exactly what you need while you're studying.
Wellbeing Services is here to help students get the most out of their time at University and offer confidential support with a wide range of personal, emotional and mental health concerns.
You can find full details of what they offer on the Wellbeing Services webpages .
Here are some of the things we could help you with:
Here are some of the ways we could help:
More information is available on our Wellbeing Services webpages .
ActiveHud is the Sport and Physical Activity Service here at the University.
Our aim is to get more students, more active, more often.
We provide for all levels to enable you to improve your health and wellbeing.
This includes an Active Wellbeing programme, Social Sport programme and an exciting gym, swim and class offer to rival any university in the UK that you can access not only on campus but in Active Leisure centres across Kirklees.
Our amazing facilities include a double sports hall with bleacher seating for over 850 spectators, a three-floor gym and two multipurpose studios.
One of the first things you'll need to do when you arrive on campus is register with an NHS general practice.
There's one right next door on the University campus, so if you live within three miles of the University that could be ideal.
You'll find doctors, nurses and physios on hand to help.
They can give you advice on everything including sexual health, contraception, sports injuries, rehabilitation, travel vaccines, relaxation and stress.
For more information please visit the Health Centre website .
We welcome students returning to Higher Education after doing something else in life or have had change in personal circumstances before returning to studying.
In fact, 62% of Huddersfield students are aged 21 or over (Student Engagement Data 2022/23).
We have plenty of experience and resources to help you decide on your course, look at entry routes into Higher Education, explore ways to enhance your career prospects and support you with the application process.
If you already have a good idea of what course you would like to study, why not find out what courses we offer at Huddersfield .
If it's been a while since you left the education system, we have lots of ways to help you get back into the swing of studying.
If you don't have the formal qualifications required for degree-level study, you can enrol for an extended degree of either four or five years, which includes a foundation year.
You don't have to choose your degree course until you've completed your foundation year.
Studying when you have a family is a rewarding experience – there’s no doubt that you’ll be very busy, and it might seem like a huge challenge, but you certainly won’t be the only one juggling university and home life.
We have a number of students parents who have decided to study with us.
Caring for children can be expensive but don’t let this prevent you from going to university especially as there are a number of schemes that can help you.
The Government offers a number of different options for financial support for parents in Higher Education including Childcare Grant , Parents' Learning Allowance and help with paying for childcare .
If you need any help finding childcare you can search for local childcare providers on the Kirklees Council website .
There is also a wealth of information to support parents on the Kirklees Council Family Information Directory .
You can find more information for mature students on the University website and further information and help on the C & K Careers' website .
C & K Careers offer high quality, impartial information, advice and guidance (IAG) services to young people and adults on behalf of schools, colleges, local authorities, prime and area-based contractors and employers.
We want you to get the most out of your time during your time at Huddersfield.
The University provides a number of online resources which you can access once you enrol.
Brightspace is an online portal where you will find information relating to your course.
You can also access your University email account, download the University app and pay your fees online.
Students at the University of Huddersfield also have access to a wide range of online study resources once enrolled.
UniTube is the University’s video streaming and lecture capture service and online Module Guides - home to the University Library resources online.
For more information visit our ' Study resources ' webpages.
The University works in partnership with Blackwell books to meet the needs of students including books, CDs, DVDs and more.
For all your book related needs once you become a student with us you can take advantage of the following benefits:
Whether you have come to University straight from school or college or after some years in work or raising a family, you will have certainly found that it differs in many ways from any studying you’ve done before.
We offer assistance and help with academic development for students at the University through personal Academic Skills Tutors.
The Academic Skills tutors will help you find your feet in those first few weeks and to develop the skills you need to succeed whatever challenges you face throughout your course.
They will help you improve your academic writing style, structure your work appropriately, construct arguments, gain confidence in referencing, finding and evaluating information, or in preparing for exams.
More information about Academic Skills Tutors support can be found on our Academic Skills webpage .
There is also a Student Views Video Gallery where you can find out how some of our students have benefitted from the advice and guidance of our Academic Skills Tutors.
For information, support and advice, iPoint is your one-stop shop for everything you need, no matter what it is, while you are with us.
You can find iPoint helpdesks in Student Central as well the Barbara Hepworth and Daphne Steele buildings, which means you are never far away from someone who can help.
iPoint is a great team of really helpful people.
They are always on hand to answer all types of questions no matter how small.
Whether it’s directions around campus or what to do when you're struggling with an assignment, they’ll point you in the right direction!
Jesarat Hamad Hussain, Journalism BA(Hons) student
For more information please visit the iPoint webpages.
We want to reassure you and assist you so that your queries are answered as quickly as possible.
Our International Student Experience Team are available on MS Teams .
We also have regional office staff based in some countries who can also support you.
Our International Student Support Advisors can assist you with many issues you may face during your studies, including:
You can access our support service in the following ways:
In person Where are we?: International Office, Level 4, Student Central Building (10.00am – 4.00pm, Monday to Friday) By telephone Call us: 01484 957505 472048 (9.00am – 5.00pm, 10.00am – 4.00pm, Monday to Friday) MS Teams : we will be happy to talk to you on MS Teams .
By email: international.office@hud.ac.uk (Please note that it may take up to two working days for a response to your email).
For more information please visit the international web pages.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/fees-and-funding:
Ready to apply?
Apply online now using our online application form.
Get support and guidance with your application from your regional officer.
Information about tuition fees for continuing students can be found on our current students' pages .
As part of its admission process, the University is required to determine the fee status and eligibility to study in the UK of all its applicants.
For further information please visit our fee status webpage .
UK university fees for international students depend on what you want to study.
We have fixed tuition fees for the duration of your study.
So, what you pay in year one of your studies is what you’ll pay in subsequent years, with no annual increase, as long as you don’t take a break from your course.
Explore our scholarship opportunities for study at Huddersfield.
Details on how to make your payments and our fee deadlines.
Browse our undergraduate and postgraduate degrees and pathway courses.
A step-by-step guide, including what happens after you apply.
Information specifically for students from USA
Unfortunately the University of Huddersfield is no longer offering federal funding for new students from January 2025.
Applicants who are holding an offer for the university can apply for Sallie Mae funding, further information is available at Sallie Mae .
The University of Huddersfield participates in the William D.
Ford Direct Loan Program administered by the United States Department of Education for current students only.
The US government requires institutions that participate in the federal student loan program to disclose the following consumer information:
Further details can be found in our Consumer disclosure document .
Please ensure that you read the following information carefully as US Federal loan regulations are not the same for overseas schools.
So how things worked for your loans in USA will not be the same at Huddersfield and it is important to follow the instructions on this page.
Our school code is G12978 which you will need for your application.
Applicants starting in September should not start the process until June otherwise your documents may have expired when you go for your visa interview.
You may borrow up to the Cost of Attendance which is one of the files below which you will need to download.
For details of how much subsidised/unsubsidised you can borrow, go to the Federal Student Aid website .
The University is also authorised to certify loans from private loan providers, although at present this is only Sallie Mae .
Currently we do not approve loans under the Veteran Affairs/GI Bill.
It is important to note that the University of Huddersfield does not have an EIN number and is therefore unable to provide students with a 1098T although a similar tax letter can be provided on request.
The instructions tell you how to complete the spreadsheet, apply to FAFSA and what other documents you need to collect in order to send us a complete loans application package.
If we do not receive the complete pack, we cannot start to process your loans.
US loans are administered by Joanne Ryan , Head of International Operations based within the International Office.
Direct enquiries can be sent by email to Joanne Ryan .
For students starting in the September, loans will be disbursed in three instalments.
The first payment will be in October, once you have enrolled, followed by a disbursement in January with the final one in April.
Non-standard intakes will usually receive two disbursements over an academic year.
Please be aware that each disbursement will be the same value in accordance with Federal regulations (allowing for currency fluctuations).
To be eligible for US Federal Loans you must:
All students applying for or receiving US Federal Aid (subsidised, unsubsidised and PLUS) must progress satisfactorily towards completion of their chosen academic programme in order to remain eligible to receive Title IV Direct Loans.
The policy on satisfactory academic progress (SAP) can be seen in the guide Satisfactory Academic Progress.
You should ensure you have read the relevant full policy on academic progression, which applies to all students and is available within the Regulations for awards (taught) or Regulations for awards (research) .
Satisfactory progression to retain Title IV Direct Loans is separate from the academic requirements to remain on your programme of study and does not guarantee the outcome of your programme.
If a student who receives Title IV funding withdraws, interrupts for more than 180 days or drops below half time attendance then the University will follow the requirements of returning funds laid down by the federal code of regulations.
This will be applied alongside the University’s withdrawal and refund policy and will be processed by the International Office.
The International Office will use the Return of funds calculator provided by the US Department of Education (R2T4) to determine how much of the loan may be retained and how much must be returned.
A student ‘earns’ aid on a daily basis and therefore if a student withdraws any ‘unearned’ aid for that payment period will need to be returned.
Once the amount the University and the student needs to return has been calculated, the required amount due from the University will be sent to the US Department of Education and the student notified if they need to return any funds.
Loans are returned in the following order:
A first year undergraduate, receiving aid for the first time who withdraws within the first 30 days of a programme will be deemed not to have earned any aid.
If, under this policy, a student owes funds to the University once the money has been returned to the lender, the student will be notified directly in this instance.
If the student is notified that there are loan funds that must be returned (by the student) the student should repay in accordance with the terms of the promissory note.
That is, scheduled payments are made to the holder of the loan over a period of time.
Students who have received a refund of their loan proceeds before withdrawing may be required to return part or all of those funds to the lender.
Further information on the University’s Return of Title IV Funds (R2T4) policy can be found here - Return of Title IV Funds (R2T4) Policy .
Any questions on US Federal Student Aid should be directed to Joanne Ryan, Head of International Operations at j.ryan@hud.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/applying-to-the-university:
International students can apply directly to the University using our online application form.
Before you apply, ensure you have viewed the course entry requirements and checked that you meet these with your equivalent qualification.
We accept a range of international qualifications for most courses at the University of Huddersfield.
You can check your qualifications are accepted by checking the qualifications listed for your country.
If you’re ready to make an application to the University, follow the application steps and ensure you have the documents that you will need.
In order for us to check your suitability to the course, you will need to complete an application form.
You will also be required to provide evidence of your academic achievements, any English language qualifications, and a personal statement detailing why you wish to study the course, plus any other additional documentation required for your course.
There may be other requirements depending on your course such as references, a portfolio or audition.
If you have already studied in the UK, had any visa refusals for any country, or have studied the same level already overseas, it is important that you advise us of this in your application.
We will also require copies of any of your previous visas or visa documentation.
This ensures that we have all the information we need to make a decision, without any delays.
Intake month
September 2025
January 2026
Courses
Postgraduate and Undergraduate
PGCE
Postgraduate (except MSc Nursing)
MSc Nursing
Application Deadline
13 July 2025
30 April 2025
7 November 2025
30 September 2025
Condition Meeting Deadline
15 August 2025
30 June 2025
1 December 2025
31 October 2025
Enrolment Start Date
15 September 2025
1 September 2025
5 January 2026
Start of teaching
22 September 2025
12 January 2026
All new students are expected to have completed enrolment before teaching commences.
Apply online now using the University of Huddersfield application form.
You can also apply through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service.
Everything you need to apply to study at the University of Huddersfield as an international student.
A step-by-step guide to applying for undergraduate and Master's, including what happens after you apply.
Apply for a foundation programme through the International Study Centre.
Check our English language entry requirements.
We offer a series of Pre-Sessional English Programmes if English isn't your first language and you need support in getting to the required level.
Are you ready to make an application to the University of Huddersfield?
Use this useful checklist to make sure you have everything you need to begin your application.
*If you have not yet completed your current qualifications.
If you do not yet have your transcripts/marksheets, please ensure you fully detail what you are studying in your application.
**References are only required for certain courses.
Please ensure that you provide them if they are stated in the entry requirements for the course.
Get guidance on how to apply for a research degree and start your application today.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/courses-and-entry-requirements/international-entry-requirements:
To join us at the University of Huddersfield, you need to meet our academic and English language entry requirements.
Details of the general entry requirements can be found on the course pages on our website, and is important that you check that you meet the academic entry requirements before applying.
Select your country from the list below to see the specific entry requirements listed for your country.
For students whose first language is not English, the University requires a recognised qualification in English language before you can begin your degree course.
You'll find details of our English language entry requirements further down this page.
Browse undergraduate and postgraduate degrees at the University of Huddersfield.
Explore our Pre Sessional English Programmes if you do not currently meet the University's English language requirements.
If you do not currently meet the University's entry requirements, you may be able to study for a preparation programme through the International Study Centre.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/courses-and-entry-requirements:
Browse our undergraduate Bachelor’s and Top-up courses using our course search tool.
Browse postgraduate taught Master’s, Master’s by research and advertised research degrees.
Search for potential supervisors and research opportunities, and discover our research institutes and centres.
Explore career-enhancing courses that you can study 100% online, from wherever you’re based in the world.
Select your country to see the specified entry requirements you will need to meet to complete your application.
Study for a Pre-sessional English programme if you don't meet our required level of English language or if want to improve your English language skills.
Discover the courses available to prepare you for entry to a degree programme at Huddersfield with the International Study Centre.
Study a Business, Management or Computing Master’s at our London campus
Get a step-by-step guide on how to apply for a degree at Huddersfield, and start your application today.
As an international student you may require a visa for study in the UK.
All our international tuition fees for undergraduate and postgraduate courses at Huddersfield.
Discover our merit-based scholarships and research funding opportunities.
Get support and guidance from enquiry to enrolment from your regional officer .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/meet-us:
There are lots of ways to connect with us and find out more about studying at the University of Huddersfield.
We host many events throughout the year, from online International Information Days to webinars and weekly drop-in sessions.
Alternatively, you can check when we’re next visiting your country and plan to meet us at a place close to you.
We have regional offices around the globe dedicated to supporting you throughout your journey to Huddersfield.
Our team are on hand to support you from application through to enrolment.
Or if you prefer, you can even connect with our current students and get genuine student experiences direct from the people studying here.
Explore our upcoming virtual information days and book your place now.
We regularly attend events in different countries around the world, giving you an opportunity to meet us in person and ask us your questions about studying at the University.
Use our Visits Calendar below to explore our upcoming overseas visits to events near you.
Get visa and immigration advice at our regular drop-in sessions.
Ask a student your question about student life at Huddersfield.
Explore the entry requirements for your country by searching our look up tool.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/your-global-community:
We have a large global community at Huddersfield, with over 3,300 international students from all over the world (HESA 20/21).
Our culturally diverse community bring global experiences, ideas and an international perspective; enhancing the university experience for everyone.
As a student at the University of Huddersfield you’ll become a part of our supportive, vibrant and welcoming community of like-minded people.
As well as the many sports clubs and societies there are at Huddersfield, there are over 60 global societies to get involved in.
All are free and open to everyone.
The societies are a place to learn about different cultures, meet people from your own and other countries and to get together or host events for the student community to attend.
Find out more at Global Societies - University of Huddersfield
Throughout the year we work alongside our students to host a calendar of free events, workshops, and trips.
With students from over 100 nationalities (HESA 21/22) in our international community, you don’t need to travel far to share cultural experiences.
No matter where you are from, you’ll have the opportunity to meet new people, experience other cultures and take part in global celebrations such as Lunar New Year, Global Week or our Food and Culture Festivals.
Follow our webpage to keep updated with our upcoming events Global Campus Events - University of Huddersfield
"Joining the global societies is a great way to learn about different cultures, cuisines, and traditions."
"I’ve enjoyed being a member of the societies for three years, and they’ve been a great place to meet new people."
Every year in February we have a dedicated week of cultural celebrations.
There are lots of different events and activities for everybody to get involved with.
Each year you will have the opportunity to experience sport tournaments, food festivals, film festivals, cultural events and workshops.
Global Week allows students from the UK and around the world to showcase their countries, cultures and make friends along the way.
Here's a look back at our most recent Global Week.
"Global Campus Events are hugely popular at the University of Huddersfield and a key part of student experience!
I have always recommended and invited my friends to participate in at least one event during the University’s Global Week.
Through these events, I have made friends from all over the world.
I have found it to be a great way to learn about new cultures first-hand."
Stephanie Lee-Wildt
Every year we host Spring Festival and a Lunar New Year celebrations, showcasing tradition and culture from many East and South-East Asian countries.
Lunar New Year, known as Spring Festival in China, is celebrated on the last day (Chu Xi) and first day of the new year (Chu Yi).
The Lunar New Year festival is known as Tet in Vietnam and Seollal in South Korea.
We have celebrations and talent shows on campus to celebrate when the New Year falls.
Our global societies host Lunar New Year festivities on campus throughout the day followed by a Chinese Evening Gala.
Watch a highlight from this year's Lunar New Year celebrations.
"The atmosphere of the celebrations was wonderful and helped to alleviate some of the homesickness of our students living far from home.
I learnt many things from planning and hosting this event which has allowed me to learn more about managing and running events, interacting with people, preparing social-media content, and boosting my confidence."
Giang Ha
We have over 60 global societies to join, to make new friends and discover different cultures.
Our students share their experience of student life and give you their top tips to get the most out of uni.
Find out more about university life at Huddersfield, from accommodation options, opportunities to expand your CV and our student support services.
Explore the entry requirements for your country by using our search tool.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/leaving-for-the-uk:
We are looking forward to welcoming you in Huddersfield this summer!
If you are travelling by train, please be aware that Huddersfield train station will be closed from Saturday 30 August to Monday 29 September.
This page is for international students who have applied to study at the University of Huddersfield.
You'll find useful information about your next steps, from booking your accommodation to completing your enrolment, and planning your arrival to the UK.
This section sets out the key dates for enrolment according to your intake.
Select the tab when you start your course with us.
Once you receive your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS), you need to apply for your student visa.
When your visa has been granted, you must create a UKVI account to apply for a share code and travel to the UK within 90 days.
More information on this is available on our Immigration Support web pages or you can contact the Immigration team for support.
You must arrange your accommodation before travelling to the UK.
Huddersfield has great housing options for students and you can book with confidence using our recommended and approved accommodation providers.
We strongly advise living in Huddersfield but if you choose to live outside of the town, it must be no more than a one-hour journey from the University by public transport .
If you have any concerns about your UK accommodation address, contact enrolment@hud.ac.uk in advance for confirmation.
You may be asked to show certain documents upon arrival in the UK.
These documents help prove your identity, study status, and living arrangements.
Present your passport and eVisa printout and/or a share code to the border officer.
Be prepared to answer questions about your studies and stay.
For a smooth arrival, keep copies of the following documents ready:
eGates: If your nationality allows, you may use eGates at the UK border.
Speak to our Immigration and Compliance team for support with your visa application.
Explore accommodation options as a student at Huddersfield.
Plan your travel to Huddersfield before you leave home; you can reach the town by train on National Rail and long-distance coach on National Express.
If you choose to travel by train, please be aware that Huddersfield train station will be closed from Saturday 30 August to Monday 29 September.
We recommend travelling with some British pounds (Sterling), especially if you are planning to use taxis or public transport.
You can book a University-approved taxi (scroll down for full details) or buy train tickets in advance but taxis and trains will also be available upon your arrival at Manchester airport .
If you are planning to arrive at a different UK airport, you may find public transport a more affordable option for travelling to Huddersfield.
The University is located in the centre of Huddersfield and is a ten-minute walk from the bus and train stations or 5 minute drive in a taxi.
We have online maps should you choose to walk to your accommodation.
Advice on travelling to Huddersfield by taxi.
Explore campus and it's location using our University maps.
If you book our university-approved taxi service, this ensures that no matter what time you arrive (day or night) there will be a university approved driver at the airport to meet you and take you to your accommodation in Huddersfield.
This service is open to all international students arriving at the below airports.
The University’s approved taxi company is called Edgerton Private Hire .
The cost of this service is payable direct to the driver.
Please make sure you have some British currency with you on arrival into the UK for the taxi fare.
For bookings with more than one passenger, a larger taxi or multiple taxis are required.
The costs for are as follows:
All prices are per single journey/single pickup or drop off and based on Huddersfield local areas as the start/finish point.
**Prices may vary depending on Fuel prices.
Each booking will be quoted a price.
Arrivals from airports outside of Leeds Bradford and Manchester, we would recommend using public transport as this is the cheapest and fastest way to travel.
A taxi from Manchester or Leeds airport should take between 50 minutes to an hour.
Arrival from Liverpool airport will take about 1 hour and 10 minutes.
This service is the only official University of Huddersfield partnership taxi service, and it has been negotiated at a discounted price especially for our students.
We cannot take responsibility for any other service arranged by a student.
If you book this service but do not arrive or do not use the service, you will be invoiced and charged for the taxi.
If you wish to cancel your booking, please email edgertonprivatehire@gmail.com with at least 48 hours' notice and no charges will be made.
The cost of this service is subject to change.
Once you have arrived in the UK you must complete your enrolment.
There are three stages to your enrolment and you will receive an email on the 1 September 2025 from enrolment@hud.ac.uk with instructions of what to do.
You will need to have access to your MyHud portal to complete your enrolment, if you have applied to the University using an agent, it is important that you have your correct log-in details or this can cause delays to your enrolment.
Read our stage-by-stage guide to follow the three stages of enrolment
Want to get the best tips on settling into life at Huddersfield?
Why not hear it straight from our students in this handy guide.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/applicants:
Thank you for submitting your application to the University of Huddersfield.
Already applied to the University?
Log-in to MyHud to track your application.
To access MyHud, you will need your username, password, and MFA code.
Information on paying your deposit and tuition fees for study at Huddersfield.
Please check this section before submitting an enquiry.
The password used to log into MyHud has recently changed, and the password you use will depend on when you applied to the University.
On or before 8 April 2025
You will log into MyHud as detailed on the e-mail you were sent confirming receipt of your application.
Your password is your Date of Birth in the format ddmmmyy all in small case.
For example:       22jun95
On or after 9 April 2025
Your password is your Date of Birth in the format dd/mm/yyyy followed by /MyHud.
For example:       07/04/2000/MyHud
You will be asked to change your password the first time you log into MyHud.
Please see guidance on creating your new password at https://hud.ac/passreset .
This is your university email address format based on your student number which you have been provided with in the emails you have received regarding your admission, and any official admissions documentation.
The username is ‘U’ followed by your student number followed by @unimail.hud.ac.uk.
For example, U1234567@unimail.hud.ac.uk
The MFA is an extra layer of security.
When you log into the portal for the first time, you will be asked to register a phone number, this will then be used to check your identity when you log into MyHud.
See the full guidance and additional options for accessing MyHud in our guide - International Applicant Portal - How to guide
If you are still experiencing problems, then please contact international.office@hud.ac.uk and ensure you provide your student number within the email.
Postgraduate student Rameesha, an international student in the Huddersfield Business School, shares a day in her life as a student at the University.
Watch along as she commutes into Uni, explores campus and shares a little about the support services available to students at Huddersfield.
Our immigration advisers are here to support you with the application process for study visas.
Get support and guidance from your regional officer .
Get admissions support from the admissions team
Ask a student your questions about student life at Huddersfield.
Explore Huddersfield’s accommodation options and reserve your place.
Keep an eye out for useful webinars or drop-in sessions to find out more about studying at Huddersfield.
Accepted your offer and ready to join us?
Get information about your arrival and enrolment.
Note for all enquiries – please do not send multiple enquiries to different departments as it is increasing the volume of queries the University is receiving and adding to the delay in replying.
Where is my offer?
As we are receiving a significantly higher volume of applications than normal, we are processing these as quickly as we can and we apologise for any delay.
In order to assist us with your application, please ensure that you have uploaded all the relevant documents and provided as much information as possible.
It is important that you declare any immigration history as this can cause delays if you do not.
Please remember that if your application is successful, your offer will be available on your portal.
I have met all conditions of my offer, why is my portal not updated?
Admissions staff are busy updating offer letters to show that the conditions have now been met so please be patient as conditions do not update automatically.
Please check your offer letter directly to see when your conditions have been met.
I am applying for a nursing course and have not received my interview and/or feedback?
We have unprecedented volume of applications and we will be in touch with you as soon as possible to either arrange an interview or to provide you with the outcome of your interview.
I’ve paid my deposit but not had confirmation?
Due to the volume of applications, we are processing deposit payments as quickly as possible but there may be a delay in replying to you.
Any payments made will be reflected in your pre-CAS/CAS.
Where is my pre-CAS/CAS?
If you have received your offer and met all the conditions, you will hear from us with a pre-CAS shortly.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/connect-with-your-regional-officer:
We know that it is useful to have someone knowledgeable to give you advice when you are making the decision to study abroad.
At Huddersfield, we have a dedicated team of Regional Officers so you can get the tailored support you need with your student journey, from enquiry through to enrolment.
Our team work from the UK and across a network of recruitment offices around the world.
You can connect with your Regional Officer at any time to
Please note – if you have already made an application, you do not need to fill in this form as our team will be in touch with instructions for your next steps.
Connect with the team best suited to your region by filling in the form:
{{gdpr_label}}
We will use the information you provide to fulfill your request.
You can use the options below to choose how you would like to receive further information, relevant to your enquiry, from the University.
To find out more about how the University of Huddersfield will process your personal data, you can find out more and read our Privacy Notice .
If you have any queries about the use of your information, the University Data Protection Officer can be contacted at data.protection@hud.ac.uk or 01484 473000 .
The form has been submitted successfully.
Browse our undergraduate, postgraduate and pathway programmes at Huddersfield.
We have a team based on campus who are on hand to support you with any questions you have about your chosen course, scholarships, application, or student life.
They also travel to education fairs across the world, so if you would prefer to meet them in-person, keep an eye on our upcoming visits calendar.
We have recruitment offices and approved agents around the world.
Our Regional Offices are here to support your understanding of the UK education system, exploring your course options at Huddersfield and making your application.
The team can also advise on any in-country information regarding your application and visa requirements and support you with your travel and enrolment arrangements.
"I applied to study at Huddersfield from my home country of Nigeria.
The Regional Office team gave me useful information and guidance as well as clear steps to follow for things like my visa application.
The team were on hand to answer my many questions and queries."
Find out what student life is really like, direct from the people studying here.
Explore our international tuition fees and scholarship opportunities.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/applying-to-the-university/application-process:
There is lots to think about when applying for university.
To make things easier, we’ve put together all the information you’ll need to help you make the right choices for your future.
This section includes a step-by-step guide on how to apply to Huddersfield, what documents you’ll need and when.
Don’t skip reading this section, we’ve included everything you’ll need to join our global community.
Please ensure you have all the necessary documents, and that you meet the entry requirements for the course you are interested in before beginning your application.
Apply to the University using our online application form.
Get details on our application process for research degrees at the University.
Browse our entry requirements tool to find the international requirements for your country.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/international-support:
We have a dedicated range of services to support you throughout your journey at Huddersfield, from your initial enquiry through to graduation.
Our visa and immigration advisers are here to support you with the application process for Student and other study related visas.
Discover the different types of study visas or join one of their weekly drop-in sessions to understand your needs.
Discover the visa types and support available from our Visa and Compliance Team.
Explore the different support services at the University, from Wellbeing and Disability to academic support in your school.
Use our useful tool to look up international entry requirements.
Securing a great job after you graduate may be your number one reason for studying for a degree.
At Huddersfield, we have a dedicated careers service to support you with finding a graduate role, from CV checks to interview practice and one-to-one support sessions.
There’s also the option to search for vacancies through JobShop, the University’s dedicated online job listings portal.
As a student at Huddersfield, you’ll benefit from career advice for life, meaning you can access support for the duration of your career.
"I one hundred per cent feel the University has helped me shape my career.
I received a lot of support with my career planning.
Searching for a placement or a graduate role may require some re-tuning of your job-hunting skills, and the University’s careers and employability services is there for exactly that.
They help you go through your CV and can share lots of local and national jobs opportunities through the University’s dedicated job portal."
Discover our Careers and Employability Service and how they can support you with part-time and graduate work opportunities.
Got a question about student life?
You might find the best person to ask is someone who has experienced it.
Why not ask one of our students?
Join one of our regular drop-in sessions for immigration advice.
Already made an application?
Get tips and guidance on your arrival and enrolment.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/architecture:
At the University of Huddersfield, our Architecture and Built Environment courses are your gateway to a future filled with innovation and impact, immersing you in a vibrant learning environment that encourages thinking outside the box and developing solutions to some of the world’s most pressing challenges.
Our courses are designed to spark your passion for design and sustainability.
You’ll explore cutting-edge practices in user-centred design and Building Information Modelling, equipping you with the skills to create spaces that are not only functional, but also environmentally responsible and aesthetically pleasing.
Our commitment to hands-on learning ensures that you’ll have the chance to gain real-world experience through professional links and practice opportunities, both in the UK and internationally.
These experiences are invaluable, allowing you to apply your knowledge in practical settings and build a network of industry contacts.
With an Architecture or Built Environment degree from the University of Huddersfield, you will have career opportunities in architectural design, urban planning and sustainable development.
You can work as an architect, urban designer or landscape architect, creating functional and aesthetically pleasing spaces.
The technical and creative skills you develop will also be applicable in roles such as architectural visualisation, heritage conservation and design consultancy.
Additionally, you may find opportunities in construction management, environmental design and academia, where your expertise in building design and sustainability can drive innovation and education.
Find out about making an application to the University of Huddersfield.
Call our Clearing Helpline on 0333 987 9000 !
We have many experts in Architecture and the Built Environment.
Here are a few of them:
Reader in Architecture
Dr Yun Gao is a Reader in Architecture and Director of Sustainable Living Research Centre in the School of Arts and Humanities.
Senior lecturer and the Course Leader of BSc (Hons) Quantity Surveying
Dr.
Chamindi Malalgoda is a Senior Lecturer and Course Leader for BSc (Hons) Quantity Surveying.
She has led research on disaster resilience and climate change, contributing to over 60 research papers, books, and reports in the built environment field.
Paul is a Senior Lecturer at Huddersfield with 25+ years in construction and project management.
A Chartered Surveyor and PMP®, he leads UG/PG courses, supports RICS APC and promotes tech-driven, competency-based education in the built environment.
Discover what makes the School of Arts and Humanities a dynamic hub for creativity, exploration and groundbreaking research in our school brochure.
Hi guys!
My name is Muryum.
Find out what it's like to be a first year Architecture student at Huddersfield.
Hi, I'm Habibah and I'm just finishing my first year at the University of Huddersfield.
Learn more about a day in my life studying Architecture (International) (RIBA Part 1) BA(Hons).
Find out more about our courses in Architecture and the Built Environment - hear from our students and explore our facilities.
We offer world-class services in research, consultancy and community archaeology – all supported by cutting-edge equipment and facilities – and we are committed to education and dissemination of our research beyond academia.
The Sustainable Living Research Centre, part of ASRI of Sustainable Environment, explores two key themes: sustainable living—covering diverse lifestyles, heritage, tourism, and zero-carbon solutions—and future mobility, including autonomous, shared, and green transport.
Here is what you need to know about applying to the University of Huddersfield.
Attend one of our Open Days or Campus Tours to get a feel of The University and see if it is right for you.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/business:
The business industry is fast-paced, dynamic and versatile, covering a diverse range of sectors, from finance and accounting to logistics, management, and marketing - each one essential for the success and growth of an organisation.
Whether you’re looking to start your career within the business industry, or progress by refining your skills, our business qualifications will equip you with the skills to navigate a competitive market, drive innovation and achieve a lasting impact.
From roles such as digital marketer, financial analyst and project manager to more advanced and specialised roles such as logistics director, management consultant and digital marketing strategist, there are a variety of career paths to choose from with a degree in business.
Understanding Accounting, Finance, and Economics is essential for interpreting the financial health of organisations and economies.
If you’re pursuing a career in Accounting, Finance, or Economics, you’ll play a key role in managing resources, shaping financial strategies, and driving business success.
These disciplines provide the analytical skills, financial expertise, and strategic insight needed to make informed decisions, forecast trends, and guide investment choices.
Whether you're aiming to become a financial analyst, accountant, or move into specialised roles in corporate finance, investment banking, or wealth management, a degree in this field will open the door to a wide range of rewarding career paths.
Learn about Accounting, Finance and Economics
The Logistics and Operations industry lies at the core of organisational success, ensuring the efficient movement, storage, and delivery of goods and services.
As supply chains grow more complex and technology advances, this sector continues to evolve.
A career in logistics, supply chain, or operations management means playing a vital role in streamlining processes, managing resources, and driving efficiency.
With strong problem-solving skills, strategic thinking, and technological insight, professionals in this field can pursue dynamic and rewarding roles from logistics management to operations strategy and procurement.
Learn about Logistics and Operations
The Management and Leadership industry is fundamental to the success of any organisation, providing the vision and direction needed to achieve strategic goals.
A career in this sector involves leading teams, making strategic decisions, and creating a positive, productive work environment.
You'll develop policies, manage resources, and drive change to improve performance.
Professionals in this field are innovative leaders, skilled in problem-solving, strategic planning, and motivating others to achieve their best.
Whether you’re aiming to become a team leader, HR manager, or an operations director, a degree in Management and Leadership offers a wide range of rewarding opportunities.
Learn about Management and Leadership
Marketing is at the heart of connecting organisations with their audiences, helping businesses understand consumer needs, build brands, and create impactful, meaningful campaigns.
A career in marketing lets you shape how people connect with products, services, and ideas through powerful storytelling and strategic communication.
Professionals in this field are creative, data-driven, and digitally savvy.
They are skilled at understanding consumer behaviour, crafting campaigns, and driving engagement in a fast-moving market.
From roles like brand manager and digital marketer to opportunities in PR and content creation, marketing offers a dynamic path across various platforms.
Learn about Marketing

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/computing:
Computing is one of the most versatile, dynamic and sought-after fields, with applications in almost every aspect of daily life.
Whether you're aiming to launch your career with an undergraduate degree or seeking to advance with a postgraduate qualification, considering Computing is an excellent decision.
A degree in Computing provides access to a wide range of career opportunities.
You could explore paths in programming, systems analysis, and database management, as well as specialised areas like cloud computing, game development, robotics, and bioinformatics.
As the landscape of Artificial Intelligence (AI) continues to evolve, professionals in this field will find themselves at the forefront of innovation, shaping the future of various industries.
AI cuts across various sectors as organisations increasingly integrate AI technologies into their operations.
Industries such as healthcare, finance, automotive, and entertainment are actively seeking professionals with AI expertise to enhance their services and drive innovation.
Learn about Artificial Intelligence
The demand for jobs in the computer science industry remains robust and is expected to grow significantly over the next several years.
As technology continues to advance and permeate various sectors, organisations are increasingly seeking skilled professionals to meet their digital needs.
Key areas driving demand include software development, cyber security, data analysis, and artificial intelligence.
Learn about Computer Science
With the increasing frequency and sophistication of cyber threats, organisations across all sectors are prioritising the protection of their data and systems.
As a result, skilled Cyber Security professionals are in high demand to safeguard sensitive information and ensure compliance with regulations.
Learn about Cyber Security
The games development industry continues to grow as the gaming sector expands rapidly.
With the rise of mobile gaming, virtual reality (VR), augmented reality (AR), and esports, there is an increasing need for talented developers, designers, and artists to create engaging and innovative gaming experiences.
Learn about Games Development

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/creative-arts:
The Creative Arts encompass a wide array of disciplines that allow for self-expression and innovation.
This field is dynamic and ever-evolving, with applications in both traditional and digital mediums.
Embarking on a journey in the Creative Arts, whether through undergraduate or postgraduate studies, can lead to a fulfilling career.
With a degree in Creative Arts, you can explore careers in visual arts, such as painting, sculpture and photography.
Other paths include graphic design, animation and multimedia arts.
Additionally, you can delve into literary arts, becoming a writer, poet, editor, or even explore roles in art therapy and education.
Our Art and Illustration courses are designed to help you master the art of visual storytelling, blending traditional techniques with modern digital tools.
You’ll have the chance to work on real projects, collaborate with industry professionals and even showcase your work in exhibitions.
Whether you’re starting out at undergraduate level, or looking to refine your skills as a postgraduate student, our courses will guide you towards a fulfilling career in the arts.
Learn about Art and Illustration
Design is a versatile and innovative field, encompassing both graphic and product design.
At the University of Huddersfield, our courses prepare you to excel in this creative industry by teaching you to design functional, aesthetically pleasing and user-centered products and graphics.
Our cutting-edge facilities provide access to the latest technology and resources, along with expertise and support from experienced academic staff.
Whether you’re starting with an undergraduate degree or advancing with postgraduate studies, our courses aim to equip you with the skills and knowledge needed for a successful career in the field of Design.
Learn about Design
Prepare for a successful career in the dynamic world of Fashion and Textiles at the University of Huddersfield.
Whether you're interested in the design process or fashion marketing, studying with us means that you will gain experience working in state-of-the-art facilities and with academic staff who are experts in the field.
Learn about Fashion and Textiles
Immerse yourself in the world of Film at the University of Huddersfield, where storytelling comes to life.
Our courses cover everything from scriptwriting and directing to cinematography and editing.
You’ll work on real film projects, collaborate with industry professionals and gain hands-on experience with the latest technology.
If you aspire to be a filmmaker, producer or screenwriter, our courses provide the skills and knowledge to succeed in the film industry.
Learn about Film
Learn how to capture the world through a lens with our Photography courses at the University of Huddersfield.
Discover how to create stunning images that tell powerful stories, using both traditional and digital techniques.
Our courses offer practical experience through workshops, exhibitions and even industry placements.
For those interested in commercial photography, fine art or photojournalism, we will equip you with the expertise to excel in the exciting field of photography.
Learn about Photography

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/education:
Education is a dynamic and far-reaching field that offers opportunities well beyond the classroom.
Whether you're supporting learning as a mentor, shaping curriculum, influencing education policy, or guiding student wellbeing, the impact of your work resonates across generations.
Educational professionals bring passion, creativity, and purpose to everything they do.
They help unlock potential, challenge inequality, and build more inclusive, informed communities.
Every role, no matter how behind the scenes, contributes to a shared mission of progress and empowerment.
If you're driven by a desire to make a difference, a career in education provides the platform to turn that drive into lasting change.
The University of Huddersfield has been named as one of the world’s top universities in 14 subjects in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025 .
Education is one of these subjects, ranking in the top 300.
This highlights our dedication to academic excellence and reinforces our position as an internationally leading institution.
*Guardian League Table 2025, published in September 2024.
Explore our range of teaching courses.
Dr Wayne Bailey, Head of the School of Education, and Dr Nena Skrbic, Head of Initial Teacher Education, provide an overview of the School of Education, including its rich history since 1947, its academic expertise, and the school's vision.
The School of Education is located in the Richard Steinitz Building, offering a well-equipped environment for future educators.
Facilities include modern teaching spaces, dedicated study areas, and specialist classrooms designed to support teacher training and professional development.
Our research centre is focused on educational and social challenges.
Benefit from having a gold-rated University on your doorstep without having to pack a single box!
Whilst living at home you’ll be able to access all the support and opportunities that open doors to new hobbies, lifelong friends and experiences that make your time at university unforgettable.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/engineering:
Engineering is one of the most versatile, dynamic, and sought-after fields, with applications in nearly every aspect of modern life.
Whether you’re looking to launch your career with an undergraduate degree or aiming to advance with a postgraduate qualification, pursuing engineering is an excellent choice.
A degree in engineering opens the door to a diverse range of career opportunities.
You can explore career paths in mechanical design, structural analysis, and systems engineering, as well as specialised areas like renewable energy, robotics automotive engineering, and health technology.
Chemical engineering goes beyond processing materials, it’s about designing sustainable systems and improving global quality of life.
A degree in Chemical Engineering  is the first step to a career where you make a meaningful difference by developing efficient production methods, advancing renewable energy solutions, and enhancing product safety.
Whether it’s optimising industrial processes, creating eco-friendly products, or innovating in biotechnology, chemical engineering offers diverse and impactful ways to contribute.
Learn about Chemical Engineering
As global challenges like climate change and urbanisation continue to evolve and are driven by ongoing infrastructure development, civil engineers play a vital role in developing sustainable construction practices.
As populations grow and cities expand, the need for skilled civil engineers to design, build, and maintain infrastructure such as roads, bridges, and water supply systems is more critical than ever.
Learn about Civil Engineering
With the growth of sectors such as renewable energy, telecommunications, and consumer electronics, electronic and electrical engineers are essential for designing, developing, and maintaining a wide range of electrical systems and devices, driven by advancements in technology and the increasing reliance on electrical systems in various industries.
Electronic and electrical engineers will be at the forefront of developing solutions that power the future.
Learn about Electronic and Electrical Engineering
As technologies evolve, mechanical engineers play a crucial role in designing, analysing and improving mechanical systems and devices, driven by the ongoing need for innovative solutions across various industries, including manufacturing, aerospace, energy, and robotics.
As the automotive sector undergoes significant transformations with advancements in electric vehicles (EVs), automation, and sustainable design, mechanical and automotive engineers are essential for driving innovation and maintaining competitive advantage.
Learn about Mechanical and Automotive Engineering

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/health:
Health is a cornerstone of individual and societal well-being, encompassing professions and disciplines dedicated to care, healing, and the promotion of physical and mental wellness.
From Nursing and Midwifery to Social Care, Social Work, Sport and Exercise, Optometry, Pharmacy and Workforce Development, these fields are united by their focus on enhancing quality of life and addressing diverse health needs across communities.
Whether you’re embarking on your journey, expanding your expertise, or aiming to make a transformative impact, our courses blend cutting-edge theory with hands-on practice, equipping you to excel in these vital and rewarding professions.
With pathways leading to careers such as nurse, midwife, pharmacist, optometrist, social worker, or sports therapist, as well as specialized roles like community health practitioner, rehabilitation specialist, or clinical researcher, our qualifications prepare you to address real-world health challenges.
Rooted in compassion, innovation, and a commitment to improving lives, our programs empower you to shape the future of healthcare and wellbeing, both in the UK and globally.
Nursing and midwifery are about more than providing care; they’re about empowering individuals, supporting families, and improving community health.
A career in these fields lets you make a profound impact by offering compassionate care, promoting well-being, and advocating for patients at every stage of life.
Whether it’s delivering personalized patient care, supporting mothers through pregnancy and childbirth, or advancing research in healthcare practices, nursing and midwifery offer diverse and meaningful ways to make a difference in the lives of others.
Learn about Nursing and Midwifery
Health, social care, and social work professions play a crucial role in improving the well-being of individuals and communities.
A career in these fields allows you to make a real difference in people’s lives by supporting their physical, mental, and emotional health.
Whether working in healthcare settings, providing social support, or advocating for vulnerable populations, professionals in these areas are dedicated to fostering resilience and improving quality of life.
From diagnosing and treating medical conditions to providing therapy and social support, health and social care professionals address a wide range of needs.
Social workers support individuals in overcoming life challenges, while healthcare professionals ensure that patients receive the medical care they need.
These fields offer diverse career opportunities to contribute meaningfully to society, from direct patient care to policy development, all while promoting health, equality, and social justice.
Learn about Health, Social Care and Social Work Professions
Sports, exercise, and nutrition are essential to maintaining a healthy lifestyle and improving overall well-being.
A career in these fields allows you to inspire others to lead active lives, improve their physical fitness, and optimize their nutritional health.
By promoting healthy habits and supporting individuals in reaching their fitness goals, professionals in these areas make a tangible difference in people's lives.
From designing personalized fitness programs and developing nutrition plans to researching the impact of exercise on long-term health, sports, exercise, and nutrition offer a range of opportunities to make a lasting impact on both individual health and community well-being.
Learn about Sport, Exercise and Nutrition
Optometry and vision sciences go beyond just correcting eyesight; they’re about enhancing lives and supporting overall health.
A career in this field lets you make a meaningful difference by improving patients' quality of life, detecting early signs of systemic diseases, and advancing eye care technology.
Whether it’s diagnosing vision issues, creating personalized treatment plans, or pioneering research in eye health, optometry and vision sciences offer diverse and impactful ways to contribute.
Learn about Optometry and Vision Sciences​
Pharmacy goes beyond dispensing medications; it’s about optimizing health and supporting patient care.
A career in this field lets you make a meaningful difference by managing treatments, advising on medication safety, and advancing healthcare practices.
Whether it’s practising as a pharmacist, developing patient-centred care plans, or conducting research on drug therapies, pharmacy offers diverse and impactful ways to contribute.
Learn about Pharmacy
We offer an extensive range of specialist courses designed to help you advance your career and develop expertise in key areas of practice.
Many of our graduates have gone on to secure roles such as team leaders, case managers, clinical nurse specialists, and community nurses.
Others have returned to further enhance their careers as community managers, clinical practice educators, practice supervisors, assessors, or even university lecturers.
Learn about Workforce Development

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/humanities:
The Humanities delve into the rich tapestry of human culture and thought.
This field is essential for understanding the complexities of human society and fostering critical thinking and empathy.
Pursuing a degree in the Humanities, at either the undergraduate or postgraduate level, is a wise choice for those passionate about exploring the human experience.
A Humanities degree offers a wide range of career opportunities.
You could work in fields such as history, literature and philosophy, or pursue careers in education, journalism and cultural management.
Additionally, roles in public relations, international relations and non-profit organisations are also common paths for Humanities graduates.
Journalism and Media are dynamic, fast-paced fields that shape how stories are told and information is shared globally.
At the University of Huddersfield, our courses prepare you for success by developing your skills in storytelling, multimedia production, and critical analysis, ensuring you’re ready to navigate and contribute to this ever-evolving industry.
With access to cutting-edge facilities, including studios and editing suites, and guidance from experienced academics and media professionals, you’ll gain hands-on experience in creating impactful content across various platforms.
Learn about Journalism and Media
History is a fascinating and illuminating discipline, offering insights into past events, cultures, and societies that shape the world today.
At the University of Huddersfield, our courses empower you to critically examine historical narratives, interpret evidence, and develop a deeper understanding of human experiences across time.
With access to expert academics, engaging resources, and opportunities for independent research, you'll be supported in building analytical and problem-solving skills valued in many careers.
Learn about History
English is a rich and versatile field, exploring language, literature, and creative expression across time and cultures.
At the University of Huddersfield, our courses prepare you to excel by honing your critical thinking, communication, and analytical skills, while deepening your understanding of the written and spoken word.
With access to expert teaching, inspiring resources, and opportunities to explore diverse texts and ideas, you’ll be supported in developing your academic and creative potential.
Whether you’re beginning with an undergraduate degree or advancing with postgraduate study, our courses are designed to equip you with the skills and knowledge for a wide range of exciting careers.
Learn about English

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/justice:
Law, Crime and Justice are integral to the structure and function of modern society, focusing on justice, security, and the upholding rule of law to societal standards.
They not only provide a foundation for legal and criminal justice systems but also shape policies and practices that influence every aspect of public life.
Whether you’re at the beginning of your career, seeking to expand your expertise, or aiming to make a positive impact within communities or on a global scale, our Law, Criminology, and Policing courses offer the knowledge and practical skills to excel in these critical sectors
From roles like legal assistant, crime analyst, and police officer to specialised careers such as criminal lawyer, criminologist, and forensic analyst, our qualifications prepare you to thrive in roles that demand critical thinking, ethical judgment, and a commitment to justice.
Understanding Law is essential for navigating the rights, responsibilities, and systems that shape society, business, and government.
If you’re pursuing a career in Law, you’ll play a key role in advising clients, interpreting legislation, and advocating for justice.
This dynamic field covers everything from human rights and corporate compliance to public policy and international relations.
Law equips you with critical thinking, logical reasoning, and strong communication skills.
Whether you become a solicitor, barrister, paralegal, or specialise in areas like corporate or human rights law, a Law degree offers a versatile foundation for careers in legal practice, business, and policymaking.
Learn about Law
Understanding Criminology and Policing is essential for tackling crime and promoting public safety.
If you’re pursuing a career in these fields, you’ll explore the causes of criminal behaviour and the role of law enforcement in building safer communities.
Criminology develops your analytical, research, and ethical skills, preparing you for roles in crime analysis, investigation, victim support, and policy.
Policing focuses on public order, crime prevention, and community trust, with careers in frontline and specialist roles like forensics or counter-terrorism.
Studying at Huddersfield provides expert teaching and practical experience, equipping you to shape policy, support justice, and strengthen communities.
Learn about Criminology and Policing
Investigative Psychology applies psychological insights to criminal investigations, offering a scientific approach to understanding criminal behaviour.
It supports law enforcement by helping develop offender profiles, assess crime scenes, and improve investigative practices.
A career in this field combines an interest in human behaviour with the challenge of solving crime and enhancing public safety.
Roles include criminal profiler, forensic psychologist, and investigative consultant, working with police, the CPS, and other agencies.
You might analyse crime patterns, provide expert court testimony, or support suspect identification.
Specialisms like terrorism or cybercrime, and research opportunities, prepare you to shape safer, more informed communities.
Learn about Investigative Psychology

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/performing-arts:
The Performing Arts are a vibrant and expressive field, encompassing disciplines where artists use their voices, bodies, or objects to convey artistic expression.
This field is dynamic and engaging, with a profound impact on culture and society.
Whether you’re beginning with an undergraduate degree or advancing with postgraduate studies, a career in the Performing Arts is both exciting and rewarding.
A degree in Performing Arts can lead to various career paths.
You might become a performer in dance, music, or theatre, or work behind the scenes in roles such as directing, choreography, or stage management.
Other opportunities include arts administration, drama therapy, and teaching, allowing you to share your passion with others.
Music is a powerful and universal art form, blending creativity, performance, and technical skill.
At the University of Huddersfield, our courses are designed to help you excel in this diverse and inspiring field by developing your talents in composition, performance, production, and musicology.
With access to world-class facilities, including state-of-the-art studios, performance spaces, and cutting-edge technology, you’ll receive expert guidance from renowned academics and industry professionals.
Whether you’re starting with an undergraduate degree or advancing with postgraduate study, our courses provide the skills, knowledge, and experience you need to thrive in a wide range of careers in Music.
Learn about Music
Music Technology combines creativity and innovation with cutting-edge technology to shape the sound of the future.
At the University of Huddersfield, our courses prepare you to excel in this exciting field by developing your expertise in sound design, audio production, and music programming.
With access to industry-standard facilities, including state-of-the-art studios, recording equipment, and specialist software, you’ll work alongside experienced academics and professionals to build your technical and creative skills.
Learn about Music Technology
Acting and Performance are captivating and transformative disciplines, combining creativity, skill, and self-expression to bring stories to life.
At the University of Huddersfield, our courses prepare you for a rewarding career in the performing arts by developing your talents in acting, movement, voice, and stagecraft.
You’ll receive expert guidance from experienced practitioners and academics to provide you with the skills, confidence, and industry insight you need to thrive in theatre, TV and film.
Learn about Acting and Performance

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/science:
Science is a vast, versatile and sought-after field with the potential to change the future and people's lives for the better.
It has many applications, across a wide range of industries, research, academia and in every aspect of modern life.
Whether you’re looking to launch your career with an undergraduate degree or aiming to advance with a postgraduate qualification, pursuing science is an excellent choice.
A degree in science opens the door to a diverse range of career opportunities.
We offer undergraduate and postgraduate courses in Biomedical and Life Sciences, Chemical Engineering, Chemistry, Forensic Science, Optometry and Vision Sciences and Pharmacy.
Biomedical and Life Sciences go beyond just studying living organisms; they’re about unlocking the secrets of life and addressing global challenges.
A career in this field lets you make a meaningful difference by advancing our understanding of health, ecosystems, and biodiversity.
Whether it’s researching genetic disorders, or developing scientific patents, Biomedical and Life Sciences offer diverse and impactful ways to contribute.
Learn about Biomedical and Life Sciences
A degree in Chemical Engineering is the first step to a career where you make a meaningful difference by developing efficient production methods, advancing renewable energy solutions, and enhancing product safety.
Chemistry goes beyond mixing substances; it’s about transforming the world through innovation and problem-solving.
A career in this field lets you make a meaningful difference by creating new materials, developing cleaner energy solutions, and advancing medical research.
Whether it’s creating sustainable solutions, designing life-saving drugs, or researching chemical reactions, chemistry offers diverse and impactful ways to contribute.
Learn about Chemistry
Forensic science goes beyond solving crimes; it’s about uncovering the truth and supporting justice.
A career in this field lets you make a meaningful difference by analysing evidence, aiding investigations, and helping to solve complex cases.
Whether it’s examining DNA, reconstructing crime scenes, or advancing forensic technology, forensic science offers diverse and impactful ways to contribute.
Learn about Forensic Science
Learn about Optometry

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/social-science:
Social Sciences provide a deep understanding of individuals, communities, and societies, exploring how human behaviour, relationships, and systems interact to shape the world around us.
From Psychology and Investigative Psychology to Criminology and Policing, these disciplines delve into the complexities of human thought and behaviour, crime, justice, and societal order.
Whether you’re beginning your journey, seeking to develop your expertise, or striving to create meaningful change, our courses combine theoretical insights with practical skills to help you succeed in these impactful fields.
With pathways leading to careers such as psychologist, criminal profiler, criminologist, and police officer, or more specialised roles like forensic psychologist, behavioural analyst, and policy advisor, our qualifications prepare you to take on roles that demand critical thinking, ethical understanding, and a commitment to improving individual lives and broader communities across the UK and beyond.
The study of Psychology examines human thoughts, emotions, and behaviours, offering insights into what drives individuals and groups.
This diverse field addresses areas such as mental health, workplace dynamics, relationships, and criminal investigations, playing a vital role in improving well-being and supporting justice.
A career in Psychology might involve providing therapy, conducting research, or applying expertise to practical challenges.
Roles include clinical psychologist, counsellor, and occupational psychologist, as well as specialised positions such as forensic or educational psychologist.
A Psychology degree opens doors to fields like healthcare, education, law enforcement, and business.
Psychology professionals excel in analytical thinking, problem-solving, and empathetic communication.
They work to understand behaviour, deliver mental health support, and drive positive change in communities and organisations.
Learn about Psychology
The study of Criminology and Policing explores the causes, consequences, and prevention of crime, as well as the systems and strategies used to maintain public safety and uphold justice.
This dynamic field examines criminal behaviour, societal impacts, law enforcement practices, and legal systems, contributing to the creation of safer communities.
A career in Criminology and Policing may involve roles such as criminologist, police officer, crime analyst, or probation officer.
Professionals in this area might work in law enforcement, corrections, community safety, or research, with opportunities to specialise in areas like cybercrime, forensic investigation, or victim advocacy.
A degree in Criminology and Policing also prepares individuals for roles in government, non-profits, and private security sectors.
Criminology and Policing professionals excel in critical thinking, ethical decision-making, and effective communication.
They apply their skills to analyse crime patterns, develop preventive strategies, and engage with diverse communities to promote safety and justice.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/clearing/after-you-apply:
When you apply through Clearing and have achieved your results, you could be made an offer straight away if you meet the entry requirements.
For some courses, you may be invited to an interview before being made an offer.
Find out more about Clearing interviews at Huddersfield.
What a provisional offer is.
What you need to do if you are offered a place in Clearing.
How your offer is confirmed.
Join us on Saturday 16 August to find out everything about studying your chosen course at the University of Huddersfield.
You should receive an email from the University immediately confirming you have been made a provisional offer and what you need to do next.
If not please contact the Student Recruitment Team by emailing study@hud.ac.uk .
A provisional offer through Clearing will only remain open while we have places available, so we recommend that you accept your offer as soon as possible.
See our guidance on accepting your offer.
If you are made a provisional offer that you wish to accept, you will need to log into your UCAS Hub and add this as your Clearing choice, filling in the course and University details.
Please only add a Clearing choice once you have been offered a place by the University.
If you are applying before A Level Results Day, between 5 July and 14 August, you can log into UCAS Hub and add a Clearing Choice from the morning of 5 July until 6pm on 29 July and then from 10am on 6 August until 2pm on 9 August.
If you are applying from 14 August onwards, you can log into UCAS Hub and add a Clearing Choice after 1pm on Results Day, 14 August.
If you are not already in UCAS, before you can add a Clearing Choice, you must make an application through UCAS.
This will then enable you to add a Clearing choice.
You will need our institution code which is H60, plus course details.
Once you have added your Clearing choice in UCAS Hub , the University will then confirm your offer, and it'll show as an acceptance on UCAS Hub .
You can only add one Clearing choice at a time, but if the University doesn't confirm your place, you'll be able to add another.
Find out the next important steps in your journey with us.
Ask questions and chat with fellow classmates.
Explore everything student life at Huddersfield has to offer.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/clearing/top-tips:
Our students and staff have put together a collection of top tips to help you through Clearing:
Even if you’re feeling confident, do some contingency planning, Research and familiarise yourself with the Clearing process before results day.
Understand how it works, what to expect, and the key dates involved.
Make a list of possible alternative courses and universities.
This will be easy to check against the Clearing listings when they are published.
If you become eligible to use Clearing, an 'Add a Clearing choice' button will become available to you UCAS.
If you’re unsure, check directly with your firm and insurance choices as soon as possible.
You’ll find these on the UCAS website, the Telegraph website or the websites of individual universities.
Maximise your choices by trying to be flexible.
Explore alternative courses related to your field of interest or consider related subjects that you may find appealing.
Look for courses that align with your career goals and have available spaces through Clearing.
For example, consider a joint course with another subject instead of a single subject course.
Time is of the essence on results day, and places on popular courses can be filled very quickly!
Universities are unable to offer places unless they are actually speaking to the student.
Have your important documents readily available, including your UCAS personal ID number, exam results, personal statement, and any other relevant paperwork.
This will make the clearing process smoother and less stressful.
Some universities/courses may require an interview as part of the clearing process.
Be prepared by researching the course, reviewing your personal statement, and practicing common interview questions.
We have some additional information about interviews that will help you prepare depending on your chosen subject.
Remember, Clearing is a chance to find a university place that suits you, so approach the process with a positive mindset and embrace the possibilities it offers.
Good luck!
Clearing can feel overwhelming, but you’re not alone.
Hear top tips from students who’ve been through it and found their place.
Discover what options are available to you, depending on the situation you’re in.
Our friendly and experienced Student Recruitment Team are here to answer your questions.
Use UCAS Hub to keep up-to-date with your UCAS undergraduate application.
Find out about results day and what happens next.
If you’re already holding an offer for the University of Huddersfield the following info will help your Results Day run smoothly:
You can call us on 01484 472625 .
We're open on Thursday 14 August : 8.00am to 6.00pm
Our friendly and experienced Student Recruitment Team are here to help you find the right course for you.
You can get in touch with us via email on study@hud.ac.uk or you can call us on 01484 472625 .
We are open Monday to Friday 10am - 4pm.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/clearing/why-huddersfield:
Not only is it one of the friendliest towns, it also offers a low cost of living, including being a top 5 UK location for cheap student rent
See all the ways you can reduce costs at Huddersfield
Our internationally renowned and award-winning university means that you’ll be surrounded by inspiring teaching, innovation, and receive an excellent university experience.
Read more about the awards we are proud to have won including Gold in TEF
Here’s all the info you need about being a successful commuter student at Huddersfield.
See all of our top tips for travelling to our university
At Huddersfield there are lots of ways to meet people outside of your course, develop new skills and get involved in campus life.
Why not join a student society, volunteer, or get involved in one of our many sports clubs?
Find out how to make the most out of your university experience
When it comes to choosing a university, it's important that you get a proper feel for the place.
In this video, our students share how they knew that the University of Huddersfield was the right place for them.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/clearing/what-is-clearing:
Clearing is the time when you can apply for courses that still have places available from 5 July , whether you've already applied to university or not.
Going through Clearing is an opportunity for you to assess and research the options available to you.
Thousands of students go through Clearing every year and successfully find a course.
It is worth researching the courses and universities you are interested in beforehand and gaining an understanding of how Clearing works, so you have the best chance of securing a place on your perfect course.
You can apply to university through Clearing if you:
There are many myths about Clearing.
To help you get a feel for what it’s really like, our students share what they wish they’d known when they were applying through Clearing.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/clearing/enter:
Clearing starts in July and continues until September.
You can only apply to university through Clearing once you’ve received your exam results.
For the majority of students this will be on Results Day on Thursday 14 August 2025 although for some qualifications this may be sooner.
Our clearing hints and tips will help you with Clearing:
You can apply through Clearing once you have your exam results.
A-level results day is 14 August , and this is the busiest day of Clearing, when lots of students are searching for university places.
It will make results day easier if you start your Clearing research early.
Think about alternative courses you would like to study and maybe have a few choices.
You may have decided to choose another course that wasn’t originally on your UCAS Application form and that’s fine but be prepared to answer questions on why you want to study the course.
Decide which university you would like to study at.
Research the universities and make a note of their clearing telephone number and opening hours, including live chat options.
The universities have dedicated staff to talk through your options and explain how the UCAS application works, so don’t be afraid to ask them anything.
Some universities may offer you a course straight away or there may be a follow-up interview or a portfolio review, depending on the course.
If you are made a provisional offer that you wish to accept, you will need to log into your UCAS Hub and add this as your Clearing choice.
This can be done from 1pm on results day ( 14 August ).
If you are not already in UCAS, before you can add a Clearing Choice, you must make an application through UCAS .
If applying to us, you need our institution code which is H60, plus course details.
You may wish to visit the university again once you have been made an offer.
Many universities will offer a Clearing Open Day - the University of Huddersfield is holding one on Saturday 16 August .
Remember, don’t panic, everyone is here to help you.
Clearing is a great opportunity to apply for university to start this September, whether you've already applied in the main cycle or not.
Below are some common scenarios that you might find yourself in:
If you have been accepted by your firm choice university (unconditional firm), it’s not too late to change your mind.
You can release yourself from your unconditional firm place on UCAS Hub and select ‘Decline my place’ or contact your firm university who can do this on your behalf.
However, it is important that there is a place for you on your preferred course elsewhere, so do chat with the university you're interested in first.
If you have been rejected from your firm choice, but have been accepted by your insurance choice, you can still change your mind.
You can release yourself from your insurance place on UCAS Hub and select ‘Decline my place’ or contact your insurance university who can do this on your behalf, at which point, you will then be entered into Clearing by UCAS and will be free to accept a place at another university.
However, it is important that you ensure that there is a place for you on your preferred course elsewhere, so shop around first.
You may still be accepted by your firm and/or insurance university, even if you haven’t met all the conditions of your offers.
Before doing anything else, check on UCAS Hub to see if you still have your place.
Emails will be sent out from UCAS and text messages will be sent out from the University of Huddersfield on Results Day morning to let you know if your place has been confirmed.
You will automatically be entered into Clearing by UCAS if you have been rejected by your firm and insurance universities.
You will then receive a Clearing Number through the UCAS Hub , which you will need to provide when talking to universities about course places.
To find out more visit the UCAS website .
If you haven’t applied to any universities yet, you can apply straight through Clearing.
You need to register with UCAS and make an application, but you’ll only be able to add a choice after you’ve submitted it.
UCAS will send you a welcome email, with details of how to access UCAS Hub , and your Clearing number.
They will also explain the steps you need to follow.
Once you have permission from a uni you want to go to, you can add the course in UCAS Hub .
Check our Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) page .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/applying-to-the-university/clearing:
We are pleased to offer places for international students through Clearing.
You can apply for places, whether you've already applied to university or not.
Clearing, is your gateway to securing a place at a UK university.
It's designed to match students with unfilled university places.
Don't worry if you haven't applied yet, Clearing is open to everyone!
However, i n order to check your suitability, we require you to email osclearing@hud.ac.uk and submit the following documents:
Our experienced and dedicated team will support you through your clearing application.
Our international admissions team will respond to you as a priority and provide further guidance of the next steps.
We understand that the Clearing process can seem overwhelming, with the tight deadlines and all the details to handle, such as obtaining a student visa and finding accommodation.
But you don't have to do it alone.
If you would like to contact us you can speak directly to your Regional Officer by filling in our form .
Find out more about the tuition fees you will pay for your University of Huddersfield course.
Contact our dedicated international team to support your Clearing application.
English Language Requirements
Please ensure that you meet our requirements, see our English Language qualifications and requirements page .
As you are applying in clearing, you must have met our English language requirements at the point of application as there is insufficient time to still do so for the September 2024 intake.
If you do not currently meet the necessary English language standards, we encourage you to apply for the next available intake.
This will give you more time to obtain an IELTS or one of our other accepted tests, or to complete one of our Pre-Sessional English Language Programmes .
Visa Refusals
It is important to declare any previous visa refusals.
Having a previous visa refusal does not necessarily mean that you will not be offered a place to study with us.
Providing this information ensures we can make an accurate decision regarding your application.
We look forward to welcoming you to Huddersfield and helping you take the next step towards your academic and professional goals!
Take a tour with some of our current international students
Please email our dedicated team who will support you through your clearing application at osclearing@hud.ac.uk with the following documents:

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/uni-life/why-huddersfield/lecturers:
At Huddersfield you’ll be taught by stand-out lecturers – meaning you’ll learn from some of the best, helping you to be the best.
**Permanent staff, after probation: some recently appointed colleagues will only obtain recognition in the months after their arrival in Huddersfield once they have started teaching.
Being a Shakespeare Specialist, moving from the USA to West Yorkshire – Home of the Brontë Country was an exciting leap and big boost for my research.
I strive to model an intellectual curiosity and excitement about the texts we study and try to bring them to life in the classroom.
When Shakespeare is mumbled in a monotone it turns people off, so it’s vital English students know how to read with emphasis and feeling to pick up the dramatic nuances of the language.
My module Global Shakespeares challenges the idea of Shakespeare as an exclusively British cultural property.
My students read Shakespeare plays alongside adaptations from outside the UK.
I was honoured to win the University’s Diversity Prize for this module.
Before teaching, I worked in local authority early years provisions.
I started at practitioner level and then moved into management.
I have been teaching for over a decade now, starting my career in a college, before moving to University.
I work collaboratively with students in the classroom, sharing practical and theoretical expertise, skills and knowledge.
I love the buzz and energy when students are busy during activities or when they bring ideas and contributions into the classroom.
Visiting students on placement is something I enjoy - especially when I hear how students are valued in the organisation.
I've previously worked in clinical practice as an Operating Department Practitioner in a local hospital.
I loved my clinical work and enjoyed teaching learners in practice.
I was given the opportunity to be a lecturer practitioner, splitting my time 50/50 between working in practice and teaching at the University.
I had a great experience at the University both as a student and as a lecturer practitioner, so I jumped at the opportunity to come and work here full time.
I lived in Huddersfield growing up, so I have strong links to the town, and I have done all of my study here.
It sounds a bit strange, but the moment I walked onto campus I got a great feeling about the place, and that hasn’t changed.
We’re in the top 50 UK universities for Research Power, and three quarters (over 60%) of all our research is world leading and internationally excellent (REF, 2021).
We submitted 589 staff into the Research Excellence Framework in 2021.
Have a look at our courses and find the perfect one for you.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/uni-life/why-huddersfield/start:
Your course, a new hobby, passion, or unexpected skill.
Lifelong friends, door-opening placements, an opportunity that takes you to the other side of the world...
University’s not just about getting qualified or honing your craft.
At Huddersfield you’ll be studying on a campus that’s got everything you need to start a global career.
Beautifully convenient, open and friendly, welcome to our wonderful campus.
From your lecture theatres to your labs, faith rooms to the gym, library and Students’ Union.
It’s everything in one place, surrounded by the beautiful Yorkshire countryside, and close to major cities; Leeds and Manchester.
To achieve great things at University, top class facilities help.
We’ve invested £156 million in our campus to make an environment you can thrive in.
From the Students’ Union to global campus events, find out what could make your time at University about much more than studying.
They give you an idea of what studying at Huddersfield is like.
“University of Huddersfield has a great atmosphere; the staff are always willing to help and the students union goes above and beyond to support any needs.”
“The facilities are amazing.
It has everything you could ever want!
The teaching is fantastic and the support is great.
Honestly couldn’t have chosen a better university for me!”
“One of the reasons I love studying at Huddersfield is because every lecturer knows you personally and you're always greeted with a friendly smile.”
“The University puts the needs of its students as its main priority, and so makes changes to the campus in order to improve the lifestyle of students.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/uni-life/why-huddersfield/skills:
Our emphasis on ensuring our students are prepared for the world of work means that you’ll leave university with more than just a degree.
You’ll gain skills to get you noticed by employers and be supported in developing a stand-out CV.
You can study for the Global Professional Award (GPA) alongside your undergraduate degree.
On completion, you’ll receive a GPA certificate from the University of Huddersfield.
This award will help to set you apart from other graduates and develop valuable qualities that we know employers are looking for.* *Available alongside all full-time, undergraduate first degrees with a minimum duration of two years.
Find out more about the Global Professsional Award
**HESA Graduate Outcomes 2021/22, UK domiciled, other activities excluded.
We help current students and graduates prepare for self-employment, freelancing and starting their own business.
Earn money and pad out your CV with a part time job while you study.
Here at Huddersfield, we help current students and graduates prepare for self-employment, freelancing and starting their own business.
Our Enterprise Team supports students and graduates to set up businesses and to meet other like-minded peers during their degree or after they graduate.
They are based in the Enterprise Hub - a fantastic modern facility for start-ups housed in the 3M Buckley Innovation Centre .
The centre offers free hot desk office facilities, one to one business advice and support, and a range of business facilities such as landline telephones and bookable meeting pods.
When it comes to choosing a placement while you are studying at undergraduate level, the conventional route is not your only option.
If you think you've got what it takes, you could choose to set up and run your own business during an Enterprise Placement Year .
The University also offers a range of enterprise-focused degrees and one to one and group support to help students develop their ideas into successful businesses ventures.
The Enterprise Team will support you when starting your own business by providing business advice and support, funding opportunities and office facilities.
Its series of Enterprise Events is an ideal starting point for those who want to increase their enterprise awareness.
These events offer advice on writing a business plan, researching the market, developing a brand and essential networking skills.
The Team will work with you to help you make a success of your business.
Following an initial chat with a Business Advisor you can apply for on-going support and access to the Enterprise Team’s services through Enterprise Support.
Enterprise Support is open to UK/EU current students of the University and graduates within five years of graduation who have viable business or self-employment propositions and can evidence high commitment and enthusiasm for their business idea.
Apply for Enterprise Support if you have the enthusiasm and ambition to start out on your own.
Our approach is to guide you to become an employable graduate, encouraging you to get involved with activities that can help you stand out in the jobs market.
Your journey starts the very minute you begin University and continues through your working life.
As soon as you’re a student here, we’ll be looking out for ways to help you get a fulfilling and rewarding job.
We can also help you with identifying transferable skills if you are a graduate and looking for a career change.
Where you can access hundreds of vacancies from organisations that want Huddersfield’s students and graduates.
We have useful tools such as psychometric tests and recorded workshops which you will find useful.
Our Graduate Career explorer tool is another valuable source of information to give you an idea of what options you have with your degree.
For more information or if you have any questions, visit the Careers website , follow us on twitter: @HudUniCareers , or get in touch at careers@hud.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/uni-life/commuting-to-university:
Many of our students choose to live at home and commute to Huddersfield.
It’s becoming an increasingly popular way to give university life a go while still keeping one foot in the familiar.
It’s also a suitable option if you’re hoping to reduce you additional financial responsibilities.
But, whatever the reason, there’s a great number of transport links to and from Huddersfiled, making it a perfect location to start your university experience without leaving home.
Our campus is situated right next to the town centre - only a 10-minute walk from the train and bus stations – making your commute a breeze, and connecting you to everything the major cities Leeds, Manchester and Sheffield have to offer.
Whether you're using public transport, driving, cycling or walking getting to campus is quick and easy!
Find out how to get here
There are ways of saving money when using public transport to commute to university!
If you’re planning on driving to campus, there are numerous car parks situated near campus and in the town centre.
Get the information you need about cycling to campus, including where to park your bike and tips on bike security.
Read our handy guide on becoming a successful student which contains lots of helpful information for commuter students
Juggling studying requirements wherever you may be, including making your timetable work for you and studying at home.
Family and friends can make a big difference to student success, providing emotional and practical support throughout your student journey.
Find out everything you need to know about making the most of your time.
We offer a range of facilities and opportunities to explore and practice faith and religion on campus and in the Huddersfield area.
Here at Huddersfield everything is accessible in one place and our Student Central building is the hub of it all.
Meet friends and relax before lectures or grab a bite to eat and catch up with your reading list.
Student Central combines access to the library, computing, sport, leisure and eating spaces all under one roof.
Study at a time that’s right for you with all the information you need to hand in our library in the heart of campus.
Commuter students are eligible for Headstart to gain extra UCAS points.
{{ item.title }}
Save money on train ticket costs with a Young Persons Railcard:
If travelling by bus there are savings to be made with the WY Metro student cards for Under 19s where you can get up to 44% discount off your travel costs:

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/open-days/undergraduate:
Come and get a feel for what studying with us is really like at our next event, Saturday 27 September.
Take a look at some of the Open Day highlights, to see what you can expect to discover at one of our events.
See Highlights
Sign up for a reminder
We know how much you’ll love Huddersfield and we want to make our Open Days as accessible as possible, so we're offering a contribution to your travel costs.
Book and attend an Open Day, and you could gain 8 UCAS points through our Headstart scheme.
Our Support Services are available for all students.
They can help with a range of things from student finance to careers and wellbeing to accommodation.
Huddersfield is located between Leeds and Manchester.
Here is everything you need to find us, no matter where you are coming from.
After the Open Day, you can claim up to £75 towards your journey between your home address and the University of Huddersfield, if you attend (make sure you check in on the day so that we know that you attended).
The below table provides details of the contributions we will make:
Claiming your travel contribution is simple.
After your visit to campus, you will receive an email from Aspire at Huddersfield.
This will include instructions and a link to their online portal so that you can claim your travel contribution.
Please allow up to five working days after your visit to campus to receive your email from Aspire at Huddersfield.
For more information see our Travel cost contribution scheme Terms and Conditions .
Is the event you want to attend not yet open for booking?
Sign up for our emails to be the first to hear when booking is available, plus other tips and info about applying for undergraduate courses.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/open-days/book:
Check your inbox for confirmation of your registration as well as future information and reminders about this event.
We'll let you know by email when your prospectus is on its way.
We'll send you information about the Open Day by email from opendays@hud.ac.uk .
Please keep an eye on your inbox for tips, reminders, and key details.
If you don't see any emails, remember to check your junk or spam folder.
For a full list of subjects available to study at the University of Huddersfield, please visit our subjects page .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/open-days/postgraduate:
Check this space for our next Postgraduate Open Days.
Or sign up for emails and we'll let you know when you can book!
Come along to an on-campus Postgraduate Open Day and discover all there is to know about our wide range of postgraduate taught courses, research degrees and professional development options at the University of Huddersfield.
Our Postgraduate Open Days are a great way to discover what your postgraduate options are at Huddersfield.
3pm – 5:30pm
Head into our Postgraduate Fair where you’ll find stands showcasing our academic subject areas, our Schools and our range of support services.
If you’ve not visited us before, take a tour of campus, by heading to our Help Desk to join the next tour.
3.30pm–4.30pm – Postgraduate Study and Finance talk
Listen to our presentation covering the different aspects of undertaking postgraduate study and the funding support available.
3.30pm–4.15pm - Postgraduate Teacher Training talk
Alternatively,  learn about training to teach across various educational stages: early years, primary education (PGCE), secondary education (PGCE), and the post-14 lifelong learning sector.
You can also learn more about the possibility of a tax-free bursary for eligible students.
You’ll have the opportunity to speak to:
"Attending a Postgraduate Open Day allowed me to get all my questions answered, and I discovered opportunities for study and funding that I hadn’t been aware of."
Holly Barker, Management with Marketing MSc
For more information contact us:
Student Recruitment Team: study@hud.ac.uk
Telephone +44 (0)1484 472625

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/open-days/apprenticeships:
Come along to our Apprenticeships Open Day and meet local colleges, local employers, and apprenticeship teaching teams who are passionate about apprenticeships in our region.
The Open Day is an opportunity for you to:
West Yorkshire Apprenticeship Information Day
Event information
Coming soon...
Learn more about the University’s Centre for Apprenticeships.
If you are interested in attending this event as an exhibitor, please contact apprenticeships@hud.ac.uk to register your interest.
The Centre for Apprenticeships will keep in touch with further information.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/distance-learning/webinars:
Discover various engaging and informative webinars available to watch at your convenience.
Browse the list below and find the topics that interest you.
Please note that our On-demand webinars are pre-recorded.
For the most up-to-date course information, including tuition fees and start dates, please see our course pages .
Explore what it's like to study Computer Science at Huddersfield.
Our on-demand webinar introduces you to the academics behind our AI, Cyber Security and Data Analytics postgraduate courses, offers on campus and through Distance Learning.
Watch our on-demand webinar with Dr Leigh Fleming to explore how a postgraduate degree in Engineering Management at Huddersfield can prepare you for leadership.
Discover the value of a postgraduate qualification in Career Development, with insights from our Course Leader, Sue Edwards, plus our alumni and current students.
Watch our webinar with Course Leader Shamaila Iram for insight into our BCS accredited online Data Analytics course.
Join Dr.
Saad Khan, Senior Lecturer and Course Leader, to explore our online Cyber Security & Digital Forensics MSc.
Watch this webinar to hear from the Management MSc (Distance Learning) Course Leader, Dr Shelley Harrington.
Learn about the course structure and key benefits.
Learn how you can launch or advance your leadership career with an online MSc Management from University of Huddersfield Careers Consultant, Chris Web.
Find out more about our online Management MSc course, and hear directly from Course Leader, Dr Hayley German.
Join Jodie Boyd and Bob Gilworth to discover our postgraduate Career Guidance course offering, which includes distance and blended learning study options, and how you can develop skills for a successful career in the sector.
Join Dr George Bargiannis, Deputy Director of the Centre for Autonomous and Intelligent Systems at the University of Huddersfield, to discover more about intelligent systems and technologies and how you can develop essential skills for a successful career in AI.
Watch our on-demand webinar to hear top tips on how to apply and find out more about course entry requirements - including our new Performance Based Admissions (PBA) option.
Join Jodie Boyd, Course Leader for the MA/PGDip Career Development at the University of Huddersfield, to learn more about our postgraduate course offering, multiple start dates and flexible study options.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/international-information-day:
From 1 - 7 November we will be hosting an Information Week.
The week will kick off with a double-header Information Day on Saturday 1 November followed by a week of school and region specific events.
Join us for these exciting live events designed exclusively for prospective international students!
Experience engaging academic and student panels and practical presentations from our International Office, and dedicated support staff, all for free and from the comfort of your home.
There will also be an International Information Day on Saturday 29 November .
Event Details:
All the events during the International Information Week will be hosted on Microsoft Teams.
When you have registered you will be sent an email with details of how to access the event.
Don't miss this opportunity, register now as places are limited.
Saturday 1 November – International Information Day There will be two main sessions introducing everything from visa guidance to accommodation and student support.
Please sign up for these sessions below.
On Saturday 1 November , each school will present from 9.45am - 10.30am .
Register for the school talk you are interested in as well as the 9am-12pm session.
Applied Science - Book Now
Arts and Humanities - Book Now
Business School - Book Now
Computing and Engineering - Book Now
Education and Professional Development - Book Now
Human and Health Science - Book Now
Study Group for Foundation and IY1 (10.00-10.30) - Book now
Saturday 1 November Agenda
Morning Session
Afternoon Session
Join additional live sessions throughout the week for in-depth insight into your chosen school or region.
Each session has a dedicated link and registration form for you to complete.
Date and Time
Session
Booking Link
Monday 3 November 9.30am – 11am
School of Business, Education and Law
Book Now
Monday 3 November 1pm – 2pm
Middle East and Central Asia
Monday 3 November 2pm – 3pm
School of Applied Science
Monday 3 November 3.30pm – 4.30pm
Region Special - Nigeria
Tuesday 4 November 9.30am – 11am
School of Arts and Humanities
Tuesday 4 November 11.30am – 12.30pm
Region Special - India
Tuesday 4 November 2pm – 3pm
School of Human and Health Sciences
Tuesday 4 November 3.30pm – 5pm
Postgraduate Study Options
Coming soon
Wednesday 5 November 9.30am – 11am
School of Computing and Engineering
Wednesday 5 November 2pm – 3.30pm
Wednesday 5 November 4pm – 5pm
Region Special - Europe and Americas
Thursday 6 November 9am – 10am
Region Special - East/Southeast Asia
Thursday 6 November 11am – 12pm
Thursday 6 November 1pm – 2pm
Thursday 6 November 2pm – 3pm
Region Special - Pakistan
Thursday 6 November 4pm – 5.30pm
Distance Learning Open Day
Friday 7 November 9.30am – 11am
Friday 7 November 11.30am – 12.30pm
Region Special - South Asia
Friday 7 November 2pm – 3pm
Friday 7 November 3pm – 4pm
Region Special - Africa
We will also be hosting another International Information Day on Saturday 29 November, registration is open now .
Who Should Attend?
These free online events are tailored for future students from across the globe who are eager to learn more about studying in the UK at an award-winning university.
What’s in it for You?
Get your questions answered directly by our expert staff, knowledgeable academics, and current international students.
The event will inform and prepare you to study in the UK.
Understand why Huddersfield is a popular choice for international students and how we can help you achieve your academic and career goals.
Opportunities Await:
During the International Information Day, you can speak to our academics, students and services including the International Office.
Our Diverse Courses:
Speak directly to our academics and explore the hundreds of courses on offer.
Ensure you are choosing the best course for you, tailored to your ambitions.
Application Process and Tuition Fees:
With intakes in January, May and September, get valuable information and tips on how to apply and understand our competitive tuition fees.
Merit-Based Scholarships:
Learn about exclusive scholarship opportunities for international students.
Student Visa, Compliance, and Immigration:
Engage with our immigration specialists to plan your journey seamlessly.
Student Life Insights:
Connect with current students and gain a real perspective on life in Huddersfield as a student.
Accommodation Options:
Explore your accommodation choices, from houses to halls.
Did you know student accommodation in Huddersfield has one of the lowest average costs in England.
Discover Our Beautiful Town:
Learn about our picturesque location, surrounded by stunning countryside yet within half an hour of four major cities.
Outstanding Support Services:
Uncover the robust academic, social, and well-being support available to international students.
Career Pathways and Part-Time Employment:
Understand your career options with guidance from our career experts, available during the Information Day.
Find out why we have such a high graduate employability rate.
Award-Winning University:
Understand why the University of Huddersfield is recognised as an award-winning institution.
From o ne of only 13 Universities to be TEF Gold in all three categories, ranked 5 stars by QS, t eaching s taff rank in the top three in England and in the top 20 for placement opportunities in the UK.
Data from the post event questionnaire (March, 2025)
Data from the post event questionnaire, everyone who completed it said the event was 'useful' or 'very useful' (March, 2025)
Take a tour of our award-winning campus and our beautiful town with some of our current students.
If you've not had chance to visit our campus, let this virtual tour show you what we have on offer.
From specialist laboratories, studios and performance spaces to a modern library, sports centre and computing equipment.
Read Nadeem's blog about how attending an Information Day helped make his decision about studying in Huddersfield.
And find out what he is up to now as a student here.
Find your course.
Undergraduate, postgraduate, research degrees and apprenticeships.
You can find out more during our International Information Day.
Find out what some of our current international students enjoy about living and studying in Huddersfield.
Follow us on social media and keep up to date with the latest events.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/its-not-too-late:
Missed the January UCAS deadline?
You can still apply to study with us in September 2025.
Depending on your circumstances, you can do so in one of the following ways.
Browse our range of career-focused courses and find the right one for you.
Find all the information you need on the application process for our undergraduate courses.
You can use UCAS Extra to apply if you have received decisions from your five original choices, and either didn’t receive or declined all of your offers.
Thinking of applying through Clearing this summer?
Head to our Clearing webpage to find out when it opens, how it works and if you’re eligible.
From our award-winning campus and lecturers to our location in a budget-friendly town, find out why choosing Huddersfield is a sound investment in your future.
Find out about what happens after you submit your application to study with us.
Our pocket prospectus is your go-to guide for learning more about us and getting a feel for student life at Huddersfield.
Not sure what course you want to study?
You can start by browsing our subject areas for inspiration.
Visit the UCAS Hub to check the status of your application.
Check out our list of key application dates for 2025 to ensure that you don’t miss any important deadlines.
If you have any questions or want to find out if the course that you're interested in still has places available, please contact our Student Recruitment Team on +44 (0)1484 472 625 or email study@hud.ac.uk.
Further information about UCAS Extra is available on the UCAS website .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/uni-life/staying-safe:
Whoever you are, whatever your background, belief or orientation, you should be able to embrace and enjoy your university experience.
As this is often the first taste of true independence many of our students experience, whether living at university or commuting, we have several safety and security measures in place to ensure university life is safe for everyone.
Not only that, but according to CrimeRate, Huddersfield is ranked as the safest major town in West Yorkshire.
So, you can be sure that if you choose Huddersfield, you’re in safe hands.
We have a range of safety procedures and processes that have been put in place to ensure that our campus is safe, secure and accessible for students.
We have a dedicated security team based in our Harold Wilson Building.
It’s their job to monitor activity across the campus all year round.
We keep strict opening times across the campus which provides students with access throughout the day, and additional access out of hours.
We have a dedicated member of the West Yorkshire Police stationed at the University of Huddersfield.
It’s their job to provide advice, information and support.
The University’s online reporting tool allows students to report incidents of hate crime, bullying, sexual violence and other anti-social behaviour.
To ensure our campus remains a safe place to study, work and socialise we have a dedicated security team, who work out of the Security Hub in the Harold Wilson Building, Main Entrance.
The Security Hub is open and staffed 24 hours a day, 365 days a year , monitoring campus CCTV and providing security advice and assistance.
This includes if you are out and about in town in the evening – if you feel unsafe you can visit the Security Hub and the Security staff will help and provide advice, including calling a taxi to help you get home.
The Security Hub is also the place to:
We provide all students with ID cards; these also double as swipe cards which give you access to various university buildings and facilities.
We advise all students to look after their ID cards, use them responsibly and report it if they are lost or stolen.
University buildings are generally accessible between the hours of 8.00am – 6.00pm, Monday to Friday.
Student Central is open until 10pm Monday to Friday and at weekends, so students can access:
Library Services access hours vary depending on the time of year.
Outside of these hours, buildings are automatically secured, but students can request access to specific areas when it is necessary for their School or course.
The Safer Student Officer at the University of Huddersfield is based on campus Monday to Friday and can be directly contactable by students.
It’s the Officer’s job to ensure students are safe by providing crime prevention advice and safety tips, either on a one-to-one basis or in groups.
They can also support students with any organised events which would benefit from a police presence.
We encourage our students to report any suspicious activity or concerns to the Safer Student Officer.
Share and Support is the University of Huddersfield's dedicated online reporting tool.
The service provides students, staff and visitors to campus the opportunity to report incidents of hate crimes, bullying, harassment, sexual violence and further anti-social behaviour, in a safe, specialist and supportive environment.
Students can report incidents using their own names or anonymously.
The Share and Support website offers a range of recommended support services both on campus and in the community.
Students who indicate that they would like to speak someone will be contacted by a member of our friendly Wellbeing Team.
The Wellbeing Service also offers bookable appointments, an abundance of 24/7 support , and a comprehensive support directory .
We asked two international students to blog about their experiences of studying at Huddersfield so far.
Our student site is full of useful information about our various safety procedures and policies.
There’s more than meets the eye in Huddersfield, so find out what it has to offer you and your university experience.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/order-a-prospectus/undergraduate:
Please note this prospectus is only available to post to UK addresses.
If you are an international fee paying student we recommend you request the International Guide .
If you are an international fee paying student currently in the UK and would like the Undergraduate prospectus delivered please continue to order.
It won't be long!
While you're waiting for it to arrive, you can explore everything related to undergraduate study at Huddersfield online.
Undergraduate - University of Huddersfield

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/order-a-prospectus/postgraduate:
If you are an international fee paying student currently in the UK and would like the Postgraduate prospectus delivered please continue to order.
If you would like to find out about studying 100% online, please visit our Distance Learning pages Distance Learning - University of Huddersfield
In the meantime you can view the prospectus digitally Digital Postgraduate Prospectus by University of Huddersfield
While you're waiting for it to arrive, you can explore everything related to Postgraduate study at Huddersfield online.
Postgraduate - University of Huddersfield
Loading...

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/chat-with-our-students:
Sometimes the best way to understand something is to speak to someone who knows about it.
That’s why we encourage people who are thinking of applying for the University of Huddersfield to reach out to our current students to learn more.
Through this page you can connect with one of our current student ambassadors who can provide first hand insight into all aspects of student life in Huddersfield, from advice about the campus and lectures to tips on transport links for commuting and to discuss our friendly student support services.
Whatever you need to know, they’re the best people to ask.
Use the filters below to select the ambassador best matched to your criteria or simply browse their profiles.
For questions relating to entry requirements, the application process and fees, please contact study@hud.ac.uk .
If you are enquiring as an international applicant, please contact international.enquiries@hud.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/our-awards/reduced-inequalities:
The University of Huddersfield is ranked 1st in the world for Reduced Inequalities in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings for 2025.
This ranking reflects the University’s work to widening opportunities for students from all backgrounds, both within the UK and around the world.
The annual THE Impact Rankings identify and celebrate universities that demonstrate commitment to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by the United Nations.
Huddersfield is ranked 1st in the world out of 1,261 institutions – 55 in the UK - for SDG 10 – Reduced Inequalities .
Institutions that place highly in SDG 10 demonstrate a commitment to ensuring equal opportunity and inclusion as a priority both within and across borders.
Their environments support diverse student populations including first-in-family students and international students from developing countries, as well as individuals with disabilities.
SDG 10 evaluates the performance institutions in the following areas:
Our submission achieved maximum scores in the following areas:
Factors contributing to these maximum scores include our Headstart scheme, designed to provide fairer access to groups currently facing barriers to Higher Education by giving participants the opportunity to gain an extra 8 UCAS points.
Our demonstrable commitment to various Equality, Diversity and Inclusion initiatives – including winning a Stonewall LGBTQ+ Inclusive Employer Gold Award – was a strong element of our submission.
In addition, the clear means through which students can access additional support where needed due to a disability and our extensive accessibility provisions on campus were also contributing factors.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/our-awards/ofsted:
The outcome of the inspection is as follows:
The Inspectors met with numerous colleagues who provided evidence to demonstrate our strong safeguarding culture, our robust student services offering, and our supportive leadership and management.
Here are comments made by the Inspectors in the report:
“Apprentices thrive on their programmes due to the consistently strong quality of education throughout the provision.
They rapidly develop substantial new knowledge, skills and behaviours which they use to benefit their workplaces.”
“Apprentices benefit from a well-rounded curriculum which is carefully planned to provide broad learning experiences.
They demonstrate a professional approach to their work and strive to meet the high standards set by their employers and the teaching staff.”
“A comprehensive well-being service supports apprentices with a range of personal concerns, underpinned by a strong culture of safeguarding.
Teaching staff are mindful of apprentices’ workload, enabling them to maintain a positive balance between study, work, and life.”
“Teaching staff ensure that the curriculum is consistently inclusive and provide tailored interventions to meet apprentices’ specific needs.
They work seamlessly with the university’s disability support team to implement individual support plans.”
“Across all programmes, teaching staff use a range of highly effective teaching strategies to help apprentices embed new knowledge and skills.”
“Highly expert teaching staff keep their subject knowledge up to date, integrating their own research at the leading edge of their sector into their practice.”
“Leaders and managers develop strong and sustained relationships with employers.
They work collaboratively with them to understand the needs of their sector and to adapt and modify the design of the curriculum."
“Leaders value the role that their apprenticeship programmes play in providing opportunities for people from a wide range of socio-economic backgrounds to access higher education opportunities and in retaining talent in the local region.”
We offer a number of outstanding apprenticeships.
We are an award winning and a 'truly inspiring and innovative' University.
Read more about the awards we are proud to have won.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2024/october/award-commitment-mental-health-wellbeing:
The University of Huddersfield has been recognised for its commitment to mental health and wellbeing with a University Mental Health Charter (UMHC) Award.
It recognises the University’s dedication to fostering a supportive and inclusive environment for both students and staff.
The accolade, from student mental health charity Student Minds , follows a thorough assessment process, with Huddersfield one of five universities to achieve the award this time .
It comes as the University was able to demonstrate significant progress in several key areas, with the final report from assessors showcasing a number of excellent practices that contribute to a positive mental health culture.
One standout initiative was the Ready Steady Study programme, which provides pre-entry transition support to students.
Developed in collaboration with the student community, it helps new students acclimatise to university life.
The University's approach to assessment, which focuses on inclusivity and challenge, was also highlighted as an example of excellent practice, ensuring all students have the best chance to succeed.
The Huddersfield Differential Attainment Project , which uses data to address inequalities in student progression and attainment, was also singled out as excellent.
Further praise was received for the University’s commitment to external partnerships which further enhance the support available.
This includes the Wellbeing Team working closely with the Kirklees Suicide Prevention Team and the University Health Centre to ensure that students have access to comprehensive mental health resources.
The University's commitment to creating an inclusive and accessible campus through initiatives such as accessibility walks and the design of the Jo Cox More in Common Centre, were also recognised as excellent practice.
The report also recognised that the University provides a range of services to support student mental health and wellbeing with a multidisciplinary team of Mental Health Advisors, Wellbeing Advisors, and Counsellors available to assist students.
The Health and Wellbeing Academy programme of support , created by Mental Health Nursing students, has the “ potential to be sector-leading excellent practice ”, it said .
Professor Jane Owen-Lynch, Pro Vice-Chancellor, Teaching and Learning, commented: "We are incredibly proud to receive the University Mental Health Charter Award.
This recognition is a testament to the hard work and dedication of our entire university community in prioritising mental health and wellbeing.
We remain committed to fostering a supportive and inclusive environment for all our students and staff."
Matt Mills, Director of Student Services commented: "This award highlights the significant progress we have made in enhancing our mental health support services.
Initiatives like the Ready Steady Study programme and the Huddersfield Differential Attainment Project demonstrate our commitment to inclusivity and student success.
To be one of only 15 universities in the UK who have achieved this award is a testament to the hard work of our whole team and recognises our whole institution approach to supporting both student and staff mental health.”
Student Minds encourages all universities to adopt a whole–university approach to mental health and become places that promote the mental health and wellbeing of all members of the university community.
The charity’s UMHC Award is an accreditation scheme to recognise good practice and support ongoing development.
The University of Huddersfield first joined the UMHC Programme when it launched in 2021 and is now among 15 universities that have successfully achieved the Award.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/our-awards/business-school-of-the-year-2023:
Huddersfield Business School has been named the Business School of the Year at the prestigious Times Higher Education Awards 2023 .
The Awards' judges commended the School for how it has embedded itself in its local region, putting an emphasis on supporting communities.
In the past two years, Huddersfield Business School has driven numerous local projects, creating jobs and boosting local businesses.
One of the standout achievements for the School has been the Help to Grow programme , a government-backed scheme to support small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
More than 60 companies have benefited from Help to Grow with Huddersfield Business School so far.
Through two major European Structural and Investment Fund programmes focusing on supply chains and manufacturing, the University was able to give strategic support to more than 200 local manufacturing companies in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic, opening new market opportunities for businesses and helping them improve efficiency.
The judges also recognised how the Business School’s programmes have engaged students.
In 2021-22, 170 of the University’s Master’s students provided consultancy services for 33 clients.
One such consultancy project, with Spectrum People , an independent charity for vulnerable adults and young people in Wakefield, engaged 781 people and led to the creation of 82 jobs.
Judges commended the School for its
“very clear purpose and identity” and programmes of work, which “aligned brilliantly with the distinctiveness of the region”.
“The School has delivered fantastic evidence of impact and outcomes, such as job creation and high levels of engagement to the benefit of students, the local community, employers and the economy”.
The ceremony in Liverpool on 7 December was attended by a delegation from Huddersfield Business School, including:
“This is an absolutely fantastic achievement, reflecting the work of academic and professional services colleagues across the School.
The award particularly recognised the work of the School in supporting our local external communities post-Covid.
"Thank you to everyone who contributed to us achieving this award – staff, students, local businesses and partners across our region and beyond.
It is a reminder of the real difference the School is making to the lives of our students and the wider community.”
The Times Higher Education awards have been running for 19 years and are designed to celebrate the many examples of excellence across the sector.
Discover more about the Huddersfield Business School

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/our-awards/global-teaching-excellence-award:
Over the past ten years we have worked incredibly hard to build a student experience that is second to none.
Professor Bob Cryan, Vice-Chancellor
In 2017, the University won the first Global Teaching Excellence Award recognising the University’s commitment to world-class teaching and its success in developing students as independent learners and critical thinkers (Higher Education Academy).
Winning the award further emphasises factors such as the outstanding levels of academic support offered to students; the valuable work experience that is available; plus an international strategy that creates extensive opportunities for overseas collaboration.
So you can feel confident that the University of Huddersfield will support you to be the best that you can be.
Take a look at some of the reasons why Huddersfield makes a great first choice university.
Open Days are a great chance to look at our facilities, talk to staff and current students from the course you are interested in.
Search for undergraduate, postgraduate and research degrees.
The Global Teaching Excellence Awards (GTEA) are organised by the UK-based Higher Education Academy (HEA) as a way to recognise the world's best institutions.
GTEA is open to all universities and higher education providers worldwide.
To assess the award the HEA assembled a 17-strong judging panel from nine countries.
They examined the highly-detailed submissions from entrants, who were required to describe their institutions, mission and leadership and to provide evidence for teaching excellence.
Of course a particular note of congratulations goes to the University of Huddersfield whose submission was unanimously applauded by our international panel of judges for the drive and energy with which the executive team is leading teaching.
I’d also highlight the University’s success in developing students as independent learners.
Professor Stephanie Marshall, The Higher Education Academy’s Chief Executive

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2024/june/most-improved-university-qs-world-rankings-2025:
The University of Huddersfield has surged in the 2025 QS World University Rankings making it the Most Improved University in the UK.
The University’s reputation with employers and among academics around the world has seen it make significant progress in the latest overall rankings compiled annually by QS.
It is now on the brink of the top 500, having placed in 501 st position and among the very best institutions worldwide.
This constitutes a 66-place rise from last year’s 567 th ranking position.
As a result, the University has been named the Most Improved University in the United Kingdom by QS and is ranked 49 th among UK universities.
Over the last three years, the University has risen up the rankings of the global institutions surveyed by more than 200 places.
Huddersfield’s performance in the various categories, methodologies and surveys indicates how it has become a university of international renown and a destination for researchers from around the world.
The University ranked highly in the indicators for International Students, Sustainability, International Faculty and International Research Network.
Earlier this year, the University of Huddersfield was also named as one of the world’s top universities across thirteen different subjects with some subjects ranked as high as 20th (Music) and 32nd (Performing Arts) in the QS World University Rankings by Subject.
Pro Vice-Chancellor International Professor Alistair Sambell commented: “I am delighted to see the continued progress the University of Huddersfield has made in these prestigious international rankings, reflecting the quality of education we offer our students and the academic standing of our research.
To have been recognised by QS as the ‘Most Improved’ university in the United Kingdom is especially satisfying.”
The 21 st edition of the QS World University Rankings features 1,503 institutions across 106 locations and is the only ranking of its kind to emphasise employability and sustainability.
Of the universities surveyed, there were 21 new entrants and 461 institutions rising in the rankings.
When it came to universities moving up in the ranks, the UK was third with a total of 20 improving institutions, after China with 48 and India with 28.
In addition, 90 UK universities are included in the rankings, with 20 climbing – including Huddersfield, 52 dropping and 18 remaining stable within their rank or band.
Reputation indicators draw on the analysis of 17.5m academic papers and expert opinions of more than 240,000 academics and employers.
Visit the QS World Universities website to see the full results.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2024/may/uoh-tops-uk-list-the-young-university-ranking-2024:
The University of Huddersfield has placed top in the UK in the global Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2024.
The latest THE league table lists the world’s best universities that are 50 years old or younger.
The results show the University of Huddersfield is the highest-placed young university in the UK and is ranked 88 th internationally.
The universities are judged across all their core missions – teaching, research, knowledge transfer and international outlook.
Huddersfield scored particularly well in the research quality and international outlook categories.
More than 1,100 institutions were considered in the 2024 rankings, with Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, topping the league table for the second year in a row.
Other UK universities featuring behind Huddersfield include Plymouth, Bournemouth, Northumbria and Portsmouth.
Professor Alistair Sambell, Pro Vice-Chancellor for International, commented: “Huddersfield’s position as the top young University in the UK in these THE world rankings reflects the University’s growing global stature, built on the outstanding teaching and research delivered by internationally-renowned staff.”
The announcement of the 2024 rankings comes after successes for the University of Huddersfield in the last 12 months which include receiving a Gold rating in the latest Teaching Excellence Framework , reflecting the University’s commitment to providing an exceptional student experience and fostering excellent student outcomes.
In addition, Huddersfield Business School was named the Business School of the Year at the Times Higher Education Awards 2023.
The judges commended the School for how it has embedded itself in the local region, with an emphasis on supporting communities and recognised the numerous local projects driven by the Business School, creating jobs and boosting local businesses.
Furthermore, in the 2024 QS World University Rankings By Subject , the University of Huddersfield was named as one of the world's top universities in 13 subjects and in the top 300 for ten of those subjects, including Music, Performing Arts, Communication & Media Studies and Nursing.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/our-awards/the-university-of-the-year:
In November 2013, the University was awarded the Times Higher Education University of the Year.
Judges highlighted the University’s outstanding record for student satisfaction and employability with the University placed in the top ten in the country in both categories.
We were inundated with messages across social media from students, staff, alumni and the local community as well as applicants who were keen to congratulate us and express their pride at attending the number one University in the country.
Students took to their blogs to talk about the pride they felt at attending the University of the Year.
Here’s what they said...
“There are some amazing facilities here that you just wouldn’t see at other universities.
The 3M Buckley Innovation Centre is one of the things the judges commented on that really sets our university apart, and I totally agree.” Vicki Milward, Music Journalism BA(Hons)
“To me, being part of the University of the Year is a big deal.
Not only does it imbue a sense of pride, it means that my university has been and continues to put its students’ best interests first, constantly striving to improve.” Alex Bloor, English Language BA(Hons)
“I am only a first year here, but knowing that my chosen University has been given this coveted title really means something to me, as I believe it should to all students.” Rebecca Haslam, Journalism BA(Hons)
The award attracted a lot of attention in the local and regional media as well as congratulatory messages from the University Chancellor Sir Patrick Stewart .
Here’s what he said...
@HuddersfieldUni as Chancellor I am so proud of Huddersfield winning University of the Year.
Bravo VC Bob Cryan, faculty and student body.
- Patrick Stewart @SirPatStew
The University of the Year 2013 award marks an impressive couple of years for the University in which we have collected the Entrepreneurial University of the Year Award , two Queen’s Awards for Enterprise and the Guardian Inspiring Leader Award .
These factors, combined with a continued commitment to being ‘a university that is at the heart of its home town’ meant that Huddersfield won the top award, cementing its position as one of the country’s most innovative universities.
We asked our staff and students why they thought the University of Huddersfield won the Times Higher Education University of the Year Award.
Here's what they said.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2021/november/centre-for-precision-technologies:
The announcement that the University of Huddersfield has been awarded a Queen’s Anniversary Prize was made at a special reception held at St James’s Palace on Thursday 25 November.
The Queen’s Anniversary Prize is the highest national honour award for UK higher education and is granted by Her Majesty the Queen every two years.
The Award recognises outstanding work by UK universities that shows quality and innovation and that delivers real benefit to the wider world.
Present to hear about the Institute’s success was the University of Huddersfield’s Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Professor Tim Thornton.
In early 2022, there will be an official prize winners’ reception and dinner at the Guildhall City of London, attended by University of Huddersfield staff and external associates.
Professor Bob Cryan, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Huddersfield said: “I am absolutely delighted at the news that the University has won this prestigious award.
It recognises the innovative and ground-breaking work led by Professor Dame Jane Jiang, and Professor Liam Blunt, Professor Andrew Longstaff, Professor Paul Scott and Professor David Walker in the School of Computing and Engineering in the role of advanced measurement in smart manufacturing.”
Queen’s Anniversary Prizes are part of the UK’s honours system, but awarded to institutions rather than individuals.
They were first presented in 1993 in order to recognise universities and colleges that had carried out ground-breaking pioneering research in a wide range of disciplines.
The prizes are awarded after highly-detailed submissions are assessed in an independent review process that takes several months and involves a wide range of consultations with experts.
A shortlist is drawn up and discussed by the Awards Council of the Royal Anniversary Trust.
Finally, a list of recommended institutions is presented to HM The Queen for approval, on the Prime Minister’s advice.
Advanced Measurement in manufacturing (manufacturing metrology) is critical infrastructure for manufacturing growth and productivity and underpins smart manufacturing across all sectors.
In the UK, up to 20% of manufacturing cost, c.£15 billion per annum, is product verification.
The University’s Centre for Precision Technologies (CPT) is widely recognised as both a UK and world-leading centre for advanced manufacturing metrology, as demonstrated by large-scale research programmes, extensive industrial engagement, and both broad and far-reaching impact nationally and internationally.
Its research, over more than two decades, has provided modern, cutting-edge measurement theory and technologies for dimensional and surface texture, machine performance; and mathematics for measurement.
The team also takes an active leadership role in identifying UK future research priorities in the field, bringing together academic and industrial communities via future horizon scanning and road-mapping activities.
The CPT team has worked with over 150 different industry partners of all sizes and from a broad range of industrial sectors.
It has tackled prevalent problems faced by industry in the modern transition of manufacturing, such as critical demands on measurement toolkits to facilitate mass personalisation of products, digitalised manufacturing value chains, right first-time fabrication, and zero waste and carbon neutrality.
CPT has provided industry with many original, creative and innovative technology solutions (hardware and software), provided training and measurement services and, most recently, created a spin-out company to further commercialise emerging technologies.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2019/november/inst-railway-research-queens-anniversary-award:
A TEAM of researchers and engineers at the University of Huddersfield whose mission is to future-proof the rail network by making innovations in track, rolling stock and safety has won one of the most coveted honours in Higher Education, awarded after scrutiny by the Prime Minister and approval from Her Majesty The Queen.
At a special event at St James’s Palace in London, it was announced that the Institute of Railway Research (IRR), based at the University for the past seven years, is to receive a Queen’s Anniversary Prize, for research and development that has brought significant improvements to the railway industry.
Present to hear about the Institute’s success was its Director, Professor Simon Iwnicki, alongside the University of Huddersfield’s Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Professor Tim Thornton.
In early 2020, there will be an investiture ceremony at Buckingham Place, attended by University of Huddersfield staff and students and presided over by a senior member of the Royal Family.
Simon Iwnicki said: “On behalf of the whole team, I am delighted that we have been awarded this prize.
It is a wonderful recognition of the work that we have been carrying out and the impact this is now having on the railway industry.”
In 2015, the University of Huddersfield received a prize for its world-class research in the field of new music.
A shortlist is drawn up and discussed by the Awards Council of the Royal Anniversary Trust .
The Institute of Railway Research led by Professor Iwnicki relocated to the University of Huddersfield, which could provide space and resources for the significant investment and expansion that was envisioned.
Since then the Institute has trebled in size as it built up a worldwide reputation for its research into the interaction between railway vehicles and the track.
It has used this improved knowledge to support the railway industry in the UK and around the world.
The Institute has participated in many projects with industry and academic partners which have led to significant developments, innovations and practical applications.
This work has attracted major investment in world-class equipment.
For example, at the start of 2019 the Centre of Excellence in Rolling Stock was officially launched at the Institute, sharing in £90 million of funding, distributed among three Centres of Excellence, from the Government and from private industry by the UK Rail Research and Innovation Network (UKRRIN).
One of the outcomes is the construction of a world-class, £3.5 million pantograph testing rig, soon to come into use.
Professor Simon Iwnicki is one of 54 to be elected this year as a Fellow by the Royal Academy of Engineering
The Institute of Railway Research will team with industrial partners to develop environmentally-beneficial hybrid locomotives
The pantograph test rig will sit alongside the Institute’s current £4.5m test rig designed to evaluate vehicular and tracks systems

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/our-awards/official-honours:
In November 2015, the University's role in expanding the global boundaries of new music, opening the ears of millions to exciting contemporary sounds, earned a Queen’s Anniversary Prize, one of the most coveted distinctions in UK Higher Education.
The prizes are a component of the country’s official honours system and are awarded every two years to a small number of institutions.
Customarily bestowed by Her Majesty The Queen herself at a Buckingham Palace ceremony, the prizes are intended to recognise and publicise the contribution that universities and colleges make to the intellectual, economic and cultural life of the nation and to society and individuals in Britain and overseas.
All eligible universities and colleges in the UK are invited to submit entries for the biennial Queen’s Anniversary Prize.
They are then assessed by an Awards Council, which makes recommendations to Her Majesty, on the advice of the Prime Minister.
Queen's Anniversary Prize stated that: Over four decades the University has established itself as a global leader in contemporary music.
Wide-ranging impacts in culture, education and commercial applications have grown from investment in world-class facilities and staff, strategic partnerships with festivals and industry bodies, and pioneering international collaborations.
“New music inspired by the University’s leadership in this area has reached new audiences, developed generations of creative artists, and contributed to the vitality of cultural life in the UK and internationally, as well as to the social and economic wellbeing of the region.
The University’s name has become synonymous with excellence in contemporary music-making, and its leaders are committed both to sustaining this distinctive legacy and to setting future trends.”
Among the many supporting arguments were the fact that in the 2014 Research Excellence Framework, all of the University’s research impact in music was scored “internationally-excellent” and “world-leading”.
The work of several members of the academic staff working in contemporary music was highlighted and the entry document also stated how the University created and hosts the largest and foremost international platform for new and experimental music in the UK in the form of the Huddersfield Contemporary Music Festival, which has a global reputation.
Read more about the Queen’s Anniversary Prize .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/our-awards/awards-history:
Not only are we climbing the education league tables, we are also receiving national recognition for our work across a number of different areas including being named the Times Higher Education University of the Year in 2013.
Take a look at the awards we have won over the last few years:
Educate North Awards - Diversity, Equality and Inclusion award
A TEF Gold-rated University
Ofsted Outstanding provider – Apprenticeships
QS 5 Star Rating - Internationality - University of Huddersfield
Business School of the Year 2023 – Times Higher Education Awards 2023
Queen’s Award for Enterprise in the category for International Trade
2022 Times Higher Education Awards - Outstanding Contribution to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
Queen’s Anniversary Prize for advanced measurement in smart manufacturing
Best university employability strategy - National Graduate Recruitment Awards 2021
Huddersfield Civic Society - Annual Design Awards - Sovereign Design House
HR Excellence in Research award
Athena SWAN Bronze Award for Gender Equality renewed
2020 Times Higher Education awards - Most Innovative Teacher
2020 Times Higher Education awards - Outstanding Estates Strategy
2020 Times Higher Education awards - Outstanding Contribution to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
VC wins the 2019 Examiner Business Person of the Year award
Queen’s Anniversary Prize for future-proofing the rail network
CMI Outstanding Innovation and Delivery Award
3M BIC shortlisted for National Technology Award
Guardian University Awards - Course and Curriculum Design
THELMAS - Outstanding Leadership and Management Team
THELMAS - Outstanding Strategic Planning Team
Cost Sector Catering Awards - University/College Award
Teaching Excellence Framework Gold
Global Teaching Excellence Award
Times Higher's world top 200 "young universities"
First in England for professionally qualified teaching staff
The Times Higher Leadership and Management Awards – Outstanding Library Team
The Guardian Higher Education Awards - Inspiring Buildings - Heritage Quay
Archive Service Accreditation - Heritage Quay
Royal Historical Society Public History Prize - Heritage Quay
Outstanding Contribution to Leadership Development - Times Higher Education Awards
Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further Education
Athena SWAN Bronze Award - Equality Challenge Unit
New University of the Year - Educate North Awards
Leadership Award - Educate North Awards
CASE Circle of Excellence Awards - Undergraduate Prospectus 2015/16 Bronze Award - Marketing, Communications and Student Recruitment
Outstanding Finance Team - Times Higher Education Leadership and Management Awards
The Times Higher Education Best University Workplace
QS Stars Rated for Excellence - QS 4 Star Institution
CASE Circle of Excellence Awards - Recruitment Short Videos Gold Award - Marketing, Communications and Student Recruitment
CASE Circle of Excellence Awards - Viewbooks and Prospectuses (Print) Silver Award - Marketing, Communications and Student Recruitment
Government Customer Service Excellence Award - Computing and Library Services‌
The Times Higher Education Awards – University of the Year
Queen’s Award for Enterprise Promotion – Liz Towns-Andrews
Queen’s Awards for International Trade
The Guardian Higher Education Awards – Inspiring Leader Award – Professor Bob Cryan
The Times Higher Education Leadership and Management Awards - Outstanding Registry Team Award
CASE Circle of Excellence Awards - Digital Communications Bronze Award - Marketing, Communications and Student Recruitment
HEIST Awards Best Undergraduate Prospectus Gold Award - Marketing, Communications and Student Recruitment
HEIST Awards Best use of Digital/Social Media Gold Award - Marketing, Communications and Student Recruitment
The Times Higher Education Awards – Outstanding Contribution to the Local Community
The Guardian Higher Education Awards – Student Experience (My Reading)
The Times Higher Education Leadership and Management Awards – ICT Initiative of the Year
The Times Higher Education Leadership and Management Awards – Outstanding University Fundraising Initiative
The Times Higher Education Leadership and Management Awards – Outstanding Leadership and Management Team
The Times Higher Education Awards – Entrepreneurial University of the Year
The Times Higher Education Awards – Outstanding ICT Initiative

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/our-awards/the-entrepreneurial-award:
We are proud to have been awarded three accolades for enterprise, winning Entrepreneurial University of the Year and two Queen’s Awards.
In 2012 we were awarded the Times Higher Education award for Entrepreneurial University of the Year.
The award recognises institutions that have embedded entrepreneurial activity into the fabric of their institution to which fosters enterprising thinking and delivers significant entrepreneurial impact.
The University was commended by judges for its “entrepreneurial outlook championed at the highest levels of the institution”.
Elements that set us apart included:
We were also commended for the way in which courses embed entrepreneurship into the curriculum, and for the BA in Enterprise Development that is supported by Theo Paphitis.
As part of this course, students are encouraged and supported in their studies to think innovatively and the University has a number of visiting professors and entrepreneurs in residence.
Enterprising students are celebrated at Huddersfield through a Students’ Union award and the Vice-Chancellor’s Enterprise Awards, including Student Entrepreneur, Student Project and Ambassador.
We have received three prestigious Queen’s Awards – one for enterprise promotion and two for international trade.
The Queen’s Award for Enterprise Promotion is for individuals who have played an important role in promoting enterprise skills and supporting entrepreneurs.
The prestigious award was bestowed on Liz Towns-Andrews, the University’s 3M Professor of Innovation, one of ten recipients to be given the award.
Individual Queen’s Awards are bestowed for life on the recipients, who are invited to a Buckingham Palace reception.
Professor Towns-Andrews conceived the state-of-the-art 3M Buckley Innovation Centre which helps support businesses with outstanding research and conferencing facilities.
The Queen’s Award for Enterprise - International Trade is awarded to businesses who have achieved substantial growth in overseas earnings and commercial success for business size and sector.
Since 2008, we have formed many international partnerships and has seen our international student population grow significantly.
In 2011, international students voted the University of Huddersfield the ‘best university in the world for student experience’ in the International Student Barometer conducted by i-graduate.
Read more about our Queens Award for Enterprise - International Trade.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2022/april/queens-award-2022-international-trade:
The University of Huddersfield has been given the prestigious Queen’s Award for Enterprise in the category for International Trade.
The institution takes great pride in how it has fostered its international links in recent years, and currently welcomes around 3,400 students from 100 different countries.
In the last three years the University has seen a 510% increase in the numbers of postgraduate students from its key overseas markets, including India, Nigeria, China, Pakistan and Kuwait.
This has helped it garner the Queen’s Award for International Trade for Outstanding Short-Term Growth in overseas sales.
The University’s response to the challenge of COVID-19 also helped its international students, with all teaching delivered online and an assessment process, called Score As I Learn , monitoring learning progress on a weekly basis.
"The Queen’s Award for Enterprise is announced on Her Majesty’s Birthday and is reserved for the most outstanding UK organisations,” says University of Huddersfield Vice-Chancellor Bob Cryan.
“We have set an ambitious strategy around our international development so I am tremendously proud that our achievements have been recognised through a prestigious Queen’s Award for International Trade.
"This is hot on the heels of the Queen’s Anniversary Prize for our research and so represents a remarkable year for Team Huddersfield.
My many congratulations and thanks to all of those involved."

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/our-awards/guardian-inspiring-leader:
In 2013, our Vice-Chancellor Professor Bob Cryan , was named Inspiring Leader at the inaugural Higher Education Awards launched by The Guardian newspaper.
Professor Cryan was selected from a shortlist of eight leading figures across the sector and took more than a third of the votes cast on the Guardian’s website.
Professor Cryan has made a huge impact at Huddersfield since he became Vice-Chancellor in 2007.
Professor Cryan’s financial stewardship was identified as ‘exemplary’ as he had taken ‘the university out of debt whilst embarking on £100m of visionary developments without borrowing.’
Professor Cryan has led major developments at the University with the citation stating that ‘Under Bob’s inspirational leadership, Huddersfield has undergone a major transformation resulting in a tripling of postgraduate and international students and moving up 47 places in the Guardian League Table.’
Professor Cryan is a graduate of the University of Huddersfield and holds five degrees including an MBA and two doctorates.
He strongly believes that teaching should be underpinned by research and is an active researcher who has co-authored over 200 publications.
Bob is extremely proud of the University and the town of Huddersfield and continues to drive the University’s mission to be an inspiring and innovative University of international renown.
Read more about the Inspiring Leader award.
At the inaugural Educate North Awards, Vice-Chancellor, Professor Bob Cryan CBE, won the Leadership Award.
Professor Cryan - who was present at the event - said that he was delighted by this personal victory and by the title bestowed on the University of Huddersfield.
“We’ve won a lot of awards in recent years, but the excitement and the pride never fades.
Every prize like this is a tribute to the hard work of our staff and students in making sure that our University continues to make remarkable progress”.
Read more about the Leadership Award.
In November 2015, the University won the Outstanding Contribution to Leadership Development award at the Times Higher Education Awards, held in association with Santander Universities.
The awards, now in their eleventh year, are widely recognised as the Oscars of the higher education sector, shining a spotlight on the outstanding achievements of institutions, teams and individuals in the UK higher education sector.
The Huddersfield Academy of Leadership and Management was introduced with the aim of securing “truly transformational leadership at all levels in the university”.
Leaders and managers were enrolled in the academy – piloted in 2013-14 – to help them develop the confidence and skill set to become truly effective leaders.
Under the scheme, participants received coaching and mentoring, psychometric assessment and feedback from their colleagues and managers, as well as keeping a reflective learning log.
They were also given support to achieve formal qualifications and took part in workshops and master-classes on leadership.
Read more about the Outstanding Contribution to Leadership Development award.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2019/november/vc-bob-cryan-examiner-business-person-of-the-year:
THE University’s Vice-Chancellor took the top prize at this year’s Huddersfield Examiner Business Awards .
Professor Bob Cryan CBE was presented with the Examiner Business Person of the Year award for his success in achieving a global outlook and reputation for the University as well as his tireless work as a champion of the regional economy, benefitting not just the town but West Yorkshire as a whole.
Professor Cryan received his award from the Editor of the newspaper, Wayne Ankers, at a celebration awards night held at Huddersfield’s John Smith’s Stadium and hosted by BBC Look North presenter Harry Gration.
It is the second time that Professor Cryan has won the award having first held the title ten years earlier in 2009.
When presenting the award Mr Ankers told the audience of local business representatives how Professor Cryan ensured that the University continually strived to work with and help local businesses through a variety of initiatives.
“His day job is not where it stops,” said Mr Ankers, who praised Professor Cryan for taking the time to offer expert advice and stewardship to so many small businesses.
“You have inspired and helped so many businessmen and women over the years.
It is an honour to present you with this award.”
Last night’s accolade is the second of the year for Professor Cryan who in February was appointed as the new Chair of the Board of Companions of the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) and also became a member of its Board of Trustees.
Over the course of his career Professor Cryan’s many achievements include becoming the UK’s youngest professor of engineering, at the age of 30, and subsequently the youngest leader of a UK university upon his appointment to the role of Vice-Chancellor at the University of Huddersfield in 2007.
Recognition of his achievements as a leader have included The Guardian’s Inspiring Leader Award in 2013 and The Telegraph’s Educate North Inspiring Leader Award in 2015.
Under his leadership, the University of Huddersfield has also been recognised as the winner of the first ever Global Teaching Excellence Award , run through the Higher Education Academy, now Advance HE, and a Gold rating in the 2017 Teaching Excellence Framework.
The University has also won The Daily Telegraph Educate North New University of the Year 2015/16, a Queen’s Anniversary Prize in 2015 and the Times Higher University of the Year 2013/14.
Professor Cryan has been a member of the Leeds City Region LEP Board since 2013 and was appointed as a Deputy Lieutenant of West Yorkshire in 2012.
The University is one of only two to achieve a Gold Award in Yorkshire and the Humber
Nearly 70 per cent of Huddersfield staff hold doctorates according to a Higher Education Statistics Agency survey of 164 institutions
…according to figures released recently by the Higher Education Statistics Agency

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2019/march/cmi-award-huddersfield:
THE team that is helping to ensure that the University of Huddersfield has the highest managerial standards in its sector has received a prestigious award from a leading professional organisation.
The University’s HR Staff Development Team has been named as the 2019 winner of the Outstanding Innovation and Delivery Award bestowed by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI).
It was selected by an independent panel of international judges.
Danny Benton is the University’s Head of Staff Development and is playing a key role in designing and administering a sequence of study programmes for managers at the University so that they can achieve CMI’s Level 7 Award in strategic management and leadership and thereby gain chartered status.
In less than a year, 83 senior managers have successfully completed the process.
“The programme is based on a blended-learning approach, with workshops, online learning, tutorials and assessments,” said Mr Benton.
Candidates then make a presentation to him and the University’s Vice-Chancellor, Professor Bob Cryan.
Professor Cryan was recently announced as the new Chair of the Board of Companions of the CMI and as a member of its Board of Trustees.
Some 110 middle managers at the University are now undertaking a new programme tailored to their roles, and they too will achieve chartered status by the summer.
Then a further 150 people managers will take part in the scheme.
The intention is that all staff with management responsibilities will become chartered.
The University of Huddersfield is the first higher education institution in the world to aim for this.
“The objective is to help give our leaders and managers authenticity and credibility.
When the learning is embedded, the University will be a better-run place,” said Mr Benton.
He added that he been contacted by several other universities, eager to learn more about the CMI programmes at Huddersfield, and there will be metrics available to demonstrate their effectiveness.
After chartered status has been achieved, managers must maintain it via a continuous professional development programme that Mr Benton has also devised.
The University aiming to become the first HEI in the world where all its managers have achieved CMI Chartered Manager status
The University of Huddersfield takes first step towards all its managers achieving CMI Chartered Manager status
Nearly 67 per cent of Huddersfield staff hold doctorates according to a Higher Education Statistics Agency survey of 164 institutions

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/our-awards/qs-five-star:
In 2020 and 2023 QS gave us an overall 5 Star Rating.
This international benchmarking system renders[SB1]  Five Star universities as world-class in areas such as Teaching, Employability, Facilities, Innovation, Internationalisation and Inclusiveness.
The QS Stars system evaluates universities against a range of important performance indicators:
The University was awarded the highest international 5 Star rating for Teaching, with areas of strength including overall student satisfaction and satisfaction with teaching.
Teaching underpins the University’s strategy and we are proud to be the first and only university in the UK where 100% of permanent teaching staff* are Fellows of the Higher Education Academy.
So, you’ll learn from some of the best, helping you be the best.
Employability was also recognised as an area of strength for the University with a Five Star rating.
We scored the maximum rating available for graduate employability rate and career service support.
We recognise the importance for students of gaining experience in the ‘real world’ during their time with us.
We’re in the Top 20 in the UK for placement years in industry (HESA 22/23).
The University achieved a top 5 Star rating in the category of Internationalisation.
We scored the top rating for our international research collaborations, international students, our international support centre and for international diversity.
We achieved the top rating in the facilities category, providing students with a superb learning environment.
The University scored the maximum number of points available for student accommodation, health support services and student clubs and societies.
Inclusiveness
The University excelled in the area of inclusiveness, achieving the maximum 5 Star rating.
This category considered scholarships and bursaries and low-income outreach and was seen as a key factor for the QS star rating.
More information on QS Stars.
In the 2025 QS World University Rankings, we have been named as one of the top universities globally for the following subjects**:
* Permanent staff, after probation: some recently appointed colleagues will only obtain recognition in the months after their arrival in Huddersfield, once they have started teaching.
**QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/our-awards/best-university-workplace:
In 2014, we were named Times Higher Education (THE) Best University Workplace.
The University claimed top spot in every one of the four key areas which were covered in a survey sent out to staff at higher education institutions across the country.
Note: numbers are a % of respondents who agreed with each statement.
The University’s Vice-Chancellor, Professor Bob Cryan , was delighted with the result: “It has made me very proud indeed.
Our staff are our biggest asset and hugely important to the success of the University.
Time and time again I have seen them go the extra mile for their students, which is what it’s all about.
So it’s pleasing to know that they are happy in their work and in the direction that the University is heading.'

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2021/october/student-employability-strategy-award-win:
The Director of Student Services and Head of Careers and Employability were presented with the 2021 award at the ceremony, held in London’s Grosvenor House and hosted by TV funny man Alan Carr.
The University was one of 10 shortlisted institutions for the award that was judged independently by graduate employers.
“We are absolutely delighted to be recognised for our employability strategy, as a university we strive to give everybody the opportunity to succeed regardless of their starting point,” says Claire Aydogan, Head of Careers and Employability.
“It is a delight to have a senior management team that are brave and bold enough to try such innovative strategies such as the Global Professional Award (GPA) and Kickstarters.
Without that brave leadership, we would not be able to try these new concepts which are opening doors for our students to attain those graduate opportunities.”
The GPA ensures that all students at the University have three years of growth and development around employability, enterprise skills, wellbeing and resilience.
All undergraduates leave with a globally recognised Level 5 qualification from the Chartered Management Institute (CMI).
The Kickstarters programme sees 18 to 24-year-olds at risk of long-term unemployment on Universal Credit put on six-month work placements at the University.
Open to non-graduates as well as graduates from Huddersfield or other institutions, it has helped improve employability skills by offering young people opportunities to work in IT, careers, the International School and elsewhere.
We have a tight-knit employability network that runs that runs from the Vice-Chancellor throughout the institution
“I don’t know of anywhere else that is offering anything like the GPA where every student, regardless of the type of course they are on, can leave with a CMI award in addition to their degree,” adds Claire.
“We are very proud that we have timelines of employability activity from year one that we showcase to our students, helping them plan their career journey alongside their studies.
“We understand our students career readiness by working with data provided each year and through in-curricula education we enable our students to be ready to compete by the final year.
Our doors are always open to provide the extra support that may be needed and have 24 hour access to resources and careers tools.
If they need a little extra help.
“Kickstarters is also a vital connection between the University and young people in the local area.
Of the 10 in the first cohort, seven found employment before the end of their placement and this year we have 45 Kickstarters on the programme.
“We have a tight-knit employability network that runs that runs from the Vice-Chancellor throughout the institution and we are proud to have a key performance indicator around employability because it is so important.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/global-professional-award:
The Global Professional Award is a program you, as a Huddersfield student, can participate in alongside your undergraduate degree*.
It’s designed to arm you with valuable skills and attributes that we know employers are looking for.
The aim is to get you ready for life in employment, by not only enhancing your ability to showcase your work ethic and create your own opportunities but teaching you valuable ways to protect your wellbeing and deepen your understanding of global and social issues.
The skills you can hope to develop through the Global Professional Award (GPA) include:
Completing the Award will support you to transform into a highly employable graduate who is:
By completing the Global Professional Award, you’ll receive a GPA certificate from the University of Huddersfield.
This award, alongside the specialist subject skills and knowledge you gain as part of your degree, could help to set you apart from other graduates.
Giving students access to the Global Professional Award is one of the reasons the University won ‘ Best University Employability Strategy ’ award at the National Graduate Recruitment Awards 2021.
“It shows employers that you are high skilled in what you do in the Management and Leadership skills.” Mohammed Hasnat Pharmacology Graduate
“The qualification has enabled me to secure three part-time jobs while I was at university and, beyond graduation, it’s allowed me to start my own business and be able to have the confidence when I enrolled onto my barrister training course.” Rukshar Jahangir Law with Criminology Graduate
“Reflective practice, time management skills, communication, leadership, all will help us in the workplace.” Amy Lees Psychology with Counselling Graduate
“It adds credibility to the experience on my CV and it’s great advertising in interviews.” Laura Ibbotson Computer Science with Cyber Security Graduate
“It’s really great to put on your CV, it’s really good to really boost up who you are as a person and what you can offer to employers.” Jess Fort Sociology & Criminology Graduate
We make it as simple as possible.
You’ll complete the Award through online sessions and activities.
This will take approximately 1 hour per week, so you’ll still have plenty of time to focus on your degree and your social life.
As part of the Award, you’ll connect with lots of other students and new experiences, which will help you develop personally and professionally.
You’ll be supported to complete the Award by staff who are specialists in the three areas of Employability & Enterprise, Wellbeing and Global & Social Awareness.
Jenny is a 3rd Year student studying Law (LLB)
“The GPA program was brilliant.
Each year has helped me develop my professional persona and encouraged me to build my confidence, participating and volunteering with groups I wouldn’t have dreamt of in my first year.
It has given me access to a professional community where I have had the opportunity to meet other students from all walks of life, learn from them and impart my own learnings.”
Search for an undergraduate degree.
Learn what life is like for students in Huddersfield.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/our-national-teaching-fellows:
The National Teaching Fellowship Scheme (NTFS) is a prestigious Advance HE award that recognises exceptional educators in higher education who have made a significant impact on student outcomes and the teaching profession.
These individuals have demonstrated a commitment to advancing teaching practices, enhancing student learning experiences, and contributing to the wider education community.
Our commitment to exceptional teaching and learning is at the heart of everything we do at the University of Huddersfield.
Our staff rank in the top three in England for the proportion who hold doctorates, who have higher degrees, and hold teaching qualifications.
We have also been awarded an outstanding Gold rating in all three aspects of the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023 .
This is the highest accolade attainable.
We are proud to support and recognize our outstanding educators through initiatives like the NTFS.
They demonstrated evidence of:
The University of Huddersfield is proud to have won a total of 24 National Teaching Fellowships since 2008, which makes us second in the country (2025 data).
Our Fellows come from a diverse range of academic disciplines and backgrounds, and their dedication to student success is reflected in their innovative teaching approaches and outstanding leadership.
Join us in celebrating their achievements and explore the incredible teaching and learning opportunities available at Huddersfield!
Awarded: 2023
Awarded: 2022
Awarded: 2021
Awarded: 2020
Awarded: 2017
Awarded: 2013
Awarded: 2011
Dr Jane Wormald is a Course Leader for the BA (Hons) Education and Professional Development, focusing on lifelong learning.
She is interested in studying educational career paths that are different from the norm.
Jane is enthusiastic about making education accessible to all and helping students transition into Higher Education smoothly.
She leads initiatives like 'Flying Start', 'Ready, Steady, Study', and 'Huddersfield Essentials' to support students in their university journey.
Currently, she is exploring ways to create inclusive learning environments and finding solutions to bridge the gap in academic achievements among students.
Professor Richard Hill's 20 years of commitment to inclusive higher education has transformed teaching and research.
As a Chartered Engineer, he empowers students through innovative postgraduate programs, significantly increasing their employability.
Leading institutional projects at the University of Derby, Richard champions inclusivity, widening participation, and efficient resource utilization.
Joining the University of Huddersfield, he continues to innovate the curriculum, nurture research capabilities, and drive academic excellence.
Professor Rogers is a renowned nurse leader who has spoken at major nurse conferences globally.
She has multiple publications and several books and chapters and is an active researcher in two fields: Advanced Practice and Spirituality.
Yet, she said that her 'vocation is for teaching and learning to be transformational and I have witnessed this throughout my career with my students excelling in clinical practice.'
Professor Blakeley has been Associate Dean Teaching and Learning at the University of Huddersfield since 2019 and will continue to focus on inclusive pedagogy and support to achieve the University’s teaching and learning strategy which focuses on social justice through its aim of achieving zero differential attainment by 2025.
During her time with The Open University (2006-2019), she led the design and delivery of interdisciplinary Social Science entry-level modules taken by 6,000 students annually.
Approximately 40% of the entry-level students had low/no prior educational qualifications and/or low socio-economic status and 20% declared a disability.
This demographic required inclusive teaching to enable all students to fulfil their potential by ensuring their different learning needs were met and barriers preventing their learning were removed.
Through her work at the University of Huddersfield and her prior contributions at The Open University, Prof.
Blakeley has demonstrated a steadfast commitment to promoting inclusive education and driving positive change within the higher education landscape.
Professor Taylor has worked to establish consistent education standards for the workforce providing general and specialist cancer, palliative and end care, promoting inclusivity and accessibility to learning opportunities.
For instance, In March 2020, collaborating with HEE and colleagues as part of the project entitled Transform, Educate and Empower nurses to improve CANcer care (TEECAN), Dr Taylor launched e-learning sessions known as the Cancer Nursing Careers programme and made them free and accessible for all UK nurses.
“The Cancer Nursing Careers programme is an excellent resource for nurses and will help to ensure that they will – regardless of the setting in which they work – have the necessary knowledge and skills to provide appropriate care for those affected by cancer,” she said.
Dr Dobson’s Fellowship is in recognition of some highly innovative and inter-disciplinary dimensions of her work.
In addition to her specialist expertise in music and technology, she also has a PhD in social psychology and education, leading to an understanding of “how learning happens in informal situations as much as it does in formal situations”.
This inspired her creation of the scheme named CollabHub, which enables students from different subject areas to combine and pool their areas of interest and expertise to develop small projects.
The goal is to build confidence, familiarity and long-term professional relationships and since 2012 almost 1000 students have taken part.
Professor Rupert Ward combines his expertise in computing, physics and education in order to incorporate a broad range of educational perspectives into student-focused initiatives in virtual environments, mobile applications and web-based development in areas such as personal development, multimedia production, entrepreneurship, assessment and feedback, study planning and academic resourcing.
Andrew is based in the library and was awarded his NTF largely on the basis of work on game-based learning, particularly around his external influence towards this approach.
Since then, he’s moved slightly away from focussing on games and more towards the use of play in adult learning, where games are just one way of getting the benefits of play and playfulness.
As well as writing and speaking about Play and Playfulness in adult learning, he’s also interested in creative teaching approaches, information literacy, playful leadership, and what it means to play as a neurodivergent adult.
He set up and edits the Diamond Open Access Journal of Play in Adulthood .
In 2011, Professor Clarke had worked at the University of Huddersfield for 24 years and had played a significant role in the development of music technology in the institution so that it has become a degree course in its own right and a strong area for research with an international reputation.
A composer, Prof Clarke is involved in the development of software for sound synthesis and to enhance teaching and learning.
Professor Bennett has pioneered curriculum practices using technology enhanced learning techniques and led the MSc Technology Enhanced Learning for 12 years.
Her students, who are often teachers in colleges, schools and universities, have gone on to bring about change in their institutions.
Several have also won national awards, and several have published in peer-reviewed journals from the work undertaken as part of the MSc Technology Enhanced Learning.
As Director of Teaching and Learning in the School of Education and Professional Development, she has led a programme to reimagine how the Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) can more effectively support students.
This has led to improvements in student satisfaction and engagement with the VLE and significantly improved accessibility.
Liz was awarded a University of Huddersfield ‘Star of Covid’ award for the support and vision that she showed colleagues to ensure that the trauma of lockdowns was well managed, and that students’ continued to have an excellent experience despite the challenges that we were all experiencing.
Her award-winning work on students’ responses to learner dashboards focused on how designs could support students to be more active and engaged in their learning when they are provided with data about their progress.
Her research indicates that these data dashboards are welcomed by most students, even those who are lower down the cohort, because they found this information motivating.
It has influenced practices at other institutions and within the field.
Drawing heavily on his previous career as professional record-producer, Mark has worked in some of the world’s foremost studios, produced albums for various major labels, and has collaborated with and interviewed some of the world’s top producers, including University of Huddersfield honorary doctorate recipient Andrew Scheps (Adele, Metallica), and Nick Raskulinecz (Foo Fighters).
This puts him in the unique position of being able to act as the bridge between practitioner and academia.
A key aspect of his work is developing teaching and learning in metal-music-production.
As the world’s only practice based MTP academic with the necessary understanding, knowledge, and experience, he has founded and shaped metal music production education as a legitimate and valuable international field.
From academic scholarship, practitioner-based articles/publications, the world’s first book on the subject and the world’s first research funding in the area (from the Arts and Humanities Research Council), he has provided a unique, renowned national and international contribution to academic literature in this specific field of practice, transforming student learning and teaching profession perspectives alike.
For a full list of winners refer to Advance HE National Teaching Fellows website.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/sustainability:
In early 2020 the Climate Emergency Steering Group was established at the University to respond to the Climate Emergency.
Attended by the Students’ Union, researchers in climate change plus representatives from support services including Estates and Facilities Management and chaired by Professor Tim Thornton, Deputy Vice-Chancellor, the steering group collaborated to produce the Carbon Neutral Strategy: A Ten Point Plan for the Planet.
Adopted by the University Council in November 2020, the plan reflects the University’s commitment to achieving carbon neutrality across all areas of the University.
It aims to address the breadth of sustainable development whilst establishing new net zero targets for Huddersfield.
As part of this plan, the University of Huddersfield will achieve net zero carbon emissions for scope 1 and scope 2 by 2030, and for scope 3 by 2045 .
These commitments build on the University’s long-standing dedication to sustainability and environmental improvement; great work has already been carried out ensuring that the University met and exceeded its carbon reduction targets for scope 1 and 2 in 2020.
Please note the plan is currently under review and the updated version will be published soon.
The details of the plan can be viewed below.
Approved 25 November 2020 by University Council.
Scope 1: emissions from sources directly owned or controlled by the University
Scope 2: generated by use of energy bought from a utility provider
Scope 3: occurring from sources that the University does not own or control, for example covering emissions associated with business travel, procurement, waste, and water
Our goal is to incorporate a respect for wildlife and the natural environment into our management of the estate.
The University's plan to reduce Carbon, Energy and Water Consumption.
Cycling is a great way to keep fit while reducing your carbon emissions, find out what the University is doing to champion cycling.
Find out how the University is including the principles of Sustainable Development into its teaching and learning
See the different internal environmental audits which are carried out at the University.
The University is committed to providing sustainable food.
Find out more about our gardening spaces on campus including the Student and Staff Allotments
There are many ways for you to get involved with sustainability at the University, you can even become a Sustainability Champion!
Find out how the sustainability agenda is governed at the University.
Run annually, Green Week is an opportunity for Staff and Students across the University to join our Sustainability journey
An innovative scheme to drive improvements in laboratory efficiency
The University's policies and strategies on environment and sustainability
Sustainable purchasing is all about taking environmental and social factors into account in purchasing decisions.
Learn about the actions Huddersfield Students Union are taking to be sustainable.
We are committed to creating sustainable buildings at the University.
The University is committed to delivering the UN Sustainable Development Goals
Find out more about the University's transport plan
Find out more about how to join us for a tree planting session within the local community.
Find out more about our efforts to reduce the amount of waste.
Find out more about the incorporation of the WELL Building Standard in the Jo Cox More in Common and Daphne Steele Buildings
Find out more about the Huddersfield Students Unions sustainable actions including:
The Huddersfield Students Union have achieved the certification 'Very Good' from the Students Union Green Impact Award , for their continued efforts and work to be sustainable.
If you are interested in joining the Sustainable Student Society than follow the link to join this group .
Follow us on Instagram to keep up to date with the Sustainability Team's activities

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/schools:
The University has five academic schools:
Department of Physical and Life Sciences including: Biomedical Science, Pharmacology, Chemical Engineering, Chemistry, Forensic and Analytical Science and Geography
Department of Pharmacy
Department of Optometry and Vision Sciences
Department of Design & Architecture , including: Architecture and the Built Environment and Design
Department of Media, Humanities and the Arts , including: Communication and Humanities, Film and the Visual Arts and Performing Arts
Huddersfield Business School including: Accountancy, Business and Management, Economics, Finance, Human Resource Management, International Business, Leadership and Marketing
School of Education : including: Education and Community Studies, Executive Education and Professional Development, and Teacher Training.
Law School
Department of Computer Science including: Computing, Cyber Security and Intelligent Systems, Information Systems, Games Development
Department of Engineering including: Civil Engineering, Electronic and Electrical Engineering, Mechanical and Automotive Engineering
Department of Allied Health Professions, Sport and Exercise including: Midwifery, Occupational Therapy; Operating Department Practice; Paramedic Science; Physiotherapy; Podiatry; Speech and Language Therapy; Sport, Exercise and Nutrition;
Department of Social and Psychological Sciences including: Behavioural Sciences, Criminology, Health and Social Care, Policing, Psychology, Public Health, Social Work, Social Research and Evaluation
Department of Nursing including: Nursing (Adult, Child, Learning Disability and Mental Health)
A-Z of University of Huddersfield Academic staff members

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/senior-staff:
Senior Leadership Structure

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/keyfacts:
Here are some key facts that make the University of Huddersfield a great place to be.
*This applies to undergraduate courses of more than 12 months duration.
Our Library was the first to gain the UK National Customer Service Excellence Award and is the holder of eight marks of distinction.
DLHE – Destination of Leavers of Higher Education HEFCE – Higher Education Funding Council for England HESA – Higher Education Statistics Agency NSS – National Student Survey TEF – Teaching Excellence Framework

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/community-impact:
The University of Huddersfield proactively embraces the principles of corporate social responsibility and recognises its impact on students, staff and the local community.
Find out more about our commitment to corporate social responsibility and the impact the University has on the local community:
The University takes an active role in supporting the local community through involvement in various initiatives and projects.
The University holds a number of public lectures and concerts each year for the general public.
The University of Huddersfield is committed to inspiring tomorrow's professionals.
Its links with employers mean that it is consistently one of the country's top fifteen universities for work placements.
The University is committed to sustainable building practices and their impact on the environment.
Find out more about services on offer at the University of Huddersfield.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/history:
The University of Huddersfield became a university in 1992, however we can trace our origins back to 1841 when the Young Men's Mental Improvement Society was founded.
Since then we've celebrated 175 years and in 2025 the town celebrated 200 years of education.
In 2025 Huddersfield is celebrating a special anniversary.
The town is celebrating 200 years of the origins of formal education for young, working class adults.
In 1825 a Scientific and Mechanic Institute was established to ‘to bring within the reach of all, but more particularly the trading and working classes, the acquisition of useful knowledge’ and hosted public lectures and evening classes for adults.
This institution helped lay the groundwork for the establishment of other adult education opportunities in Huddersfield including Young Men’s Mental Improvement Society in 1841 to which the University can directly trace its history .
In 2016 we celebrated 175 years since the founding of the Young Men's Mental Improvement Society.
The town is celebrating 200 years of formal education for young, working adults.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/honorary-graduates:
We actively invite recipients of Honorary Awards to maintain their links with the University and transfer their knowledge and experience through master classes and public lectures.
Honorary awards reward individuals who have attained national and international success and recognition in their chosen field.
They maximise the University’s public presence, allow Schools to develop closer relationships with distinguished persons and engage students in the process.
The honorary awards available are Doctor of the University (Hon DUniv) Emeritus/Emerita Chancellor Emeritus/Emerita Vice-Chancellor and Emeritus/Emerita Dean conferred on annual basis during the University’s award ceremony weeks in July and November.
For details on how to submit a nomination please visit our graduation awards pages.
Professor R Livingstone

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/royal-visits:
The University of Huddersfield has been honoured to welcome many Royal visitors over the years.
The Duke of Kent, The Duke of Gloucester and The Duchess of Kent are among members of the Royal family who have visited the University to open or to inspect new buildings and facilities.
In 2007, Her Majesty The Queen was our guest when, accompanied by The Duke of Edinburgh, she unveiled the foundation stone of the architecturally-stunning new Richard Steinitz Building.
In the years that have followed the University has welcomed His Royal Highness The Prince of Wales, HRH The Duke of York, KG and we had the pleasure of subsequent visits from HRH Princess Beatrice and HRH The Princess Royal.
To find out more about the University's Royal visits, please follow the links below.‌
Huddersfield fashion designs receive Royal approval from Princess.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/councilprofiles:
The composition of the University Council is as follows:
Chair of Council
External Member
Mr Thornton currently advises businesses in Yorkshire and is Chairman of a small pharmaceutical development company.
He is also a Trustee of several charities.
Previously he has been Chairman of Thornton & Ross, a Healthcare Manufacturing Group, and was Vice-President of Euralliance Pharma.
He was appointed to the University Council in July 2006 and was Chair of the Audit Committee from August 2012 to May 2018.
Mr Thornton became Vice-Chair of Council in August 2018 and subsequently was appointed as Chair of Council with effect from August 2019.
A leading figure in the construction industry, Bernard Ainsworth is regarded as the 'ultimate' project manager and has been responsible for leading teams in the construction of many famous buildings, including the iconic London Shard and the Millennium Dome, and it was for this latter project that he was awarded his OBE.
He then held a number of N.E.D.
and advisory roles on a series of national Projects including HS2, Hinckley Point Nuclear station and the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham.
Mr Ainsworth was appointed to the University’s Estates Development Committee in August 2017 and became a member of University Council with effect from August 2019.
Mr Cox is a retired Chartered Accountant and former Finance Director of AQA Education.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and has held a number of Finance Director roles across a range of industries.
Mr Cox is also a governor and member of the Audit Committee of and formerly had a role in a FE college.
He was appointed to University Council with effect from August 2018 and has been a member of the Audit Committee since March 2013.
Mr Davies is now a portfolio non-executive director (NED) of several organisations, primarily in West Yorkshire.
He has also recently become a Freeman of the City of London and a Liveryman of the Worshipful Company of Woolmen.
His director roles are at Immersify Education (Chair of Advisory Board); British Wool Marketing Board (Independent NED and Chair of Governance Committee); a governor of Bradford Grammar School.
He has recently served full terms as a NED at Airedale NHS Hospital Trust, and Sovereign Health Care, he also is a founder member of the Ilkley Clean River Group.
Mr Davies has extensive experience of leading IT functions and transformational change programmes having held the roles of Chief Information Officer, IT Director, and Chairman across a range of business sectors, including Higher Education and research, retail, technology, leisure and health data.
He is known for creating innovative and transformative business solutions, several of which have been world firsts e.g.
the first PC based till system; the first mobile betting app; the first Sales Based Ordering system.
He was appointed to University Council with effect from 14 February 2019 and is also a member of the Audit Committee.
Smitha’s appointment as Bishop of Huddersfield has meant a welcome return to Yorkshire, having previously studied English Literature and Linguistics at the College of Ripon and York St John (University of Leeds).
"It’s so good to be serving the people of God’s own county,” said Smitha, who has come to us from Copenhagen, where she served the Anglican Church in Denmark since 2018.
“This is where I came as a student and began my journey so it holds a special place in my heart.
I'm excited to be working together with colleagues in parishes and communities throughout Kirklees and Calderdale to encourage people in confident discipleship, and joining with cultural, educational, commercial and inter-faith partners to support this wonderful place and its people in common cause."
Born into the Church of South India, Smitha and her family then moved to the Anglican Church in Wales.
Both her parents were pioneer mission partners with the Church Missionary Society, and her mother was the first Indian woman ordained in the UK.
Smitha and her family have lived in different places across the UK: “Home is anywhere and everywhere and hospitality both at the Lord’s table and the kitchen table makes me happy!”
As Bishop's Adviser, Smitha initiated the Racial Justice Working Group in the Diocese of Europe.
As a member of the Archbishop's Transformations Steering Group she championed women's vocational pathways for flourishing.
Smitha is passionate about liturgy which breathes life into ancient texts so that they can be heard with new meaning and relevance.
She is known for mission and partnership with children and young people in schools.
She has served as Bishop's Racial Justice Adviser, Vocations Adviser and Chair of the House of Clergy in the Diocese in Europe, and as a member of the General Synod, St John's College Council Durham, and FGPSC.
She is Chair of the Anglican Minority Ethnic Network (AMEN) and Vice-Chair of the Liturgical Commission.
Bishop Smitha was appointed to the University Council in March 2024.
Ms Pollock-Hulf continues to be an active volunteer member of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers and is currently chairing the Nominations Committee and the Pension Board.
She was the 127th President of the Institution in 2012.
In June 2014, Ms Pollock-Hulf was awarded an OBE for services to mechanical engineering.
She was appointed to the University Council in March 2015.
Ajaz Ahmed is an entrepreneur best known for founding Freeserve, the UK's first big internet company, which was launched in 1998 in Leeds.
Freeserve entered the FTSE 100 in 2000 and was acquired by France Telecom for £1.65bn in 2001.
Ajaz was chairman of the digital agency Quba for 23 years until its sale in July 2025.
He was listed in the Yorkshire Business Power 100 and Internet Magazine's top 50 movers and shakers.
He works with businesses, helping them improve their business.
The Queen awarded him a 'British Empire Medal' BEM.
Ajaz was appointed to the University Council on 1st August 2021.
Clare Morrow is the Chair of the Board at the Bettys and Taylors Group in Harrogate, which makes Yorkshire Tea, Taylors of Harrogate tea and coffee, and has five iconic cafe tea rooms across Yorkshire.
She is the Chair of Hollybank Trust, a charity based in Mirfield, which provides residential care and education for children and adults with multiple and profound learning disabilities.
Clare is also Chair of the Yorkshire and North East Film Archive, a small charity which preserves and makes available to the public moving images captured by film makers across the two regions over the past century.
Clare had a 25 year career as a journalist, executive producer and senior manager, working in newspapers, radio and television for both the BBC and ITV.
Previous non-executive roles include the Chair of Welcome to Yorkshire, a director of the Rugby Football League and a director of the Leeds Teaching Hospitals Trust.
She was also a Trustee at both the Leeds Playhouse and Sheffield Theatres.
Clare was appointed to the University Council in August 2022.
Sally is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development and worked in human resources and organisational development roles within the NHS for over 30 years.
Sally is an accredited Senior Practitioner with the European Coaching and Mentoring Council and provides executive coaching for senior leaders in the NHS and also works independently to provide a range of transformation, human resource and leadership development interventions primarily in the NHS.
She was previously the Chair and trustee of Mental Health Matters, a national mental health charity providing a range of psychological and social support services to those with mental health conditions.
Vice-Chancellor of the University of Huddersfield
Professor Bob Cryan CBE was appointed to his first Professorial Chair at the age of 30 and at the time he was the youngest Professor of Engineering in the UK.
He then went on to become the youngest Vice-Chancellor in the UK when he took up his post at his hometown University, the University of Huddersfield, in January 2007, a University that now has over 22,000 students from over 120 countries.
Bob holds two first class honours degrees (Engineering, Mathematics), an MBA and two doctorates (PhD, DSc) and he is a Chartered Engineer, a Fellow of the Institution of Engineering Technology and a Fellow of the
Higher Education Academy.
Bob is a Deputy Lieutenant for West Yorkshire and in 2013 he was awarded The Guardian Inspiring Leader Award.
In 2014 he was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the Queen's Birthday Honours and made a Companion of the Chartered Management Institute.
In 2015 he received The Daily Telegraph Educate North Inspiring Leader Award and was included in the group of 50 World leading Engineers appointed as Fellows of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
He was president of the Institute of Engineering and Technology (IET) in 2022-23
Bob is proud to be a graduate of the University and to have had first-hand experience of the life-changing potential and the tremendous support that Huddersfield offers its students.
After graduating with a first class honours in engineering from Huddersfield, Bob went on to complete a British Telecom-sponsored part-time PhD programme, whilst working as a lecturer at Huddersfield.
In 1992 he was appointed Director of the Centre for Communications Systems Research at Manchester Metropolitan University.
He was appointed to a Personal Chair, and Head of the Department of Electrical, Electronic Engineering & Physics at Northumbria University in 1994.
In 1996 he was appointed Head of the School of Engineering at Northumbria University.
He moved to the University of Wales, Swansea in 1999 to be Chair of Electrical & Electronic Engineering.
He also held the Siemens Chair of Communications and the post of Dean of the Faculty of Engineering.
In 2002 he returned to Northumbria University as Pro Vice-Chancellor, becoming Deputy Vice-Chancellor in 2005, with responsibilities including both teaching and research.
Bob believes that teaching should be underpinned by research and he is an active researcher who has co-authored over 200 publications.
Bob is tremendously proud of the University and has ambitious plans for it, particularly around research, postgraduate provision and internationalisation.
With the support of his senior team, Bob has built the University’s future strategy around being an inspiring, innovative University of international renown.
Bob is delighted that the hard work of the University’s staff and students is being recognised through many awards including: Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF 2023) Gold, Ofsted Outstanding for apprenticeship provision in 2022,  the Higher Education Academy’s first ever Global Teaching Excellence award in 2017, a Queen's Anniversary Prize (2015, 2019 & 2021); The Daily Telegraph Educate North New University of the Year 2015/16; the Times Higher University of the Year 2013/14; the Queen’s Award for Enterprise (International Trade) 2013 and 2022; and the Times Higher Entrepreneurial University of the Year 2012/13.
Acting Head of Department of Allied Health Professions, Sport and Exercise
Dr Eastburn is the Acting Head of Department of Allied Health Professions, Sport and Exercise in the School of Human and Health Sciences.
She joined the University of Huddersfield in November 2006 and her former roles at the University have included School Director of Academic Quality and Professional Governance.
Dr Eastburn is a physiotherapist and a Chartered Manager (FCMI).
Between 2015 and 2023, she held a Fitness to Practise partner role with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and she is an Appointed Governor on behalf of the University on the Council of Governors at Calderdale and Huddersfield NHS Foundation Trust.
Dr Eastburn is also a co-opted Governor and Vice Chair of Governors at Rowley Lane Junior, Infant and Nursery School and Newsome Junior School, both in Huddersfield.
This post is currently vacant.
Students' Union (SU) President
PGR Student Representative
Freya graduated with a degree in Sociology and Psychology during which she completed her placement as a volunteer at Fresh Futures.
In addition, whilst she was at university she also undertook the role of student ambassador and then senior student ambassador.
Following graduation, Freya was elected into the role of Equity officer where she worked to promote equality, diversity and inclusion within the university and to help others by providing better opportunities.
Currently, Freya serves as the President of Huddersfield Students’ Union (SU) representing the student body and advocating for their voice to be heard.
Furthermore, Freya also has key leadership positions as she is a trustee for both HudLets and Huddersfield Students’ Union as well as chairing the meetings for both.
Freya is deeply passionate about learning about different people and their backgrounds and helping them so that they can have the best student experience here at Huddersfield.
Sally is a current PhD researcher in Psychology, focusing on female perpetrators of violent crime.
After completing her BSc, Sally spent a number of years working in retail management, before returning to the University to complete the MSc in Investigative Psychology.
Combining her previous experience with her doctoral research has allowed Sally to undertake project work, run events and develop opportunities for postgraduates.
Sally draws on her experience, and that of her fellow members of the postgraduate researcher (PGR) community, to inform her role as the PGR representative on the University Council.
Sally was appointed to the University Council in November 2023.
Audit and Risk Committee
Paul Leigh is a Chartered Accountant and has over 25 years senior financial leadership experience in the Education sector, including Chief Financial Officer roles in single and multi-academy trusts.
He qualified in public practice and is passionate about how the role of finance can support leaders in delivering high quality education.
Mr Paul Leigh was appointed to the Audit and Risk Committee in August 2022.
University Secretary
Alison joined the University in January 2020 and has worked in professional higher education administration, leadership and management for over 25 years.
Alison leads the University’s governance, legal and health and safety service provision and, as well as managing those executive functions, she is the independent source of advice and guidance to University Council.
Prior to joining the University, Alison worked at Oxford Brookes University, the University of Bradford and Leeds Beckett University, leading on governance, legal services, strategic and operational planning and organisational programme management and change.
Alison is the former Chair of the Higher Education Strategic Planners Association (HESPA) and has worked on a number of sector-wide projects and initiatives.
She holds a BA (Hons) in Literature and Philosophy and a Masters in Strategic Decision Making, specialising in research and analysis into University governance structures and decision making following the publication of the Dearing Report.
Alison is also a Chartered Manager with the CMI.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/information-for-media:
Our Media Relations Office deals with all media enquiries, issues press releases and arranges interviews with academics.
All media relations and press enquiries should be directed through the Media Relations Office.
Mobile: 07931 172433
Email: media.queries@hud.ac.uk
Media Relations Office,
University of Huddersfield,
Queensgate,
HD1 3DH
We have academic specialists in a number of fields happy to talk to journalists about topical issues.
Journalists can find a specialist member of staff or search by subject area on our academic staff search page .
TV and radio broadcasters are able to conduct live interviews from the University campus.
For more information, please contact the Media Relations Manager.
.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/financialstatements:
Below are available copies of current and historic University of Huddersfield audited Financial Statements.
The University of Huddersfield’s Financial Accounts are audited by independent external auditors and approved by the University Council, who make a Public Benefit statement at the beginning of the Financial Statements.
Previous Years Accounts:
Please note that you will need to download free Adobe Acrobat software in order to view PDF files.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/quality-assurance-agency:
The QAA offer advice, guidance and support to help UK universities, colleges and other institutions provide the best possible student experience of higher education.
They conduct reviews of institutions and publish reports detailing the findings.
Their reports highlight good practice and contain recommendations to help improve quality.
The peer reviewers on their review teams have recent experience of providing or assessing higher education.
Each team also includes a student reviewer.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/informationgovernance:
Our Information Governance framework ensures necessary safeguards for, and appropriate use of, personal and University information.
Information Governance is a framework of policies, procedures and controls to manage information including Freedom of Information (FOI) , Data Protection and Records Management.
Information Governance also involves establishing effective procedures for all aspects of information management, including creation, maintenance, storage, use, retention and destruction.
You can find out more about our Information Governance on the following pages:

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/accessagreements:
Summary of Access and Participation Plan 2025-26 to 2028-29
Access and Participation Plan 2025-26 to 2028-29
Office for Students Fee Summary 2025-26
The list below shows you all approved access agreements at the University of Huddersfield.‌

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/vco:
Professor Bob Cryan CBE DL CCMI FREng – Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive
Professor Tim Thornton – Deputy Vice-Chancellor
Professor Andrew Ball – Pro Vice-Chancellor (Research & Enterprise)
Professor Alistair Sambell – Pro Vice-Chancellor (International)
Professor Jane Owen-Lynch – Pro Vice-Chancellor (Teaching & Learning)
Alison Jones – University Secretary
Claire White – Executive Office Manager
Rachel Main – University Solicitor
Vice-Chancellor’s Office Schwann Building University of Huddersfield Queensgate Huddersfield HD1 3DH
Email: enquiriesvco@hud.ac.uk
The Office of the University Secretary operates within the Vice-Chancellor’s Office
The University Council is the principal decision-making body in the University
The University has a wide range of policy and procedural documents
The University is governed through the University Council and the Senate with support from various committees
The University strategy map 2018 - 2025
Responsible for making recommendations for honorary awards to University Senate and University Council

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/national-health-innovation/daphne-steele-building:
This first building on the Southgate site is named after the UK’s first black matron, Daphne Steele, who emigrated to the UK from Guyana in the 1940s.
The building named in Daphne’s honour is the first of the exciting project that will help to improve health outcomes and lead innovation in healthcare for the North of England.
It will bring together public-facing facilities including award-winning student-led clinics, and be a focus for entrepreneurial academic activity, serving the regional and wider health economy in strong public-private partnerships.
Specialist clinical teaching facilities will provide unparalleled support for workforce development.
WELL is a performance-based system for measuring, certifying, and monitoring features of the built environment that impact human health and well-being, through air, water, nourishment, light, fitness, comfort and mind.
Find out more about the WELL Building Standard .
The National Health Innovation Campus is a seven-acre site, with planning permission for up to seven buildings.
The University welcomes interest from potential partners who want to be a part of this vision.
If you’re interested in studying one of our Health Professional degree courses , you’ll have a chance to study in our brand new building, the Daphne Steele Building, part of the National Health Innovation Campus .
This building features state-of-the-art equipment and facilities for our midwifery, nursing, occupational therapy, operating department practice, paramedic science, physiotherapy, podiatry and speech and language therapy courses.
Due to the Daphne Steele building, over the next 5 years provision in fields such as nursing, midwifery, and allied health will grow by 60%
The Health and Wellbeing academy brings together our public-facing health facilities (clinics and research) and to be a focus for entrepreneurial academic activity, linked to the needs of the local health workforce and the regional health economy.
From nursing to social work, and from podiatry to operating department practice, we offer a range of courses to help you get started in your chosen career.
Walking between Queensgate Campus and Daphne Steele takes around 12 minutes.
The route is completely accessible.
Please use this downloadable Map of Queensgate to Daphne Steele to help you find your way.
Southgate - HD1 1SG (132 bays and 8 disabled bays)
See other parking
Professor Liz Towns-Andrews , 3M Professor of Innovation
Tel: 07540 672953 Email: L.Towns-Andrews@hud.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/national-health-innovation/emily-siddon-building:
The 6,800m² facility on Southgate will be named the Emily Siddon Building and is expected to open in December 2025.
Close to the main university campus, it is adjacent to the Daphne Steele Building.
A leading healthcare advocate who spent most of her life in nearby Honley, Emily Siddon strove to improve healthcare and equality in several prestigious roles, often reserved for men.
An advocate for improving children’s health, Emily was also involved in the creation of children’s homes with better conditions than the workhouse.
Emily Siddon will have the first NHS Community Diagnostic Hub to be co-located on a uk university campus.
We are delighted that work is well under way on this vital new facility.
The Emily Siddon Building will help to enable courses that are vital to meeting the needs of the country's healthcare workforce, and be a home for innovation with major NHS partners including the Calderdale and Huddersfield NHS Trust, as well as others in the private and voluntary sectors.
Professor Tim Thornton, University Deputy Vice-Chancellor -
Our Diagnostic Radiography BSc(Hons) course provides you with the highly specialised technological knowledge required for contemporary imaging practice, whilst also supporting you to develop empathic awareness and the communication skills needed for patient-centred care.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/national-health-innovation:
The National Health Innovation Campus is a transformative project for the people of the region.
It will improve health outcomes and lead innovation in healthcare for the North of England, the UK and internationally.
It is based on the University of Huddersfield’s outstanding track-record in professional courses and pioneering research, and its wide network of partnerships with leading health and care organisations.
It will be the first of its kind within the UK to be built to platinum WELL Building Standards used to create spaces that advance the health and wellbeing of those using these spaces.
Find out about the WELL Building Standard.
Yorkshire and the Humber faces some of the biggest challenges amongst the English regions with regard to the health of its population:
These are all issues that the new National Health Innovation Campus will address, working in partnership with others in the region.
Located along the M62 corridor, the Campus is uniquely placed to serve communities throughout West and South Yorkshire and Greater Manchester.
The National Health Innovation Campus will help your health studies with specialist facilities and teaching.
The National Health Innovation Campus public services will help you with your healthcare.
Our ambitious National Health Innovation Campus project provides exciting investment and partnership opportunities.
Our ambitious National Health Innovation Campus project provides exciting investment opportunities.
You can also get involved and contribute to the buildings still in the planning stage.
The academy brings together our public-facing health facilities (clinics and research) and to be a focus for entrepreneurial academic activity, linked to the needs of the local health workforce and the regional health economy.
We'll have research facilities in fields such as skin integrity and infection prevention, psychological therapies, addiction and falls prevention.
The campus will enable the rapid expansion of courses in nursing, midwifery, allied health professions, leadership and human sciences.
Health Education England indicated there were 46,000 nursing vacancies in England in 2022, and the UK government has introduced ‘Bursary 2’, offering at least £5k to all nursing and allied health trainees.
The Topol Review (2019) and NHS People Plan (Spring 2020) align with the outstanding track-record and particular research expertise of Huddersfield and its partners in Calderdale and Huddersfield and elsewhere in fields such as digital delivery, simulation, and the development of apprenticeship provision.
This means the University is uniquely placed to take a leading role in the expansion and enhancement of the NHS and social care workforce across the north of England and beyond.
Huddersfield is the largest provider of apprenticeships in nursing and allied health in Yorkshire and the Humber.
The Daphne Steele Building (exterior), part of the National Health Innovation Campus
The back of the Daphne Steele Building's communal rooftop , part of the National Health Innovation Campus
Students using the cafe within the Daphne Steele Building
Mock hospital within the Daphne Steele building, part of the National Health Innovation Campus
The Daphne Steele building simbulance and EMT talking to students
Artist's impression of a cross-section within the Daphne Steele Building
Artist's impression of Building 2
Artist impression of Building 2
Each building will house its own specialist equipment and will facilitate different kinds of healthcare.
See our building pages to learn more about what they can provide you in your studies.
These specialist facilities include:
Health Professions and Social Care is a huge subject.
Including our new and upcoming Diagnostic Radiography and Dental Hygiene and Dental Therapy course.
Both of which are open for applications!
See our Health Professions and Social Care courses
The campus will directly impact on outcomes for people and communities across Yorkshire and the North of England.
The campus’ aspires to complement Kirklees shared outcomes:

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/our-buildings/barbara-hepworth-building:
Since 2010, £80 million has been spent on campus development, making sure our students have access to some of the best facilities in the country, with the latest development being the Barbara Hepworth Building – the home of the School of Arts and Humanities.
A beacon of innovation, the open studio environment empowers students through the co-location of disciplines with the same learning spaces.
Designed for experimentation, students have the opportunity to develop, curate and exhibit their work in innovative spaces, utilising fully extensive and leading workshop facilities such as 3D printers for rapid prototyping and modelling, laser cutters, Wacom drawing tablets, virtual reality and motion tracking sensors, print and dye, maker library, photography studios, advanced 3D technologies, digital print centre, specialist studios and software and the ability to get access to all facilities and much more.
Named after the famous West Yorkshire born sculptor, the building's main frontage overlooks the picturesque Huddersfield Narrow Canal that runs through the heart of the University's campus.
Winner of Project of the Year at the Constructing Excellence awards , shortlisted for Education Estates Innovation in Delivering Value and shortlisted for the RIBA Yorkshire Awards 2020
Take a walk through the Barbara Hepworth Building
Welcome to the new Barbara Hepworth Building situated on Queen Street South in Huddersfield.
This video provides an overview of the facilities and studio spaces we have to offer for undergraduate and postgraduate students in the School of Arts and Humanities.
Canalside view of the new Barbara Hepworth Building - image: AHR Architects
The ‘Create Lab’ is a revolutionary and state-of-the-art virtual reality and visualisation lab - image: AHR
The central staircase connecting all levels and shared spaces in the Barbara Hepworth Building - image: AHR
Fashion Design studio - image: AHR Architects
Shared spaces and computer labs - image: AHR
The glass roof allows light to flow throughout the open spaces - image: AHR
Collaborative work stations - image: AHR

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/our-buildings/preview:
Welcome to the new Barbara Hepworth Building Project situated on Queen Street South in Huddersfield.
The building should be completed at the end of the summer in 2019 and the changes will be updated on this page in the coming months.
The photos at the end of this page show the progress of the Barbara Hepworth Building.
If you have any questions, please call round to the site offices which are located just off Queen Street South, opposite Thomas Broadbent & Sons Ltd.
The main site working hours are 7.30am till 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
This project is being led by Paul Limb , Project Director.
In November 2018, the University was pleased to welcome Dr Sophie Bowness, granddaughter of the Wakefield sculptor, to the ‘topping out’ ceremony of its new building.
To find out more about the courses we offer within the School of Art, Design and Architecture , have a look to see the full suite.
The project is still in very early stages and works are progressing very well.
The site works are still on programme for completion at the end of summer 2019.
Welcome to the first Newsletter for the new Barbara Hepworth Building Project situated on Queen Street South in Huddersfield.
In our second Newsletter for the new Barbara Hepworth Building Project, works are continuing to progress well.
Welcome to the third Newsletter for the Barbara Hepworth Building, the new School of Art, Design & Architecture.
Welcome to the fourth Newsletter for the Barbara Hepworth Building, the new School of Art, Design & Architecture.
Welcome to the fifth Newsletter for the Barbara Hepworth Building, the new School of Art, Design & Architecture.
Welcome to the sixth Newsletter for the Barbara Hepworth Building, the new School of Art, Design & Architecture.
Welcome to the seventh Newsletter for the Barbara Hepworth Building, the new School of Art, Design & Architecture.
Welcome to the eighth Newsletter for the Barbara Hepworth Building, the new School of Art, Design & Architecture.
Welcome to the ninth Newsletter for the Barbara Hepworth Building, the new School of Art, Design & Architecture.
The progress photo shows the first section of the piling mat at reduced level, ready to be built up in layers for the piling rig to start work.
Both the piling mat and the piles for the building are expected to be completed before the Christmas holidays.
The initial works on site involved installing the temporary site accommodation, constructing a temporary haul road and installing hoarding around the perimeter of site.
On top of this, temporary water and electrics have been connected to the site cabins which involved installing ducts between the Sir Patrick Stewart Building and the site.
The site works are still on programme for completion at the end of the summer in 2019.
The Morgan Sindall BHB site team would like to take this opportunity to wish all our neighbours and local businesses a very Happy Christmas and a safe and healthy new year.
Welcome back to the second Newsletter.
Works are continuing to progress well, and site works are still on programme for completion at the end of Summer 2019.
Since the issue of the last Newsletter, the Contiguous Pile Wall has been completed and the Capping Beam has now been constructed on top of this.
The CFA piles (forming the main foundations for the building) began mid way through the month and are due to be completed this week.
Further to this, a section of the existing retaining wall along University Way has now been demolished and a ramp has been created to allow access to this lower level.
As we move into February the pile caps and ground beams will start to be constructed on top of and between the pile foundations.
Additionally, the remainder of the bulk muck shift will be completed along with the demolition of a further section of the retaining wall on University Way.
Looking further ahead, the erection of the steel frame (forming the skeleton of the building) is due to commence in early March, with the installation of the pre-cast concrete wall planks following closely behind.
Welcome to the third Newsletter for the Barbara Hepworth Building, the new School of Art, Design & Architecture.
We are now five months into the project which is due for completion at the end of summer 2019.
Over the last two months we have begun installation of the steel frame, which provides the skeletal structure of the building.
Pre-cast concrete floor planks are also being installed.
Edge protection is being added to the first phase of the building and drainage works are underway.
Some substructure blockwork has been installed and wet works to pre-cast concrete floor planks have been completed to the first phase.
Looking ahead, over the next month we will continue with steel erection and drainage works.
Ground floor slabs, SFS and CP boards will start in the coming months.
At this time we have erected 45% of the steel frame and installed 43% of the pre-cast concrete planks.
We are now well underway on the project, which is due for completion at the end of summer 2019.
While we continue with installation of the steel frame and pre-cast concrete floor planks, we have begun fireproofing the steel columns with intumescent paint.
Edge protection is being added to the steel frame and the pre-cast concrete feature stair from Level 0 to Level 1 has been installed.
Sections of the ground floor slabs on Level 0 and Level 1 have been poured.
Steel erection is due to continue for the next two months, along with drainage and installation of the ground floor slab.
SFS & CP Board installation will start in June.
Morgan Sindall are now well underway on the project and on track for completion at the end of Summer 2019.
In the last month we have completed steel erection and installation of the pre-cast concrete planks.
Drainage works have continued and we have begun installation of blockwork to the lift shafts.
Installation of SFS & CP Board, curtain walling brackets and the 1st fix mechanical and electrical works has also started.
Over the next month we expect to complete drainage works and the hot melt system to the roof.
We will begin to install glass curtain walling and the building’s internal partitions.
Welcome to our sixth update for the £23million Barbara Hepworth Building, the new School of Art, Design & Architecture for the University of Huddersfield.
In the last month we have commenced work on the internal partitions, continued work on the 1st fix mechanical and electrical and continued with the blockwork to the lift shafts.
Externally we have installed glass to the East elevation and atrium rooflight, continued installing SFS and CP Board ready for the cladding to commence on the West and South elevations and completed the screeding work to the roof.
Over the next month we expect to start the rainscreen cladding system and continue with the curtain walling, internal partitions and mechanical and electrical works.
Welcome to our latest update for the £23million Barbara Hepworth Building, the new School of Art, Design & Architecture at the University of Huddersfield.
Morgan Sindall have made good progress over the summer.
We are continuing to install glass curtain walling supplied by HWA in Brighouse and roofing works are ongoing to make the building watertight.
Internally, Mechanical & Electrical works (plumbing and electrics) are underway and partition walls are going up.
Externally, we have begun to install York stone sourced locally from Johnsons Wellfield at Crosland Hill.
Landscaping works around the canal are due to start in early October.
Welcome to our latest update for the £23million Barbara Hepworth Building, the new School of Art, Design & Architecture at the University of Huddersfield.
Morgan Sindall continue to make excellent progress on the project.
Curtain wall glazing continues to be installed by HWA in Brighouse and hot melt roof works are ongoing to make the building watertight.
Internally, Mechanical & Electrical works (plumbing and electrics) are ongoing and we have begun to board the second side of the partition walls.
Externally, we continue to install York stone sourced locally from Johnsons Wellfield at Crosland Hill.
Landscaping works started this month in the external area around the canal.
This month the Morgan Sindall team have hosted site visits and delivered guest lectures in digital technologies and cost management for students past and present from the University of Huddersfield.
We have set up a rolling programme of work-based learning for Kirklees College to offer valuable hands-on experience to construction students.
To celebrate Halloween, we challenged local primary schools to a pumpkin carving competition and displayed their scary pumpkins around the site.
Meanwhile we have sponsored a road safety campaign aimed at local schools to help keep children safe in the darker conditions as British Summer Time ends.
The focus over the last few weeks has been on installation of rain screen cladding on the outside of the building.
Screeding work continues inside the building and we continue to make progress with the first, second and final fix M&E installation.
Radiator panels have been installed along with raised floor access inside teaching and computer rooms.
Mist coat and second coat decoration work continues throughout.
This month we have given site tours to University of Huddersfield Architecture BSc and Masters students and to North Huddersfield Trust School, which sent over 40 female students from Years 8, 9 and 10 to get a closer look at STEM careers as a follow up to our Women in Construction event held last November.
Our team has attended careers fairs at Spen Valley High School and at Greenhead College, where we also delivered a careers talk for A-level students interested in engineering.
Local jobseeker Mark Dailey has gained paid employment on site after working through a job training and work experience programme we are running in partnership with Huddersfield Jobcentre.
The project scored 45 out of 50 and received excellent feedback in its latest Considerate Constructors Scheme audit.
Architect’s impression
Capping beam on contiguous pile wall
View of the entire site taken from the Haslett Building
Image of construction site on 17 May 2018
Barbara Hepworth Building November 2018
November 2018 external shot of BHB
Internal shot of BHB from November 2018
Internal shot of BHB November 2018
External shot of BHB March 2019
Internal shot of BHB March 2019
Internal shot of Barbara Hepworth Building March 2019
External shot of Barbara Hepworth Building March 2019

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/events/harold-wilson:
Each year the University welcomes a public figure to bring a lecture in honour of Lord Wilson.
Wilson won four General Elections, spending around eight years at 10 Downing Street and is the only post-war leader of any party to serve as prime minister on two separate occasions.
“The starting point is to learn lessons from Harold Wilson’s life, so that no matter how important economic objectives are, your priorities are not that the successful run away with all the gains and that you have a social conscience that benefits people in need,”
The University of Huddersfield played a central role in events to mark the centenary of the birth of Harold Wilson.
They included a history tour that took his son and grandchildren to some of the childhood haunts of the famous former Prime Minister, including the terraced house in which Harold was born on 11 March, 1916.
Read more about the celebrations

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2020/february/listed-former-bath-house-renovation:
A Grade II-listed former bath house, originally built by local firm Thomas Broadbent and Sons and situated adjacent to the University’s Barbara Hepworth Building, is renovated for a new role
ONE of Huddersfield’s hidden architectural gems has been transformed into an attractive and unusual gallery-cum-coffee house and restaurant, destined to become a popular public space for meeting, eating and art appreciation.
But among the attendees at a special unveiling event there were men who remembered its original function – as a bath house where scores of foundry workers could shower away a day’s grime.
“It’s an amazing transformation,” was the reaction of Simon Broadbent, joint managing director of the Huddersfield firm Thomas Broadbent and Sons , established in 1864.
Now an innovative engineering company trading globally, it once operated a large foundry, developed during World War One to manufacture steel shells.
Over subsequent decades it diversified and in 1953 an Iron and Steel Foundries Act meant that Broadbent’s needed to provide new washing and drying facilities for 120 workers.
The result was a no-expense-spared structure designed by local architectural practice Abbey Hanson Rowe, now known globally as AHR .
After the foundry and its bath house on Queen Street South became uneconomic from the 1980s, Broadbent’s eventually sold the land to the University of Huddersfield.
The award-winning Barbara Hepworth Building – for students of art, design and architecture – now stands on the foundry site.
The bath house, a Grade II Listed building, was preserved and now it is the Sovereign Design House, offering light and airy exhibition space, shared with the Toast House café.
At the special event, University Vice-Chancellor Professor Bob Cryan welcomed visitors from Broadbent’s and partners in the restoration project – construction firm Morgan Sindall and architects AHR, whose assignment was to remodel a building the firm had designed almost 70 years ago.
Addressing Broadbent employees, Professor Cryan asked: “Can you have imagined, after showering away the grime after a hard day’s graft in the foundry, that this interesting but workaday building would one day be ingeniously repurposed as a coffee house and exhibition space?”
“We have provided our campus and the town as a whole with some splendidly designed and constructed new buildings – state-of-the art spaces for teaching, research and student recreation,” continued Professor Cryan.
“But there has been another important strand in our campus redevelopment – namely the conservation and re-use of historic buildings that are part of the heritage of Huddersfield,” he added.
As they looked around the remodelled bath house, visitors could examine an exhibition titled COLLECTED – featuring artwork produced by students over the course of several years.
“The projects demonstrate the diversity and innovation that is integral to the School of Art Design and Architecture, displaying traditional approaches as well as contemporary digital skills and techniques,” stated Professor Nic Clear, who is Head of Architecture and 3D Design
“Alongside the School’s new Barbara Hepworth Building, Sovereign Design House will constitute an important contribution to the cultural life of the University and to the town of Huddersfield,” he added.
But among the artworks and alongside the catering facilities, visitors also saw some of the original shower fittings and lockers, preserved and re-installed as part of the redesign.
This meant that memories flooded back for visitors like long-standing Broadbent employee Graham Smith, a former foundry worker.
At the special event, he even brought along his original locker key!
Simon Broadbent recalled how the lockers also served as clothes drying facilities, with hot air pumped into them.
This was a factor that meant local conservationists secured Grade II Listed status for the bath house.
Now, it has a dramatic new lease of life.
Architecture students win the national competition for the mile markers that will be erected on the London Marathon route
Professor Nicholas Temple’s The Routledge Handbook on the Reception of Classical Architecture is the first comprehensive study
Emeritus Chancellor Sir Patrick Stewart tours the School of Art, Design and Architecture’s new Barbara Hepworth Building

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/our-buildings/jo-cox-more-in-common-centre:
The University of Huddersfield’s Jo Cox More in Common Centre is a £5 million purpose-built multi-faith and community centre.
It aims to bring together students and staff of all faiths and none through calming communal spaces, gendered prayer facilities and sustainable design features.
Jo Cox More in Common Centre Building
In short, everyone on campus!
You don’t need to be of faith to make use of the facilities, but for those students who do practice a religion, the centre provides the perfect space to take in some quiet, reflective time alone and with others.
At the University, we really believe in equality, diversity and inclusion and know that faith is an important factor for students choosing the University of Huddersfield.
That’s why we wanted to create a space for those who observe religious practices or simply believe in carving out time for wellness.
This is about more than just faith.
This is about connection and community.
A student chats to the Muslim Chaplain in the communal space.
Students sit and chat in the communal space.
External image of the Jo Cox MIC Centre, showing the community garden and Haslett building in the background.
Students stood in the corridor talking to the Muslim Chaplain.
A student chats to the Muslim Chaplain in the counselling space.
Jo Cox More in Common Centre External
Students working together in the meeting room.
Jo Cox More in Common Centre Close-up
The living wall in the Jo Cox More in Common Centre foyer, featuring a display dedicated to Jo’s memory.
The bright, spacious 200-capacity community hall in the Jo Cox MIC Centre, laid out with tables and chairs.
Our Muslim Chaplain, Muhammad, leading a small prayer group in one of the Jo Cox MIC Centre’s prayer rooms.
A group of men praying in the Jo Cox More in Common Centre’s male Muslim prayer room.
Flowers in the Jo Cox More in Common Centre’s community garden, overlooking the canal mills.
The Jo Cox More in Common Centre’s Muslim Chaplain holding a one-on-one counselling session with a student.
A group of students walking through the Jo Cox More in Common Centre’s community garden.
There’s a wide range of modern facilities at the Jo Cox More in Common Centre, which are all part of the University’s £5 million investment in a faith centre that is fit for all.
Facilities include:
Jo Cox was a passionate humanitarian campaigner, activist and Labour MP.
Following a career as a political assistant and leading humanitarian campaigns for charities such as Oxfam, the NSPCC and Save the Children, Jo stepped into politics to stand for her home constituency of Batley and Spen in 2015.
Jo was driven by her belief that a fairer, kinder and more tolerant world was possible.
She believed passionately that even the greatest challenges could be overcome.
On 16 June 2016 on her way to a constituency surgery to meet residents, Jo was murdered because of her beliefs.
This centre stands as a monument to her unwavering passion and as a home for everyone in our diverse university community.
The centre was opened in early 2023 by Jo’s sister, Kim Leadbeater, who currently holds Jo’s previous position as MP for Batley and Spen.
We are committed to celebrating Jo’s memory and annually observing ‘ The Great Get Together ’ which was started by The Jo Cox Foundation to promote Jo’s desire for a united community.
(L to R:) UOH's Tim Thornton, Gordon Leadbeater, Kim Leadbeater, Jean Leadbeater and David Lammy MP.
Close up of the commemorative plaque in the Jo Cox MIC Centre, unveiled by David Lammy MP and Jo’s family.
Our Muslim Chaplain addresses an audience including Kim Leadbeater and David Lammy MP, at the centre opening.
Some of the invited guests at the JCMICC opening, including the centre staff, David Lammy MP and Jo’s parents.
Assembled guests at the opening of the JCMICC, including Jo’s family, key University figures and politicians.
Not only is the Jo Cox More in Common Centre located at the heart of our campus, making it a central location for all students and staff, but it’s committed to enriching the local community.
With close ties to our Students’ Union and faith societies, it’s a place where people of all beliefs, and none, can come together.
With bookable spaces students can use to congregate, contemplate or hold exciting events, the centre proves the perfect meeting place for everyone in the wider University community.
It’s also home to a range of ActiveHud classes and wellbeing sessions.
The Jo Cox More in Common Centre was the first University building to be constructed to the WELL Building Standard and has been awarded the highest level of certification, the Platinum WELL Building Standard .
The WELL Building Standard is a method of designing and operating a building to enhance the wellbeing and health of the people who access it.
The University has committed to implementing the standard in its new construction projects.
Applying the science of how physical and social environments affect human health, well-being and performance, the standard focuses on how people are affected by the following concepts:
To find our more, or book a tour, visit our WELL Building Standard page .
As well as a range of facilities for people to make use of, the Jo Cox More in Common Centre is home to our Chaplaincy Team.
We have a team of permanent and volunteer Chaplains, including Christian and Muslim Chaplains to support a range of beliefs on campus.
While they are on hand to offer advice, pastoral support and to provide opportunities for worship, they are also here to enable our students to lead their own initiatives, finding ways to bring their faith to the fore in their university experience and connect with others on campus.
Read about the opening of our new multi-faith building, opened by Jo’s sister and parents.
If you want to explore our new multi-faith building, then why not book onto a tour of the facilities?
The Jo Cox More in Common Centre was the first HE building in the UK to achieve a WELL Platinum standard, read all about it.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/ouroffer:
Discover our full benefit offering, using the headers below.
If you are an existing member of staff, please click here to view the Employee Benefits Hub .
We are committed to supporting our staff members to maintain a healthy work life balance.
Find out more about our generous annual leave offering and range of flexible, hybrid and family friendly working options.
Explore the details of our competitive rates of pay, pension schemes and recognition programs.
Our Vivup lifestyle savings and TOTUM student card provide access to discounts across the UK’s major retailers including supermarkets, technology, fashion, travel and much more!
Embark on a smarter commute with our travel and cycle to work discount schemes.
Learn about our Health and Wellbeing offering designed to support you both in and outside of the workplace.
Explore  the range of support and resources we have available to help you make the most of your money and maintain your financial wellbeing.
Discover what our state-of-the-art campus facilities have to offer.
Find out more about the exciting initiatives we have in place to celebrate, support and connect our staff members from across the University.
Our award-winning People and Organisational Development team offer an extensive range of training options to help you excel in your career.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/application-process:
All our current job vacancies are advertised online .
If you’re using our web recruitment system for the first time, you’ll need to create an account using an email address and password before you can complete your application.
The email address you provide will be the one we use to contact you.
Please ensure that you complete all sections of the online application.
Advice will be available to guide you through the form.
Please read the job description and person specification for each vacancy carefully before completing an application, as the decision on whether to shortlist you will be based on the information provided in your application, demonstrating how you meet the criteria.
CVs alone are not accepted, but you can submit three attachments, with a maximum size of 5 MB each, to support your application when applying online.
If you’re a current student or a graduate of the university, then you can receive advice on your application and help preparing for interview.
To find out more, please visit students.hud.ac.uk/opportunities/careers and you can learn how to book an appointment or get in touch.
Please only submit an application if you meet the essential criteria for the role, and make sure you provide examples of how you meet the criteria in your supporting statement, as we can only consider you for the role if you do!
You will only be able to click ‘Apply’ once all mandatory fields are filled in and each page shows as being completed on the Summary page.
Note: Please don’t use the back button on your web browser when completing your application, as you may lose information you’ve entered.
If you’re interested in working at The University of Huddersfield, but are unable to find a suitable current vacancy, you can save your job search as a job alert and we’ll notify you when we have any vacancies fitting your criteria.
All vacancies close at 23:59 on the closing date provided on the advert.
Following the closing date your application will be assessed by our shortlisting panel.
Our process is tailored to the role we’re recruiting to, so expect to bring your real-life skills to the recruitment process.
From competency and values-based interviews, to presentations and practical assessments, this will vary depending on the role you’re applying for and gives you the chance to show us what you’re great at doing.
Our interviews measure your abilities and competencies for the role, as well as your overall fit with our working culture.
All interviews are conducted by an appropriate panel usually comprising of at least 3 individuals, including an independent colleague.
We’ll contact you by email if you have been successfully shortlisted for interview.
Interviews are conducted on campus in person, or online via MS Teams, determined by the recruiting manager.
Usually, the successful applicant will be identified by the panel within a few days of the interview.
Any offer of employment made by the University will be subject to the receipt of satisfactory pre-employment checks including references and proof of eligibility to work in the UK.
We’re proud to have been accredited as a Disability Confident Leader and are committed to offering reasonable adjustments throughout the recruitment process.
We also acknowledge that not all disabilities are visible and are committed to making adjustments for people with unseen disabilities and those who are neurodivergent.
Many factors will be involved in deciding what adjustments the University needs to make and they will depend on individual circumstances.
We’re committed to offering an interview to all applicants who have declared a disability and meet the minimum essential criteria for the role, as detailed on the person specification.
For all posts we ask you to declare any unspent convictions.
Some of our roles are also subject to a Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) Check.
Where relevant this will be clearly stated on the job advert.
For further details please refer to our Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) Information for Applicants.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/relocation:
You probably have a lot of questions about working and living in Huddersfield.
This section provides some information that aims to answer your questions and give you some helpful tips on settling into the town and beginning your new life here.
This area provides important information about Huddersfield for all applicants who are thinking about applying at the University.
This area provides important information tailored to prospective international employees who are thinking about relocating to the UK.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/otheropportunities:
We are seeking to recruit a new Chair of Council here at the University of Huddersfield.
This is a challenging, and exciting, time to be involved in supporting the University to achieve its strategic ambitions and the role of Chair is pivotal to our success.
The importance of strong and effective governance is crucial at all times, but particularly so currently, and we are looking to recruit someone with a sound record of non-executive leadership, business acumen and with a keen interest in higher education.
We are committed to ensuring that our governing body is diverse in membership and has a broad coverage of skills and experience to provide effective strategic oversight of all aspects of the University’s business and are particularly keen to hear from women and applicants from a black or minority ethnic background.
To apply please send a CV and covering letter to Alison Jones, or for further information and an informal discussion, at universitysecretary@hud.ac.uk
For more information, please download the Chair of Council Appointment Brief .
Closing date: 15 August 2025 Working for Equal Opportunities.
Inspiring Global Professionals.
Opportunities available at Advance HE

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/dbs:
The Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) is a government agency providing criminal records checks to assist employers in identifying candidates who may be unsuitable for certain work, for example, work involving contact with children or other vulnerable groups.
They also maintain barred lists of those individuals unsuitable to work with children or vulnerable adults.
We obtain Enhanced disclosures from the DBS, via our supplier First Advantage.
You can find further information on the Government’s Disclosure and Barring Service webpages.
If a post requires a Criminal Record Check, this would normally be clearly stated, along with the type of check required, on the job advert and as a condition of your contract of employment.
When you are applying for a vacancy with us and completing our application form, you will be asked if you have any unspent conditional cautions or convictions under the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974.
You will also be asked if you have any adult cautions (simple or conditional) or spent convictions that are not protected as defined by the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 (Exceptions) Order 1975 (Amendment) (England and Wales) Order 2020.
Where relevant, you should provide details of the dates(s), nature of offence (s) and sentence(s) passed.
Any information provided by you will be held securely by the University and in accordance with the Data Protection Act.
If you are subsequently shortlisted and following the selection process are the preferred candidate for the role, to determine whether your criminal record is relevant, the information you have provided will be assessed in relation to the nature of the role, the tasks you would be expected to undertake and the circumstances in which the work is to be carried out.
All information will be treated as strictly confidential and will be considered only in relation to the post for which you are applying.
Human Resources may discuss the content of your Disclosure, and the results of any criminal records checks, with the Recruiting Manager, where they consider this to be essential in determining your suitability for the post.
Where applicable, discussions may be held with you to give you the opportunity to make all information known.
Successful candidates for a vacancy, once a conditional job offer has been made.
Anyone who applies for a standard or enhanced criminal record check through the DBS can choose to subscribe to the DBS Update Service (basic disclosures are not eligible).
This service enables employers (with your permission) to carry out an instant and free online check, known as a ‘Status Check’, which reveals whether the DBS Certificate is still up to date, or whether new information may have been added to your criminal record (for example, new convictions).
This means that you may not necessarily have to repeat checks when moving jobs, working for multiple employers, or when you need a DBS disclosure for both work and voluntary activities.
However, there is only portability as long as the new activity is within the same ‘workforce’ and requires the same level of checking.
So, an enhanced disclosure to work with children cannot be accepted if your new role is with at risk adults, or vice versa.
In such cases a new disclosure will be required.
When our HR team contact you regarding a DBS check, they will ask you if you are a member of the update service.
Our HR team will send you a link to set up an account with our supplier, First Advantage who facilitate the DBS checking process for us.
You will then complete an online application form and provide proof of identity at the Post Office, with First Advantage completing the relevant checks.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/sas:
The School of Applied Sciences provides a vibrant teaching, learning and research environment for over 1500 students and 100 staff encompassing Chemistry, Chemical Engineering, Biological Sciences, Geography, Forensic Science, and Pharmacy.
We deliver an inspirational learning experience and undertake pioneering research with a practical applied emphasis.
The School is currently in the process of a £30million expansion of our facilities, adding a suite of research laboratories, general teaching space, a student hub and a four storey teaching laboratory block to enable us to enhance our delivery of scientific knowledge through modern practical technologies.
This links with our emphasis on work placements and developing graduate skills leading to excellent employment prospects for our graduates.
Our established research profile and industry links allow us to maintain the quality and contemporary nature of our courses, keeping pace with an ever changing and increasingly technological world.
Staff in Applied Sciences are internationally recognised for their research with a track record of attracting external funding from bodies such as the UK Research Councils, including EPSRC, AHRC, and NERC, and charities such as The Leverhulme Trust.
We also have a large portfolio of research and consultancy work with local, national and international industries.
Much of our work has a focus on applications in society ranging from colour chemistry and analytical technologies to sustainable living and through to drug formulation and delivery.
Staff and course information within the Department of Physical and Life Sciences
The Department of Optometry and Vision Sciences (OVS) was created in 2019 within the School of Applied Sciences at the University of Huddersfield
Teaching and research in Pharmacy
Staf listings and profiles
Our commitment to equality and diversity
If you would like to contact the School of Applied Sciences, please email sapp.student.support@hud.ac.uk
Alternatively, our Staff profiles provide direct contact details for all members of academic staff.
If you are enquiring about our courses or studying with us, please email the appropriate admissions team:
Our postal address is:
School of Applied Sciences, University of Huddersfield, Queensgate, Huddersfield, HD1 3DH
If you are coming to the campus and need details for how to find us, please see University Maps .
The main University Reception is very close to our buildings and the receptionist will be happy to assist you in finding the person you are visiting.
Follow us on social media - we're on Facebook and Twitter
The University has delivered Chemistry courses for over 175 years, and we have a large number of undergraduate and postgraduate students working in our laboratories with an excellent range of facilities.
Alongside our MChem and BSc Chemistry degrees , we have a very successful suite of undergraduate degrees in Forensic and Analytical Science , and in Pharmaceutical Chemistry.
We have also recently introduced a BSc (Hons) Chemical Engineering and Chemistry degree course and also have BEng and MEng degrees in Chemical Engineering .
The Department of Chemical Sciences offers BSc, MSci, MChem, BEng and MEng degrees, integrated masters, taught masters, foundation courses and research degrees up to PhD.
The Department is committed to the highest quality of teaching, making sure that practical knowledge underpins theory at every level of the degree programme.
Our research is thriving and expanding, and is class-leading in several areas.
Research is carried out across the spectrum of chemical sciences from computational chemistry to cancer therapy.
There are specialist laboratories for forensic science, chemical engineering, synthetic chemistry (organic and inorganic), catalytic testing, thermal analysis and calorimetry, kinetic measurements, chromatography and adsorption studies as well as a dedicated local computer cluster for modelling.
The Department is supported by world-class instrumental facilities with mass spectrometry (incl.
LC-MS/MS spectrometers with q-ToF & Ion Trap), SEM, well-equipped single crystal XRD facilities (including micro-focused single-crystal and powder XRD as well as small angle X-ray), EPR, analytical spectroscopy and analytical electrochemistry.
This is supplemented by the recent purchase of new 600 and 300 MHz NMR spectrometers to go alongside our existing 400 MHz machine.
Dedicated technicians at PhD level run the chromatography, NMR and MS laboratories.
Our portfolio of BSc degrees in the Biological Sciences currently includes Biomedicine, Pharmacology, Biochemistry, Medical Genetics, and Molecular and Cellular Biology, as well as a broad BSc Biological Sciences.
Courses that incorporate a specific year-long research placement are subject to advanced accreditation by The Royal Society of Biology .
The newest additions to the Department are our geographers and the provision of research-led BSc programmes in Physical and Human Geography .
High quality teaching and the application of practical laboratory knowledge and integral within all our degrees.
Research interests in the Department are diverse with a range of newly refurbished laboratory facilities available to post-graduate, under-graduate, and post-doctoral researchers.
Resource available includes cell culture suites for growth of mammalian cells and an assortment of microbial eukaryotes and prokaryotes; an ancient DNA laboratory; plus confocal, widefield, and super-resolution fluorescence microscopy.
We also benefit from our close association with the Department of Chemical Sciences: our analytical biochemists and environmental scientists have available world-class instrumental facilities with regard to mass spectrometry (including LC-MS/MS spectrometers with q-ToF and Ion trap), an extensive range of HPLC and GC equipment, and newly purchased 600 and 300 MHz NMR spectrometers to go alongside an existing 400 MHz machine.
Our protein biochemists enjoy the availability of a range of ÄKTA purification equipment together with access to well-equipped single crystal x-ray diffraction and small angle x-ray scattering facilities.
Our Master of Pharmacy (MPharm) is a 4 year undergraduate degree that leads to registration as a pharmacist following a further year of paid pre-registration training.
It has been specifically designed to combine science and clinical practice in a supportive and career-focussed environment using a range of innovative and exciting teaching methods, with direct input from our registered practitioner pharmacists.
Modern, purpose-built facilities with state-of-the art equipment mean we have a great teaching environment, and our students are taught by a range of people who have strong academic backgrounds and experience in the profession of pharmacy, as well as being experts in higher education.
The opportunity to learn alongside other healthcare professions and our placement activities have always been highly praised by students and our partners.
In addition, the Department offers postgraduate research degrees supervised by renowned academic staff.
These span a range of pharmaceutically relevant topics including cancer chemotherapeutics, drug delivery, pharmacoeconomics and pharmaceutical policy, molecular neuroscience, neuropharmacology, pharmaceutical analysis, pharmaceutical technology and materials and biopolymer science.
We also offer a suite of MSc taught courses with the Pharmaceutical Business Suite of courses, a CPD programme for pharmacy technicians , and also an Independent Prescribing course leading to qualification as an independent prescriber in a particular area of healthcare practice.
We are highly rated for Teaching Quality and our research and offer all our students the support and environment to succeed in their education and career development.
Get in touch with the School of Applied Sciences

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/artsandhumanities:
The School of Arts and Humanities offers a dynamic and progressive approach to a range of subject areas including art, design, architecture, music, humanities, media and filmmaking in an environment of teaching and research excellence.
The School, one of the largest of its kind in the UK, is driven by a collaborative approach that takes place through initiatives such as the Huddersfield Contemporary Music Festival, Temporary Contemporary and the Huddersfield Literature Festival developing outcomes of a regional, national and global scale.
We have a long history of architectural education, since the school of Architecture was first established by Norman Culley in 1921.
The Department Media, Humanities and the Arts aims to deliver an inspirational learning experience and undertake pioneering research.
Academic, research, technical and support staff within the School of Art and Humanities
Catch up on the news, events and competition winners from the University
Need more information?
Find out how to contact us!
Welcome to the Department of Design and the Built Environment at the University of Huddersfield.
Our programmes focus on cutting edge design practice and address some of the latest challenges and opportunities for our industries, including Sustainability, User Centred Design, and Building Information Modelling.
Our international and industry led focus provides students with opportunities to really broaden their perspectives and understand the need to deliver innovative solutions that satisfy the physical, cultural and social conditions wherever development is required.
Our programmes are fully accredited by professional bodies like the Architects Registration Board (ARB), the Royal Institute for British Architects (RIBA) Part 1, Part 2 and Part 3; the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (CIAT); the Chartered Association of Building Engineers (CABE); The Pacific Association of Quantity Surveyors (PASQ); the Board of Quantity Surveyors Malaysia (BQSM); and the University has Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB) Accredited Centre Status.
Our enterprising graduates are well represented at the top of the architecture, design and built environment professions, both nationally and internationally.
Excellence in teaching and research in Architecture, Design and the Built Environment, playing a leading role through investigation, creativity and innovation.
Nurturing critical thinking and practice through a student-centred learning environment with inspirational staff Industry focused and practice led approach Trust and commitment creating lasting relationships
Undergraduate Courses
Postgraduate Taught Courses
Postgraduate Research Courses
The department of Music and Design Arts currently offers an exciting interdisciplinary mix of art, fashion, photography and music courses.
Our approach builds on the potential for contemporary, experimental, commercial and trans-disciplinary practices.
The department is committed to promoting high quality learning which reflects contemporary knowledge and understanding related to studio practice, theoretical contexts, forms of public display and industry.
The courses are practically based and our focus on interdisciplinarity encourages a greater range of transferable skills for employment, which our students acquire and can therefore apply within a diverse world of art, design, music, and culture.
The department has a reputation for stimulating progressive arts practice combined with promoting live exposure and exchange with national and global creative industries.
We aim to foster the next generation of creative researchers, and boast a dynamic and interactive learning community that will enable all research staff and students to nurture, develop and exploit their talents.
For general enquiries, please contact:
Email: R.Mountford2@hud.ac.uk
Postal Address:
School of Art Design and Architecture University of Huddersfield Queensgate Huddersfield HD1 3DH

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/business-education-law-school:
Welcome to the School of Business, Education and Law at the University of Huddersfield.
Our School is dedicated to fostering an environment of academic excellence, innovation, and collaboration.
We are committed to providing our students with the highest quality education and preparing them for successful careers in their chosen fields.
As the Dean of the School, I am proud of our diverse and talented faculty, who are leaders in their respective disciplines.
Our School offers a wide range of programmes that are designed to meet the needs of today's global marketplace.
We are looking for individuals who are passionate about teaching, research, and making a positive impact on the lives of our students.
If you are ready to take the next step in your career and join a vibrant academic community, we encourage you to apply for these exciting opportunities.
At Huddersfield Business School our mission is to undertake responsible teaching, research and enterprise that enable students to fulfil their academic, professional and personal potential, and that enrich the communities and organisations with which we interact.
The School of Education is an award-winning School of enthusiastic, highly experienced professionals committed to increasing understanding of education, learning and youth work through high quality research.
The Law School has an experienced and professional staff team involved in the delivery of its courses across undergraduate postgraduate taught, postgraduate research and professional levels.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/computingandengineeringhrpage:
Our School is a vibrant academic community with state-of-the-art research and teaching facilities across a diverse set of computing and engineering specialisms.
We aim to provide excellence in education and research which has both individual and societal benefits and has the potential to be transformative for people and technology.
We believe strongly in the quality of the support we offer our partners, whether that is students, research collaborators, employers or other stakeholders.
This has helped to establish a reputation for the quality and professionalism of our courses, our teaching, and our internationally recognised research.
Our staff are supported to bring energy and enthusiasm to their work, offering expertise in their fields.
Established industry links allow us to continually refresh and update our teaching and research activities, keeping pace with an ever-changing and increasingly technological world.
Learn more about the dedicated people and departments that make our school a thriving learning, teaching and research environment, as well as our professional links and accreditations.
Learn more about our vibrant and rapidly growing research community which has expertise in such diverse areas as precision engineering, intelligent interfaces, systems engineering, and diagnostics.
Learn more about what is happening in the School by browsing our news and events
The University has been a member of the Athena SWAN Charter for gender equality since 2015.
The School of Computing and Engineering has a diverse community and is committed to Athena SWAN principles and the promotion of equality and diversity and is proud to hold a Bronze Athena SWAN Award.
Like, follow and chat with us through our social media channels.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/hhs:
We are an award winning, professionally accredited School with a strong focus on excellence in interdisciplinary teaching and research.
The School consists of three linked Departments – Nursing; Allied Health Professions, Sport and Exercise; and Social and Psychological Sciences, and is home to over 4,400 undergraduates, 1,400 postgraduate taught and 250 postgraduate research students.
Prof Jane Owen-Lynch is Dean of the School of Human and Health Sciences.
Find out more about Jane and the other members of the Senior Leadership Team .
The Department offers a range of allied health profession, sport and public health courses.
The applied nature of the courses and the range of placement opportunities offered prepares students for employment across health, social care and sport and exercise sectors.
The Department offers a range of courses within Social Work, Social Care, Psychology, Crime and Policing.
Our courses are designed to equip you with the knowledge and skills that prepare you for work in a variety of, public, commercial and charitable sectors.
The Department of Nursing offers a range of courses that equip student to work in a variety of healthcare settings as nurses.
Our research crosses disciplinary boundaries between health, psychology and social science, focussing on solutions to ‘real-world’ problems for people and organisations.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/holocaust:
Holocaust Centre North is a partnership between the Holocaust Survivors’ Friendship Association and the University of Huddersfield.
On this page you can find news stories about the Holocaust Centre and Holocaust research by our academics.
Read more news from the University of Huddersfield.
News stories relevant to events happening right now in the world.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/honorary-graduates/patrick-stewart:
Sir Patrick Stewart is one of the leading stage and screen actors of his generation and he also made his mark as a deeply committed and energetic Chancellor of the University of Huddersfield.
He remains our Emeritus Chancellor.
Sir Patrick is particularly eager to ensure that young people have the opportunity to fulfil their potential through access to Higher Education.
Huddersfield is effectively his home-town university.
Sir Patrick Stewart was born in Mirfield, West Yorkshire, in 1940.
His father was a regular soldier and his mother was a weaver.
He left school at the age of 15 and worked briefly as a reporter on the local newspaper, but a teacher at school had inspired in him a love of Shakespeare and the stage.
Acting ambitions quickly superseded journalism.
He was made OBE in 2002 and in 2010 he received a knighthood.
His many involvements include Amnesty International and he is a frequent public speaker in favour of its goals in the field of human rights, as well as being an active patron for Refuge, the domestic violence and women's rights organization.
In September 2019 Sir Patrick Stewart spoke to the University of Huddersfield about Picard after watching the first 3 episodes.
It was in this interview that he said “people will be surprised and perhaps even shocked.”
Sir Patrick initially turned the part down twice.
“It was a very difficult decision,” admitted the Shakespearean actor.
He was eventually persuaded when the producers explained in detail how they were going to progress the series and that it would be a vastly different world for the former starship captain and far from a walk down memory lane.
“I don’t regard it as going back, in fact, we are definitely moving the series forward and that’s what made the difference for me”
Read the full interview.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/informationgovernance/dataprotection/your-rights-under-data-protection-legislation:
Data Protection Legislation provides you with a number of rights in regards to the collection and processing of your personal data.
Some of these rights you are always able to exercise, whilst others depend on the reasons why your data has been collected.
Your rights are listed below, categorised into those which are your guaranteed rights (which always apply, whatever the reasons we have collected your data), and your additional rights (which are only applicable in certain circumstances which we have set out below).
The following rights always apply, whatever the reasons we have collected your data.
What does this mean?
This is your right to see a copy of the data we hold about you, known as a Subject Access Request.
How do I exercise this right?
To make a Subject Access Request, you need to contact us in writing, by either emailing us at data.protection@hud.ac.uk or by writing to us at Data Protection, Vice-Chancellor’s Office, University of Huddersfield, Queensgate, Huddersfield, HD1 3DH.
Please make sure that you include your name, address, and details of the personal data you would like to be provided with.
Alternatively, you can fill in our Subject Access Request form and send it to data.protection@hud.ac.uk.
Please be as specific as you can, as this helps us deal with your request as quickly as possible.
To make a request for images captured by the University's CCTV,please reefr to the University's CCTV policy , section 13 (Acces by Data Subjects).
We will provide a response to your Subject Access Request within one calendar month from the date we receive your request.
There may be rare instances where this timescale will be extended.
However, if this is the case, we will inform you as soon as possible and let you know the reason why.
You have the right to request that we update or amend any inaccurate information that we hold about you.
This depends upon your relationship to the University.
Listed below are some of the most common scenarios, along with details of how to rectify your personal data.
Students : You can amend the details that we hold about you by accessing the ‘My Details’ section of your Student Hub account .
To rectify any other data held outside of your account, please contact our Archives and Records Office.
Staff: You can amend your details by accessing the My HR portal .
To rectify any other data held outside of your account, please contact Human Resources.
Members of Council: Your details can be amended by accessing the members’ portal, or by contacting Tracey Taylor.
Unsubscribe: If you wish to unsubscribe or amend your marketing preferences in relation to materials or emails issued to you by the University, please contact us using the details included on the marketing material you have received.
Alternatively, please direct your request to data.protection@hud.ac.uk in the first instance, and we will ensure that your request is dealt with.
If you would like us to rectify any of your personal data which falls outside of the above categories, please email data.protection@hud.ac.uk , making sure that you state which information you want to be corrected and where you think it is held.
We can comply with the following rights in certain circumstances, depending on the reasons why we have collected your data, and the circumstances of your request.
More information on the collection of your personal data can be found in the applicable Privacy Notice , or in our Retention Schedule .
We thought it would be useful to provide you with the below table based on the Information Commissioner’s Office guidance, which shows when the below rights are available, dependent upon the reasons why we are processing your data.
You can check the legal basis of processing your data in the applicable Privacy Notice , or in our Retention Schedule .
Legal basis of processing your data
Right to erasure
Right to portability
Right to object
Consent
✔
x
(but right to withdraw consent)
Contract
Legal obligation
Vital interests
Public task
Legitimate interests
You have the right to object to us continuing to use your personal data where we have collected it for a public task or legitimate interest, if you feel there is good reason, or if you wish to withdraw your consent where this was previously given.
If you wish to make such a request, please fill out our Objection form and email it to data.protection@hud.ac.uk .
In making our decision on whether we are able to comply, we will consider the reasons for your objection and the reasons why we are processing your data.
We will write to you to confirm whether we will comply or provide the reason why we cannot comply.
Where we have collected data which is necessary to perform a contract, you have the right to receive a copy of your information that we hold, and transfer this data in a compatible format (for example, in a PDF or CSV file).
If you wish to make such a request, please contact data.protection@hud.ac.uk .
In your request, you should provide us with sufficient information to identify your contract (for example, if you are a student, please provide your student number).
This is the right to have your personal data deleted.
This right only applies where we no longer require your data for contract purposes, we have relied on your consent to process your data and you are now withdrawing this consent, or you believe that your objection outweighs our interests.
You can also ask us to restrict processing of your data.
Please fill out our Erasure request form and email it to data.protection@hud.ac.uk .
In making our decision on whether we are able to comply, we will consider the reasons for your request, the reasons why we are holding your data, and whether we may require this data in the future, for example, if there were an ongoing dispute or if a future dispute was likely.
We will review any request you make fairly, and try to comply with your wishes where this is practical, however, we reserve the right to refuse your request, and may do so in the following circumstances:
We have one calendar month to either action your request or explain our reasons why we are unable to comply.
The month timescale will start once we have verified your identity and have the sufficient information to process your request.
If you wish to appeal the response we have made in relation to a request you have made, please see the relevant Complaints Policy (dependent upon your relationship with the University), which are available on our website.
If you remain unsatisfied having exhausted our Complaints Policy, you may contact the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO)

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/informationgovernance/dataprotection/databreachreporting:
Please follow the University's Personal Data Incident Procedure for reporting any data breach incident.
Personal Data Incident Procedure
In the event of a personal data breach, you can report this via the Data Protection Portal.
If you are not a member of staff, please fill in the Data Breach Evaluation Form .
If you have any queries, please contact the University's Data Protection Officer at data.protection@hud.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/informationgovernance/dataprotection/guidanceforstaff:
Please refer to the University’s Data Protection Staff Portal for guidance on Data Protection related queries and answers to frequently asked questions about data protection.
The guidance has been produced to assist staff with discharging their responsibilities under the Data Protection Act 2018.
If you need to notify the University of a suspected data breach incident, please complete the Data Breach Evaluation Form , available on the University’s Data Protection staff hub.
If you have any queries, please contact the University's Data Protection Officer / Data Protection Team at data.protection@hud.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/vco/governance:
Welcome to the University of Huddersfield's governance pages.
The University is governed through the University Council and the Senate with support from various committees .
The institution was awarded University status on 16 June 1992 and is an exempt charity under the Education Reform Act 1988.
Please click here for further information on the University's legal status.
The University's Standing Orders for the Conduct of Meetings set out the protocol for the meetings of the Council and its committees including the Senate in line with the Instrument and Articles of Government .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/vco/universitycouncil:
Its responsibilities are for the determination of the educational character and purpose of the University, for oversight of its activities and to ensure financial solvency.
The Council membership is made up of lay (external) members, staff representatives and a Students' Union nominee, and meetings take place on a quarterly basis.
The Terms of Reference and Code of Conduct for Members defines the role of University Council in accordance with the University's Instrument and Articles of Government .‌
The relationship between the Council and its committees is shown in the Committee Structure Chart .‌‌
Please click on Membership of Committees to find out which Council and Committee members are on the above committees.
Committee Structure Chart
Estates and Finance Committee
Governance and Membership Committee
Honorary Awards Committee
Individual Membership of Committees 2024-25

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/maps/carparking:
Operating hours for public parking: 6.00pm-6.00am Monday to Friday and all day Saturday and Sunday.
Southgate car park offers parking 24 hours/day.
Tariffs and Payment: All car parks will take cashless payment via the RingGo Application which can be downloaded via the Google Play or Apple Store.
Charges apply to all car park users including Disabled and Blue Badge holders.
ANPR Technology: All car parks used for public parking will have Automatic Number Plate Recognition technology to monitor compliance and assist with security and safety.
Staff Car Parking Portal (SharePoint)
The table below shows the parking tariffs for public parking.
More information about car park locations and capacity below.
Address : Wakefield Road, Queensgate, Huddersfield HD1 3DH
What3Words : worm.planet.races
Capacity : 43
Accessible Bays : 8
Address : 53 Firth St,Aspley, Huddersfield HD1 3BN
What3Words : coffee.solved.traps
Capacity : 167
Accessible Bays : 2
Address : Firth Street, Aspley, Huddersfield HD1 3DR
What3Words : pill.neon.into
Capacity : 35
Accessible Bays : 3
Address : Queen Street, Huddersfield, HD1 3BB
What3Words : couches.rats.mount
Capacity : 123
Address : 17 Old Leeds Rd, Huddersfield HD1 1SG
What3Words : stuff.direct.drips
Capacity : 139

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/lorem/nathan-smith/open-days/undergraduate-before/directions:
Huddersfield is located in West Yorkshire between Leeds and Manchester, with good connections to the M62 and M1 and within easy reach from the rest of the UK.
Parking is available on a first come first served basis in our Firth Street Car Park (Please use postcode HD1 3BN in your Sat Nav).
Download the  for more details and directions.
There are a number of public car parks located close to the University campus and Huddersfield town centre that you can use if the University car parks become full.
Parking is available on campus for Blue Badge holders (please use the postcode HD1 3DH in your Sat Nav).
For more information on getting to the University of Huddersfield by train or bus please visit our maps and directions page .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/how-to-apply:
Here is what you need to know about applying for undergraduate study at the University of Huddersfield including our minimum entry requirements, advice on writing a personal statement, and what happens after you apply.
Entry requirements for the majority of our undergraduate courses are expressed as a range, for example BBB-BBC at A Level or 120-112 UCAS tariff points from a combination of Level 3 qualifications or DDM-DMM in BTEC Level 3 Extended Diploma.
The range entry requirements allow us to tailor our offers to the individual applicant based on their personal profile and choice of course.
The following list provides examples of information that helps to inform our admissions decisions and offer-making process:
If you have any questions about your application please contact our Student Recruitment Team on +44 (0)1484 472 625 or email study@hud.ac.uk .
If you have any queries about financing your study please visit our undergraduate fees and finance pages.
Here's what you need to know about applying for a full-time undergraduate degree.
Here is what you need to know about applying for a part-time undergraduate degree.
We recognise that many individuals and groups face barriers to accessing Higher Education and we are committed to promoting fair access.
Find out more information about interviews, auditions and portfolios
A few hints and tips to help you get started and show yourself in the best possible light.
Find out more information about what happens after you apply.
Minimum entry requirements for undergraduate applicants.
Information for undergraduate applicants
Visit UCAS hub to accept your course offer with us.
If you wish to start your studies the year after you apply you can do so - most of our courses accept deferred entry applications.
If you are not sure what deferred entry is or want to know for sure if your preferred course supports a deferred start date please call us on +44 (0)1484 472 625 or email us at study@hud.ac.uk .
If you have any queries about your UCAS application or want to track your application online you can do this on the UCAS Hub .
Alternatively you can discuss your application with UCAS by phoning them directly on 0371 468 0468 or from outside the UK on +44 (0)330 3330 2320 .
Callers with hearing difficulties calling from the UK should use the Text Relay Service on 18001 0371 468 0468 and from outside the UK call + 00 151 494 1260 (text phone) and ask the operator to dial 0371 468 0468 .
If you wish to apply for a full-time undergraduate course you need to submit your application via the UCAS Hub .
Your school or college is most likely to be registered with UCAS and your teachers or careers adviser would be able to help you with your application.
You can find course names and course codes for all our undergraduate programmes on the UCAS website using the UCAS search tool .
Make sure you enter the correct course code on your application form.
The institution code that you need to use is HUDDS H60.
If you’re not at school or college but are based in the UK you can still apply through UCAS independently.
The UCAS Hub webpage provides full instructions on the application process including a comprehensive guide to applying online.
If you are an applicant from outside the UK you can apply to the University independently unless your school or college is registered with UCAS.
Further help and advice may be available from your local British Council office and/or other education centres in your own country.
More information about applying as an international candidate is available on our international webpages or you can apply directly using our international students online application form .
All applications received through UCAS on or before the last Wednesday in January of the year of study will be considered equally.
Places on popular courses cannot be guaranteed for applications received after this date.
EU and International applicants should allow plenty of time to make immigration, travel and accommodation arrangements.
Give us a call on +44 (0)1484 472 625 or email study@hud.ac.uk so that we can advise you on your best application route.
Applications made after the last Wednesday in January of the year of study will only be considered if a course still has vacancies.
If you wish to apply for part-time undergraduate study including Workforce Development courses you can do so using our Online Part-time Application Form .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/business/knowledge:
KTPs are government-funded programmes aimed at helping UK businesses improve competitiveness, productivity and performance.
The programme is a three-way collaboration between an organisation, nominated mentors from the University and a recent graduate.
Contact us to find out more.
There are several steps to attaining a KTP, largely undertaken by our experienced team
A breakdown of the costs you may expect
Our local and national success stories
Get in touch and find out how we can help.
KTPs are designed to allow recent graduates to benefit your business and stretch their intellectual legs, meaning we make it as easy as possible for you.
There are several steps to attaining a KTP, but most of the work rests with us.
The University and your business may complete an initial “Fact Finder” form to ascertain the eligibility of the project and list its benefits.
Your project will be discussed with the regional KTP advisor, who will offer their thoughts, expert advice and raise any concerns ahead of the next stage.
A full application proposal is then developed.
This is led by the university, allowing you to focus on your business during this time.
Once the KTP has been approved (up to 12 weeks), we jointly hire an associate to start working on your project.
The associate is assigned joint supervision from the University and business and is able to access a host of research materials.
For more details, contact our experienced KTP team .
The average total cost of a KTP is £90k - £110k per annum, but a grant is available to cover 67% for SMEs and 50% for large businesses.
This makes the typical KTP cost £30k and £45k for SMEs and large businesses respectively.
This covers a contribution towards the employment of the associate, half a day a week of academic support from the university, travel, and training.
Visit Paxman to find out more, and get in touch with our experienced KTP team and chat to us about your strategic goals and long-term business ambitions.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/business/support:
Realise your ideas through collaborative research and our knowledge, skills and facilities
We have the experts and academic resources to further your business or organisation
We can support your business with specialist insight and advice on a short- or long-term consultancy
Access financial support for your organisation
Support for business to identify, protect and commercially exploit intellectual property
Get in touch and find out how we can support your organisation
Our internationally recognised research centres and institutes are dedicated problem solvers, providing cutting-edge solutions for your business.
Whether it’s industrial, scientific or societal issues, we are keen to work with your business on collaborative research projects and have access to the knowledge, skills, facilities and funding to help you realise your ideas.
We will commit to supporting you to develop your products or services with tailored projects that enable you to stay ahead of your competition.
To find out more, contact our Services to Business team and take the first step toward realising your goals.
The University of Huddersfield has a wealth of experience working with organisations of all sizes and industry sectors.
We take the time to understand your needs and challenges before finding the expertise and experience to take your business forward.
As an academic institution, we fully understand the importance of timescales and intellectual property concerns, offering a guaranteed confidential service.
Whatever your sector and needs, our wide range of academic schools , research centres and institutes and academic colleagues are sure to have the expertise needed to further your business.
Contact Services to Business for more details.
We can support your business with specialist insight and advice on a short- or long-term consultancy basis, including start-ups, and business and product development.
We have a wide range of academics and researchers in various fields with experience working with many organisations.
We fully appreciate the need to navigate contractual or confidentiality agreements with consultancy projects,  and work hard to expedite this.
However complex your business issues or projects, we can deliver practical recommendations and meaningful results to help you move forward.
We can help you find appropriate funding to support your idea or innovation.
Here are some of the partners and programmes that we work with:
Why  intellectual property IP?
Intangible assets (IP) typically account for more than 70% of the capital of a business.
IP protection can assist in both securing a market share and building a barrier to entry for competitors.
IP can be a means to generate and exploit new products, processes, territories and typically increases profitability by an average 36% (EPO).
IP appears in the balance sheet and can be used as collateral.
Finally, leveraging IP can help raise secure investment.
Wound Model for Debridement Education and Training Artificial Intelligence Enabled Data Driven Diagnostic Support for Adult ADHD Natural Plant Based Coatings for Nutraceuticals and Traditional Medicines Contact Paul Field , Business Partnership Manager for more details.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/business/case-studies:
AstraZeneca collaboration changing the industry
BorgWarner turbocharged by twenty years of student placements
Fired Up fuelled by Huddersfield placements
The right marketing mix for Flexseal
A three way collaboration to improve products and develop skills
Tailored degree that has energised Royal Mail Group staff
Magnificent management training for the NHS
IPOS providing just the right medicine

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/business/talent:
Bringing the latest knowledge, skills and ideas, our students and graduates can help your business meet its long and short-term challenges.
Our students and graduates are in demand - 95% of our undergraduate students and 97% of our postgraduate students go on to work and/or further study within fifteen months of graduating (HESA Student Record 2022/23, UK domiciled, other activities excluded).
Contact the Services to Business team on the different support we give to help you reach the best talent.
Employing our placement students is an opportunity for an injection of ideas backed by the most up-to-date knowledge
If you have a specific project or in need of a short-term extra pair of hands, the fixed-term appointment of one of our brilliant interns could be just what you need
We welcome businesses to put forward small projects or briefs for student modules, to give your business the chance to gain specialist knowledge into a project of your choice
We can help you find the brightest talent or help the brightest talent find you
Our talented students often seek paid part-time work around their studies and many are interested in volunteering for worthy causes
Could your business benefit from the latest industry knowledge and ideas?
We’re enormously proud of our students and graduates, and we're in the top 20 in the UK for placement years in industry (HESA Student Record 2022/23).
Hiring one of our students on a work placement allows you to benefit from the knowledge they gain at university and can help you develop the skills of your existing staff.
Our students bring new ideas, energy and enthusiasm backed by the latest skills and knowledge from their course.
They're keen to put their learning into practice and prove themselves ready for work.
You might even find a future employee, reducing your recruitment costs while demonstrating your company’s commitment to nurturing talent.
Find out more from our placement teams about how our students could benefit you on a Student Placement, and the support we can give you through the recruitment process.
If you have a specific project that a student/graduate could assist with, or you need an extra pair of hands over the holidays, taking on an intern could be the answer.
Students and graduates often look for short-term opportunities to develop their skills and enhance their employability prospects, and this brings talent and fresh perspectives to your business.
The University is delighted to be one of approximately 80 UK Santander Universities.
Each summer, Santander funds us to facilitate an internship scheme which places our grads into local SMEs.
Internships are a great way to scout future talent with many businesses being so impressed with their intern that they take them on permanently afterwards.
Want to know more about internships?
Contact the Employer Partnership team to find the perfect new addition to your business.
Our students often undertake specific assignments or challenges within the context of their degree, often in place of a dissertation, which is critical to the completion of their studies.
We invite businesses to put forward small projects, or briefs, which we can build into relevant modules or offer as research opportunities for our students.
Not only does this give our students’ the ability to build and apply their academic understanding, gain experience, and increase their career prospects, it gives your business the chance to gain specialist knowledge into a project of your choice.
Also, we have recently implemented our new Innovation Creative Exchange Plus (ICE+) programme, which offers short internships for students to work on industry-leading projects.
With such a wide array of subjects and modules, no project is too niche.
Get in touch and we’ll be happy to discuss how it could fit into our student projects.
The School of Business, Education and Law also offers various projects to work with our students.
Our graduates are in high demand and we have an impressive record for graduate employment –95% of our undergraduate students and 97% of our postgraduate students go on to work and/or further study within fifteen months of graduating (HESA Graduate Outcomes 2021/22, UK domiciled, other activities excluded).
Graduates from the University bring with them the latest knowledge, skills and a new perspective to progress your business.
The University places a great deal of importance on industry experience and therefore 100% of our undergraduate students have the opportunity to undertake professional work experience during their studies (this applies to undergraduate courses of more than 12 months duration).
So our graduates are ready to add immediate value.
Our team can help the brightest talent to find you.
Register to use the JobShop and add vacancies.
You may also be interested in attending our careers fairs and/or other employer events to promote your organisation and meet the exceptional students who might one day work for you as graduates.
Contact the Employer Partnership Team for more information.
Our students often look to supplement their incomes with part-time and weekend roles, which they work around their course commitments.
Their flexibility and valuable work can support spikes in demand during busy periods and the daily demands of businesses.
The University recommends that students work no more than 15 hours per week in term-time with more flexibility during the regular University holidays.
Many of our students have a strong social conscience and are willing to give up their spare time to volunteer for causes which resonate with them.
Popular causes for our students currently are those that help make our community a greener and more sustainable place to live in, but they often volunteer for other worthy causes too.
If you’re looking to appoint a student in a part-time paid or voluntary role, we can assist by helping students to find you.
You may also be interested in attending our careers fairs and/or other employer events to promote your organisation and meet the exceptional students who might one day work for you.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/business/training:
We understand your business may need to change and develop to continue being successful throughout the years.
Ensuring your expert team stays expert during these changes is vital for staff retention and maximising productivity.
Our training and development opportunities are catered to help your organisation overcome hurdles with ease.
Whether it’s new technology, gaps in knowledge, or new qualifications and skills, you’re sure to find what your business needs in our range of courses.
However, if you can’t, we can tailor a course to suit your requirements.
Simply get in touch and talk to us about what you’re hoping to achieve.
Below, you can get a better idea of the types of training and development courses we offer.
We can work with you to develop a tailor-made programme that addresses your specific requirements
Practical leadership development to unlock leadership potential and empower effective performance in organisations
Degree apprenticeships are a way for employers to support their staff to study for a University qualification
This government-backed programme focuses on boosting business performance, resilience and long term growth of small and medium sized businesses
We want our training to be right for your business and understand that there isn’t always a one-size-fits-all solution.
We can work with you to identify your needs and then develop a tailor-made programme that addresses your specific requirements, within the context of your industry and business sector.
Our bespoke training focuses on both individual employee needs as well as your organisation’s overarching goals and strategy.
Contact Business Development Team to find out more.
The Sir George Buckley Leadership Centre offers a leadership development programme with Management and Leadership (CMI Level 5) and Strategic Leadership (CMI Level 7) .
The dynamic Executive Education programmes at Huddersfield Business School offer globally recognised professional management qualifications that will keep you at the cutting edge of leadership and management practice.
Contact the Business Development Team to find out more.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/informationgovernance/freedomofinformation/publicationscheme:
Every public authority is required to adopt and maintain a publication scheme setting out the classes of information it holds.
The University follows the model publication scheme provided by the Information Commissioner’s Office .
Information that we hold and which is routinely available can be accessed through our website.
There are 7 classes of information in the model publication scheme.
For convenience these are mapped out here to the relevant area of our website.
Please note that these links are not a comprehensive or exhaustive list of all information published for that class, they are listed here to assist you in finding the information you seek.
Information about the datasets published by the University is available here.
Compliance statistics for responses to Freedom of Information (FOI) and Environmental Information Regulations (EIR) requests is available here.
Legal Status including Instrument and Articles of Government
About us
Senior Staff structure and profiles
Vice-Chancellor’s Office
University Council and Committee Members' Profiles
Academic Schools
Contacts Directory
Visiting the University – maps
Publicly available information about the University of Huddersfield Enterprises Ltd can be obtained from the Companies House website.
Services to business
University's Collaborative Provision
‌Links with the community
http://www.huddersfieldsu.co.uk
International Office
Financial Statements
Tuition fees
Finance
Financial Regulations
Access Agreements
Vice-Chancellor's Remuneration Statement
Staff Salary Grading Structure
Vice-Chancellor's Expenses
Senior Management Expenses
Academic Quality and Standards
Annual Review
Athena Swan
Degree Outcome Statement
HEA Recognition
Strategy Map 2018-2025
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion - Strategy and Governance
Student Number 2023/24 Academic Year
Student Numbers 2022/23 Academic year
Student Numbers 2021/22 Academic year
Student Numbers 2020/21 Academic year
Student Numbers 2019/20 Academic Year
Key Facts
Quality Assurance Audits
Research news
Handbook for Collaborative Provision
The University's Teaching and Learning Strategy 2018-25
Our National Teaching Fellows
University Research Repository
Instrument and Articles of Government
Terms of reference
Standing Orders for the Conduct of Meetings
Students’ Union
University Council Minutes
(Redacted information is exempt from publication)
University Policies and Procedures
Honorary Degrees
Alumni
Archives and special collections
Careers Advice
Faith Centre
Conferences and events
Library
News and press releases
Prospectus
Services to Business
Sports facilities
Student Finance
Wellbeing and Disability Service
We welcome suggestions as to how our provision of information might be improved.
Any questions, comments or complaints should be sent in writing to the Freedom of Information Officer.
Freedom of Information Officer University of Huddersfield Queensgate Huddersfield HD1 3DH Email: foi@hud.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/informationgovernance/freedomofinformation/howtomakearequest:
If you are unable to find the information you are looking for within our Publication Scheme please make a written request for information by email or post to the following:
Freedom of Information Officer
University of Huddersfield
Queensgate
Huddersfield
Email: foi@hud.ac.uk
The University will respond to your request within 20 working days of receipt.
Some information may be exempt from disclosure, and in such cases, the University will explain the reasons for the exemption.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/informationgovernance/freedomofinformation/chargesandfees:
Information available from the University’s website is free to access in that format.
the University will not charge for any request for information.
However, if the cost of responding to a Freedom of Information request exceeds the government ceiling of £450 (equivalent to staff time of 18 hours) the University need not comply.
In such cases we will discuss with the applicant whether the request can be modified to reduce the cost.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/informationgovernance/freedomofinformation/appealsandcomplaints:
If you wish to complain about the way the University has handled your request, please write to the University Secretary quoting the information request number we issued to you where possible.
The University Secretary
In the event you are unhappy with the outcome of your complaint you may appeal to the Information Commissioner’s Office, the UK’s independent authority set up to uphold information rights in the public interest, promoting openness by public bodies and data privacy for individuals.
The Information Commissioner can be contacted at:
The Information Commissioner's Office
Wycliffe House
Water Lane
Wilmslow
Cheshire
SK9 5AF https://ico.org.uk/

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/informationgovernance/freedomofinformation/linkstothirdpartyinformation:
The University of Huddersfield web site links to many third party information providers who are not affiliated with the University of Huddersfield.
The University of Huddersfield does not endorse any of these sites, nor the information or merchandise contained or offered by these sites.
The University of Huddersfield has not taken any steps to confirm the accuracy or reliability of any of the information contained in such third parties' websites, and does not make any representations or warranties as to the security of any information (including, without limitation, personal information) you might be requested to give any third party.
You are strongly encouraged to make whatever investigation you feel necessary or appropriate before proceeding with any online or offline transaction with any of these third parties.
All aspects of these links including, without limitation, text, and graphics, and links, are provided on an "as is" basis with no warranties of any kind.
In no event shall the University be liable for any damages whatsoever, including, without limitation, costs of procurement of substitute goods or services, lost profits, lost data, or any direct, indirect, special, punitive, incidental, exemplary or consequential damages related to the use, inability to use, performance or non-performance of the information or merchandise offered by such third party sites, even if the University of Huddersfield has been advised previously of the possibility of such losses or damages.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/informationgovernance/freedomofinformation/datasets:
From 1 September 2013, the Protection of Freedoms Act 2012 added new provisions to the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (FOIA) in relation to datasets, particularly Sections 11 and 19.
Obligations for public authorities under the FOIA with regard to datasets are as follows:
The table below lists the datasets disclosed by the University under the FOIA since 1 September 2013 and the accompanying licence regime.
Open Government Licence (OGL) - allows re-use for both commercial and non-commercial purposes.
Non-Commercial Government Licence - information may only be used for non-commercial purposes.
Charged Licence - charge made for cost recovery and a reasonable rate of return for use and re-use of the information.
Further information on datasets can be found in the Information Commissioner's Office guidance.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/informationgovernance/copyrightanddisclaimer/extendedfacebookterms:
These terms apply to the entire contents of the University of Huddersfield Official Facebook pages (“the Pages”).
Please read these terms carefully before using the Official Pages.
Using the Pages indicates that you accept these terms.
If you do not accept these terms, do not use the Pages.
This notice is issued by the University of Huddersfield (“the University”).
Your attention is particularly drawn to the Indemnity, disclaimer and liability provisions at Clause 5 of these terms.
1.1  By accessing any part of the Pages, you shall be deemed to have accepted these terms in full.
If you do not accept these terms in full, you must leave the Pages immediately.
1.2 The University may revise these terms at any time by updating this posting.
You should check the Pages from time to time to review the then current legal notice, because it is binding on you.
Certain provisions of these terms may be superseded by expressly designated legal notices or terms located on particular pages.
2.1 Any material you transmit or post to the Pages shall be considered non-confidential and non-proprietary.
The University shall have no obligations with respect to such material.
The University and its designees shall be free to copy, disclose, distribute, incorporate and otherwise use such material and all data, images, sounds, text, and other things embodied therein for any and all commercial or non-commercial purposes.
As with other "chat" or networking sites, personal information should not be shared on the Pages.
The University shall not be responsible for any loss or damage suffered as a result of you sharing personal information via the Pages.
In clicking onto Social Network links, you assume responsibility for any risk and the University shall not be liable.
2.2 You shall not post or transmit to the pages any material:
(a) that is threatening, defamatory, obscene, indecent, offensive, pornographic, abusive, is or could be construed as discriminatory, in breach of confidence, in breach of privacy or which may cause annoyance or inconvenience; or
(b) for which you have not obtained all necessary licences and/or approvals; or
(c) which is technically harmful (including, without limitation, computer viruses, logic bombs, Trojan horses, worms, corrupted data or other harmful data or software); or
(d) which constitutes or encourages conduct which would be considered a criminal offence or give rise to a civil liability.
3.1 Unless expressly acknowledged by the University as such, all links and comments /contributions posted by individuals on the Pages do NOT and shall not be construed as representing the views of the University or its employees and/or associates.
The University shall not be responsible for the views of individuals (connected or otherwise to the University) that are posted on the Pages.
The University reserves the right to request any or all contributions /comments posted on the Pages to be removed with or without notice or explanation.
3.2 We reserve the right to terminate your account from the pages and to delete any content posted by you if it breaks these terms.
4.1 Links to third party websites on the Pages are provided solely for your convenience.
If you use these links you leave the Pages.
The University has not reviewed all of these third party websites and does not control and is not responsible for these websites or their content or availability.
The University does not endorse or make any representations about third party websites, or any material found there.
If you decide to access any of the third party websites linked to the Pages, you do so entirely at your own risk.
4.2 We are flexible to a degree when it comes to self-promotion and including links to your site.
If these links are helpful to our readers, then there is usually no problem.
If, however, at the University’s discretion they are seen as spam or adding little value they will be removed.
4.3 You may only create links to the Pages, subject to the following conditions:
(a) you do not in any way imply that the University is endorsing any products or services, or misrepresent your relationship with the University, nor present any false information about the University;
(b) you do not use any trademarks displayed on the Pages without express written permission from the University.
(c) You do not link from a website that is not owned by you; and
(d) Your website does not contain any content that is distasteful, offensive, controversial, infringes any intellectual property rights or otherwise does not comply with all applicable laws and regulations.
5.1 YOU SHALL FULLY INDEMNIFY THE UNIVERSITY FOR ANY LOSS OR DAMAGE SUFFERED BY THE UNIVERSITY OR ANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES ARISING FROM OR IN ANY WAY CONNECTED TO ANY BREACH OF THESE TERMS BY YOU.
5.2 The material on the Pages is provided “as is” without any conditions, warranties or other terms of any kind.
Accordingly, to the maximum extent permitted by law, the University provides the Pages on the basis that the University excludes all representations, warranties, conditions and other terms (including, without limitation the conditions implied by fitness for purpose and the use of reasonable care and skill) which, but for this legal notice, may have effect in relation to the Pages.
5.3 The University and any of its group companies and the officers, directors, employees, shareholders or agents of any of them exclude all liability and responsibility for any amount or kind of loss or damage that may result to you or a third party in connection with the Pages in any way.
Provided that nothing in these terms shall exclude or limit the University’s liability for:
(a) death or personal injury caused by negligence;
(b) fraud; or
(c) misrepresentation as to a fundamental matter; or
(d) any liability which cannot be excluded or limited under applicable law.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/uni-life/why-huddersfield/why-hud-ug:
Attend one of our Open Days or Campus Tours to get a feel of the university and see if it is right for you.
Apply to Huddersfield through UCAS.
You’ve got a lot of decisions to make, so we’ve made it easy for you.
Here’s just a few of the many reasons to study at Huddersfield.
Not only is it one of the friendliest towns, it also offers a low cost of living, including being the second cheapest in the UK for student rent.
Our ten-point plan for the planet aims to make the University carbon neutral by 2030, starting with planting one tree for every student.
Our teaching staff rank first in England for the proportion with higher degrees and teaching qualifications, as well as being top five for those holding doctorates.
So you’ll learn from some of the best, helping you to be the best.
You’ll leave university with more than a degree.
You’ll have the chance to impress with placement opportunities, studying our award winning Global Professional Award, and careers advice for life.
This is just the start.
Our campus is all in one place, surrounded by the beautiful Yorkshire countryside and full of friendly people.
Where will it take you?
To achieve great things at university you don’t just need inspirational teaching.
Top class facilities and resources help too.
We’ve spent £198m on major campus investments since 2015.
Take our recently opened £30m Barbara Hepworth building.
This is the new home of art, design and architecture.
An exciting hub of creative studios and technology facilities.
Find out more about our campus, including accommodation options, on the Explore our Campus page .
“When I visited the campus I was blown away!
Everything was close by and I got this really positive vibe”.
Rhys Khan Childhood Studies BA(Hons).
Find out what you can get up to in the town and the surrounding areas.
Find out about the UCAS process as well as hints and tips on personal statements and what happens after you apply.
When choosing a university there's lots to think about.
Our prospectus sets out key information clearly so you can find what you need to know.
Find out what our students like about Uni life at Hudds.
From shopping tips, to how you apply for placements.
Our students share their experiences at Uni.
Get tips and info about applying for undergraduate courses straight to your inbox, and be the first to hear about upcoming Open Days plus the latest news about studying at Huddersfield.
Sign up

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/how-to-apply/contextual-admissions:
Whilst we don’t make contextual offers (a reduced points or grades offer based on personal circumstances), we do offer a variety of fairer access opportunities and support, as outlined below.
Further information about ‘contextual admissions’ is available from UCAS .
Eligible students interested in applying to study at University of Huddersfield, can gain an extra 8 UCAS points (equivalent of one grade) via our fairer access scheme, Headstart Huddersfield.
We also accept 12 UCAS points from The Progression Module , or up to 8 UCAS points from any official access scheme offering UCAS points to applicants, operated by a UK Higher Education institution.
Please note that points from different schemes cannot be combined.
For more details you can view our minimum entry requirements and terms and conditions on the How to apply section of our website.
The University is committed to ensuring that as a care experienced student you get all the support you need at each stage of your journey from pre application right through to graduation.
As such we are part of the Go Higher West Yorkshire’s (GHWY) collaborative Care Leaver Covenant .
To support you through your journey , we encourage you to make contact with our designated member of staff to discuss specific entry requirements and to arrange tailored visits and interviews.
If you don’t have the right qualifications in terms of subject requirements, grades, or overall points, we offer a range of foundation courses.
These courses can enable an alternative route to degree courses which might otherwise not be an option.
Foundation courses include:
For details of all other Foundation courses we offer please see Foundation Courses 2025-26

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-and-finance:
There are lots of ways to cover the cost of your university studies.
If you are an international student, please visit our international fees page .
Discover what additional help you may be eligible for to support your university studies.
Most home students don’t have to pay any fees up front as this will be covered by a tuition fee loan.
You can also apply for a maintenance loan to help pay for your living expenses (like accommodation, food and travel).
From September 2026 the UK government is launching a new student funding system for people starting university education.
For further information, advice or guidance, please contact the Student Finance Office.
Get top tips, advice and expert insight into all things fees and finance from our students.
The Student Finance Office is located in Student Central on Level 4 of the Central Services Building on the main Queensgate Campus.
The Student Finance enquiry desk is open from 10.00am to 4.00pm (Monday to Friday) during term time and between 10.00am and 2.00pm out of term.
Outside these hours our services are available through iPoint.
The cash office is open 10.00am - 12.30pm and 1.30pm - 3.30pm during term time, and 9.00am- 1.00pm out of term.
For queries about invoices received or payments, tuition fee charges, grants, bursaries and scholarships: Tel: 01484 472210 Email: sfo@hud.ac.uk
Staff in the Student Finance Office are available to support and advise all students regarding financial issues.
The Lifelong Learning Entitlement offers flexible tuition fee support to all eligible home undergraduate students starting university from January 2027, as long as they are aged under 60.
The LLE gives all new students a pot of financial tuition fee support that they can access as they need to.
For standard undergraduate study this is £38,140 which is the equivalent of four years full-time fees of £9,535 per year.
This allows students to apply for support that reflects the number of modules they take each academic year.
Any remaining funding can be used towards future undergraduate study - this includes graduates who may want to return to university to retrain but were previously not eligible for financial support (except for a few limited course exceptions).
The funding a student receives at university is then repaid the same way as the current system, based on earnings after graduation and deducted from their salary along with tax and national insurance.
There will also be a maintenance loan available to cover living costs, for courses with in-person attendance.
You can read more on the Government website .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/student-profiles:
Primary Education Studies BA(Hons)
Joe chose Primary Education Studies due to it being a condensed two-year course.
He has developed his skills through a work placement at a local school, and has bene impressed by facilities on campus, such as the Library.
Computer Science with Games Programming BSc(Hons)
Nathan wasn't originally considering university but applied through Clearing after getting his exam results.
Despite commuting to campus, he has immersed himself in campus life by joining various societies and volunteering as an Academic Rep.
Filmmaking BA(Hons)
Eloise chose to study at Huddersfield because of its location and the range of opportunities and activities on offer to students.
Her favourite things about the University are the community feel on campus and the range of facilities on offer.
Information Technology BSc(Hons)
Shufan is an IT student from Pakistan, who received a scholarship when he enrolled.
He chose Huddersfield because of the high-quality teaching and low cost of living in the town.
He has used various student support services to enhance his student experience.
Creative Music Production BA(Hons)
Jonathan is a mature student who came to the University via the Access to HE diploma route.
He is part of various student societies and lives in nearby student accommodation.
Biochemistry BSc(Hons)
Syed is a Biochemistry student who applied to Huddersfield through Clearing as he received higher grades than expected.
He likes the lab faculties on his course and is part of various student societies; he has even created his own society.
Nursing (Mental Health) BSc(Hons) (Blended Learning)
Emma applied to Huddersfield through Clearing, despite having a place elsewhere.
She credits the blended learning format of her course for helping her balance studying with parenting, and has completed various work placements as part of her course.
Occupational Therapy BSc(Hons)
Abdul is an Occupational Therapy student.
He chose Huddersfield because of the range of facilities and the structure of the teaching.
He has undertaken two work placements and is completing the Global Professional Award.
Photography BA(Hons)
Erin is a Photography student who applied to Huddersfield through UCAS Extra.
She loves the facilities available on her course, and has immersed herself in student life through working for the Students' Union and taking on photography jobs across campus.
Psychology BSc(Hons)
Sophie chose Huddersfield because of its close-knit campus feel.
She appreciates the enthusiasm and support of the Psychology teaching staff and the variety of assessment methods on her course.
Edwin chose Huddersfield because of the specialist options available within Computer Science.
He is on the autism spectrum and has accessed a range of disability support and taken part in various student societies and clubs.
Professional Policing BSc(Hons)
Phoebe chose her course as it allowed her to pursue her passion for policing.
She likes how the lecturers take the time to get to know you personally, and values the support offered by the dedicated Academic Skills Team.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/after-you-apply:
Join us at an Applicant Visit Day
The perfect opportunity to meet academics, current students and see teaching facilities on our beautiful campus.
Offer-making at Huddersfield
Accepting your offer
Confirming your place
Deadlines for responding to offers
What happens on results day?
Deferring your entry
Unsuccessful decisions
Keeping in touch
Get prepared
What to expect before you get your decision, accepting your place, accommodation, fees and finance.
Connect with us
Ask questions and connect with future classmates.
Explore student life
It’s important to us that our offer making is transparent.
Read details of all the types of offers we make.
Once you have received all your decisions you can make a firm acceptance, insurance acceptance or choose to decline the offer.
When you receive your results you may need to confirm your place, find out how to do that and if you need to.
Find out our deadlines for responding to offers made.
You can track your application on the UCAS Hub and can see what your selected universities have decided.
If your circumstances have changed and you no longer wish to start your studies next academic year you can defer your entry.
If your application is unsuccessful and wish to receive some feedback you are able to do so in writing.
See all the ways to keep in touch with us throughout your application.
Ask questions and connect with fellow classmates.
Here at Huddersfield, we expect students who join us to have demonstrated their commitment to their studies and future career – whether they are studying A Levels, Applied Generals, or other qualifications.
We want all our students to be studying alongside others who have shown equal commitment, and inspire each other to do their very best, get the most out of their time at university and go on to great careers.
It is important to us that our offer-making is transparent, and we are consistent, fair, and equitable in our decisions.
We have signed up to the Admissions code of practice to show our commitment to fair and transparent admissions practices.
See further information about the Admissions code of practice .
Details of all the types of offers we make are provided below.
A conditional offer means your offer of a place on the course is subject to you achieving specified qualifications and/or grades and/or a minimum number of UCAS points.
You may also be required to meet subject specific requirements in a subject area related to your course.
An offer may be conditional upon non-academic requirements e.g.
a Disclosure and Barring Service check, a successful visa application or health assessment which is deemed satisfactory.
You will usually receive confirmation of your place on the course following the verification of your results and you can check this online on UCAS Hub .
An unconditional offer means your offer of a place on the course is not subject to you meeting any further academic requirements.
For courses with additional non-academic requirements, e.g.
a Disclosure and Barring Service check, a successful visa application, satisfactory health assessment, overseas police check (if applicable) etc, please note that your enrolment on the course will be subject to meeting these requirements.
Unconditional offers are normally made for students who have already achieved the necessary academic qualifications to meet the entry requirements for the course which they have applied.
Where courses require a student to demonstrate abilities in a practical way, for example, audition, evidence of abilities through submission of a portfolio or interview, we may make an Unconditional offer where results are still pending if we are confident that the student is right for the course and will succeed.
We may also make unconditional offers in exceptional circumstances, for example where an application is from a mature student with substantial relevant experience.
We want to encourage all our potential students to do their best as they study for their current qualifications.
These results will be used to assess their ability to make a success of their time here at Huddersfield and with our help to go on to a successful career
Huddersfield continually monitors and evaluates the impact of offers made to inform future decisions about its offer making policy.
Once you have received all your decisions you can make a firm acceptance (this is your first course choice) or make an insurance acceptance.
Insurance acceptance acts as a backup to your firm acceptance and you’ll only attend the university course of your insurance acceptance if you don’t meet the conditions of your firm choice.
You also have the choice to decline the offer.
When you accept an offer of a place on a course and then enrol as a student of the University, you will be asked to enter into a binding agreement with the University under which you will be subject to the University's regulations, policies and procedures.
Once you've accepted your offer from us as your first (firm) choice, you will be given access to our online pre-enrolment portal known as 'MyHud', which includes useful information that you need to know before joining your course.
We will email you once the portal is available and tell you how to access it.
You can then begin to prepare for the exciting time ahead.
Results day will come around quicker than you think and it's wise to be a step ahead so once you arrive you can get stuck into university life.
You can track your application and accept your offer on the UCAS Hub .
The University will usually receive examination results for certain qualifications automatically.
If your qualification is displayed in the UCAS exam results list you shouldn’t need to notify us of these results.
If your offer of a place is conditional upon examination results and/or qualifications other than those displayed on the list, you will need to send us proof of these to confirm your place.
Please send copies of your proof of examination results and/or other qualifications by e-mail to study@hud.ac.uk using 'Outstanding Qualifications' in the subject line and making sure to include the course that you have applied for (e.g.
Outstanding Qualifications Pharmacy).
Applicants with International Qualifications - Please supply a verified translation of your official results, along with a copy of your original examination transcript.
*Please note that you need to send us any outstanding certificates or examination results no later than 3 September.
If we have not received your results by this date the University reserves the right to decline your application.
If you are unable to provide your certificates or examination results by this date, please contact us at study@hud.ac.uk
If your place is conditional subject to non-academic requirements only e.g.
passing a health check or Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance, and has no academic conditions, then you do not need to send us any examination results.
If you have been asked to obtain a DBS clearance, health check or overseas police check as part of your offer, it is your responsibility to ensure that you engage with the application processes.
In some circumstances we may need to see your original DBS certificate, it is your responsibility to provide your original certificate if requested.
Your school, college or sixth form will let you know how you’ll receive your results, this could be through the post, or you may have to go and collect them.
You can track your application on the UCAS Hub and can see what your sedelected universities have decided.
On results day morning you’ll be sent a message from UCAS (by email) and the University (by text) to let you know if your place has been confirmed.
If you wish to give us a ring, please make sure that you have already received your results and have your UCAS personal ID handy.
We know results day can be stressful and upsetting if you don’t get the grades you were expecting, but don’t panic there are still options available.
We may still be able to confirm your place or offer you a place on an alternative course.
First of all, log-on to UCAS Hub and check if you have been accepted by either your first or your second choices or made an alternative course offer.
If you are not holding any offers, you’ll automatically be in Clearing.
Learn all about the Clearing process.
To get offers from other universities, you’ll need to check the vacancy listings on UCAS and decide which course(s) and universities you’re interested in.
Once you have made a shortlist, you’ll then need to call the universities you’re interested in.
You may also wish to contact your school/college for further support and advice.
If you are rejected by your first and second choices you’ll be entered in to Clearing .
If your grades were lower than expected, then you may be made an alternative offer by your chosen universities.
This could include a foundation year or a place on a different course if you meet their requirements.
If you have been made an alternative offer, this will be updated in your UCAS Hub and you’ll receive a notification of this by email from UCAS.
You’ll need to check the details of the new offer and decide whether you would like to accept this.
If your offer is still conditional on results day, don’t panic, there could be a number of reasons for this.
We advise you to log-on to the UCAS Hub , to see if the reason is explained there.
Possible reasons for this could include:
The University receives many recently achieved qualification results such as A levels via UCAS automatically so there is usually no need to provide evidence until enrolment when you may be asked to provide evidence.
We will contact you if we do need you to send your certificates for any qualifications which have not been verified.
If you have a firm or insurance offer at the University of Huddersfield and you change your mind seabout the course you want to study, please email the Student Recruitment Team at study@hud.ac.uk .
We will need to check if the course you’re interested in has a place available and if you have the correct grades and subjects for that course.
Please ensure your details are correct on the UCAS Hub and then email study@hud.ac.uk so we can arrange for your details to be updated.
You can request your feedback within 6 weeks of getting your decision.
Please include the following information when making your request:
You can request your feedback by emailing us study@hud.ac.uk , or by post: Student Recruitment Team, University of Huddersfield, Queensgate, Huddersfield, HD1 3DH.
Please note that feedback can be requested and is provided only in written format within 6 weeks of receipt of a valid request.
Further information is available in our admissions policy for taught courses document (see section 4 - Feedback to applicants).
Most of our courses accept deferred entry applications.
If you are unsure what deferred entry is or whether your preferred course supports a deferred start date please call us on +44 (0)1484 472625 or email us at study@hud.ac.uk and we will be able to help.
When your last decision comes in, UCAS will send an email to say there's an update (or a letter advising you about replying).
For more information about replying to offers and key decision dates please visit the UCAS replying to your offers page .
You can track your application on the UCAS Hub .
Email: study@hud.ac.uk
Telephone: +44 (0)1484 472625

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/uni-life/su:
The Students' Union is at the heart of your university life.
It’s where you hang out, grab a bite to eat and meet friends who’ll stay with you for years to come.
That’s why, at Huddersfield, we do everything we can to ensure your SU works hard for you, providing plenty of opportunities to try new things, representing your needs, and supporting your university life.
Offering a wide range of social events, as well as being home to a massive range of clubs, societies and volunteering opportunities, your Students’ Union is led by students for students.
We’re here to help you feel part of the Huddersfield community.
You can follow your passion for sport, join one of our student societies or even get involved with running the Students’ Union itself.
The Students’ Union is fully independent from the University, which means we can support you through our Students’ Union Advice Centre and be your voice on campus.
See how you could get involved!
There are lots of great opportunities to get involved at Huddersfield Students' Union so you can find your people and really enhance your experience at university.
From Aikido to Volleyball, explore our mix of fun and competitive sports clubs.
Our student networks represent the diversity of our student body.
Continue your existing interests or try something new and make new friends by joining a society.
Check out the latest events programme for a flavour of what you could get involved in.
We want to make sure there are a range of sports available through our Student’s Union, so that no matter whether you’re new to it or a bit of a pro, you can find a club that caters to what you enjoy.
Find out more about our Sports Clubs
We want to ensure our students are heard, no matter who they are or where they come from.
Our Student’s Union is committed to raising up students’ voices to improve the university experience for everyone.
We have six student Networks that are volunteer and student-led groups which are shaped by their members and act as ambassadors for the wider student body.
When you’re here, join a Network as a member or an ally and ensure your voice and the voices of others are heard.
Learn more about our Networks
Societies are not only a great way to explore your passions while at university, but they’re a perfect opportunity to meet like minded people and expand your friend group.
We have a wide range of societies that cater to all likes and hobbies.
You’re sure to find one that excites you.
Find out more about our Societies
There’s always something going on at the Huddersfield SU, so there’s plenty of opportunities to get out, try new things and meet new people.
With a busy calendar packed with free and paid events, you’re never short of something to do.
Find out about current SU Events
The SU is not only a great place to meet others and explore your passions, but it’s here to support you on your journey.
In addition to our Student Services, the SU provides independent advice on a range of subjects and can support you with other elements of university life, such as accommodation.
We run a full-service Advice-Centre, located on Floor 5 of Student Central.
HudLets is a student accommodation office run by Huddersfield Students' Union and works with halls of residences and private landlords.
As a Students’ Union, we remain grounded in the principle that we are run by students for students.
We aim to represent students in making student life better in a variety of ways.
Each Year our students elect 4 officers to represent the students of Huddersfield University.
Hi, my name is Freya (she/her), and I am your new President for the 25/26 academic year.
Hello, my name is Bethany (she/her), and I’m your new Activities Officer for the 25/26 academic year.
Hello, my name is Irfan (he/him), and I’m your Education Officer for the 25/26 academic year.
Hello, my name is Dobby (she/her), and I’m proud to be your new Equity Officer for the 25/26 academic year.
First Year student Áine Gallagher talks about her experience with the SU, from the societies she joined to volunteering at a tree planting session!
I grew up in a small village called Tibshelf in Derbyshire.
I chose Huddersfield University because it was one of the few that offered my joint course in Sociology and Psychology.
I also appreciate the close-knit feel of our small town and the convenient layout of our campus.
In my second year, I served as the social secretary for the Thai boxing sports club.
I pursued the position of Equity Officer because I love working with people and helping them.
Thank you all for giving me this opportunity!
@presidenthudsu
Hello, my name is Bethany (she/her), and I am your new Activities Officer for the 25/26 academic year.
You may recognise me from the pole fitness committee or from participating in various other clubs and societies.
This year, I graduated with a bachelor's degree in Fashion Design with Textiles, so I certainly know how it feels to be a student at Huddersfield University.
I am very excited to work on improving student engagement across all societies and creating more collaborations across campus.
Thank you for this opportunity, and I look forward to making this year amazing for everyone.
@activitieshudsu
Hi, my name is Irfan (he/him), and I'm your Education Officer for the 25/26 academic year.
I hold an MSc in International Business with Project Management.
I've been actively involved in various roles within the Students’ Union, including as an Events Assistant and Retail Assistant, which have given me valuable insights into student life.
As a volunteer Peer Supporter at the HSU Advice Centre, I developed a passion for listening to people and understanding their concerns.
This role allowed me to connect with many students and offer support and guidance.
I am truly grateful for the opportunity to serve as your Education Officer.
My goal is to ensure every student feels heard and represented.
Thank you for your trust and support.
Together, we can create a more inclusive and empowering environment for everyone.
@educationhudsu
Hiya!
I'm Dobby (she/her), and I am proud to be your SU Equity officer for 2025/26!
I'm originally from Bradford and come from a Hindu-Bangladeshi background.
I've always been quite chatty and from a young age I've loved connecting with people, sharing stories and speaking out when things aren't fair, which is why I did my degree in Journalism.
I was previously the social secretary and then co-president of the Pole Fitness Society in my last two years of study.
This empowered me to create some incredible friendships and my confidence as an individual grew massively.
The opportunities I gained from being involved with my society helped me get to where I am now.
I'm beyond grateful to have this opportunity as Equity Officer.
I will do everything I can to ensure we all feel empowered and inspired on our beautiful campus this year!
@equityhudsu

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/schools-and-colleges-liaison-service:
Contact us on 01484 472282 or schools.liaison@hud.ac.uk
Meet our dedicated team in the Schools and Colleges Liaison Services
Open days are a great way for individuals and sixth form groups to explore HE options.
Headstart is a scheme that offers eligable students the opportunity to gain an extra 8 UCAS points.
The Progression Module is a structured off-the-shelf HE and employment preparation programme for sixth-form and college students.
The University of huddersfield runs a number of higher education preparation sessions throughout the year.
The University offers a range of activites to help keep those supporting students in the know about higher education.
See what subject specific activities we have on offer for your subject area.
Here you will find a list of curated digital resources and websites to support you and your students with different aspects of Higher Education research.
Meet our dedicated team in the Schools and Colleges Liaison Services Team.
Exploring the University of Huddersfield
Undergraduate Open Days
Explore our campus
Find out more about our campus facilities online, take a virtual tour or book a tour in-person.
Introduction to HE for young people and parents and carers
My guide to University
Download our introduction to Higher Education for pre-16 learners.
Parents' Guide to Higher Education
Download our guide to Higher Education for parents and carers.
Applying to University - YouTube
A selection of short videos on topics such as student life, applying through UCAS and personal statements.
Undergraduate Fees and Finance
Information about tuition fees, loans and scholarships and bursaries at the University of Huddersfield.
Student Finance England
Student Finance explained by SFE.
Student budget plan
Download our budget plan template to plan and manage your own student finance.
UCAS applications and personal statements
How to apply to university
Information on applying to study at the University of Huddersfield, including advice on writing a personal statement.
UCAS: How to write your undergraduate personal statement
A UCAS guide to writing your personal statement.
Student support
Student support at the University of Huddersfield
Find out more about the range of support services available at the University of Huddersfield.
UCAS: Applying to university with individual needs
A UCAS guide to all aspects of student support.
Contact us
To book any of the activities listed here or to discuss your requirements, please contact us by email .
Registration is now open for the Go Higher West Yorkshire (GHWY) Care To Go Higher CPD-certified course for those who support care-experienced young people.
Through a series of 6 interactive online sessions, it equips key influencers, including carers, teachers, social workers, and advisors, with the knowledge and confidence to help young people make informed choices about Higher Education (HE).
The course has real impact and previous attendees have said the course offers “a wealth of information to support care leavers on their journey to HE”.
The next delivery of CPD will take place online on Tuesdays 10am to 12pm from 30 September to 11 November (no session during October half term).
The training is free and includes contributions from HE professionals, Care Experienced Students and employers from across the region.
Find out more and register on the Go Higher West Yorkshire website

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/placements:
Placements are a valuable part of the courses here at Huddersfield.
There’s a real focus on the practical career environment and I love the University’s emphasis on work placements.
Hannah Kitching, Travel and Tourism Management BA(Hons) -
*In some instances, a placement or period of work experience may be unpaid.
Take a look at the course you're interested in for the placement opportunities that may be available.
Most of the courses at Huddersfield include the opportunity to gain industry experience and we're one of the UK's leading universities when it comes to integrating work placements into our courses.
And that's precisely what employers are looking for - evidence of real-world work experience.
A work placement can last for 1 to 48 weeks.
If you have a burning desire to work overseas, we will work with you to try and ensure you secure an international placement.
Our students have gone on to work for companies all over the globe and we have links with some of the leading companies with headquarters in countries on all continents.
As you can imagine, with so many different courses to choose from at Huddersfield, our students have the opportunity to go and work at a wide variety of companies out in the real world and come back feeling energised for their final year at the University.
Here are just a few of the companies that our students have completed their placement year with:
Primark
100% of our undergraduate students have the opportunity to undertake professional work-related experience during their studies.
This includes placements, industry-standard projects and real-world case studies**.
** This applies to undergraduate courses of more than 12 months duration.
You will see information about any placement opportunities for your chosen course in the course information listings , and of course you can talk to your tutors about this in detail at our Open Days .
You can also watch our video below and hear from current students about their placement and the benefits and opportunities available to students at Huddersfield.
Get a real picture of what it’s like to work out in your chosen industry.
Whether it’s a summer job, sandwich year, placement or graduate job, this section is full of quotes by real University of Huddersfield students doing real jobs.
Hear from current students talking about life on campus, their tutors and the benefits of work placement.
Find a course that's right for you and learn about the placement opportunities available.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/sign-up-for-emails:
You can stay up to date with everything related to studying at Huddersfield by subscribing to our emails.
We’ll let you know when our Open Days are open for booking, send you helpful reminders of deadlines for applying, share insights into student life and updates related to studying with us.
We will use the information you provide to send you information about studying at The University of Huddersfield by email.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/postgraduate/taughtcourses:
Search for postgraduate courses.
A postgraduate taught qualification can help you stand out in a competitive job market.
Search our courses to find the best option for you.
Find out about our application process and what happens after you have applied.
Our Postgraduate Open Days give you the chance to speak to academics, school representatives and current postgraduate students, visit our campus and ask any burning questions.
A postgraduate qualification is a great way to improve your professional prospects, change your career path or master your passion.
In fact, 94% of our postgraduate students go on to work and/or further study within fifteen months of graduating.
(HESA 2021/22)
At Huddersfield, we offer the following postgraduate taught degrees:
Ready to apply for a postgraduate taught course?
Find out about everything you need to know about tuition fees and how to pay.
From Master's loans to scholarships, and a 10% discount on fees for home alumni, we offer options that help you to finance your next step.
If you’ve got questions about postgraduate study, you can speak to our current students at any time.
Information about regulations and policies for current students
Key facts relating to your enrolment on a taught course at the University of Huddersfield

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/postgraduate/research:
Search for research degrees.
Find out everything you need to know about applying for a research degree.
Explore our academic expertise across a range of disciplines and specialities.
Find the right research supervisor for you using our database.
Explore our expertise across a range of disciplines and specialities.
Find the right research area for you by using our course search tool
Take the opportunity to explore a subject in depth, gain new skills and experience, and improve your career prospects.
Join our vibrant postgraduate community, access world-leading facilities, advanced research skills training and expert careers advice.
Your experience will be shaped by The Graduate School , who will help broaden your knowledge and access tools and skills to improve your employability.
Not sure what type of doctoral opportunity is right for you?
Explore more about types of study.
Find out about tuition fees for research degrees, which covers your registration, tuition, supervision and more.
From Doctorate loans to scholarships, there are a range of funding options available to you as a research student.
We offer a range of scholarships and studentships to help you pursue your dream research.
We are in the top 50 UK universities for research power, and nearly two thirds of our research environment is classified as world leading and internationally excellent (REF 2021).
With more than 70 research institutes and centres, we're advanced in research, innovation and collaboration across all of our academic departments.
For most subjects, you will likely need to include a research proposal of approximately 1000-2000 words.
Read through our research proposal guidelines to make sure you cover all the information needed.
Discover our latest research news.
Our current research students are here to answer any questions you have about studying with us and life at Huddersfield.
Information about regulations and policies for research students
Key facts relating to enrolment as a researcher at the University of Huddersfield

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/postgraduate/research/research-scholarships:
The University of Huddersfield is committed to offering a bespoke range of financial support to enable you to pursue your passion and carry out innovative projects.
Find out about University scholarships and funding available across our schools and subject areas:
This scheme is for alumni and provides a full tuition fee waiver on either full-time or part-time research degrees.
It is open to home and international Huddersfield graduates.
We are seeking the best graduates from across the UK to participate in our Chancellor’s Scholarships Scheme, which gives those selected access to a full tuition waiver, as well as additional funds to attend conferences to disseminate and publish their research.
Applications are assessed based on academic success, qualifications, experience, background and potential impact of the research and a good match with our expertise.
Schools offer a range of Research Scholarships in the form of fee waivers between 25 per cent and 100 per cent.
We also offer studentships to researchers in certain disciplines.
Studentships are similar to scholarships in that they provide tuition fee discounts to postgraduate researchers.
The main difference between studentships and scholarships is that the former usually requires you to work for the University in a research or teaching capacity (with some exceptions) or is attached to a specific research project or field of study.
Take a look below to find out about the research scholarships and studentships available in your research area of interest.
Find information on fee waiver and topic specific Master’s scholarship opportunities in the School of Arts and Humanities
Find details on tuition fee waiver scholarships and PhD studentships in the School of Applied Sciences
Find out about the Huddersfield Business School Open Scholarship
Discover Computer Science research scholarships in the School of Computing and Engineering
Full details on fee waiver scholarships in the School of Education and Professional Development
Explore Engineering scholarship opportunities for Master’s by Research and PhD researchers
Explore our funded opportunities currently available.
Fully funded Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) studentships – Externally funded
We are seeking the very best graduates from across the UK to participate in our Chancellor’s Scholarships Scheme, which gives those selected access to a full tuition waiver on their research degree, as well as additional funds to attend national and international conferences to disseminate and publish their research.
To celebrate 200 years of the University of Huddersfield, which in 1825 was established as The Science and Mechanics Institute, we are awarding Chancellor’s Anniversary Scholarships across all PhD disciplines.
These scholarships are available across all academic disciplines for research undertaken on either a full-time or part-time basis.
Our Chancellor’s Anniversary Scholarships Scheme is a competitive application process open to home (UK resident) candidates and to be eligible you must have achieved one of the following:
Research degrees include the following awards; PhD, Professional Doctorates, Master’s of Arts by Research, and Master’s of Science by Research.
The University of Huddersfield reserves the right to vary or withdraw the waiver at any point in future academic years.
All scholarship students must successfully complete progression monitoring at the end of each academic year to continue the scholarship award.
If you have any queries or require further information, please contact gs.pgradmissions@hud.ac.uk
To apply, please complete an online application form stating the scholarship you wish to apply for in the funding section.
For more information on applying, please visit our how to apply for a research degree page.
The following deadline dates will apply:
PGR Start Date
Application Deadline Date
Sept/Oct 2026
13 June 2025
17 October 2025
April 2026
23 January 2026
All eligible candidates will be subject to interview as part of the selection process.
This will be arranged by the relevant academic school.
For further information, please contact the Graduate School at gs.pgradmissions@hud.ac.uk
If you’re a Huddersfield graduate, looking to undertake a full-time or part-time research degree, you may be eligible for a full fee-waiver on your research degree.
The scholarship is open to home and international candidates.
Please note, for international students our Vice-Chancellor's Scholarship Scheme provides a fee waiver of at least 50% on full-time or part-time research degrees, some schools may offer 100%.
Our Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship Scheme is a competitive application process and to be eligible, you must have achieved one of the following: - a first-class honours degree - a distinction at taught Master’s or - be recommended based on your Master’s by Research by your supervisor and academic school and - graduated from the University of Huddersfield in the last three years.
Any offer will be conditional on your degree outcome if you are graduating in the current academic year.
Available for research undertaken on a full-time or part-time basis including PhD, Master of Arts by Research, and Master of Science by Research.
Scholarship is only available for the standard registration period only,
For doctoral awards, or PhD, the fee waiver will be for 3 years full-time or 6 years part-time
For Master’s by Research awards, the fee-waiver will be for 1-year full time or 2 years part time.
The fee waiver will not apply to any research undertaken outside of this standard registration period, including any write up period.
Please note, that this fee waiver is subject to availability.
To be considered for the scheme, ensure you meet the application deadlines:
Research Start Date
Sept/October 2025
For further information, please contact the Graduate School at: gs.pgradmissions@hud.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/postgraduate/fees-and-finance:
Postgraduate fees vary depending on your chosen course, the length of time you study for, the level of study (e.g.
Master’s/PhD), and whether you are a home or international student, with fees available on individual course pages.
Visit our course pages to find fees for your course.
Research degrees may sometimes include additional costs.
There are funding opportunities available to research students that can help with the cost of a research degree course.
Additional costs (also known as bench fees) may be charged for research degrees where there are exceptional costs directly related to the research project.
For example, this might be for equipment hire, access to specialist computer packages, etc.
If you wish to know if these costs will apply to the course you’re interested in, please contact the Graduate School via email: graduateschool@hud.ac.uk
We also offer a variety of research scholarships.
For more information and a complete list of research scholarships please visit the scholarships page .
Find out what financial support you can get when considering postgraduate study
For further information, advice or guidance you can contact us here.
Postgraduate fees vary depending on your chosen course with fees available on individual course pages.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/postgraduate/funding-studies:
From student loans to scholarships to research grants there are a wide range of funding options for our postgraduate taught and research courses .
Discover more using the links and information below.
The Master’s Loan is a non-means tested loan of up to £12,858 (2025/26), available to UK students on full-time, part-time or distance learning taught or research Master’s degree courses (subject to meeting eligibility criteria).
The Doctoral Loan is a non-means tested loan of up to £29,930 (2024/25), available for UK students on full-time, part-time, distance learning or integrated taught or research-based postgraduate doctoral qualifications.
Our Alumni discount is a 10% reduction on annual tuition fees for taught Master's degree courses.
It is available to all home students who graduated with an undergraduate honours degree at Huddersfield.
Our ever-increasing research activity has resulted in a range of scholarships and studentships being offered across our academic schools.
We’re passionate about research and making a difference to the world we live in.
To help us make this difference, we seek the very best Huddersfield graduates to participate in our Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship Scheme, which gives those selected access to a full tuition fee waiver on their research degree.
We offer a range of scholarships for international applicants.
In addition to the postgraduate degree loans and University scholarships mentioned above, there are a number of external sources you can consider when deciding how to fund your postgraduate studies.
The Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA) provides financial support to cover study-related costs that occur because of a mental health problem, long term illness or other disability.
You can apply for DSA support on top of any additional student finance you are receiving.
This finance does not have need to be repaid.
More information on Disabled Students' Allowance (DSAs) can be found here
If you are working and your course is relevant to your job, your employer may be willing to sponsor you.
If your employer does agree to pay your Tuition Fees, they can email confirmation of this to sfo@hud.ac.uk before you enrol, and we can ensure that they are invoiced for your fees.
Research Councils
Research Councils funding is available through the University to both Master's and PhD students.
There are seven councils, each covering a different subject of academic research.
Your University school or department will be able to advise you on whether your course is eligible for funding, as well as offer you advice on submitting a high-quality application.
More information on Research Councils can be found here
Charities and Trust Funds
Charitable funding and Trust Funds can sometimes help with support for Postgraduate study.
This funding tends to be limited and may not be able to cover the full cost of your study.
You can find out more from these publications:
PGCE and PGDipE courses
PGCE courses provide funding on the same basis as undergraduate courses (Tuition Fee Loan and Maintenance Loan).
Bursaries and scholarships are available to trainees on tuition fee-based postgraduate teacher training courses in England that lead to the award of qualified teacher status (QTS).
More information on PGCE and PGDipE courses can be found here
The Social Work Bursary is a non-repayable grant which can help you to cover your study and living costs and is available to students who meet specific course and residency criteria.
Please note – they are limited (or capped) so there’s only a certain number available each year and being in receipt of a Social Work bursary would normally mean you are not eligible to receive a Postgraduate Loan.
More information on Social Work bursary can be found here
Everything you need to know about tuition fees and payment information.
Our Postgraduate Open Days are an opportunity for you to learn more about this advanced level of study and the options and support available to you.
If you are a UK-based student, undertaking a full-time, part-time, or distance learning, taught or research Master's degree, you may be eligible to apply for a UK government Postgraduate Master's Loan to help towards your study.
Paid directly into your bank account in three termly instalments.
To check your eligibility and see how much loan you will receive and find out how to apply for the UK government Postgraduate Masters Loan, visit the government’s Funding for Postgraduate Study page.
Watch this video from Student Finance England for a clear and concise overview of the Master’s loan.
In addition to your Master’s loan, you may qualify for other funding for your Master's course, for example, grants from charities or trusts.
However, you will not be eligible for an Adult Dependants’ Grant, a Childcare Grant or Parents’ Learning Allowance from Student Finance if you’re studying a Master's course.
For further information, advice or guidance please contact our student finance office .
If you are a UK student undertaking a full-time, part-time, distance-learning or integrated postgraduate doctoral qualification, you may be eligible to apply for a UK government Postgraduate Doctoral Loan .
It is paid directly into your bank account in three annual instalments, and you can choose to use it towards your tuition fees or to help with living costs.
To check your eligibility, see how much you could receive and find out how to apply for the UK government Postgraduate Doctoral Loan visit the government Funding for Doctoral Study page.
In addition to your Doctoral loan, you may qualify for other funding for your doctoral course, for example grants from charities or trusts.
However, you will not be eligible for an Adult Dependants’ Grant, a Childcare Grant or Parents’ Learning Allowance from Student Finance if you’re studying a doctoral course.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/postgraduate/types-of-study:
Are you unsure which is the right postgraduate qualification for you?
There are a variety of different postgraduate degrees available.
Whether you’re looking to continue from undergraduate level, or learn new skills and build up an impressive range of knowledge and abilities, we have a variety of options to suit you.
Browse the options below to find out more.
You prefer more structured study which is assessed through regular assignments and exams.
You prefer a more independent approach to study, concentrating on a thesis or research portfolio of practical work.
You prefer teaching delivered through lectures, seminars, and independent study.
You would like to project manage your research throughout your whole degree.
You need a Master’s qualification for a specific industry or career.
You want to explore a research topic using an in-depth and intensive approach to make an original contribution to knowledge.
You want a mix of coursework, exams, and a shorter dissertation.
You prefer little or no taught elements or exams.
A taught degree can equip you with specialist knowledge and skills that will help you stand out from the crowd.
Straightforward guidance and information on how to apply for your postgraduate course of interest at Huddersfield.
Our Postgraduate and Research Prospectus is your go-to guide for exploring the ins and outs of postgraduate life at Huddersfield.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/postgraduate/funding-studies/alumni-discount:
The University of Huddersfield values its alumni and is pleased to offer an exclusive 10% Alumni Discount to assist with the cost of taught Master’s level study.
Our Alumni Discount is a 10% reduction off the annual tuition fees on full-time and part-time taught Master’s level degrees only.
This discount applies to home students on eligible courses.
If you are an international student, please see our international fees and funding page for details of international scholarships available to eligible students.
For students on taught Distance Learning Master's courses, the alumni discount applies to both home and international domiciled students.
To be eligible for the 10% Alumni Discount you must:
and
Be a home student.
International students can explore our international scholarship opportunities , where eligible.
You do not need to complete a separate application form for the Alumni Discount.
The discount will be automatically applied on the basis of information on your postgraduate application and your undergraduate student record.
You will not be separately notified of your discount but if you are eligible your tuition fee liability will be reduced by 10%.
The following postgraduate programmes are not eligible for the 10% Alumni Discount:
If you have any queries or require further information, please contact sfo@hud.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/uni-life/why-huddersfield/why-hud-pg:
97% of our postgraduate students go on to work and/or further study within fifteen months of graduating*, with an average salary of £36.1K**.
So, if you want to improve your career prospects – and maximise your earnings in the future – Huddersfield may well be the place for you.
*HESA Graduate Outcomes 2021/22, UK domiciled, other activities excluded.
**HESA Graduate Outcomes 2021/22, UK domiciled, full-time UK employment.
We've spent £198m on major campus investments since 2015.
Many of our courses benefit from industry standard facilities that aim to mirror as closely as possible the real life working environment.
Facilities of this calibre not only help to build your confidence and prepare you for the world of work, but the experience can provide a competitive advantage in the jobs market.
Many of our academic staff at Huddersfield are award winning or have professional experience.
They are members of relevant professional bodies and some play a key role in informing government policies.
Not only will you be learning at the very highest level but you also benefit from their contacts and reputation in the professional world, increasing your chances of employment in your chosen field.
Our teaching staff rank first in England for the proportion with higher degrees and teaching qualifications, as well as being top five for those holding doctorates (HESA 2025).
We are second in the country for National Teaching Fellowships , which mark the UK’s best lecturers in Higher Education, winning a total of 24 since 2008 (2025 data ).
The University of Huddersfield is also the only UK University where 100% of the permanent teaching staff are Fellows of the Higher Education Academy.*
*Permanent staff, after probation: some recently appointed colleagues will only obtain recognition in the months after their arrival in Huddersfield, once they have started teaching.
We are in the top 50 UK universities for Research Power, and three quarters of all our research is world leading and internationally excellent, especially in Music, Biological Sciences, Archictecture and Built Environment, Social Work and Social Policy, History and Communication and Media Studies (REF 2021) .
The University’s links to business are an important part of our postgraduate courses in that they help increase the employability of our graduates.
Many postgraduate courses are linked to professional accreditations which will give you a head start in achieving full accreditation later on.
Some courses provide opportunities to work directly with a company on a real world problem that is beyond the capabilities of the company’s team.
By getting involved and contributing to what can often be a ground breaking solution you will gain unique insights and experience that could help you stand out in the jobs market.
The University has a wide range of links with high calibre, global companies.
Contact with these companies can help you develop a broader, global perspective in your own thinking.
In addition, companies often contribute to the content of our courses helping to ensure their real world relevance and enhance your knowledge and employability.
Our wide range of courses means you can specialise in an area you’ve never studied before or expand your knowledge in an area you studied at degree level.
Some of our courses are linked to national or international issues or areas that are projected to grow - leading to increasing demand for qualified, knowledgeable individuals.
Choosing a postgraduate course in a growth area can give you a head start in the employment stakes and help ensure a quicker return on investment from your studies.
Wherever possible our courses combine a variety of teaching and learning methods enabling you to choose a route that’s right for you.
Our alumni are a great example of what you can achieve as a postgraduate.
Many have gone on to make an impact in a wide range of industries, organisations and even through starting their own business.
We offer a 10% discount on postgraduate taught courses for home alumni of the University of Huddersfield.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/postgraduate/continuing-your-studies:
Stay at Huddersfield for further study and join our postgraduate community of 6,300 students and researchers, from over 100 different nationalities.
If you’re considering postgraduate study, then our extensive range of courses and research topics allows you to specialise in an area you’ve not studied previously or expand your knowledge in a subject you're already passionate about.
A postgraduate qualification will allow you to stand out from the crowd with specialist knowledge, expertise and skills, or even allow you to change career direction completely.
We offer continuing Huddersfield graduates some great benefits, in addition to the Government loans now available to help cover the cost of studying and living.
If you decide to continue your studies at Huddersfield, our home graduates can take advantage of our 10% alumni discount on tuition fees for taught postgraduate courses to help you achieve your ambitions (terms and conditions apply) .
Gaining a postgraduate qualification is an excellent way to enhance your employability by gaining specialist knowledge and expertise.
Many of our courses have links to professional bodies so you can be sure that you are developing skills that are valued by employers.
Plus:
Stay at Huddersfield to deepen your knowledge and broaden your experience; you’ll benefit from research informed teaching delivered by staff at the forefront of their field.
We offer part-time, full-time and some distance learning options for postgraduate study, helping you fit studies around your lifestyle.
If you’re interested in progressing your current field of study, then we recommend that you speak to your course tutor about further study options – they’re always happy to help.
You can explore your taught Master's progression options by using the 'Explore our programmes' search facility below, or if you'd like to learn more about postgraduate study in general you can order a copy of our prospectus.
Take a look at our new postgraduate search facility and be inspired by your taught Master’s progression options.
Discover all you need to know about funding your postgraduate studies and research.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/postgraduate/research/graduate-school:
As a postgraduate researcher (PGR) you are part of The Graduate School, which brings together staff and services from across the University to help you reach your potential.
You are provided with an enriching environment, which fosters intellectual and social interaction between researchers, supervisors, and collaborative partners from across the globe.
The Graduate School is committed to making your PGR journey a positive, rewarding and successful one by:
Find out more about our research degrees
"The Graduate School promotes a research culture that recognises the diversity of researcher’s experiences and aspirations and will help you make the most of the resources and opportunities available to support your research, training, and academic development."
For enquiries, please contact graduateschool@hud.ac.uk
If you're looking to study a research degree, find out more on how to apply and how to finance your studies using the links below:
Our step-by-step guide will help you to make the most out of your application for a research degree
Explore our funding options, including scholarships and Doctoral Loans.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/postgraduate/specialist-support:
As a postgraduate student at Huddersfield, you’ll be part of a vibrant community of over 6,300 taught students and researchers.
However, you don’t need to worry about getting lost in the crowd, you’ll have access to a range of specialist and bespoke support services and activities designed to help you thrive in your academic studies and feel valued as a member of the postgraduate community.
Our Graduate School is a community for postgraduate researchers to grow, collaborate and engage.
It is home to our Research Culture and Development Team who can provide practical advice and support to researchers on topics such as research integrity and ethics, working relationships with academic supervisors, software training, career planning and much more.
As a researcher, you’ll gain access to our Researcher Skills Development Programme through the Graduate School, to help broaden your knowledge and access tools and skills to improve your employability.
Whether you are a student progressing from an undergraduate degree, or you are returning to education after a break, our Academic Skills Tutors can help you to develop and build on the skills you need to excel on your postgraduate course.
Providing access to the study resources you need as a postgraduate 

Open seven days a week during term time and round the clock for most of the year, our on-campus library is home to over 1,200 study spaces, 530 computers and a huge number of books and journals for you to make use of, with over 330,000 in print form and millions in digital format.
You’ll also have access to specialist librarians to assist you in your use of resources and even order in literature to support your studies.
The Library also contains a dedicated Postgraduate Study Room, and provides over 275 laptops available for loan, 24 hours a day.
As a postgraduate student you will gain access to the University's Careers and Employability Service to help you explore your options, find and apply for different roles and develop valuable career management skills.
Find out what’s on offer on the Careers web pages.
The Enterprise Team supports students and graduates to set up businesses and flourish as freelancers.
The centre offers free hot desk office facilities, one-to-one business advice and support, and a range of business facilities such as landline telephones and bookable meeting pods.
Our wellbeing service offer one-to-one advisor appointments, support relating to mental health, counselling, workshops, support groups and much more.
If you have a disability, long-term medical condition, specific learning difficulty, mental health issue, or an autistic spectrum condition that might impact on your studies, you can get in touch with team before your start your studies, to ensure that you have the right support in place.
This annual conference provides the opportunity for you to present your work to a multidisciplinary audience, resulting in constructive feedback, peer support and networking opportunities.
Take a look at the  for more detail.
Offering a wide range of events and volunteering opportunities as well as being home to over 100 sports clubs and societies, your Students’ Union (SU) is led by students for students.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/postgraduate/flexible-study:
Whether you're looking to continue on from undergraduate level studies or build up specialist knowledge and new skills, we offer a whole range of postgraduate programmes to ensure you achieve your goals.
Our postgraduate courses are based at our Queensgate campus in the heart of Huddersfield, and may include traditional lectures, seminars, discussion groups, projects and more.
We also use technology and media to bring you the most up-to-date learning resources.
You don't have to live locally to benefit from our excellent postgraduate courses.
Many courses offer distance learning options which enable you to access a wealth of online resources and expand your knowledge from the convenience of your own home, whatever your commitments.
Most of our taught postgraduate degrees and all of our research degrees can be studied full-time or part-time and some courses offer distance learning.
You can also consider undertaking a Postgraduate Certificate or Diploma; these qualifications are steps toward a Master’s degree, are internationally recognised and can be built upon in the future.
Most of our courses start in September, but many of our postgraduate options are also available with a January or April start date, offering you the opportunity to continue your studies at a time that suits you.
Some of our postgraduate courses are offered as blended learning which combines elements of on-campus taught sessions with digital and online learning tools, giving you the freedom to study around your own commitments and with more flexibility.
Degree apprenticeships provide an alternative route to a Master's level qualification, enabling your employees to combine work with study for a university qualification.
Apprenticeships can contribute to the skills and development of both new and existing employees.
Learners spend part of their time at the university and the rest at your organisation hence benefitting from on-the-job training enhanced by their university education.
CATS offer study for students who are in paid employment, are unemployed or may be caring for children and relatives.
Credits are awarded for each module successfully completed, which means you can work towards postgraduate qualifications in a way that suits your needs.
You can study associated subjects of your choice, combine subjects across disciplines and transfer across to different types of awards, You can also transfer from full-time to part-time study or vice versa and if your studies are interrupted, credits can be retained for later use (within a six-year period from the start of study).
Some of our postgraduate taught modules can be studied individually, making them an ideal source of specialist knowledge.
If you're assessed for a single module, you can receive a Certificate in Continuing Professional Development, which can be 'cashed-in' later as part of a Postgraduate Certificate, Postgraduate Diploma or Master's degree.
Details on how to apply for our postgraduate taught courses and research programmes.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/teacher-training:
Teacher training transforms individuals into inspiring educators who make a real difference to people’s lives.
Great teachers aren’t born; they’re made through expert training and hands-on experience.
Whether you aspire to teach young children, motivate teenagers, or support adult learners, teacher training equips you with essential skills and techniques to engage students and ignite a passion for learning.
Teacher Training isn’t just about learning to teach.
It’s about developing the ability to spark new ideas, build self-confidence, and guide others on their educational journey.
With a teaching qualification, you’ll gain the tools to make a lasting impact across diverse educational settings, empowering generations to reach their full potential.
Meet Carly, Emily, and Gwyneth our Course Leaders for the PGCE in Teacher Training programmes at the University of Huddersfield.
In this video they talk about the rewards of a career in primary teaching, how students are supported if they study at Huddersfield, and share course details.
Secondary School Teacher at Yasmina British Academy in Abu Dhabi, UAE.
“Becoming a teacher has always been my dream, and the PGCE provided the perfect path to making that a reality in just 12 months.
The course’s combination of structured theory, practical school experience, and the opportunity to gain QTS status was perfect".
Trainee Lecturer in Mechanical Engineering
"The Lifelong Learning CertEd course has given me valuable insights into the reasoning behind teaching methods and how to apply them in my future career.
It’s a great course that provides the tools, support, and understanding of why educators do what we do".
Primary Education Studies BA (Hons)
"The modules on offer on my course are brilliant, and help potential teachers to gain a critical consciousness of their practice, which is essential to becoming a well-rounded professional in the industry."
Guide young learners in foundational subjects and inspire curiosity from an early age.
Develop and deliver engaging lessons across a range of subjects, helping young learners build essential knowledge and skills.
Share your passion and specialise in a specific subject to guide teenage students through critical areas of study.
You'll prepare them for exams, further education and careers pathways.
Teach and support adult learners in practical, further, or higher education settings, equipping them with the skills needed for personal or professional growth.
Qualified Teacher Status (QTS) is a globally recognised qualification that unlocks teaching opportunities worldwide.
In England, QTS is essential for teaching in primary, secondary, and special schools funded by local authorities.
While private and academy schools can hire teachers without QTS, most prefer candidates who hold this qualification.
If you're aiming to teach in further education or work in early years education, QTS is not a requirement.
However, it remains highly valued due to its numerous benefits:
QTS is recognised worldwide as the gold standard in teaching, in turn, enhancing career prospects and earning potential in education.
A Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) is an academic qualification that will provide you with an in-depth understanding of teaching practices, educational theory, and research, setting you apart as a knowledgeable and skilled educator.
A PGCE also offers a pathway to a Master’s degree, awarding up to 60 master’s-level credits that can count toward the 180 credits required for a full Master’s qualification.
For those aiming to teach in further education or early years settings, a PGCE is the qualification you’ll need.
However, if your goal is to teach in primary or secondary education, you’ll require a PGCE that includes Qualified Teacher Status (QTS).

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/registry/current-students/pgr/key-facts:
When you enrol at the University, you are entering into a contract, which is set out in your offer letter and our Terms and Conditions .
Our contract also refers to other documents, such as our PGR Regulations and our Policies and Procedures, which you will also be expected to follow whilst you are a student with us.
It is important that you make sure you enrol at the right time, and complete re-enrolment each year as, if your enrolment isn’t up to date you won’t be able to access your studies.
We know this is a lot of information to take in, so we’ve created this short guide to help you understand what it means to be a student at the University.
We publish the costs of our courses on our website each year.
We guarantee that for home students, we will only ever increase the fees by RPI-X in each year, if we incorporate fee changes and for International students, we will not increase the fees for your cohort, although you may be subject to an increase to the current fees if, for example, you interrupt your studies for a year.
Our financial regulations set out when your fees must be paid.
If you are struggling to make payments on time, it is important you contact the Finance Team to discuss your situation as soon as you can as they may be able to help you put a payment plan in place.
It’s important you do this as if you don’t pay your fees you risk being withdrawn from the University.
If we end up sending your student fees to debt collection, you will also have to pay any fees incurred.
International students should also familiarise themselves with the International Tuition Fee Policy .
The student Handbook of Regulations is the University’s main guide to how we run your courses, and the expectations we have on you as a student.
We refresh these over the Summer each year and you will be asked to review and accept them as part of your enrolment and re-enrolment each year you study with them.
The University has a code of conduct , which is included within the Regulations.
This sets out the standard of behaviour we expect from you whilst you are a student at the University.
It is very important that you follow this, and any of our other policies that set out rules for your behaviour (for example our Computing Regulations which set out how you can use our IT systems).
If you do not, you may be subject to the University’s disciplinary process and may face consequences which can include terminating your student contract.
We also have a support to study policy, which sets out what we will do if we are concerned that your health and wellbeing are affecting your ability to engage with your studies.
Our fitness to study process is a supportive process to help you get back on track, but can lead to you being withdrawn if we cannot resolve our concerns with you.
You will get the best out of your research degree if you engage regularly with the supervision and training we provide for our postgraduate researchers, both online and on campus.
If you are taking annual leave or need a break from study for any other reason, you must let us know through the correct procedures.
If you fail to engage with your supervision and research programme in the way set out in the regulations, you risk being withdrawn from the University, so please let us know in good time if you are having any problems.
We take research misconduct very seriously.
When you study at University, it is expected that all work you submit will be your own, and not copied from somewhere else.
Ensuring that your work is original and properly referenced is known as ‘Academic Integrity’ and the University Regulations set out what we expect from you to maintain your academic integrity.
If you breach the academic integrity rules, you may be subject to disciplinary process es and withdrawn from your course.
There are some other situations in which your contract may be terminated and clause 10 of our terms and conditions provides more details on this.
We very rarely cancel degree courses and usually this will only be for reasons outside of our control, or if there aren’t enough applicants for the course to run properly.
Clause 11 of our terms and conditions explain when this may be the case.
Where we cancel a course before you enrol, we will help you find another course at the University to meet your interests, or help you find a similar course at another University.
If you are already enrolled on a course, we will put in place a plan for you to be able to complete your studies, in accordance with our Student Protection Plan .
Our optional modules can be subject to change each year, but we will always make sure you have a good variety to choose from.
We won’t normally change your course whilst you are enrolled on it, unless it is necessary (for example to maintain accreditation), or we reasonably believe the change is in your best interest (for example changing modules to reflect student feedback) or we have your consent.
More details on when and how we may change your course is set out in clause 6 of our terms and conditions .
We understand that from time to time you may need to take a break and we have an interruption of studies policy that lets you do that if you need to.
Do bear in mind though, that if you interrupt your studies, you will be rejoining with a different cohort, who may be being taught slightly different modules, or have different options available to them.
If this is a concern for you, you should speak to your tutor to understand any course changes that will affect you before you decide to suspend.
You will also need to keep an eye on our progression regulations, as if you suspend for two years without gaining any credit you may be withdrawn from the course.
The University understands that sometimes students are affected by circumstances outside of their control, and we have different policies in place for this.
We have an interruption of studies policy that lets you take a break if you need to.
We also have extension policies for progression monitoring and writing up/ final examination .
You should read the policies carefully as it sets out the types of evidence you will need to provide to successfully make a claim.
You should also be aware that the University operates fit to sit and fit to submit procedure , which means that if you sit an exam, or submit a piece of work it is presumed that no extenuating circumstances affected you, so if you are unsure about whether to put in a claim, you should talk to your tutor about any issues you may have.
The University takes its responsibilities for Data Protection very seriously and has a data protection policy .
We also have our Student Privacy Notice , which sets out when, how and why we use student, applicant and alumni data.
We hope you’ll enjoy your time studying at the University, but we recognise that occasionally things may go wrong.
If you wish to raise a concern with the University whilst you are a student, we have a student complaints policy which will help you do so and explains how we will investigate your complaint.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/registry/current-students/taughtstudents/key-facts:
Our contract also refers to other documents, such as our Student Handbook of Regulations and our Policies and Procedures, which you will also be expected to follow whilst you are a student with us.
We guarantee that for home students, we will only ever increase the fees by RPI-X in each year.
Please see information on our International Tuition Fee Deposit Policy
If you are struggling to make payments on time, its important you contact the Finance Team to discuss your situation as soon as you can as they may be able to help you put a payment plan in place.
The University considers attendance is necessary for you to achieve your best results on the course and, if you are an international student, your visa will require you to attend.
The University has an attendance monitoring policy which sets out the expectations on you and, if you do not meet those requirements, you may be subject to disciplinary processes and you may be withdrawn from your course.
Some courses, for example nursing and social work courses are accredited by professional bodies, and whilst you are studying on those courses you must meet the professional body requirements for behaviour.
If you do not, you may be required to follow our Fitness to Practice procedure.
If you are found to have breached the professional stands, you may be withdrawn from your course.
There are some other situations in which your contract may be terminated and clause 10 of our Terms & Conditions provides more details on this.
The University requires students to show that you are making progress on your course, and so you must ensure that you pass at least 50 credits each year you are studying with us.
If you do not, or you do not achieve any credit for two years, you may be withdrawn from the course under our non-progression regulations.
Some professional courses require you to pass certain modules before you can progress onto the next year of studies.
Where this is the case, these modules will be identified to you and you must ensure you pass those modules in order to continue with your course.
These professional course requirements are in addition to our progression regulations set out above, and the minimum pass requirements will also apply to you on these courses.
Like all Universities, we set a maximum period of time you can be registered on a course, which is the length of the course plus two years, so for a standard three-year undergraduate degree, you must complete your course within five years of your first enrolment.
You can find out more about our progression rules in our Awards Regulations .
More details on when and how we may change your course is set out in clause 6 of your Terms & Conditions .
The University understands that sometimes students are affected by circumstances outside of their control, and we have an Extenuating Circumstances and Extensions policy to allow you to tell us about these.
You should read that policy carefully as it sets out the types of evidence you will need to provide to successfully make a claim.
You should also be aware that the University operates fit to sit and fit to submit policies , which means that if you sit an exam, or submit a piece of work it is presumed that no extenuating circumstances affected you, so if you are unsure about whether to put in a claim, you should talk to your tutor about any issues you may have.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/registry/current-students:
Regulations, procedures and forms for students on taught courses
Regulations, procedures and forms for postgraduate researchers
Please read the Student Protection Plan 2024_25
Degree Outcome Statement 2024-25
Your feedback is important to us and we use it to make positive changes to our service.
Please rate us using our feedback form

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/apprenticeships/what:
Apprenticeships are programmes that are named after specific job roles.
An apprenticeship isn't named after a degree qualification, it's named after a job, like nursing associate, or senior leader, or accounting and finance manager, or physiotherapist.
So you will get the knowledge and the skills and behaviours by the end of your apprenticeship to become competent in that particular job.
Apprenticeships are a way to study for a qualification while working.
They combine practical training with paid employment.
As an apprentice you will spend at least 6 hours a week in off-the-job training.
Higher and degree apprenticeships allow you gain a university education while developing essential skills in the workplace.
You first need to be employed to become an apprentice.
Discover what Off‐the‐job (OTJ) training is and can include.
Throughout your apprenticeship you'll be supported by the University academic team, as well as take part in progress reviews.
"At the University of Huddersfield, we work hard to support the individual learning needs of each apprentice as well as the training needs of all our employers.
We ensure good communication links and collaboration between employers and our University staff which we believe is a crucial part of ensuring the best possible learner experience."
You’ll need to be employed.
Learn how to apply for an apprenticeship.
We offer a number of apprenticeships.
The University of Huddersfield works very closely with businesses all over the West Yorkshire region and beyond to offer apprentices a wide range of apprenticeships in business, health and education sectors.
Benefits to being an apprentice are:
The start an apprenticeship you'll need to be:
Speak to your employer – you will need them to support your apprenticeship.
The training must be directly relevant to the apprenticeship you are studying.
It must teach new knowledge, skills and behaviours required to reach competence in your occupation.
As part of your apprenticeship you, your employer and a member of the University academic team will meet at regular intervals to track your progress quarterly.
This is known as a Tripartite review.
This is in addition to working for your employer (On the job) and off The Job training.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/apprenticeships/employers:
Including, how much they cost , what courses are available and how to register your employee with the University of Huddersfield.
We're an Ofsted Outstanding training provider and we have supported more than 170 employers with enrolling 1300 apprentices and grown excellent working relationships with many organisations, from local councils to NHS trusts as well as supporting Small and Medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) across the region.
What is the Apprenticeship Levy and How much do apprenticeship's cost?
Learn about the benefits of hiring an apprentice or enrolling an existing employee on an apprenticeship.
The University of Huddersfield is an Ofsted Outstanding training provider with experienced teams dedicated to supporting learners and businesses and we can guide you through every step of the process.
If you are keen to develop your workforce, but you do not have existing staff members eligible for a higher or degree apprenticeship , we can support you with advertising your vacancy.
This can be achieved by:
Here are a few useful resources that will help you find your feet with enrolling an apprentice of your own.
At the University of Huddersfield, you'll find services and support networks to help your Apprentice get ahead in their studies.
Here are a few useful resources that will help you find your feet with enrolling an apprentice of your own:

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/apprenticeships/apply:
To start an apprenticeship you need to already be employed and have the support of your employer.
This is the first step you need to take.
If you are employed in a role relevant to the apprenticeship you are wanting to complete, please ask your employer to contact us: apprenticeships@hud.ac.uk
Once your employer has made contact with the University, you will be invited to an interview with both your employer and a member of the course team.
If successful at interview the apprenticeship team will guide you through the enrolment / onboarding process.
If you are not employed in a relevant role, there are many apprenticeship job vacancies available throughout the year and throughout all regions.
You can search and apply for an apprenticeship vacancy on the Government's apprenticeship website.
In order to be enrolled on any apprenticeship programme in England, there are certain eligibility criteria that you must satisfy.
The primary eligibility requirement is that you must be employed in a role that is relevant to your apprenticeship.
As apprenticeships are work-based learning, being employed in a role that is relevant to your apprenticeship will allow you to apply the knowledge, skills and behaviours in the workplace.
To apply for an apprenticeship the Government also require you:
UK nationals are eligible for funding if they have been ordinarily resident in the UK, the British Overseas Territories, or Crown Dependencies (Channel Islands and Isle of Man) for at least the previous three years before the start of the apprenticeship.
UK nationals who have been living in the EEA prior to their apprenticeships are eligible for funding if they have been ordinarily resident in the EEA for at least the previous three years before the start of the apprenticeship; or, have been ordinarily resident in a combination of the UK and EEA for at least the previous three years before the start of the apprenticeship.
Irish nationals are eligible for funding if they have been ordinarily resident in the UK, Ireland, or the EEA for at least the previous three years before the start of the apprenticeship.
All other EEA nationals are eligible for funding if they have obtained either pre-settled or settled status under the EU Settlement Scheme; and have been ordinarily resident in the EEA, Gibraltar, or the UK for at least the previous three years before the start of the apprenticeship.
Please note there are other residency criteria that cover a range of individual circumstances, for example family members of UK and EEA nationals.
Please contact the Centre for Apprenticeships at apprenticeships@hud.ac.uk if you feel the above points have not covered your situation.
Each apprenticeship will also have specific academic entry requirements set by the University and the employer which you would also need to achieve.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/apprenticeships/fees:
As an Apprentice you are not responsible to pay any of the apprenticeship fees.
The apprenticeship course is funded via the Apprenticeship Levy.
The Apprenticeship Levy is paid by organisations whose annual wage bill is more than £3 million annually.
This levy can then be used to pay towards the cost of an apprenticeship.
We’ve created a guide for employers if you’d like to learn more about the levy.
As you will be learning on the job, your salary will be paid by your employer as normal and should be consistent with the role in which you are employed.
At the University , we do not dictate any salary expectations.
However, we do expect it at least complies with the National Apprenticeship Minimum Wage.
Return to the Apprenticeship homepage.
A guide for employers about the Apprenticeship Levy and how much they cost.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/apprenticeships/nhs:
At the University of Huddersfield, we offer an array of healthcare apprenticeships to suit your goals.
From Physiotherapy to Paramedic Science, our comprehensive course structures and impressive practical facilities means that you can learn the skills needed to excel in your career whilst in a supportive and stimulating environment.
Huddersfield is close to many northern cities.
From Leeds and Manchester to Bradford , Sheffield or even Liverpool.
When you study for an apprenticeship at the University of Huddersfield, you’re in reach of many NHS trusts.
Since 2018, 237 Nursing Associates have completed with a 100% pass rate.
Our programmes include:
The National Health Innovation Campus is a seven-acre site being built in Huddersfield by the University.
Its purpose is to enable the rapid expansion of courses in nursing, midwifery, allied health professions, leadership and human sciences.
The Campus will also deliver a major boost to regeneration of the town centre and jobs.
In 2024 the first building will be opened.
It’s named after Daphne Steele, an inspirational nurse and midwife who became the first black matron in Britain.
View health related apprenticeship courses available at the University of Huddersfield.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/apprenticeships/business:
Our management qualifications are designed to keep you at the cutting edge of leadership practice and provide you with the skills necessary to achieve your full potential as a manager, senior leader, and executive.
Huddersfield Business School is an official Higher Education partner of the Chartered Institute of Management (CMI) our apprenticeships, MBA, and DBA qualifications are all accredited by the CMI.
This course is aimed at anyone with senior leadership responsibilities looking to implement a business strategy and improve their managerial skills.
This course is aimed at anyone in a managerial role or developing into one who wants to learn how to manage themselves, others and projects.
This course is aimed at anybody in employment in the health and care systems who is interested in developing or enhancing their skills in management and leadership.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/apprenticeships/teaching:
The Teacher Degree Apprenticeship – Secondary Maths is a new, employment-based route to becoming a qualified teacher of mathematics in the secondary sector.
It enables you to gain an undergraduate degree and qualified teacher status (QTS).
You will work in a school from day one at the same time as studying for a degree.
This is the only fully-funded route to becoming a teacher that provides a salary as well as the training to acquire both a degree and QTS.
The University of Huddersfield is one of eight universities, and the only university in Yorkshire, selected by the Department for Education to design and deliver this course.
Learn about this Degree Apprenticeship on the GOV.UK site.
It is anticipated that the teacher degree-apprenticeship will be open to applications for 2026/27, and future apprentice vacancies will be advertised in due course.
Find out the types of people that can apply for the Teacher Degree Apprenticeship
Advice on finding a Teaching Apprenticeship job
Register your interest in a Teacher Degree Apprenticeship to stay up-to-date with course developments.
Learn about funding for this Degree Apprenticeship
Interested in the Teaching Degree Apprenticeship?
Courses for new teaching apprenticeships will be published on Find Teacher Training in Spring 2025, with training due to start in Autumn 2025.
You can also read more about TDAs on the Get Into Teaching website.
Are you interested in becoming as a Trainee Teacher through the Teacher Degree Apprenticeship.
Take a look at our useful resources that will help you on your journey to becoming an apprentice.
You can email our course team.
For information about apprenticeships, registering your staff and funding, you may find our Employers’ Apprenticeship Guide useful.
Contact our Apprenticeships Team for advice and information.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/apprenticeships/disclaimer:
When you enrol as an apprentice learner of the University, your study and time with us will be governed by a framework of regulations, policies and procedures, which form the basis of your agreement with us.
These include regulations regarding the assessment of your course, academic integrity, your conduct (including attendance) and our disciplinary procedure.
It is important that you familiarise yourself with these as you will be asked to agree to them when you join us as an apprentice.
You will find a guide to the key terms here , along with the Student Protection Plan , where you will also find links to the full text of each of the regulations, policies and procedures referred to.
If we propose to make a major change to an apprenticeship course that you have applied for, then we will tell you and your employer as soon as possible so that you can decide whether to withdraw your application prior to enrolment.
Although we always try and run all the courses we offer, we may occasionally have to withdraw a course you have applied for or delay your course start date if we consider this reasonably necessary, for example if there are not enough applicants to ensure you have a good learning experience.
Where this is the case we will notify you and your employer as soon as reasonably possible.
In such instances, we will work with you and your employer to agree a deferred start date, or cancel your application and, if appropriate, provide information regarding other local apprenticeship providers.
We will only make major changes to the core curriculum of a course or to our services if it is necessary for us to do so and provided such changes are reasonable.
A major change is a change that materially changes the services available to you, or the outcomes, or a significant part, of your course, such as the nature of the award or a substantial change to module content, teaching days, classes, type of delivery or assessment of the core curriculum.
For example, it may be necessary to make a major change to reflect changes in the law or the requirements of the University’s regulators; to meet the requirements of an updated version of the apprenticeship standard relevant to your course; to meet the latest requirements of a commissioning or accrediting body; to improve the quality of educational provision; in response to student, examiners’ or other course evaluators’ feedback; and/or to reflect academic or professional changes within subject areas.
Major changes may also be necessary because of circumstances outside our reasonable control, such as damage or interruption to buildings, facilities or equipment.
In exceptional circumstances, we may, for reasons outside of our control, be forced to discontinue or suspend your course.
Where this is the case, a formal exit strategy will be followed and we will notify you and your employer as soon as possible about what your options are, which may include being provided with individual teaching to complete the award for which you were registered or claiming an interim award and exiting the University.
If a major change affects your course, we will notify you and your employer as soon as possible and will carry out suitable consultation with affected apprentices.
If you and your employer reasonably believe that the proposed change will cause you detriment we will work with both of you to try to find an appropriate solution.
Where one cannot be found we will provide reasonable support to assist you with transferring your remaining apprenticeship learning to another training provider if you and your employer wish to do so.
As your employer is funding your apprenticeship course, you must remain in relevant employment for the duration of the course until you have completed your end point assessment.
Under the apprenticeship rules, if you are made redundant and you have completed 75% of the practical period or have less than 6 months left, then you may complete the course.
Otherwise, unless you find alternative relevant employment within 12 weeks of the date you are made redundant, then you will be withdrawn from the course.
The Office for Students (OfS) is the principal regulator for the University.
The ESFA is the principal regulator for your apprenticeship course.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/distance-learning/enquiry:
Thank you for your query.
We’ll respond to you as soon as possible.
In the meantime take a look at our course pages to find the right online course for you at the University of Huddersfield.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/distance-learning/fees-and-finance:
Pursuing a degree online could be a cost-effective way to obtain a qualification.
Here are some ways distance learning could save you money…
We understand that finance is a key factor when considering studying an online course.
This page is your go-to-guide for information and advice on everything fees and finance related.
From Government loans to discounts, there may be ways to help fund your online learning.
See what options are available to you.
Understand exactly what your fees will cover.
Please visit our FAQ page for more information.
You can contact the Distance Learning Unit at dl-enquiry@hud.ac.uk or complete our short enquiry form.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/distance-learning/subjects:
Our online courses at the University of Huddersfield are designed by experienced practitioners in collaboration with our academics to ensure that your course content is engaging, interactive and applicable to your current or desired career.
Some of our courses hold professional accreditation too, so you can rest assured that you'll be developing in-demand industry skills.
Some of our online courses are conversion courses too.* This means that they are open to graduates of any subject, providing you with the opportunity to study an entirely different subject to the one you studied at undergraduate level and develop the skills and knowledge needed to change your career and embark on an exciting new path.
We offer a selection of CPD short courses at postgraduate level as well as BSc top-up courses across a range of health disciplines.
Postgraduate courses:
Undergraduate courses:
Find out more about your subject area of interest and our courses by watching our on-demand webinars, delivered by our knowledgeable and experienced academics.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/distance-learning/frequently-asked-questions:
We understand that distance learning might not be something you have experienced before.
To help you decide if this type of study is right for you, we've put together a list of some of the most commonly asked questions about studying online.
If you have any other questions about distance learning, you can reach us via the form below and a member of our enquiry team will respond to you as soon as possible.
You can also subscribe to our emails via this form, which provide key information about our distance learning offer.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/distance-learning/student-profiles:
When it comes to giving you a feel for what it's like to study online at the University of Huddersfield, there's no one better placed to give you that insight than our students (past and present).
Take a look a look at the below student profiles to find out about their views on distance learning, the University and their chosen course.
Cyber Security and Digital Forensics MSc
Data Analytics MSc
Career Development and Employability MA
Career Development and Employability PGDip
Artificial Intelligence MSc
Management MSc

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/postgraduate/how-to-apply/taught-policies-data-protection:
The documents listed below provide an overview of our admissions and data protection policies for postgraduate taught applicants.
In compliance with The General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (GDPR) and the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA) (together the “Data Protection Legislation”), the University protects the information it has about applicants and the standard response to enquiries about individuals is that the information cannot be disclosed to other organisations and/or individuals without consent from the applicant themselves.
For further details and exceptions, please see the How does the University handle data?
–“Privacy Notices” section on our Data Protection Law webpage.
Unfortunately, this means that we are unable to talk to your parents, guardians/teachers or third parties about your application - without your consent.
We will, however, be able to give general information regarding procedures.
We hope this information is helpful to you and if you have any queries, please email our Student Recruitment Team at study@hud.ac.uk or call us on +44 (0)1484 472 625 .
Under our Data Protection Policy, we will not divulge any personal information to any other third-party and this also includes your parent/guardians/family members without your prior consent.
Parents can talk to us with general queries, but we will not provide them with personal information (for example, your results and attendance).
For more information please read our Data Protection Law webpage.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/accounting:
Studying Accounting, Finance, and Economics will equip you with the essential skills to analyse data, make strategic decisions, and succeed in today’s fast-moving financial landscape.
Whether you're looking to deepen your expertise, pivot into a new field, or progress in your current role, our courses are designed to support your ambitions with both flexibility and practical relevance.
You’ll develop the confidence to navigate economic challenges and financial complexities with agility, capabilities that are in demand across all sectors.
Alongside building your technical and analytical skills, you’ll also explore core principles in economics, business, and finance, gaining a well-rounded foundation to make informed and impactful decisions in an increasingly competitive global market.
A career in accounting, finance, and economics goes beyond numbers; it’s about shaping the financial future of businesses and economies.
In these fields, you’ll influence how organisations operate, make strategic decisions, and thrive globally.
From financial auditing to investment management, the opportunities are diverse and rewarding.
In roles like financial auditor, chartered accountant, economic consultant, stockbroker, or corporate finance manager, you’ll drive critical business decisions and ensure financial integrity.
You might advise on policies, optimise financial health, or analyse market trends, impacting corporate growth and government policy.
Beyond traditional roles, opportunities in wealth management, investment banking, and sustainability finance allow you to make a real-world impact across industries.
How to become a Chartered Accountant
How to become a Stockbroker
How to become a Financial Auditor
Your employability is at the core of our Accounting, Finance, and Economics courses.
Many of our courses are professionally accredited by leading bodies such as the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW), and the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) - giving you a strong head start as you prepare to enter the profession.
Through our Partners in Accountancy scheme, you’ll also benefit from connections with major accountancy firms.
These industry partners provide mentoring, career advice, and hands-on engagement through on-campus seminars, helping you build valuable insights into real-world practice and preparing you for the demands of the working world.
Huddersfield Business School is proud to be an accredited member of AACSB International - The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business.
This prestigious accreditation, held by less than 6% of business schools worldwide, is a mark of excellence in business education.
It reflects our commitment to innovation, continuous improvement, and meaningful impact, ensuring our programmes meet rigorous global standards and that you receive a high-quality, future-focused education that prepares you to lead with confidence in a competitive market.
View all our accreditations, partnerships and rankings.
Accounting and Finance is one of these subjects, highlighting our dedication to academic excellence and reinforcing our position as an internationally leading institution.
Huddersfield Business School is situated next to a canal and surrounded by beautiful countryside.
The Diamond Jubilee Lecture Theatre has been refurbished with sustainability in mind.
It features updated architecture, refreshed walls, and newly upholstered seats made from fabric supplied by Camira – a local firm - using approximately 18,000 recycled plastic bottles recovered from UK seas.
The Street provides a great space for group projects and also a place to catch up with friends, over a coffee from the Street Café.
Experience hands-on financial training with our state-of-the-art trading room.
The Trading Room is a space designed to simulate the fast-paced environment of a real-world stock exchange.
Equipped with advanced technology, the trading room will enable you to analyse economic, business, and financial data in real-time, building practical skills in market analysis and decision-making.
This immersive setup provides a unique, practical learning experience, preparing you to navigate the complexities of global finance.
It’s more than just awards and accreditations.
In this video, students and staff share their experience of our supportive community, strong industry links, and hands-on projects that bring business to life.
It’s not just about lectures and seminars - it’s about building real connections, gaining practical experience, and preparing for your future.
We have many experts in Accounting, Finance and Economics.
Head of Department, Huddersfield Business School
Kay joined in 2007 as a Senior Lecturer after 12 years in teaching and management in Higher Education within a Further Education College.
A Loughborough graduate in Management Science, she brings expertise in educational leadership and curriculum development.
Subject Area Leader
Pamela joined in 1995, bringing experience from the Uni of Humberside.
She teaches financial management, corporate finance, and business ethics.
An ACCA-qualified accountant and HEA Fellow, Pamela's research integrates expertise in accountancy and nutrition.
Professor of Accounting and Finance
Zulfiqar has over 20 years of experience, including 18 as an Associate Professor at Warwick Business School.
With a background in private-sector banking, he is a member of the British Accounting and Finance Association and the European Accounting Association.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/acting:
If you are looking for a dynamic, creative and well-resourced environment in which to develop your skills, knowledge and understanding of Acting and Performance, then this is the place for you.
Our courses combine theory and practice with plenty of opportunities to perform, direct, and create high-quality productions.
Our flexible courses enable you to study everything from contemporary drama theory to historical performance practice.
With us you’ll explore performance from every angle.
Depending on the course you choose you’ll have the opportunity to develop your skills and advance in acting, directing, stage management, technical theatre or writing, all within a supportive environment.
You’ll work closely with experienced academic staff who bring a wealth of knowledge and expertise to your learning experience.
Additionally, you’ll have the opportunity to participate in master classes with renowned industry professionals.
Past guests have included Sir Patrick Stewart and Natalie Gavin, providing you with invaluable insights and inspiration from some of the best in the field.
Graduates of the Acting and Performance program at the University of Huddersfield can pursue dynamic careers in theatre, film and television.
Beyond performing, you may work in directing, producing and stage management.
The skills developed in this course, such as communication, creativity and teamwork, are also applicable in fields like education, corporate training and public relations, where performance techniques can enhance presentations and engagements.
We have many experts in Acting and Performance.
Senior Lecturer
Eric is an actor and director with over 30 years of professional experience.
An expert on Stanislavski, he has published widely on the subject and is also a certified teacher of the Alba Emoting technique.
Ben Spatz is a scholar-practitioner and Reader in Media and Performance at the University of Huddersfield.
They specialise in artistic research, embodiment and identity, and are the founding editor of the Journal of Embodied Research.
Director of Teaching and Learning
Nik is a performer, writer, director and producer whose work, in both live and digital media, spans performance magic, sideshow, and immersive theatre.
He has advised on performance projects worldwide and is editor of the Journal of Performance Magic.
Every year our students take part in end-of-year shows, and our final years participate in the annual "Common Grounds" festival; a week dedicated to production and performance!
Each year, our first-year undergraduate students work with a professional theatre company which develops a project exclusively with our students for a two-week intensive period at the University, culminating in a performance on the University campus.
If you’re studying full-time, this course also offers an optional one-year (48 weeks) work placement after the second year, in the UK or abroad.
This will give you the opportunity to gain valuable hands-on experience, insight into your chosen career and open up your graduate employment prospects.
A placement is a great opportunity to explore your chosen industry, to understand the sector, network and make valuable contacts, whilst developing your skills, knowledge and experience.
A placement is a chance to get involved, to put theory into practice and to work alongside professionals.
Stephanie Bower - Placements Officer
Discover the state-of-the-art facilities available to students in the School of Arts and Humanities

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/artificial-intelligence:
AI is revolutionising every aspect of our lives, from healthcare and finance to transportation and entertainment.
By studying an Artificial Intelligence-related degree, you position yourself at the forefront of this rapid technological advancement.
Here at the University of Huddersfield, we offer a range of courses at undergraduate and postgraduate levels relating to Artificial Intelligence all informed by world-leading research in the field.
You’ll have the opportunity to study alongside our award-winning academic colleagues, access to specialist facilities all whilst studying on our beautiful campus or you could choose to study remotely through our distance learning courses.
Whether you're interested in research and development, data analytics, robotics, or even entrepreneurship, the possibilities are vast.
By studying an Artificial Intelligence related degree, you'll gain the tools to make a meaningful impact.
Imagine developing Artificial Intelligence algorithms to improve medical diagnosis, optimise energy consumption, or enhance customer experiences.
Your work can contribute to creating a better, more sustainable future for all.
By studying Artificial Intelligence at Huddersfield, you unlock a vast array of opportunities across multiple sectors.
You can pursue careers in machine learning, robotics, natural language processing and more.
You might work for leading tech companies, innovative startups, research institutions, healthcare organisations or even in the automotive industry.
With the skills you gain from an AI degree, you can develop intelligent systems that solve complex problems, create algorithms that improve decision-making processes, design autonomous robots and enhance human-computer interactions.
The versatility of an AI degree means you can tailor your career to your passions and make a significant impact in the rapidly advancing field of artificial intelligence.
We develop intelligent machines capable of independent decision-making and task execution, with the main objectives of enabling agents to perceive, understand, and interact with their environment.
Cyber Security focuses on addressing practical security challenges, which are important for business and society.
In the areas of Identity and Access Control, Defence and Resilience, and Digital Forensics.
Sustainable computing systems are those which are explicitly designed for continuous maintainability and evolvability without incurring prohibitive technical debt and making a negative impact on the environment, economy and society.
The University of Huddersfield is striving to drive the sector forward by developing the next generation of AI professionals.
Our courses are designed to offer something for everyone depending on your circumstances and career goals.
At Huddersfield, my Computer Science with AI degree provides a blend of theoretical knowledge and hands-on experience.
Here’s how it’s equipping me with the skills and insights to thrive in this evolving industry.
Join Dr George Bargiannis, Deputy Director of the Centre for Autonomous and Intelligent Systems, to discover more about intelligent systems and technologies and how you can develop essential skills for a successful career in AI.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/art:
Are you passionate about creative disciplines such as art and illustration?
Ready to turn that passion into a thriving career?
Our Visual Arts portfolio is designed to foster interdisciplinary collaboration and equip you with a range of transferable skills, preparing you for diverse opportunities in the art and culture sectors.
We focus on helping you build the technical skills needed to unleash your creativity and find the best medium to express your ideas.
While studying with us, you’ll be learning in the inspiring, state-of-the-art Barbara Hepworth Building, and working closely with academic staff who have vast knowledge and experience in their fields.
Graduating from one of our art or illustration courses at the University of Huddersfield will open up careers as an illustrator, fine artist, or visual communicator.
You may work in publishing, advertising and animation, creating visual content for books, magazines and digital media.
The skills in drawing, painting and digital illustration you develop will also be valuable in roles such as concept art, graphic novels and art education.
Furthermore, you can pursue opportunities in gallery management, art therapy and freelance illustration, where your artistic talents can be applied in diverse and impactful ways.
We have many experts in Art and Illustration.
Lecturer in Contemporary Art & Illustration
a graphic practitioner who explores the interdisciplinary relationship between Graphic Design and Art.
Lydia's practice explores unconscious methodologies leading to the creation of Surreal environments.
Dr Simon Woolham is an artist, curator, and academic specialising in expanded drawing, narrative and walking as research.
He teaches Contemporary Art and Illustration at the University of Huddersfield and leads the ongoing project In Search of the Shortcuts.
Janine Sykes is a curator and lecturer at Huddersfield.
Her research focuses on blended curation, combining education and curatorial practice.
She has led national and international projects exploring participation, new media, and art education.
Hi, I'm Evetta and I study Illustration at Huddersfield.
Find out what made me choose Huddersfield for University!
Learn about what it's like to exhibit work in Huddersfield's MA Art and Design Show!
Hear our experience exhibiting our coursework at Hudd HeART.
Find out more about our courses in Art and Illustration - hear from our students and explore our facilities.
Our research centre fosters collaboration and cultural exchange between academia, students and creative communities, aiming to co-create impactful research and support place-based cultural strategies.
The Technical Textiles Research Centre at the University of Huddersfield aims to re-establish the town and region as a world leader in textiles by harnessing the newest technology and manufacturing techniques.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/biology:
Are you fascinated by the living world and the mysteries of life itself?
Do you want to understand how organisms function, evolve, and interact?
Then studying Biomedical and Life Sciences could be the perfect path for you.
Our courses equip you with essential theoretical knowledge, practical laboratory skills, and the analytical tools needed to explore the diverse fields within Biomedical and Life Sciences, preparing you for a fulfilling career in this dynamic discipline.
All our undergraduate courses are accredited by the relevant professional bodies and our MSc Biomedical and Analytical Science is accredited by Royal Society of Biology (RSB).
You’ll delve into fundamental topics, from genetics and molecular biology to evolution, gaining insights into how life forms grow, adapt, and survive.
With a balance of scientific theory and hands-on research, our courses allow you to develop key skills in experimental design, data analysis, and critical thinking.
Whether your interest lies in immunology, biomedical research, or pharmacology, our courses provide a well-rounded foundation.
You’ll gain awareness of the ethical and environmental considerations that shape modern biological research, preparing you to make meaningful contributions in academia, industry, and beyond.
In roles like biologist, environmental scientist, or microbiologist, you’ll work closely with nature, analysing complex systems and processes.
You could conduct research in laboratories, protect endangered species in the field, or improve food security through biotechnological innovation.
As a healthcare scientist, you might develop diagnostic tools or study disease patterns, or work in policy to address environmental issues on a larger scale.
Whether in research, conservation, or public health, a qualification in Biomedical and Life Sciences equips you to make a lasting impact on our world and its future.
We have many experts in Biomedical and Life Sciences.
Her research spans developmental neurobiology, glycobiology, and metabolic physiology, utilizing mammalian models and C.
elegans.
Her work focuses on glycosylated membrane proteins, including syndecan-3, FGF, and Klotho signaling.
Research spans flavivirus infections, including Dengue and Zika viruses.
With a PhD from Utrecht University and postdoctoral work at Harvard, his expertise spans oxidative protein folding, immune responses, and nanobody development to combat viral infections.
Want to explore the science that keeps us healthy?
In this video, our Biomedical and Life Sciences team and students talk about studying at Huddersfield.
From molecular biology and genetics to disease research and diagnostics, you’ll see how our courses are designed to give you the knowledge and lab skills for careers in healthcare, pharmaceuticals, and research.
See why Dora decided to study Biomedicine BSc (Hons) at the University of Huddersfield.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/chemistry:
Are you captivated by the building blocks of matter and how they shape the world around us?
Do you want to explore the science behind reactions, materials, and innovations that impact everyday life?
Then studying Chemistry could be the perfect path for you.
Our chemistry courses provide you with the foundational knowledge, practical laboratory skills, and analytical expertise needed to understand chemical processes and contribute to advancements across various fields.
The majority of  our undergraduate courses are accredited by the relevant professional bodies.
You’ll dive into essential topics, from organic and inorganic chemistry to physical and analytical techniques, gaining insights into how substances interact and transform.
With a blend of theoretical understanding and hands-on experimentation, our courses allow you to develop skills in research, data interpretation, and problem-solving.
Whether you're interested in pharmaceuticals, environmental science, or material development, our courses offer a comprehensive approach.
You’ll gain awareness of the ethical and industrial implications that shape chemical practices worldwide, preparing you to make a lasting impact in fields as diverse as healthcare, technology, and sustainability.
In roles like analytical chemist, materials scientist, or pharmaceutical chemist, you’ll work with cutting-edge technologies to solve complex challenges.
You could develop new pharmaceuticals, improve environmental sustainability through green chemistry, or innovate in materials science.
As a researcher, you might study molecular structures to advance technology or work in regulatory roles to ensure chemical safety.
Whether in laboratories, industry, or public policy, a qualification in chemistry equips you to make a lasting impact on society and the environment.
We have many experts in Chemistry.
Senior Lecturer in Organic Chemistry
His research focuses on synthetic organic chemistry, including nitrogen heterocycles and polyene natural products.
He teaches organic and pharmaceutical chemistry across chemistry, pharmacy, and forensic science courses.
Professor of Carbohydrate Chemistry
His research focuses on polysaccharide structure-function, mucoadhesion, and peptide chemistry.
With expertise in biopolymer analysis, he investigates interactions and stability in carbohydrate-based systems.
Senior Lecturer in Forensic Science
Sandra was awarded the Global Wales International Research Mobility Fund to facilitate research opportunities with the University of Alicante.
She is a Lecturer in Forensic Science in the Department of Chemical Science at the University of Huddersfield.
Curious about the science behind medicines, materials, and technology?
In this video, our Chemistry team and students share why Huddersfield is the ideal place to study.
From state-of-the-art labs and industry-standard equipment to hands-on experience in real research projects, discover how our courses prepare you for exciting careers in pharmaceuticals, energy, and beyond.
Scientists at the University of Huddersfield have secured significant funding to develop novel and sustainable molecular materials that harness light to drive useful chemical reactions.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/chemical-engineering:
Are you fascinated by the science of transformation and the processes that turn raw materials into valuable products?
Do you want to innovate solutions for real-world challenges in energy, sustainability, and manufacturing?
Then studying Chemical Engineering could be the perfect choice for you.
Our courses offer the theoretical foundations, practical skills, and analytical expertise needed to design and optimise chemical processes, preparing you for an impactful career in this essential field.
All our undergraduate courses are accredited by the Institution of Chemical Engineers.
You’ll explore key topics in chemical engineering, from reaction engineering to process design and safety systems.
With a focus on both scientific principles and hands-on applications, our courses enable you to develop skills in systems analysis, problem-solving, and process optimisation.
Whether you're interested in renewable energy, pharmaceuticals, or sustainable manufacturing, our course provides a comprehensive approach.
You’ll gain an understanding of the sustainable development goals shaping chemical engineering worldwide, equipping you to make a meaningful contribution to industries and communities across the globe.
Chemical engineering goes beyond processing materials; it’s about designing sustainable systems and improving global quality of life.
A career in this field lets you make a meaningful difference by developing efficient production methods, advancing renewable energy solutions, and enhancing product safety.
In roles like process engineer, environmental engineer, or bioprocess engineer, you’ll work on solving complex challenges across industries.
You could design safer manufacturing systems, contribute to clean energy advancements, or work in pharmaceuticals to develop life-saving treatments.
As a researcher, you might focus on cutting-edge materials or public policy, helping shape regulations for safer chemical usage.
Whether in industrial design, sustainability, or research, a qualification in chemical engineering equips you to make a lasting impact on technology and the environment.
Interested in how raw materials become everyday products?
In this video, explore Chemical Engineering at Huddersfield.
From state-of-the-art labs to practical experience with industry-standard processes, find out how our courses give you the skills and confidence to tackle real-world challenges and build a rewarding career.
We have many experts in Chemical Engineering.
Reader in Chemical Engineering
Research focuses on ecology, life cycle assessment, and water resource management.
Leads H2020 projects on sustainable process industries and precision agriculture, with expertise in techno-economic assessment, process modelling, and industrial symbiosis.
Professor of Chemical Engineering
His research focuses on cereal process engineering for food, fuel, and chemical applications, emphasising sustainability through cereal-based biorefineries.
In 2020 he won IChemE Davidson Medal for Outstanding Mentoring.
Professor, Department of Physical and Life Sciences
Chenyu’s current research interests lie in graphene-based composite materials, analytical science, process simulation, and pedagogic theory.
He uses innovative teaching approaches on a range of degree courses, including Chemical Engineering and Forensics.
A group of undergraduate chemical engineering students to gain valuable experience of presenting their research to leading experts at RWTH Aachen University.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/policing:
In the 2025 Times UK University Rankings, we’re in the top 20 (3rd in Yorkshire) for Criminology.
Additionally, in the 2025 Guardian League Tables, we’re 29th (4th in Yorkshire) for Criminology.
Are you fascinated by how our environment shapes whether we commit crime?
Are you interested in exploring what works to reduce or prevent crime?
Then a course in Criminology or Policing could be a perfect fit for you.
Our courses will provide you with the practical, theoretical, and analytical skills needed to understand the answers to such questions, while giving you a robust foundation to work within the criminal justice system.
You’ll address some of the most significant criminal justice issues facing policymakers and can gain a deeper understanding of the systems that shape how we work with both victims and offenders across a range of crimes.
You’ll explore issues ranging from violent crime and transnational and organised crime networks to policing and criminal justice practices.
In addition to exploring the context in which criminality sits, our courses offer a practical focus, addressing the key legal, theoretical, and policy frameworks that shape the delivery of criminal justice outcomes, both in the UK and overseas.
Criminology and policing go beyond crime-solving; they’re about safeguarding communities and promoting justice.
A career in this field lets you make a real difference by supporting those affected by crime, reducing reoffending, and enhancing public safety.
Whether it’s investigating cases, analysing crime patterns, or rehabilitating offenders, criminology and policing offer diverse and impactful opportunities to improve society.
In roles like police constable, detective, or probation officer, you’ll work on the front lines of public safety.
You could support victims, analyse crime data as a crime analyst, or help young people find positive paths in youth offending teams.
As an intelligence analyst or forensic psychologist, you might study criminal behaviour to inform justice strategies, or as a private investigator, work on specialised cases outside the public sector.
You’ll be taught by lecturers who are active researchers working across crime, justice, security, and policing.
As a result, our teaching is always at the cutting edge of the discipline, so you’ll have the chance to learn from our skills and expert knowledge as you develop your own personal interests.
You’ll also hear first-hand experiences and viewpoints from guest speakers such as senior police officers, crime analysts, crime scene investigators, drug outreach workers and criminal justice staff to enhance your learning.
Most of our courses offer you the opportunity to undertake a 30-hour compulsory work experience, helping to give you the essential skills employers are looking for.
(Please check individual courses.)
When you graduate, you’ll be well equipped to work in a range of different fields, both within and outside the criminal justice system.
You’ll be able to show your future employers that you’ve got the skills and theoretical knowledge required to make a success of your future career.
Our previous graduates have gone on to work in wide range of areas, including organisations such as West Yorkshire Police, Her Majesty’s Prison and Probation Service, UK Home Office and Lotus Sanctuary CIC or gone on to undertake further study.
We will give you as much support as possible and help you to focus on life after you have graduated to ensure that your hard work pays off and you achieve your ambition.
If you choose to study our Professional Policing Degree you’ll be supported in your police application process to explain the skills, knowledge, and competencies you’ve gained whilst studying on this course.
We have many experts in Criminology and Policing.
National Teaching Fellow 2022 winner
His research focuses on forensic psychology, criminal psychology, malingering and feigned mental disorders, as well as the wellbeing of police employees.
He received the Wayman Mullins Award for Best Journal Article in 2017.
The university ensures it supplies their students with the essential skills needed to gain a successful career, which enabled me to obtain suitable employment in an industry directly linked to my course.
The facilities on campus are also very modern and the quality of the lectures and the teaching within the University are second to none.
Once a graduate, the university as well as its staff will always be there to provide guidance and support if needed.
Becoming a police officer is a great career choice and it opens up opportunities for personal growth.
We've written a few articles to help you learn what's required to become a police officer.
Articles:
The Crime and Policing Research Centre has cultivated a strong track record in delivering high quality crime and policing related research, consultancy, teaching and training.
Lia Collins, a third-year Psychology with Criminology student at Huddersfield, shares her journey from childhood fascination to university choice.
She appreciates the supportive, student-focused environment and community at Huddersfield, making it a top choice for her studies.
The Degree Holder Entry Programme (DHEP) is a two-year conversion for degree holders to become police officers.
It leads to a Graduate Diploma in Professional Policing Practice and offers a shorter probation period and potential pay rise.
Considering a career in policing?
Explore the benefits of studying a Professional Policing Degree (PPD) versus a Police Constable Degree Apprenticeship (PCDA) to help you make the best decision.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/computer-science:
Studying a degree in computer science is a big step toward shaping a brighter future.
Computers have revolutionised our world, and by studying this diverse field, you position yourself on track for a rewarding career.
From developing sustainable and robust software systems to advancing cyber security and artificial intelligence, our courses have been designed with help from the business world.
Many of our staff have got years of experience in the industry and research, so you’ll be taught by people who know what businesses want from graduates.
Our institution is home to several renowned research centres, where cutting-edge research is conducted in areas such as artificial intelligence, data science and cyber security.
This means you’ll be learning in an environment that is at the forefront of technological advancements.
Studying computer science doesn’t just lead to a career, it’s a gateway to improved prospects, increased earning potential, and the ability to shape your own path in the ever-evolving landscape of computer science.
With a degree in computer science, you open up a world of opportunities across various industries.
You can pursue careers in software development, data analysis, cyber security, artificial intelligence and more.
You might find yourself working for tech giants, innovative startups, financial institutions, healthcare providers or government agencies.
The skills you gain from a computer science degree enable you to design and develop cutting-edge software, protect sensitive information from cyber threats, analyse vast amounts of data to inform business decisions and create intelligent systems that improve everyday life.
The versatility of a computer science degree means you can tailor your career to your interests and make a significant impact in the rapidly evolving tech landscape.
Potential career paths include becoming a Software Developer, where you design, code, and test software applications; a Systems Analyst, who analyses and improves IT systems to meet business needs; a Database Administrator, managing and maintaining databases to ensure data integrity and security; a Network Engineer, designing and managing computer networks to ensure connectivity and security; a Web Developer, creating and maintaining websites and web applications; and an IT Consultant, providing expert advice to organizations on how to use IT to meet their business objectives.
Your employability is at the core of our Computer Science courses.
Many of our courses are accredited by the British Computer Society (BCS) , the Chartered Institute for the IT Industry.
BCS accreditation is awarded to courses that provide a solid foundation in computing.
It provides an indicator of quality to you and potential employers.
Accreditation is independent recognition that this course meets the high standards set by the IT industry and meets industry needs.
Find out more from our current students.
Read about Sushmita's placement and eventual graduate job at Airbus
Read about the 3 things Reece would tell himself if he could go back to the first few weeks of his studies.
Join John, a 2nd Year computer science student as he takes you through a typical Monday
Read about Mandini's story and why she chose to study Software Engineering at the University of Huddersfield
Find out why James chose to study Software Engineering
We have many experts in Computing.
Head of the Department of Computer Science
Director of the Centre for Industrial Analytics (CIndA), founding Director of the Centre for Sustainable Computer Science.
He is a seasoned researcher with over 200 publications in fields such as distributed systems, cloud computer science and edge analytics.
Professor in Computer Science
Simon is a Professor of Cyber Security and a Member of the UK Government’s Cyber Security Advisory Board.
His research expertise and interests span Cyber Security and Artificial Intelligence, with focused areas on identity and access
A UKRI Future Leaders Fellow, ACM Senior Member, ACM Distinguished speaker on AI for the UK, Professor at the School of Computing and Engineering of the University of Huddersfield, and Director of the Research Centre on Autonomous and Intelligent Systems.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/civil-engineering:
Civil Engineering is one of the oldest branches of engineering, it focuses on the design and construction on a range of infrastructures, from buildings and roads to bridges and canals.
Civil Engineers shape the world around us, when planning future infrastructures Civil Engineers may look to existing structures for inspiration and there is plenty of inspiration in Huddersfield.
Our town has listed buildings and monuments that civil engineers will have contributed to, from grand Victorian buildings built of local sandstone to gems of modern design on our own University campus.
Whilst we have a rich heritage of buildings on our doorstep, we have the ambition at using technology in better ways to create more sustainable buildings and infrastructures.
Our Civil Engineering degree is designed to create graduates who can communicate effectively, manage projects and work in professional teams.
Studying Civil Engineering could boost your career opportunities and open doors to careers with substantial earning potential, enabling you to shape the life you desire in the future.
A degree in civil engineering opens up a wide range of career opportunities across various industries, including construction, public infrastructure, environmental protection, and even the tech industry (through innovations like smart cities or building automation).
Civil engineers are responsible for designing, building, and maintaining infrastructure such as bridges, roads, buildings and water systems.
The skills you develop can be applied to a wide range of roles, from technical design to management and consulting.
Some of the potential career paths and opportunities you could pursue with a degree in civil engineering include Design Engineer, Structural Engineer, Construction Manager, Transportation Engineer, Geotechnical Engineer, Enviromental Engineer, Urban Planner and roles within sustainability and green building.
We have many experts in Civil Engineering.
Prof Corradi is noted for his work on new materials, historic buildings and monuments, natural fibres, masonry and timber structures, mechanical characterization and study of long-term behaviour of advanced materials for structural applications.
Chieffo's research interests span a wide range of topics, including ground motion simulation, multi-hazard analysis, flood vulnerability, post-earthquake fire, site effects, fragility and damage curves, GIS, loss estimation, and urban resilience.
Geetanjali Das is a civil engineer with expertise in soil stabilisation through physical, chemical, and biological techniques.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/cyber-security:
Cyber Security is becoming increasingly crucial in our interconnected world, impacting every aspect of our lives from personal privacy to national security.
By studying a Cyber Security related degree, you position yourself at the forefront of this vital field.
Whether you’re interested in threat analysis, ethical hacking, digital forensics, or even cyber policy and governance, the possibilities are vast.
By studying a Cyber Security related degree, you’ll gain the tools to make a meaningful impact.
Here at the University of Huddersfield, we offer a range of courses at undergraduate and postgraduate levels relating to Cyber Security, all informed by world-leading research in the field.
You’ll have the opportunity to study alongside our award-winning academic colleagues, access specialist facilities, or you could choose to study remotely through our distance learning courses.
A degree in Cyber Security equips you with the skills needed to tackle a wide range of challenges in today’s digital world.
You can pursue roles such as threat analyst, ethical hacker, digital forensics expert, or cyber policy advisor.
You might work for tech companies, financial institutions, government agencies, or healthcare organizations.
With the expertise you gain from a Cyber Security degree, you can develop and implement security protocols to protect critical infrastructure, design systems to safeguard personal data, and work to prevent cyber attacks on a global scale.
Studying Cyber Security at Huddersfield will allow you to tailor your career to your interests, giving you the tools to make a significant impact in the ever-evolving field of cyber security.
The Centre of Cyber Security Research at the University of Huddersfield is an expanding group of leading academics who, over the last 5 years have established Cyber Security as one of the Department’s strengths.
Research in the Centre focuses on addressing practical security challenges, which are important for business and society.
We have many experts in Cyber security.
Here is one of them:
Andrew’s current research focuses on applications of machine learning, however, Andrew has also successfully supervised more than ten PhD students covering areas in disc-brake vibration analysis, SCADA systems, network security and 3d printing.
Senior Lecturer in Cyber Security
Developing intelligent systems for cyber security and digital forensics.
This involves various research areas such as Security Information and Event Management (SIEM), access control and authentication, vulnerability assessment and anomaly detection.
Use the latest technologies and strategies to shield organisations and individuals from cyberattacks.
Learn about the importance of Cyber Security from Professor Simon Parkinson, Director of the Centre for Cyber Security at the University of Huddersfield and a member of the UK Government’s Cyber Security Advisory Board

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/design:
Are you passionate about design, whether it’s graphic, animation or product design?
Ready to turn that passion into a rewarding career?
Look no further!
Our Design portfolio is your pathway to a successful future in the diverse world of art and culture.
Our courses are crafted to foster interdisciplinary collaboration and equip you with a wide range of transferable skills, ensuring you’re well-prepared for your future career.
We focus on building the technical skills you need to unleash your creativity and find the perfect medium to express your ideas.
While studying with us, you’ll be immersed in the inspiring, state-of-the-art Barbara Hepworth Building, and you’ll have the opportunity to work closely with academic staff who bring vast knowledge and experience to the table.
With a Design degree from the University of Huddersfield, you will have a wide range of career opportunities in graphic design and interior design.
You can work as a designer, creative director or consultant in various industries, including advertising, marketing and architecture.
The problem-solving and creative skills you develop will also be applicable in roles such as UX/UI design, exhibition design, and design education.
Additionally, you may find opportunities in packaging design, environmental design and design research, where your ability to create functional and aesthetically pleasing solutions is essential.
We have many experts in Design.
Course Leader for the BA(Hons) Interior Design
Penny is Course Leader for the BA(Hons) Interior Design programme and a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
She holds a BA(Hons) in Interior Design, a PGCHE, an MHED focused on employability in design students, and are currently undertaking an EdD.
Senior Lecturer in Graphic Design and Motion
Stephen is a lecturer in Graphic Design and Animation at the School of Art, Design and Architecture.
He teaches theory, process and studio practice to Year One students.
His research explores how blending real and virtual worlds impacts human perception.
Subject Lead in Design
Anneké is an artist and Subject Lead in Design at the University of Huddersfield.
As co-director of Brass Art, she explores the uncanny through immersive digital installations and has led AHRC-funded research and postgraduate supervision.
How to prepare for the transition between Undergraduate and Postgraduate by Ashleigh.
After completing a Graphic Design BA in summer 2020, Ashleigh chose to continue onto the Master’s in September of the same year.
Find out more about our courses in Design - hear from our students and explore our facilities.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/english:
Studying in our English department at the University of Huddersfield offers a rich and dynamic experience that equips you with a wide range of transferable skills for the job market.
Our courses are designed to foster critical thinking, creativity and effective communication, preparing you for a variety of career paths.
You’ll have the opportunity to delve into diverse areas including Literature, Language, and Creative Writing.
Our Creative Writing tutors are all published authors, bringing their expertise in short fiction, non-fiction, poetry, novels, and scriptwriting directly to your learning experience.
This means you’ll be learning from professionals who have successfully navigated the literary world and can provide you with invaluable insights and guidance.
Our literature lecturers are not only passionate educators, but also recognised experts who regularly appear on TV and radio.
This exposure to real-world applications of literary studies will enhance your learning and broaden your understanding of the field.
In addition to honing your writing and analytical skills, our courses emphasise the development of critical thinking, research abilities and effective communication.
These skills are highly valued in many professions, making our graduates well-prepared for careers in publishing, journalism, education, marketing, and beyond.
An English degree from the University of Huddersfield opens up a world of diverse and exciting career opportunities.
Graduates can pursue roles in publishing, journalism and media, where your skills in writing, editing and critical analysis are highly valued.
Many have found rewarding careers in education, teaching the next generation of students, while others have leveraged their communication expertise in public relations, marketing and advertising.
Additionally, the analytical and research skills honed during the course could lead you into fields such as law, business and government.
With an English degree, the possibilities are vast, allowing you to tailor your career path to your passions and strengths.
We have many experts in English.
Academic
Merrick works on Victorian and twentieth-century popular fiction especially gothic, adventure, detective fiction and the spy thriller.
He is particularly interested in the writings of Oscar Wilde and Arthur Conan Doyle, and with representations of masculinity.
My main area of research primarily focuses on Sylvia Plath and disability studies.
I also work with the V&A museum, having helped with their Taylor Swift Trail in the Summer of 2024.
I am a creative writer, focused on writing short stories and flash fiction.
Lecturer in English
Dr Roxanne Taylor is a Lecturer in English at Huddersfield.
She specialises in syntax, historical linguistics, and the history of English.
Her research includes work on Old English and Homeric Greek.
She holds a PhD from Manchester and an MPhil from Oxford.
Deciding on which course to study at university can create feelings of uncertainty, unfamiliarity, and anxiety - this is exactly how I felt.
Get your work published alongside some of the big names in literature through our in-house publishing company Grist books.
Grist publishes our students alongside some of the big names in literature.
These include: Simon Armitage, Melvin Burgess, Helen Simpson, John Boyne, Toby Litt and Lemn Sissay.
Student published work is given to key players in the industry, such as publishers, agents and editors.
It’s a unique opportunity to gain valuable career experience.
Huddersfield hosts the award-winning international Literature Festival which attracts some of the biggest and best writers in the world: Jodie Picoult, Joanne Harris, Irvine Welsh and Ian Rankin to name a few.
You can get involved in local literature festivals and events, meeting famous authors.
Our students are at the centre of the festival, planning, programming, curating and stewarding events.
This has led to a number of our students securing professional careers in festival management.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/electronic-engineering:
Are you passionate about solving global challenges and shaping the future?
As an electronic and electrical engineer, you’ll be at the forefront of technological innovation, designing and developing cutting-edge processes that enhance everyday life and transform society.
Imagine working on renewable energy solutions, smart cities or the next generation of communication technologies!
Our electronic and electrical engineering degrees are designed to equip you with essential engineering principles while allowing you to specialise in your chosen field.
You’ll benefit from hands-on learning, state-of-the-art facilities and guidance from industry-experienced academic staff.
By studying with us, you’ll not only boost your career prospects but also unlock opportunities for high-earning potential, empowering you to create the future you envision.
A degree in Electronic and Electrical Engineering opens up a world of exciting career opportunities.
Graduates can find themselves working in diverse fields such as renewable energy, telecommunications, robotics and aerospace.
You could be designing cutting-edge consumer electronics, developing sustainable energy solutions or creating advanced medical devices that save lives.
With the skills and knowledge gained from your degree, you’ll be well-equipped to tackle complex engineering challenges, innovate new technologies, and lead projects that make a significant impact on society.
Whether you choose to work in research and development, project management or technical consultancy, a degree in Electronic and Electrical Engineering from the University of Huddersfield will provide you with the foundation to build a successful and fulfilling career.
The University of Huddersfield is a hotbed for Electrical Engineering, attracting students from all over the world.
One important moment in my journey to the University of Huddersfield was my participation in the International Information Day.
Reflecting on this, I realise how significantly it influenced my path and how it can be a guiding light for prospective students.
We have many experts in Electronic and Electrical Engineering.
Professor in the Department of Engineering
Prof Schofield is a member of the Institution of Engineering and Technology, U.K., and a Chartered Engineer in the U.K.
John is the director of the Energy Integration Laboratory, Associate Group Leader – Energy, Emissions and the Environment Research Group and the Climate Commissioner for Kirklees.
Steve’s research interests include low power systems and sensing, health innovation and remote health / wound monitoring, audio quality measurement and signal processing, broadcast and audio systems.
Centre for Precision Technologies (CPT)
Centre for Efficiency and Performance Engineering (CEPE)
Institute of Railway Research

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/environment:
The environment is fundamental to our everyday lives; it affects everything we do, from air quality, animal survival and climate change to water quality, public health, deforestation and more.
With an ever-growing need for expertise within the field, here at the University of Huddersfield we offer a range of courses at undergraduate and postgraduate levels relating to helping our environment, all informed by world-leading research in the field.
You’ll have the opportunity to study alongside our award-winning academic colleagues, access to specialist facilities all whilst studying on our beautiful campus where our aim is to achieve net zero carbon emissions by 2030.
There is a growing need for expertise focused on protecting and sustaining our environment.
From lawyers and engineers to researchers and technicians, the field is vast and wide-ranging.
Dr Byongjun (Phil) Hwang from the University of Huddersfield will join an international roster of scientists to embark on the Arctic's most ambitious scientific expedition to date, known as MOSAiC.
Dr Hwang's research on the twelve-month International Arctic Drift Expedition is being funded by the UK's Natural Environment Research Council (NERC).
He will climb aboard the 'RV Polarstern' icebreaker, during the Arctic summer to measure the dynamics of the Arctic sea ice.
Interactions between the human and physical environment underpin many of the most challenging issues facing societies in the 21st Century.
What would it be like to live in a world in which government authorities, businesses, communities and individuals work together to create a society that is able to withstand the effects of unforeseen events and threats?
The Future Mobility Lab is looking at how to make transport greener.
Supporting national energy needs by developing technologies that enable the use and distribution of energy resources.
Such as micro turbine systems for homes, and waste heat recovery systems.
Biopolymers are a class of advanced functional materials with the potential to address several future grand challenges that include an aging population and future food shortages.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/fashion:
Do you dream of making your mark in the world of fashion and textile design?
At the University of Huddersfield, our Fashion and Costume courses are designed to turn that dream into reality!
Our courses are shaped by close relationships with industry leaders, ensuring that you gain the understanding and skills needed to thrive in the fast-paced, global fashion industry.
We blend traditional and digital methods with innovative technologies, fostering your development in cutting-edge design and construction.
You’ll gain expertise in crafting skills and sustainable practices, all while integrating these with essential business, promotion, and marketing knowledge.
While studying with us, you’ll benefit from our comprehensive approach that prepares you for the real world.
You’ll be learning in our state-of-the-art Barbara Hepworth Building, an environment that encourages creativity and innovation, supported by academic staff with vast industry experience.
With a degree in Fashion and Textiles from the University of Huddersfield, you’ll be ready to pursue careers in fashion design, textile innovation, and merchandising.
You may work as a designer, buyer, or trend forecaster in the fashion industry.
The creative and technical skills you gain will also be valuable in roles such as costume design, fashion journalism and brand management.
Furthermore, you can explore opportunities in sustainable fashion, textile technology and fashion marketing, where your knowledge of materials and market trends can drive innovation and ethical practices.
We have many experts in Fashion and Textiles.
Charlotte is a designer and maker of fashion and fetish garments, specialising in latex and leather.
Her research explores ageing, craft, and wellbeing through work with older communities.
Her work has been exhibited in galleries across the UK and Europe.
Course Leader
Katrina is Course Leader for BA Hons Costume with Textiles and BA/BSc Hons Textiles at the University of Huddersfield.
Her practice explores the intersection of traditional textiles and digital craft.
Lecturer
Andrew is a textile researcher and founding member of the Technical Textiles Research Centre.
With a background in chemistry and polymer science, he specialises in nonwoven innovation across industries and is a steering committee member for WOVEN in Kirklees.
Find out more about our courses in Fashion and Textiles - hear from our students and explore our facilities.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/film:
Are you seeking a vibrant, creative and well-equipped environment to hone your skills, knowledge and understanding of the moving image?
Our courses offer a perfect blend of theory and practice, providing you with numerous opportunities to perform, direct, and create high-quality productions.
At our purpose-built Stewart Film Studios, you’ll immerse yourself in a supportive setting designed to foster your growth across all stages of filmmaking.
From pre-production to production and postproduction, you’ll have the chance to develop and refine your skills in every aspect of the craft.
Imagine working on your projects in a state-of-the-art studio, collaborating with like-minded peers, and receiving guidance from experienced professionals.
While studying with us, you’ll be part of a dynamic community that encourages creativity and innovation, helping you to push the boundaries of your artistic expression.
A Film degree from the University of Huddersfield will equip you with the skills needed for careers in film production, directing, and screenwriting.
Opportunities exist in various aspects of the film industry, including editing, cinematography and production design.
You may also find roles in film criticism, distribution and festival programming, where your understanding of film theory and history is essential.
Additionally, the skills you develop can lead to careers in television production, documentary filmmaking and digital media, where visual storytelling and technical expertise are highly valued.
We have many experts in Film.
Senior Lecturer in Film Production
Ben Young is a film producer, screenwriter, and director whose work has premiered across major film festivals, galleries, cinemas, and streamers worldwide.
He is a member of EAVE and the Venice Biennale College.
Gareth Hudson is a visual artist and Lecturer in Moving Image.
His work explores human spirituality through film, installation, and sound.
He has exhibited internationally and worked with the BBC, BFI, and MTV.
Subject Area Leader for Film and the Visual Arts
Dr Richard Mulhearn is a photographer and educator based in West Yorkshire, UK.
From 2015 to 2022, Richard led the BA (Hons) Photography course at the University of Huddersfield.
He is currently the Subject Area Lead for Film and Visual Arts.
Find out more about our courses in Film - hear from our students and explore our facilities.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/forensic:
Are you intrigued by the science behind crime scene investigation and uncovering the truth?
Do you want to explore how forensic evidence plays a crucial role in the justice system?
Then studying Forensic Science could be the perfect path for you.
Our courses provide you with the theoretical knowledge, practical skills, and analytical abilities needed to investigate crimes scientifically, preparing you for a rewarding career in this vital field.
All our undergraduate courses are accredited by the relevant professional bodies.
You’ll delve into essential topics in forensic science, from analysing physical evidence and understanding DNA profiling to mastering toxicology and trace analysis.
With a focus on both scientific understanding and real-world application, our courses enable you to develop hands-on skills in laboratory analysis and crime scene investigation.
Whether you're interested in forensic biology, chemistry, or broader investigative sciences, our courses offer a comprehensive approach.
You’ll gain insight into the legal and ethical standards that shape forensic practice, equipping you to make a meaningful impact in criminal justice and beyond.
In roles like forensic scientist, crime scene investigator, or forensic toxicologist, you’ll work closely with law enforcement, ensuring that evidence is meticulously collected and analysed.
You could specialize in areas like fingerprint analysis, digital forensics, or trace evidence, providing critical insights that support legal cases.
As a researcher, you might develop new forensic methods or work in public policy to establish standards for evidence handling.
Whether in crime labs, law enforcement, or research, a qualification in forensic science equips you to make a lasting impact in the pursuit of justice.
We have many experts in Forensic Science.
Reader in Analytical Science
His research focuses on novel thermal analysis techniques and their applications in mass spectrometry and thermal processing.
He leads the Thermal Methods Research Unit and is Course Leader for MSc Analytical and Forensic Science courses.
Lecturer in Forensic Science
Her research focuses on forensic entomology, including circadian rhythms in insect behaviour and archaeoentomology.
She teaches on the BSc/MSci Forensic and Analytical Science and MSc Forensic Science courses.
Her research focuses on Ballistic toolmark evidence, laser interferometry, focus variation, mathematical comparison algorithms, and advanced meteorology.
Passionate about crime-solving and scientific investigation?
In this video, you’ll discover what it’s like to study Forensic Science at Huddersfield.
Learn how you’ll combine chemistry, biology, and cutting-edge analytical techniques to work on real-world cases.
With access to specialist labs and mock crime scenes, our courses give you the practical experience and scientific expertise to thrive in forensics and beyond.
How surface metrology reveals the finest forensic details
Dr Katie Adinall explains how Forensic Science plays a vital role in the criminal justice system by providing scientifically based information through the analysis of physical evidence.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/games:
Video games have played a big part in many of our lives, from exploring fantasy worlds to overcoming digital challenges, you may have been immersed in the gaming world for many years.
The gaming sector is truly global and offers some dynamic and exciting job opportunities.
The technology used in industry is constantly advancing and professionals with the right skills are in high demand.
Perhaps you want to develop your programming skills, or you’re looking to use your design talents to create graphics for games and on the web.
With such a fast-moving industry, anything is possible.
Our courses combine the latest knowledge and thinking with real-world practicality to help you prepare for a rewarding career in this exciting industry.
A degree in game development can lead to a variety of career opportunities in the gaming industry and beyond, you may consider employment in a wide range of sectors, including games design, games visualisation and narrative design.
Skills from a game development degree can also be applied in fields like interactive media, simulation and even marketing, where gamification techniques are increasingly used.
The creative and technical skills you can gain whilst studying a Games Development degree can also lead to roles in project management or entrepreneurship within the gaming industry.
Specifically within the games industry roles include:
Here's a showcase of our student's design work.
Dr Duke Gledhill, one of our Games Development academics, describes what our Games Development courses are like.
Our three Games Development courses are accredited by ScreenSkills , the industry-led skills body for the UK's screen-based industries.
Accreditation is an indicator of quality to you and potential employers, and could help your CV stand out when applying for graduate roles in the future.
At Huddersfield, we place a great deal of importance on industry experience.
You’ll find all our games courses give you the option to undertake a year-long placement in your third year.
We'll give you access to the kit used in the industry, including video and photographic equipment and cutting-edge software.
So you should have everything you need to unleash your creativity.
At Huddersfield, we encourage our games students to be ambitious, visionary and innovative.
Our students regularly enter their work into a range of competitions and often win in a variety of categories.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/health-professions:
Are you driven by a desire to support individuals and communities in achieving better health and well-being?
Do you want to make a positive impact on people’s lives through care, advocacy, and professional expertise?
Then a course in the field of health, social care & social work professions could be the ideal choice for you.
Our courses provide you with the theoretical knowledge, practical skills, and empathetic approach needed to address complex health and social challenges, preparing you for a fulfilling career in this vital field.
You’ll explore key topics, from understanding health inequalities and safeguarding vulnerable populations to delivering patient centred care and promoting social justice.
With a focus on both theoretical frameworks and hands-on experience, our courses enable you to develop skills in critical thinking, communication, and collaborative problem-solving.
Whether your interest lies in social work, nursing, or allied health professions, our programs offer a comprehensive and multidisciplinary approach.
You’ll gain insight into the policies and practices that shape care delivery, equipping you to make a meaningful difference.
Health, Social Care, and Social Work Professions go beyond supporting individuals; they’re about empowering communities and transforming lives.
A career in this field lets you make a meaningful difference by providing care, advocating for vulnerable populations, and addressing social challenges.
Whether it’s promoting mental health, safeguarding children, or enabling independence for those with disabilities, this sector offers diverse and impactful ways to contribute.
In roles like social worker, care manager, or occupational therapist, you’ll work closely with individuals and families, ensuring they receive the support they need.
You could provide care in hospitals, design personalised care plans in community settings, or advocate for systemic change in public health and social policy.
As a researcher, you might develop innovative care approaches or contribute to improving service delivery frameworks.
Whether in direct care, advocacy, or policymaking, a qualification in the field of health professionals, social care, and social work equips you to make a lasting impact on individuals, families, and wider communities.
All our Health, Social Care and Social Work courses have work placement opportunities, where you’ll have the opportunity to put what you have learnt into practice.
Depending on the course you choose, your placements could be in a hospital, clinic, charity, school, birth centre, NHS 111, emergency operations centres, or in the community, as well as many health and social care providers, to further your career chances.
All our Health, Social Care and Social Work courses are recognised by the relevant associated regulatory body.
Once you’ve successfully graduated you may be eligible to apply and register with the associated regulatory and professional body and take the next step in your career.
At the University of Huddersfield, you gain more than a degree, you gain the experience, confidence, and support to reach new heights.
Natalie, a Social Work graduate, shares her inspiring journey as the first person in her family to go to university.
During her time at Huddersfield, she undertook a 90-day placement with Kirklees Council in an enhanced mental health unit, applying her course theory in real-world settings and gaining invaluable insight into the Social Work profession.
Now a Senior Management Consultant at one of the Big Four firms, Natalie continues to follow her passion for helping people.
Luke reflects on his rewarding first physiotherapy placement, sharing how the hands-on experience and support helped him grow, boosting his confidence and solidifying his passion for the profession.
Claudine shares tips for students on managing their studies while enjoying everyday occupations, from organizing time to taking breaks, embracing study styles, and prioritising sleep.
Aminah shares her experience as an MSc Podiatry student, from the application process to balancing study and life, offering tips and insights for anyone considering postgraduate education.
We have many experts in Health, Social Care and Social Work Professions.
With expertise in podiatry, ethics, and person-centred care, Dr.
Michael Concannon's research interests include biomechanics, rehabilitation, and qualitative approaches to healthcare, particularly phenomenology and hermeneutics.
Lynda Dunn is a Lecturer in Perioperative Practice at the University of Huddersfield.
With a background as an Operating Department Practitioner, her research focuses on workplace safety, simulation-based learning, and diathermy smoke in operating theatres.
She
With 15 years of experience in statutory and voluntary sectors, Vicky specialises in safeguarding, child protection, and sexual abuse.
She is completing a PhD on statutory social work responses to online child sexual abuse.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/history:
Studying history at the University of Huddersfield is an inspiring and enriching experience.
Here, you’ll engage with a variety of historical approaches and work with primary source materials in innovative and exciting ways.
Our courses are designed not only to deepen your understanding of history, but also to equip you with valuable skills that are highly sought after in the job market.
You’ll have the opportunity to tailor your studies to your specific interests, whether you’re fascinated by the medieval period, the Tudor era, or modern European history.
Our flexible curriculum allows you to explore these areas in depth, guided by experienced academic staff who bring a wealth of knowledge and expertise to your learning journey.
Additionally, you’ll benefit from working with primary sources and participating in hands-on projects that bring history to life.
Our faculty includes renowned historians who are passionate about their fields and dedicated to helping you succeed.
A degree in History from the University of Huddersfield equips you with critical thinking, research and analytical skills that are highly sought after in various fields.
Careers in education, museums and heritage management are popular paths, as well as roles in public history, such as archival work and historical consultancy.
Additionally, history graduates often find opportunities in journalism, publishing and public policy, where your ability to understand and interpret complex information is invaluable.
We have many experts in History.
Lecturer in History
Joe is a historian at the University of Huddersfield.
His research explores racism in schools and multicultural education.
He produced the award-winning film Dispersing the Problem and recently published on race and education in contemporary Britain.
Acadmic
Rebecca is Reader in Modern History and Director of the Centre for History, Culture and Memory at the Huddersfield.
Her research explores humanitarianism, refugee history, women’s life writing, and craft in conflict.
She co-leads multiple AHRC-funded projects.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/housing:
We’re facing a global housing crisis: homes are becoming less affordable, homelessness is rising, and housing isn’t fit for a net-zero future.
The system is under real pressure, and there’s a growing need for leadership that is strategic, compassionate, and future-focused.
That’s why we’ve created the MSc in Housing Leadership and Level 4 Apprenticeship (with embedded Level 5 diploma).
Our qualifications are designed for practitioners who want to step up, shape the system, and make housing work better; not just for today, but for the long term.
Whether you’re working in local government, a housing association, the third sector or are new to the field, our courses aim to give you the tools, knowledge and community to lead with purpose and impact for the future of the sector.
You'll contribute to better outcomes for the residents you serve and help to transform housing inequalities.
Plus, you'll learn from highly qualified, research-active academic staff who are pioneering change with their work on Healthy Housing Initiatives .
We are a Chartered Institute of Housing (CIH) approved study centre.
The CIH is the awarding organisation for nationally recognised housing qualifications and provides high-quality, industry-relevant education for all housing professionals.
The University of Huddersfield is graded Outstanding for apprenticeship provision .
You can study a Level 4 Apprenticeship in Senior Housing and Property Management with embedded CIH Level 5 Diploma, giving you the skills to make a real-world impact throughout your career.
If you already have a Level 6 qualification (equivalent to an undergraduate degree), you can prepare for a future career in leadership and management with Housing Leadership MSc (Distance Learning).
We have many experts in Housing at the University of Huddersfield.
Professor of Housing and Communities
Philip is an interdisciplinary researcher with over 20 years of experience in housing research and education.
He is the lead for the Healthy Housing Initiative, and his expertise includes housing, migration, social inclusion, and energy efficiency.
Research Fellow
Tom is Research Manager of the Healthy Housing Initiative.
A Chartered Psychologist and Chair of the Housing Studies Association, he specialises in housing and public sector reform, leading impactful research and transformative policy initiatives.
Reader in Social Sciences
Director of Graduate Education Jamie has extensive experience in teaching, research, and leadership.
He holds a PhD, is a Chartered Geographer and his research focuses on housing, social policy, social enterprise and public health, and he has published widely.
Senior Lecturer in Housing Studies
Santokh Singh Gill has over 20 years of experience in sociological teaching and research.
His expertise includes housing, race, ethnicity, migration, and masculinity.
He is currently researching refugee housing experiences in Yorkshire and Humber.
Policy Fellow
Pratichi Chatterjee is a Policy Fellow at the University of Huddersfield, specialising in urban and human geography, housing, and homelessness among non-UK nationals.
She completed her PhD at the University of Sydney.
Why study with us?
Hear from our expert academic team and learn how our course could help future-proof your career in the housing sector.
Find out more about our Housing Leadership MSc (Distance Learning)

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/journalism:
Are you ready to dive into the ever-evolving world of media and journalism?
Our Media and Journalism department offers a cutting-edge approach to digital communication technologies and their impact on media creation and engagement.
We’ll guide you through this fast-paced landscape, equipping you with the skills and knowledge to become a rising media star.
You’ll learn how to captivate future audiences with compelling, human stories across broadcast, online and social channels.
During your studies, you'll work with our expert academics to master the essentials of researching, reporting, interviewing and writing.
But that’s not all – you’ll also expand your intellectual horizons, developing high-level thinking and analytical skills to see the bigger picture, ensuring you're ready for an exciting future career.
As a graduate of the Journalism and Media program at the University of Huddersfield, you will be well-prepared for careers in news reporting, broadcasting and digital media.
You can work as a journalist, editor, producer or media analyst.
The skills in research, writing, and multimedia storytelling you develop will also be applicable in public relations, marketing and corporate communications, where clear and effective communication is key.
Furthermore, you may find opportunities in content creation, social media management and investigative journalism, leveraging your ability to craft compelling narratives and engage audiences.
We have many experts in Journalism and Media.
Senior Lecturer in Media and Communication
Dr Dağhan Irak is a Senior Lecturer in Media and Communication, broadcast journalist and a media critic.
His research interests are the use social media in politics, politics in everyday life, sports and politics, and national identities.
Senior Lecturer Broadcast Journalism
Caroline Pringle has been a Senior Lecturer in Journalism and Media since 2011, teaching primarily in practical journalism – Digital Radio Production and Magazine Design and Production.
Lecturer in Journalism
Kirsty is a journalist, campaigner, researcher, and performer advocating for good information, ethical technology, and diverse leadership.
Career highlights: editor for New Statesman, launched public speaker training for women in tech, award-winning podcast.
Join me on a typical day in my life as a journalism student in my second year.
My morning usually starts with me walking over to campus and the Journalism and Media building.
Choosing a university course can be daunting.
It feels like the start of a new chapter, the start of your adult life.
This one decision has the potential to shape the rest of your life!
Find out more about our courses in Journalism and Media - hear from our students and explore our facilities.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/law:
Studying Law gives you the opportunity to understand and influence the legal systems that shape society on a local and global scale.
Whether you're new to the field or looking to build on existing knowledge, our courses provide a strong foundation in legal principles while developing the analytical, critical thinking, and practical skills valued across industries.
You’ll explore both the theory and real-world application of law, gaining the confidence to navigate complex legal issues.
From foundational topics to advanced areas of study, you’ll graduate equipped to make a meaningful impact whether in legal practice, business, government, or wider policy-making roles.
A career in law extends far beyond courtrooms; it’s about understanding and shaping the frameworks that govern societies and influence global relations.
With a degree in Law, you’ll have the opportunity to impact areas ranging from corporate regulation and human rights to international policy and justice reform.
In roles like solicitor, barrister, legal consultant, or corporate adviser, you’ll drive crucial decisions, ensure compliance, and provide strategic insights.
You might represent clients, advise organisations, or draft legislation, making a difference in areas that affect individuals, businesses, and entire communities.
Beyond traditional legal paths, opportunities in sectors like international business, government policy, and social justice advocacy allow you to apply your skills in ways that create real-world impact across industries and borders.
How to become a Barrister
How to become a Paralegal
How to become a Solicitor
You'll benefit from our long-standing Partners in Law scheme, which connects you directly with a wide network of local, regional, and national legal firms.
This collaboration brings practising lawyers into the classroom, offering real-world insights that enrich your learning and boost your employability from day one.
Many of our partners are alumni who once received the same support.
Now established professionals, they're committed to giving back, sharing their expertise and helping shape the next generation of legal talent.
Throughout your degree, you'll build valuable connections across the legal sector, developing a strong professional network to support your future career.
You'll have the opportunity to take part in mooting - an engaging and practical activity that brings legal study to life in our purpose-built mock courtroom.
In this setting, you'll tackle complex legal issues by researching, preparing persuasive written submissions, and delivering oral arguments with confidence.
You'll follow real court protocols, interact with judges, and receive constructive feedback throughout the process.
This experience helps you build skills in advocacy, legal reasoning, and public speaking - boosting your confidence and preparing you for the demands of legal practice.
The Legal Advice Clinic offers a unique opportunity to gain hands-on experience by working on real cases under the supervision of qualified academic staff and practising solicitors.
Through this practical setting, you'll develop key skills in legal analysis, client communication, and ethical decision-making.
By working on real legal issues, you'll build confidence and a strong sense of responsibility, showing employers you're ready to apply your knowledge in the real world.
You'll also have the chance to take part in our mentoring scheme, which pairs you with a legal professional who can offer valuable insight into working in the field.
Your mentor supports you by meeting with you to discuss what you'd like to get from the scheme and review your CV.
This one-to-one guidance gives you invaluable insight into the profession and helps you prepare for the realities of a legal career.
Wondering what makes Law at Huddersfield different?
It’s more than just gaining your academic qualification.
In this video, students, staff, and legal professionals share their experience of our supportive teaching, real-world opportunities, and strong industry connections.
Our Law degrees at Huddersfield are about building confidence, working on real cases, and developing the skills to thrive in a legal career.
See how our students and staff are applying their knowledge through legal activity.
We have many experts in Law.
Natalie Prowse joined the University of Huddersfield as a Lecturer in 2014, advancing to Senior Lecturer in 2016.
She leads modules in Family Law, Justice, and Professional Conduct and has served as Course Leader for LLB (Hons) Law with Criminology since 2017.
Kikelomo is Fellow of the Higher Education Academy and a specialist in climate change, renewable energy, and corporate regulation law in developing countries.
In 2020 she was endorsed as an Exceptional Talent in Legal Research by the British Academy.
Paul holds a First-Class degree in Law and a Distinction in his Master’s, with a PhD in Environmental Law.
He is a two-time Commonwealth Scholar and is 2019 he was recognised as an Exceptional Talent in Legal Research by the British Academy.
CLEAR engages in research to understand the role of law both locally and around the world.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/logistics:
Studying Logistics and Operations will equip you with the essential skills to manage complexity, drive efficiency, and lead innovation in today’s fast-paced global environment.
Whether you’re entering the field or looking to deepen your expertise, our courses will provide you with the tools to optimise processes, solve operational challenges, and deliver results with confidence.
You’ll develop strategic insight and learn how to manage change and risk across supply chains, skills that are in high demand across industries.
Alongside building your operational expertise, you’ll explore the core principles of logistics, including supply chain management, financial decision-making, legal frameworks, ethical considerations, and performance analysis - giving you the knowledge to make informed, impactful decisions in a dynamic and evolving sector.
Logistics and operations are about more than just moving goods; it’s about driving efficiency and supporting growth within organisations.
With a career in logistics, you’ll shape how businesses manage resources, streamline processes, and ensure operational excellence.
From supply chain coordination to strategic procurement, the opportunities are diverse and impactful.
In roles like supply chain manager, logistics coordinator, operations director or procurement director, you’ll play a vital role in optimising systems and enhancing productivity.
You might lead initiatives to improve supply chain performance, develop strategies for cost efficiency, or ensure timely delivery and high service standards, all driving industry success.
Discover the exciting career opportunities in logistics and operations through the experiences of our graduates, as they share their journeys in this fast-moving and dynamic field.
Considering a Master's in business?
Hear from students and staff at Huddersfield Business School about what makes our programmes unique and why Huddersfield is a great choice for your postgraduate journey.
We have many experts in Logistics and Operations.
Professor in Sustainable Transport Futures
Alex is in the top 2% of researchers globally (2020-2022).
With a robust publishing record, Alex has led major projects for the Economic and Social Research Council and Innovate UK, with a research focus on sustainable mobility.
Lecturer in Transport and Business Analytics
With over 13 years of experience across academia and industry in four countries, Nima has led projects like the Department for Transport-funded Future Transport Zone and contributed to EU projects on autonomous transport.
Senior Lecturer in Supply Chain and Analytics
Fahham is the Course leader for the MSc programmes in Supply Chain, Analytics, and Operations, he holds a PhD in Sustainable Logistics.
His research focuses on sustainable supply chains, circular economy, and digitisation.
The Sustainable Living Research Centre focuses on diverse living experiences, heritage, tourism, and zero-carbon approaches to promote sustainable futures.
The Future Mobility Lab (FML) promotes the study of sustainable, socially inclusive mobility—focusing on automated, connected, alternatively fuelled, and shared transport systems—while inspiring positive changes in travel behaviour.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/marketing:
Studying Marketing will equip you with the essential skills to shape how brands connect with audiences in an increasingly digital and global world.
Whether you're just beginning your marketing journey or seeking to build on your existing expertise, our courses provide you with the tools to thrive in roles such as digital marketing, brand management, and beyond.
You’ll explore the psychology behind consumer behaviour and learn how to craft compelling strategies that influence and engage.
Alongside this, you'll gain practical experience using industry-standard tools to design, manage, and optimise multi-media campaigns spanning traditional, digital, and social media platforms - preparing you to make an impact at regional, national, and international levels.
Marketing is about more than promoting products; it’s about forging connections between brands and people.
With a career in marketing, you’ll influence how businesses communicate, inspire action, and drive success.
From captivating campaigns to market trend analysis, the possibilities are diverse and exciting.
In roles like digital marketing manager, brand manager, social media manager or digital marketing strategist, you’ll shape how companies engage with customers.
You could lead creative ad strategies, enhance social media presence, or use data-driven insights to influence business decisions.
As a content marketer or SEO expert, you’ll craft compelling stories or ensure brands stand out in a crowded digital landscape.
How to become a Marketing Manager
How to become a Brand Manager
How to become a Social Media Manager
Your employability is at the core of our Marketing courses.
Accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM), these courses are designed to enhance your career prospects from the outset.
As a CIM-accredited institution, Huddersfield Business School gives you the opportunity to gain valuable exemptions towards a globally recognised professional qualification, equipping you with the skills and credibility to thrive in the fast-paced world of marketing.
Our undergraduate courses are also accredited by the Institute of Data and Marketing (IDM), preparing you for success in a data-driven marketing landscape.
With over 30 years of experience supporting marketing professionals, the IDM offers industry-informed qualifications rooted in best practice.
As an undergraduate student on an IDM-accredited course, you’ll have the opportunity to sit a 2-hour online exam to gain the IDM Certificate in Digital and Data-Driven Marketing, boosting your credentials and giving you a head start in your marketing career.
Giang reflects on her experience at the University of Huddersfield and the opportunities she has accessed during her time as a student.
Hadil shares her journey from undergraduate to postgraduate and why Huddersfield is the perfect place to take your studies to the next level.
Joanne shares her 5 reasons why all university students should undertake a placement year whilst studying an undergraduate marketing degree.
Loren Birkett, Lecturer and Course Leader in Marketing , shares how our marketing courses stay ahead of industry trends, providing you with the skills and knowledge to excel in careers such as digital marketing, brand management, and more.
Get a feel of what it's like to be a marketing student at the University of Huddersfield!
Keep up with our latest news, events, and opportunities.
We have many experts in Marketing.
Lecturer and Course Leader in Marketing
Loren's previous industry role connected SMEs in Kirklees with education to drive growth.
An alumna from the university with a BA in Business Studies & MSc in Marketing, Loren joined the team in 2022 to inspire Marketing students with her industry expertise.
Adam, a Huddersfield alumnus, joined in 2013.
His research explores organisational behaviour and international management in tourism and hospitality.
Before academia, he held leadership roles at Mitchells and Butler, Whitbread, and Walt Disney World.
Professor of Marketing
Shona is a business education leader with 20+ years in marketing research, teaching, and enterprise.
She has led major projects for focusing on social housing and health, with research published in leading sociology, marketing, and consumer journals.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/management:
Studying Management and Leadership will equip you with the essential skills to lead, inspire, and drive success in today’s fast-paced and ever-changing world.
Whether you're taking your first steps into management or looking to enhance your existing capabilities, our courses will provide you with the tools to motivate teams, solve problems creatively, and respond to complex challenges with confidence.
You’ll gain strategic insight and learn how to lead change with agility, skills that are highly valued across all sectors.
Alongside developing your leadership approach, you’ll also explore the core foundations of business, including financial, legal, ethical, analytical, and economic principles, giving you a well-rounded understanding to make informed and impactful decisions.
Management and leadership extend beyond simply overseeing teams; they involve empowering individuals and driving meaningful, sustainable change within organisations.
A career in management gives you the opportunity to shape how businesses operate, inspire teams, and lead them toward long-term success.
From strategic decision-making to enhancing operational efficiency, the impact you make can be both diverse and significant.
In roles such as business manager, management consultant, project director, or executive director, you’ll play a vital role in optimising performance and influencing company culture.
You might lead transformational initiatives, develop policies to boost workforce productivity, or design strategies that improve systems and fuel organisational growth.
How to become a Business Manager
How to become a Management Consultant
Your employability is at the core of our Management and Leadership courses.
Accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), these courses are designed to boost your career prospects from day one.
As an official Higher Education Partner of the CMI, Huddersfield Business School offers you the opportunity to gain an additional, industry-recognised professional qualification, giving you a competitive edge in today’s dynamic job market.
Business and Management Studies is one of these subjects, highlighting our dedication to academic excellence and reinforcing our position as an internationally leading institution.
Business Management BA(Hons) graduate, Sana Naz shares her experience of her time on placement at CrossCountry Trains.
Management MSc graduate, Marija Varzinska, shares five things she loved the most about her Master’s in Management.
Management MSc graduate, Craig Dominique-Smith, shares his experience of studying an MSc in Management at Huddersfield.
Level 7 Senior Leader Higher Apprentice, Olivia Sykes, shares the direct impact the apprenticeship had in her workplace.
Level 7 Senior Leader Higher Apprentice, Sarah Durdin, shares how the apprenticeship has boosted her confidence and leadership skills.
Master's graduate, Thomas Enes Bayar, shares how studying an MSc in International Business shaped his global future.
We have many experts in Management and Leadership.
Senior Lecturer in Management
Mark has 17+ years of teaching in Change Management, People Management, and Leadership and has experience creating courses for organisations such as Royal Mail & NHS.
He was previously NHS Change Director and Strategic HR Director at Blackpool Council.
School Director for Executive Education
Nic is a Chartered Psychologist with 20+ years of experience in training, development, and consultancy.
Previously a Company Director, Nic has led projects for government and national organisations, focusing on impact and engagement.
School Director for International
Ruth joined the university in 2005 with a finance background.
Her research examines how class, gender, & ethnicity affect employability.
She teaches modules on work in society and employability skills, supporting students in career success.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/mechanical-engineering:
Are you fascinated by how things work and driven by a desire to innovate?
Mechanical and Automotive Engineering could be your gateway to a thrilling career where you design, develop and improve the machines and vehicles that move our world.
From cutting-edge automotive technologies to advanced manufacturing processes, you’ll be at the heart of engineering breakthroughs that shape the future.
Our Mechanical and Automotive Engineering degrees are designed to provide you with a solid understanding of engineering principles, while allowing you to specialise in areas that excite you the most.
You’ll gain hands-on experience in our state-of-the-art facilities, work on real-world projects and learn from industry-experienced staff who are actively engaged in research.
By studying at Huddersfield, you’ll enhance your career prospects and open doors to high-earning potential, empowering you to build the future you envision.
Graduates from our Mechanical and Automotive Engineering courses can find themselves working in industries such as automotive, aerospace, energy and manufacturing.
Following your studies with us, you could be designing high-performance vehicles, developing sustainable energy systems or creating advanced robotics and automation solutions.
With the skills and knowledge gained from your degree, you’ll be well-equipped to tackle complex engineering challenges, innovate new technologies and lead projects that make a significant impact on society.
Whether you choose to work in research and development, project management or technical consultancy, a degree in Mechanical and Automotive Engineering from the University of Huddersfield will provide you with the foundation to build an exciting career.
Doing an apprenticeship I already had a taste of what working in industry felt like and because of that I knew a placement was something I wanted to go for.
We are lucky that we have such an enthusiastic and supportive placement team.
One of the reasons I chose to study at Huddersfield was the fact the University has a successful Formula Student team – Team HARE.
I discovered the team had placed as 3rd UK team in the Formula Student competition in 2019, and many alumni had gone on to work in Formula 1.
We have many experts in Mechanical and Automotive Engineering.
Head of the Department of Engineering
Leigh's research includes application of metrology to novel surface characterisation, including skin interfaces, woundcare, pressure area care, pressure ulcer prevention and assistive technologies for improved health related quality of life.
Paul has led the initiation of many new University relationships and funding streams with key railway sector partners including Network Rail, HS2, Crossrail, Unipart Rail Ltd and Alstom.
Prof.
Mishra is very active in renewable energy, asset management, smart house and digital twin research and is involved with many industrial organisations including a number of renewable energy organisations.
Hear from Dr Leigh Fleming, the Acting Dean of the School of Computing and Engineering about why you should study a Distance Learning Engineering Management MSc.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/music:
Are you ready to immerse yourself in the vibrant world of music?
Our Music department at the University of Huddersfield is the perfect place to develop a wide range of transferable skills for a successful career in the diverse music industry.
We are renowned for nurturing progressive musical talent.
Each year, the world-famous Huddersfield Contemporary Music Festival brings cutting-edge international artists to our campus, while the Electric Spring Festival showcases the latest trends in electronic music.
These events provide you with unparalleled opportunities for live exposure and interaction with both national and global music industries.
You’ll be guided by leading researchers and musicians who cover everything from classical to pop to experimental music and beyond.
Whether your interests lie in creative, historical, analytical, or technical approaches – in performance, composition, or musicology – we have a course tailored for you.
A Music degree from the University of Huddersfield will offer you a broad range of career possibilities.
You can become a performer, composer or conductor, working in orchestras, bands or as a solo artist.
You may also pursue careers in music education, therapy and administration.
The analytical and creative skills you develop will be valuable in roles such as music journalism, production and management.
Additionally, you can explore opportunities in music publishing, copyright law and arts management, where your understanding of the music industry and its legal aspects is essential.
We have many experts in Music.
Course Leader for Popular Music BMus
Dr Adam Martin, Course Leader for Popular Music BMus, is a songwriter, performer, producer and researcher.
His projects span electronic duo Nightports to music-food experiences (Unusual Ingredients).
He’s currently writing a book on group songwriting.
Catherine Haworth is a musicologist.
Her research focuses on representation and identity in music, particularly in film and television soundtracks.
She has published on gender and sexuality, crime films, James Bond, horror TV, and celebrity culture.
Lecturer in Popular Music
Loz Colbert, Lecturer in Popular Music, has 36 years' industry experience.
A founding member of RIDE and The Animalhouse, he’s also been a session musician for Supergrass, The Jesus and Mary Chain, St.
Etienne, Damo Suzuki, and Gaz Coombes.
All our Music courses include an optional short-term or year-long work placement, helping to give you the essential skills employers are looking for.
Hear from Alex Broadgate who studied Music BMus(Hons) and completed a placement with Anara Publishing.
For my work placement, my title was "Publishing and Sync Assistant" at Anara Publishing - an independent music publisher based in Leicester.
My work placement gave me a general understanding of the music publishing industry and how it fits into the wider music industry as a whole.
Alex Broadgate -
Hi, my name is Maisy, and I'm a final-year student at the University of Huddersfield.
In this blog, I’ll be taking you along for a day in my life as a music student.
In this blog, find out about my experience of the University's Open Day and how it helped me make my decision.
Find out more about our courses in Music - hear from our students and explore our facilities.
We're a diverse team at the University of Huddersfield, UK, specializing in psychoacoustics research, digital audio signal processing, and music production.
We are a community of world-leading artists and scholars bringing innovative and interdisciplinary perspectives to research in composition, performance, sonic arts and multimedia, music technology, improvisation, analysis and new music studies.
Our centre brings together researchers investigating musics and musical cultures using a variety of historical, critical analytical and technological methodologies.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/music-technology:
The music and audio-related industries are constantly evolving, and they require more than just musicians to operate.
Producers, engineers and technicians with a solid foundation in the technical and creative aspects of music and sound engineering, as well as practical skill and experience, are all vital in the ability to capture, create and distribute high-quality audio around the globe.
If you’re passionate about music and technology, and looking for a creative yet practical course, you could consider one of our degrees.
They are designed to provide you with a comprehensive understanding of the technical and creative aspects of music and sound engineering, as well as the knowledge and skills needed to work in the audio industry.
Having a broad range of skills will maximise your potential in securing your dream job.
You’ll be taught by accessible and knowledgeable tutors who understand the industry and will support you in gaining the skills that are in demand.
Many of our courses are also accredited by industry bodies, giving an indicator of quality to you and employers.
With a degree in Music Technology from the University of Huddersfield, you will be able to explore careers in audio engineering, sound design and music production.
Opportunities exist in recording studios, live sound for concerts and events, and multimedia production for film, television and video games.
Additionally, the technical and creative skills you acquire will be beneficial in roles such as acoustic consultancy, audio software development and teaching.
You may also find opportunities in broadcast engineering, podcast production and sound for virtual reality experiences, where your expertise in sound manipulation and technology is crucial.
Explore our facilities and find out more from our current students and graduates
Hi, I’m Nirmal CD, an international student doing my final year in Sound Engineering and Music Production at the University of Huddersfield.
Hi everyone!
I am Aral Jack Yildirim, but everyone always calls me AJ.
I study Sound Engineering and Music Production at Huddersfield, and I’m also an endurance athlete, specifically a distance runner.
During your studies, you will be supported by tutors, many of whom are experienced industry professionals.
Our music and music technology departments are active in research, helping to ensure you'll learn from academics at the forefront of their specialist area.
Many of the academic staff are members of the Audio Engineering Society (AES) and are researching into areas such as perceptual audio, automated mixing techniques, music production, new interfaces for music and other related disciplines.
Our teaching focuses on the latest technologies, and we aim to put you at the forefront of opportunities for your future career.
Previous graduates have gone to work for companies like Adlib Audio, working on live sound with major touring artists, or technical positions at renowned companies like Abbey Road Studios and Angel Studios, and been nominated for Grammy awards for their work on productions by pop stars such as Adele.
We place a great deal of importance on creating employable graduates, and one way we do this is through industry experience.
In your third year of a Bachelor's degree, you'll have the opportunity to undertake a placement year in industry.
A placement year is an excellent way to boost your CV and your confidence.
“I undertook a placement as part of my degree.
I spent a year in the Product Test department at Calrec Audio in Hebden Bridge.
They make mixing desks for broadcast (most live TV goes through a Calrec), and my job was to test new products before their release.
My placement has become a highlight of my CV, and I never would have had the opportunity to work here for a year without the Placement Unit's contacts and support.”
“After graduation I worked as a freelance work as a sound engineer for live music venues.
In May this year I joined the BBC as a Studio Director for Radio 5 Live and the World Service.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/nursing:
Are you inspired by the science of care and the opportunity to support individuals through pivotal moments in their lives?
Do you want to make a real difference in health and well-being?
Then a course in Nursing and Midwifery could be the perfect fit for you.
Our courses provide you with the theoretical knowledge, practical skills, and compassionate approach needed to deliver exceptional care, preparing you for a rewarding career in this vital profession.
You’ll explore essential topics in healthcare, from patient assessment and clinical decision-making to maternal and neonatal care.
With a focus on both evidence-based practice and hands-on experience, our courses enable you to develop skills in providing holistic care, managing complex health needs, and supporting families.
Whether your passion lies in general nursing, specialised fields, or midwifery, our courses offer a comprehensive approach.
You’ll gain insight into the ethical and professional frameworks that shape healthcare, equipping you to make a meaningful impact in communities and healthcare systems.
Nursing and Midwifery go beyond providing care; they’re about empowering individuals and supporting communities in their health journeys.
A career in this field lets you make a meaningful difference by delivering compassionate care, promoting wellness, and advancing healthcare practices.
Whether it’s supporting women through pregnancy and childbirth, managing complex patient needs, or educating communities, nursing and midwifery offer diverse and impactful ways to contribute.
In roles like registered nurse, midwife, or nurse practitioner, you’ll work closely with patients, ensuring their health and wellbeing are prioritized.
You could provide care in hospitals, support families in community settings, or specialise in areas like neonatal care, mental health or learning disability.
As a researcher, you might advance healthcare practices or contribute to shaping public health policies.
Whether in clinical practice, education, or leadership, a qualification in nursing and midwifery equips you to make a lasting impact on individuals and the broader healthcare system.
All our Health Professions and Social Care courses have work placement opportunities, where you’ll have the opportunity to put what you have learnt into practice.
All our courses are recognised by the relevant associated regulatory body.
I got into midwifery thanks to the midwife who looked after me when I had my son.
She delivered fantastic care, and that experience inspired me to go into midwifery.
It helped me change my career and head into healthcare.
Hi everyone, I’m Hannah.
I’m currently a first-year student Midwife at University of Huddersfield and loving every minute.
I have lived in Huddersfield my whole life, so I know it like the back of my hand.
Here are the reasons why I chose Midwifery at Hud.
We have many experts in Nursing and Midwifery.
Subject Area Lead
Donna Kemp is the Subject Area Lead for Pre-registration Nursing at the University of Huddersfield, with expertise in mental health nursing across community, crisis, and in-patient care.
Her research focuses on collaborative care planning, shared decision-maki

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/optometry:
Are you captivated by the science of sight and the ways we perceive the world?
Do you want to explore eye health and its impact on daily life?
Then a course in Optometry and Vision Sciences could be the perfect fit for you.
Our courses provide you with the theoretical knowledge, practical skills, and analytical abilities needed to understand vision science and deliver effective eye care, preparing you for a rewarding career in this vital field.
You’ll examine essential topics in eye health, from diagnosing and treating visual impairments to understanding advances in optical technology.
With a focus on both scientific understanding and hands-on experience, our courses allow you to develop clinical skills in patient examination and diagnostics.
Our Optometry MOptom degree approved by the General Optical Council and is fully aligned with the new outcomes for optometry.
Whether you're interested in direct optometry practice or broader vision science research, our courses offer a comprehensive approach.
You’ll gain insight into key frameworks that shape eye care policy and practice, equipping you to make a meaningful impact in the field of optometry and beyond.
In roles like optometrist, vision scientist, or orthoptist, you’ll work closely with patients, ensuring their vision needs are met.
You could manage eye health in clinical settings, prescribe corrective lenses, or detect ocular diseases as a primary healthcare provider.
As a researcher, you might study visual disorders and develop innovative treatments, or work in public health to design programs that improve vision care access.
Whether in clinical practice, research, or community outreach, a qualification in optometry and vision sciences equips you to make a lasting impact in people’s lives.
We have many experts in Optometry .
Dr Niall Hynes is a Senior Lecturer in Optometry at the University of Huddersfield.
His research focuses on Sports Vision, Myopia and Digital Eye Strain.
Reader
Dr Rebekka Heitmar is a Reader in Optometry and Vision Sciences at the University of Huddersfield.
Her research focuses on Retinal Vessels, Oximetry, and Oxygen.
Our Science Extended Degree gives you a strong foundation in chemistry, biology, and maths before progressing onto a full BSc course.
Optometry academics at the University of Huddersfield have been exploring how a model eye for teaching a particular clinical skill is beneficial to students.
The University of Huddersfield’s popular Optometry BSc has expanded into a new integrated four-year Master’s course incorporating all clinical experience, offering 100 places offered from 2024 entry.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/pharmacy:
Are you intrigued by the science of medicine and how it can improve lives?
Do you want to play a crucial role in healthcare, providing patients with safe and effective treatments?
Then a degree in Pharmacy might be the ideal path for you.
Our pharmacy course offer you the theoretical foundation, practical skills, and analytical expertise needed to excel in this dynamic field, preparing you for a meaningful and impactful career.
Our Pharmacy MPharm and Independant Prescribing for Pharmacists courses are  accredited by General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC).
You’ll dive into essential topics, from drug formulation and pharmacology to patient care and medication management.
With a balance of scientific study and hands-on experience, our courses enable you to develop clinical skills in dispensing medications, advising patients, and understanding complex treatment regimens.
Whether your interest lies in community pharmacy, hospital pharmacy, or pharmaceutical research, our courses provide a comprehensive approach.
You’ll gain valuable insights into the regulatory and ethical frameworks that shape pharmacy practice, empowering you to make a real difference in the world of healthcare.
In roles like community pharmacist, hospital pharmacist, or clinical pharmacologist, you’ll work closely with patients, ensuring they receive the right treatments.
You could manage medication in healthcare settings, counsel patients on safe use, or support doctors and nurses as part of a multidisciplinary team.
As a researcher, you might develop new drugs or study pharmacology to improve therapy outcomes, or work in regulatory roles to shape policies that enhance medication safety.
Whether in direct patient care, research, or public health, a qualification in pharmacy equips you to make a lasting impact on health and wellbeing.
We have many experts in Pharmacy.
Reader in Pharmaceutics
Kofi Asare-Addo's research focuses on drug delivery systems, specifically hypromellose matrix tablets under varying conditions.
He collaborates extensively with academia and industry and is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
Barbara Conway is Head of Pharmacy and Professor of Pharmaceutics at the University of Huddersfield.
Her research focuses on drug delivery, antimicrobial stewardship, and solubility enhancement.
She collaborates with the NHS, academia and industry.
A NETWORK of community pharmacies must be involved in future country preparedness plans for public health emergencies, such as the COVID19 pandemic, when a rapid response to massive population is needed within a short time frame.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/photography:
Studying photography at the University of Huddersfield offers a unique blend of creative freedom and technical expertise.
While studying with us, you can make use of state-of-the-art facilities, including fully equipped studios, which provide an excellent environment for honing your skills.
You'll benefit from a curriculum that balances practical experience with theoretical knowledge, guided by experienced professionals who are active in the industry.
Additionally, Huddersfield's strong industry connections offer valuable opportunities for internships and networking, helping you to build a robust portfolio and gain real-world experience.
The supportive and vibrant community at Huddersfield ensures that you are not just learning but also growing as an artist, ready to make your mark in the world of photography.
A Photography degree from the University of Huddersfield opens doors to a variety of creative and technical careers.
Graduates can work as professional photographers in fields such as fashion, advertising, journalism and fine arts.
You may also find roles in photo editing, curation and gallery management.
The visual storytelling skills gained through this course are also valuable in marketing, media production and digital content creation.
We have many experts in Photography.
Course Leader for Photography
David is an artist and academic, whose work examines the production of subjectivity, exploring the complex and often fraught relationship between human beings and their environments.
He has been teaching Photography for over a decade.
Yan is an award-winning photographer and lecturer whose work explores nature, ideology, and urban landscapes.
Her major projects, Mother River and Forest, have been widely exhibited and published.
School Director of Student Recruitment
Liam is currently the School Director of Student Recruitment.
Since 2013, he has focused on integrating photographic theory and practice in their teaching.
Find out more about our courses in Photography - hear from our students and explore our facilities.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/psychology:
We’re 24th in the UK (2nd in Yorkshire) for Psychology in the Guardian League Tables 2025.
A lot goes on in the human mind, if you want to know more about mental processes, emotions, personality, and perceptions, understanding human psychology will help you to gain the essential skills that are relevant to a wide range of situations and careers.
Psychology is about real people, not hypothetical theories, so we’ll give you lots of chances to get practical experience and help you broaden your skills and experiences to make you attractive to potential employers in your chosen career.
Our psychology labs have state-of-the-art equipment and you’ll be encouraged to think and apply your knowledge, looking at how psychological theories apply in the real world."
Psychology is more than just understanding the mind—it’s about improving lives and making a positive impact on society.
A career in psychology allows you to explore human behaviour, support mental health, and contribute to personal and societal well-being.
Whether you’re working with individuals to address mental health issues, conducting research to understand human behaviour, or helping organizations improve their work culture, psychology offers diverse opportunities to make a difference.
In roles like clinical psychologist, counsellor, or mental health practitioner, you’ll directly support people’s well-being.
You could work in research to advance psychological theories, support individuals as a therapist, or contribute to workplace well-being as an occupational psychologist.
As a forensic psychologist, you might study criminal behaviour to assist in legal proceedings, or as a health psychologist, helping people adopt healthier lifestyles to prevent illness and improve quality of life.
Discover why Tom chose to study Psychology at the University of Huddersfield, reflecting on his journey from uncertainty to finding a course and university he truly loves.
Estelle shares her journey from considering moving away for university to choosing Huddersfield, highlighting the support, facilities, and academic experiences that made it the right fit for her.
Our lecturers have a wide range of specialisms and are experts in several fields, enabling our programmes to be informed by cutting-edge research delivered by those who created it.
including clinical psychology, neuroscience, criminal psychology, educational psychology, and health psychology, so if you’re hoping to pursue a particular career path, we can set you off in the right direction.
Our staff work across a range of areas within Psychology in partnership with local, national and international organisations, ensuring our course and research content is applicable to real-world settings, and can be used to help to improve people’s lives.
You’ll have the opportunity to build your communication skills, assertiveness, ability to work in teams and presentation techniques – all of which are useful in many careers and professions.
Once you leave Huddersfield you could be fully prepared for an inspiring career, previous students have gone on to work in education, healthcare, research, business and public services.
All our psychology courses are accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS) who are the professional body for Psychologists in the UK.
This means that you can be sure that the teaching you are receiving is of the highest quality and meets the requirements to prepare you for a career as a Psychologist.
You’ll be able to apply for Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership if you graduate with a Lower Second Class Honours or higher.*
*Applied Psychology MPsych is awaiting BPS accreditation.
Whether you’re aiming to kick start your career in psychology, enhance your current career, or simply understand yourself and others better to make a positive impact in the world,  our Psychology Conversion Master’s will help you realise your ambitions.
We have many experts in Psychology.
Dr Bale's research focuses on self-perception, interpersonal relationships, and mental health.
He holds a PhD exploring physical attractiveness and self-esteem and joined the university in 2008.
Chris Retzler is a Senior Lecturer in Psychology at the University of Huddersfield.
His research explores cognitive neuroscience, focusing on learning, addiction, and decision-making using EEG and fMRI.
He supervises projects on behavior, individual differ
Professor
David Peebles's research focuses on cognitive architectures, using computational models like ACT-R to explore how cognitive, perceptual, and motor processes interact during reasoning and problem-solving with external representations such as graphs.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/sport:
Are you fascinated by the science of movement and the role of nutrition in optimising health and performance?
Do you want to explore how exercise and diet impact physical and mental well-being?
Then a course in Sport, Exercise & Nutrition could be the perfect fit for you.
Our courses provide you with the theoretical knowledge, practical skills, and analytical abilities needed to excel in this dynamic and vital field, preparing you for a rewarding career.
You’ll study essential topics, from exercise physiology and sports psychology to nutritional science and health promotion.
With a focus on both scientific principles and hands-on applications, our courses allow you to develop skills in designing exercise programs, analysing performance, and creating tailored nutrition plans.
Whether you're passionate about elite sports, public health, or wellness coaching, our programs offer a comprehensive approach.
You’ll gain insights into the latest research, equipping you to make a meaningful impact in promoting health, enhancing performance, and supporting communities worldwide.
Sport, Exercise, and Nutrition go beyond improving physical performance; they’re about enhancing health and wellbeing at every level.
A career in this field lets you make a meaningful difference by optimizing athletic performance, promoting healthy lifestyles, and addressing global health challenges.
Whether it’s designing fitness programs, developing nutritional plans, or advancing research in exercise science, this area offers diverse and impactful ways to contribute.
In roles like sports scientist, nutritionist, or exercise physiologist, you’ll work closely with individuals and teams to help them achieve their health and performance goals.
You could support elite athletes, design community health initiatives, or specialise in areas like rehabilitation or public health nutrition.
As a researcher, you might study the effects of diet and exercise on disease prevention or innovate in sports technology.
Whether in clinical settings, research, or community outreach, a qualification in Sport, Exercise, and Nutrition equips you to make a lasting impact on health, fitness, and quality of life.
We have many experts in Sport, Excercise and Nutrition.
Head of the Division of Sport, Exercise, and Public Health
A Chartered Scientist and BASES Accredited Sport and Exercise Scientist, his research focuses on time-efficient exercise responses and adaptations.
He has experience working in higher education and consultancy.
Senior Lecturer in Sport, Exercise, and Nutrition Sciences
His research focuses on muscle strength, reference values, and rotator cuff, with expertise in clinical and sports sciences.
He holds an MSc in Sport and Leisure and a PGCert in Higher Education.
Senior Lectuer in Sport, Exercise and Nutrition Sciences
he leads the BSc (Hons) Sport and Physical Education course and researches the impact of physical activity interventions on young people’s health and wellbeing.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/sustainability:
Are you motivated to make a positive impact on social, environmental, or economic practices and policies which will help pave the way to a more sustainable future?
Here at the University of Huddersfield we offer a range of courses at undergraduate and postgraduate levels relating to sustainability all informed by world-leading research in the field.
There is an ever-growing need for expertise focused on sustaining our future.
From the world of fashion and logistics to renewable energy and environmental sciences, the field is vast and wide-ranging.
The University of Huddersfield is joining forces with Kirklees Climate Commission (KCC) in the region’s fight against climate change and will develop initiatives enabling people and organisations in Kirklees to work towards net zero carbon emissions and greater climate resilience so that it can be a happier, healthier, more prosperous, and inclusive place.
Research into how the Bioprocess industry could underpin global food security, health and wellbeing, sustainable chemicals and more.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/study/fees/whats-included-tuition-fees:
We understand that by choosing to study with us you are making a big financial commitment.
We want to make sure you understand exactly what your fees will cover and what additional costs you will need to budget for when you decide to become a University of Huddersfield student.
What is included:
What is not included:

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/study/fees/fee-status:
The following information will help you to identify and understand the fee status process, what rate of tuition fee will most likely apply and how we assess your fee status as a University.
If you are studying a distance learning course, please see our Distance learning fees and finance page .
Course fees are charged at one of two rates depending on your fee status.
These rates are:
Your fee status determines the level of fee you will be asked to pay, as well as what access you’ll have to any other forms of support.
The assessment of fee status is normally based on your situation immediately before you start a course.
Fee status information for asylum seekers.
Fee status is determined before the start of your studies.
If you wish to appeal a fee status decision, you must email permissiontostudy@hud.ac.uk providing additional information, for example proof of refugee status.
This has to be submitted before the start of the next academic year.
Below are some category example situations to help with your fee classification:
It is your responsibility to clarify your fee status during the application process.
We do carry out a fee assessment during this process, based upon the information we hold.
We are here to help; if you have any queries about your fee status or fee classification, please contact a member of the Student Records team on Tel: 01484 473330 or Email: permissiontostudy@hud.ac.uk
Once you have registered with an agreed fee status, your fee status is unlikely to change.
If you start a new course, then your fee status is re-assessed.
If you think that your fee status could change at some point after you are due to begin your course, you should request permission to defer the start of your course until the new fee status has been determined.
Unless you clearly meet the criteria set out by UKCISA, there are no guarantees that your fee status will change.
It is never advisable to begin a course unless you have a guaranteed way of paying both your tuition fees and living costs for the entire length of the course.
If you cannot pay your fees at the required time, your registration may be cancelled and you will still owe the amount of tuition fees that are due, even if you have not completed the academic year or the full duration of your course.
Government regulations make no provision for asylum seekers to be entitled to pay the Home fee rate.
The University of Huddersfield does not operate a discretionary policy to allow asylum seekers to pay Home fees.
If before the start of your course your asylum case is decided, please inform the University as your fee status may change to 'Home'.
If a decision is made during your course and you are granted refugee status, then your fee status will change to 'Home' with effect from the following academic year.
Fee status is determined before the start of your studies and not during the course.
Your fee status is dependent upon your nationality, your immigration status in the UK, and where you have been living and what you have been doing for the 3 years immediately before the start of your course with us.
The University Student Records Team will assess your fee status by looking at the information you provide on your application and in line with government legislation to assess which rate you should be charged.
The legislation defines who is eligible for Home Fee status, setting out categories of students who are eligible to pay the Home rate of tuition fees.
The decision to class a student as a Home or an Overseas student is set out by the government’s The Education (Student Fees, Awards and Support) (Amendments) Regulations 2021
The UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) is a national Advisory Body that provides general guidance on international student issues.
You can check which fee category applies to you via the UKCISA website.
We may ask you to provide additional information to help us assess your fee status.
If this is necessary, we may ask you to complete a Fee Assessment Questionnaire.
We will also ask you to provide documents such as your passport or official letters to support the information you give.
If you do not provide the requested documentation, we will assess your fee status on the information provided on your application.
If you are a UK national, you will pay fees at the Home standard fee rate.
However, if you are undertaking another course but already hold a qualification at that level, for example an undergraduate degree qualification, please be aware you may not be eligible to financial support from the Student Finance Company.
Sometimes applicants will mistake their Nationality with their Ethnicity when completing their application.
Please note Nationality is your legal status as per your passport or other legal documents, whereas Ethnicity is related to your family cultural origins, for example, you may have a British passport (which would make you a British National) but your ethnicity might be Indian or Pakistani etc.
Undergraduate and Postgraduate students meeting the criteria for classification as Home students will be charged the same fee as mainland UK students.
If you are not a UK national and you have not lived in the UK, you will pay the Overseas fee rate.
Even if you have been living in the UK, you most likely will not be eligible for Home rates if you have a time-limited visa to live in the UK.
From 1 August 2021, EU, other EEA and Swiss nationals and their family members who are not covered by the Withdrawal Agreements will no longer be eligible for home fee status, for courses starting in academic year 2021/22 or after.
Children of Turkish workers arriving in the UK after 31 December 2020 will similarly not be eligible for home fee status and student financial support for courses starting on or after 1 August 2021.
This change will also apply to Further Education funding for those aged 19+, and funding for apprenticeships.
These eligibility changes do not apply to Irish citizens living in the UK or Ireland whose right to study and to access benefits and services will be preserved on a reciprocal basis for British and Irish citizens under the Common Travel Area arrangement.
Regulatory amendments will give effect to these changes.
EU, other EEA and Swiss nationals, and their family members who are covered by the Withdrawal Agreements will continue to have access to home fee status and student financial support on broadly the same basis as now.
Generally this covers those who:
Such persons will generally have applied for pre-settled or settled status under the EU Settlement Scheme (EUSS) before 30 June 2021 , apart from Irish citizens, who are not required to apply as their rights will be protected as a result of Common Travel Area arrangements.
Those who have been granted settled status under the EUSS will generally be eligible for home fee status, tuition fee and maintenance support if they have been ordinarily resident in the UK and Islands for at least 3 years.
Irish citizens are automatically treated as settled in the UK and do not need to apply to the EUSS to benefit from these rights.
EU nationals, and their family members, will generally be awarded home fee status where the student has pre-settled status and has 3 years’ residence in the UK, Gibraltar, EEA and Switzerland (unless that residence was wholly or mainly for the purpose of education).

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/performing-arts/acting:
Each year our first-year students work with a professional theatre company which develops a project exclusively with our students for a two-week intensive period at the University, culminating in a performance on the University campus.
Many of our graduates have gone on to work in the performing arts, award-winning films, television, touring theatre, teaching, and running their own performance companies.
If you’ve got the talent and the determination, we’ll help you to succeed whatever route you decide to take.
Since graduating from Huddersfield, alumni Natalie Gavin has gone on to secure roles in prominent television shows and theatre productions such as:
And more!

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/early-years:
If you want to work alongside children, young people and adults to support their development and wellbeing then we offer a range of courses that can help you get started.
We’ll give you the opportunity to become someone who can make a life-changing difference to others.
The degrees we offer will prepare you for a graduate role in a range of rewarding careers, with industry experience built into the core of many of our courses.
Our courses encourage you to think critically about a range of contemporary issues such as, factors that shape children and young people’s lives, UK and international concepts in education, diversity and inclusion, mental health and well-being and much more.
There are also opportunities to go onto further study on completion of your degree, we offer a range of Postgraduate qualifications.
Take a look at our new course for 2025 -  Childhood, Education and Inclusion BA(Hons).
You will have the opportunity for industrial experience ranging from working in educational provision to gaining experience with charities supporting young people and working alongside counsellors and mentors.
On some of our courses you will also gain a nationally recognised qualification.
Our degrees will prepare you to lead practice and be at the forefront of your chosen career.
Our professional networks help give you access to a wide range of high quality placement opportunities, expert guest lectures and visits during your studies.
It’s this practical focus, coupled with the latest research findings being developed both within the School of Education and Professional Development and the wider academic community, which helps to ensure our students are able to equip themselves with the most relevant knowledge and skills needed within the workplace.
Dr Andrew Youde, Head of Department - Education
You can gain valuable experience in all sorts of settings, from the classroom, to sports projects and community groups.
When you’re not on a placement you’ll be learning in one of our specially equipped teaching rooms.
In our primary and early years classrooms, for example, you’ll be able to prepare for working with children in the real world.
You’ll become familiar with resources used in education and childcare settings and develop your own ideas about how these support children’s development.
My course blends theory and practical work and I’m enjoying exploring all aspects of the role of a teacher.
The course tutors and my personal academic tutor have been so supportive and helpful.
Our courses provide an excellent route to training to becoming a qualified teacher when you graduate.
Graduates who wish to become qualified teachers in primary education can apply for a one-year teacher training course on completion of an undergraduate honours degree.
Those wishing to teach in the lifelong learning (post-14) sector can apply for teacher training courses in this area.
Visit our Teacher Training page for more information about postgraduate teacher training options.
This course helped to build my confidence and helped me realise that when you put the hard work in, it’s all worth it in the end.
There was so much support from the academic writing team and the tutors who guided me to the finish line and made sure I was on the right track with my work.
Meet Muhammed who's studying Childhood Studies at the University of Huddersfield.
Hear about Muhammed's ambition to work within education and how his studies and his tutors support are helping him realise his goal.
Keep up to date with everything related to Clearing and studying at University of Huddersfield.
We’ll let you know when you can register for a priority call on Results Day.
Get a head start!
Sign up now

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/lorem/central/economics:
Our courses will provide you with an in-depth understanding of how economics underpins and influences many aspects of our everyday decisions and lives.
From interest rates and inflation to employment rates and economic growth, we’re all affected by the economy throughout our lives, which makes it an interesting and important subject area.
In these courses, you’ll get to explore complex economic theories, often depicted diagrammatically or mathematically and learn to understand statistical economic models and how they affect the real world.
You’ll learn about macroeconomics by studying the interactions of income, inflation, exchange rates and consumption alongside microeconomics, where you’ll study competition, regulation and intervention.
As you progress through your degree, you’ll get to choose modules to tailor your degree to your interests and needs.
You’ll get to have an in-depth understanding of economics while also developing some highly desirable transferable skills.
An Economics degree offers so many exciting, varied career opportunities across a wide range of industries such as banking, finance, economics and management, consultancy, government, journalism and accountancy.
Our courses allow you to undertake a work placement, which gives you the opportunity to put your learning into practice and understand how theory works in the real world.
Our students go on a wide range of placements across the private, public and third sectors.
Previous students have gained experience at places like Enterprise Rent-a-Car, Lloyds Banking Group, NHS England, PwC and Thornton and Ross.
Cummins Turbo Technologies and the Government Economic Service.
Our final-year Business Economics student, Amandeep Flora, recently completed a placement at Enterprise-Rent-A-Car as a Management Trainee.
You can hear what Amandeep had to say about his placement experience in this video.
We provide a professional, modern environment that offers top-class facilities and resources.
Our economics and finance students benefit from a fully equipped stock exchange-style trading room.
The trading room enables you to use advanced technology to analyse economic, business and financial data in real time.
Triple proof of teaching excellence;  Our staff rank in the top three in England for the proportion who hold doctorates, who have higher degrees, and hold teaching qualifications.
So, you'll learn from some of the best, helping you to be the best.*
*HESA 2022
Huddersfield Business School is an accredited member of the AACSB International - The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business.
AACSB accreditation ensures continuous improvement and provides focus for schools to deliver on their mission, innovate, and drive impact.
AACSB-accredited schools have successfully undergone a rigorous review process conducted by their peers in the business education community, ensuring that they have the resources, credentials, and commitment needed to provide students with a first-rate, future-focused business education.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/lorem/central/subjects/fashion:
Do you dream of making your mark in the world of fashion and costume design?

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/performing-arts/film:
If you are looking for a dynamic, creative and well-resourced environment in which to develop your skills, knowledge and understanding of moving image, then this is the place for you.
You’ll have the opportunity to develop your skills and advance across preproduction, production and postproduction disciplines, all within the supportive environment of the purpose-built Stewart Film Studios.
The Stewart Film Studios house industry-leading equipment and facilities designed to meet the diverse creative and craft development needs of our students.
The Filmmaking team's flexible, open-access systems and culture make it possible for students to maximise their making time across assessed filmmaking, extracurricular projects, and commercial/client work.
The 300 square metre multipurpose facility, designed by Digital Garage and ARRI Solutions, creates a flexible, inspiring, and safe space for future filmmakers.
All our Film courses offer you the opportunity to undertake a placement year or professional practice opportunities, nationally and internationally.
Hear from Ben Young, Course Leader.
Developing your specialist skills in filmmaking and building your work experience profile requires active, well-informed student agency – a process that our programme is ready to support.
We build upon the excellent offer of UoH’s Enterprise Team by taking students through an individually tailored work experience and network expansion process that is customised for the moving image, and designed to converge with an individual student’s emergent specialist talents.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/performing-arts/comms:
Our future-focused degrees explore all aspects of the contemporary media landscape: from traditional media such as the press, magazines, radio, television and film to new digital platforms, apps and social media such as YouTube, Netflix, Snapchat or Twitter.
You’ll learn how to analyse and create content for different media platforms, and gain the technical skills required to work across different media.
As thinkers, makers and creators, media graduates can boast a valuable mix of knowledge, technical skills and creativity, meeting the demands of working with current and future media platforms.
Throughout, you’ll be supported by lecturers who work on internationally recognised research and industry professionals while having access to the latest facilities and technologies in digital media, including digital TV studios, newsrooms, editing suites and social media software tools.
You’ll have access to our HD TV studio, industry-standards news centre, latest professional software, state-of-the-art video cameras and video editing suites.
All our Media and Communications courses offer you the opportunity to undertake a placement year or professional practice opportunities, nationally and internationally.* Hear from Stephanie Bower, our Placements Officer.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/uni-life/why-huddersfield/sustainability-environment:
Sustainability has never been a more relevant and necessary topic.
It’s the responsibility of everyone on Earth to support eco-friendly methods in order to preserve the planet.
At the University of Huddersfield, we are committed to sustainable practice.
From making it our mission to become carbon neutral by 2030, to investing in sustainably built facilities and providing a wealth of opportunities for students to get involved and showcase their green credentials.
For us, sustainability isn’t just a goal, it’s the only way forward.
Did you know that we aim to plant one tree for every student who chooses to study with us?
The University is working in partnership with White Rose Forest and Kirklees Council on an exciting project to reforest areas of land within the local community, over the next two years.
Staff and students at the university can also attend Tree planting sessions and contribute to project.
We’re ranked 2nd in the world for Reduced Inequalities in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings for 2024, which celebrate commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by the United Nations.
When you study with us, you’ll have access to inspiring facilities that are run in a sustainable way.
18 of the labs in our School of Applied Sciences have achieved Bronze LEAF (Laboratory Efficiency Assessment Framework) accreditation, recognising their work towards running in a more efficient and environmentally friendly way.
Our Bronze award labs are now working towards Silver status, with other labs joining the framework as a commitment to sustainable practice and to gain LEAF accreditation.
Here at the University of Huddersfield, we offer a range of courses relating to sustainability.
all informed by world-leading research in the field.
Gain qualities employers are looking for, including global and social awareness, and achieve an extra award alongside your undergraduate degree.
Did you know that staff and students have the opportunity to be involved with gardening on campus?
Our Sustainability Team ensure that sustainable choices are made when it comes to the provision of food on campus.
We host regular events, workshops and information sessions that you can get involved in.
Come tree planting in your local community and help fight climate change.
Throughout the warmer months of spring and summer the Sustainability Team hold various events relating to the allotments, gardening and the local environment.
If you really want to know about how we look after the environment, it’s best you hear it straight from our current students.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/community-impact/services/podiatry:
The University of Huddersfield Podiatry Clinic has state of the art clinical facilities comprising of a multi-chaired clinic and an orthotics lab.
For the latest clinic updates, please click here

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/informationgovernance/compare-uk-rents:
Comparison on UK student rents based on Student Crowd's 'Cheapest UK Cities for Student Accommodation 2025'.
See full source

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/global-campus-events:
Our global societies and the Global Campus Events team organise free exciting events including national holidays, cultural exhibitions, fun workshops and much more!
A free and easy way to make friends, network and share cultures wherever you are from.
To find out more information or if you have an idea for an event please email campusevents@hud.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/student-ambassadors:
The Student Ambassador Scheme recruits current students to support a wide range of events and activities organised by the Schools and Colleges Liaison Service (SCLS) including Open Days, HE Experience Days, University Visit Days, Subject Specific Taster Days, and visits to schools and colleges.
Student Ambassadors act as role models and motivators to encourage school and college students to consider higher education.
Ambassadors can share their own unique experiences including challenges and barriers they may have faced and overcome as well as successes and achievements.
The different roles
You can apply to one or both of the above roles, and they are open to all undergraduate, postgraduate and international students.
Experience as an ambassador is an excellent way of enhancing your CV.
All graduate employers look for evidence of extra-curricular activities and experience.
You will also be paid per hour at a competitive rate.
Applications are now open!
Please apply via the following link: https://forms.office.com/e/CM7yPD0q30
Please make sure to refer to the job description and person specification (below) when completing your application.
Please note that if your application is successful then you must attend a compulsory selection day followed by a compulsory training day .
The available dates and times are listed below:
Applications will close at midnight on 1st October 2015 .
Applications are currently closed and will reopen soon.
Find out more about the objectives, duties and responsibilities of a Student Ambassador
Tip: Please refer to the person specification when completing your application
Find out more about the objectives, duties and responsibilities of a Content Creator Student Ambassador
Biology
"Being an Ambassador has been a rewarding and fulfilling experience.
I feel more confident in myself as it gives me the opportunity to represent higher education as a positive role model.
It's a pleasure to work with so many other amazing, passionate people!"
PhD Student
“Being part of the Student Ambassador Scheme has allowed me to connect with people in many different ways.
It has helped me to not only become a better professional, but also a better person!”
Podiatry
"Meeting a variety of inspirational & motivating individuals has been the highlight of my Student Ambassador journey so far.
Being part of the scheme has given me so much confidence and you are made to feel as part of a team from day one!"

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/open-days/campus-tours:
Although you'll find lots of information about the University of Huddersfield on our website, there is nothing quite like a visit to the campus to get a feel for what studying with us is really like.
So whether you’re interested in undergraduate or postgraduate study, we’d love to show you around our beautiful campus and its facilities.
Your campus tour will cover the whole campus and take around an hour to complete.
You will go inside general areas, including the Library and Student Central where you can find all the Support Services, the Students’ Union and HudLets, our accommodation provider.
Unfortunately, we are unable to provide an academic member of staff to speak to as part of the tour.
Campus tours are available 9am-4pm Monday to Friday.
Due to staff and student availability, we cannot offer tours on a weekend.
If you would like to book an in-person tour, please email schools.liaison@hud.ac.uk .
A whistle-stop tour of the University of Huddersfield campus.
The film showcases just some of the fantastic architecture and buildings we have here in Huddersfield.
If you'd like to visit campus and take a look around then we're running a number of on-campus Open Days.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/supporting-success:
Here at Huddersfield we understand how important family support is for the success of our students.
The word 'family' might mean immediate family, but it doesn't have to – we just mean the group of people who care about and provide support for students outside the University.
Students increasingly choose to live at home when they take their undergraduate degree.
Living at home allows students to save on accommodation costs and can provide a familiar and supportive environment for studying.
In fact, more than 50% of students at the University of Huddersfield live and travel from home to study.
We recognise the importance of local students and pride ourselves on inspiring them to become tomorrow’s professionals.
More than 50% of students at the University of Huddersfield live and travel from home to study.
Many of our students are the first in their families to go to university, so we have put together some information to help students and their families understand what is expected.
Studying for a university degree is very different from studying at school or college.
We’d like to explain a bit about being a university student and the things that are important for success.
We can help students get the best degree results and employment outcomes.
All our students have lots to offer the University community and so do others.
Work placements make a big difference to employment prospects and academic performance.
Our handy support guide for families and friends.
A leaflet with more support tips for students living at home.
Supporting success programme postcards.
Students are adults so, unlike schools/colleges, universities can't provide families with information about a student's progress or tell you if we are worried about them.
You'll only know about their progress by asking them.
Discuss with the student in your family how they would like you to support them and how they feel about their progress in general.
During the first weeks at University, students will be given key contact details for lots of helpful people and teams including:
Encourage your student to get in touch with their key contacts in order to get the best support they can while they are at Huddersfield.
Communication is key to finding out about the progression of the student in your family and the most important step in finding ways of supporting them.
Universities cannot let families know about the progression of a student as they are covered by data protection laws.
Each student has a timetable that shows what sessions they have each day and a online tool called Brightspace with all their learning materials and module handbooks that show the content and assessment requirements for different parts of their course.
They’ll meet regularly with their personal academic tutor, who’ll discuss their progress.
The student might be happy to share this information with you, so that you can encourage and support them – but it is up to them.
You can ask and offer help.
If you've not visited the University before you're welcome to come and look around.
To arrange a visit please phone us on +44 (0)1484 422 288 or email ask@hud.ac.uk .
Huddersfield is a top 10 University in England for paid work placement years in industry (HESA Student Record 15/16).
Try to support these opportunities – even if it means the student needs to travel further or live away from home for a while – the benefits are significant.
Find out more about placement opportunities at Huddersfiled.
Our Supporting success postcards provide brief information for families and friends so they can understand more about the support that students need to do well:

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-and-finance/scholarships-bursaries/care-leavers-support:
If you are care experienced and thinking about coming to university, or are already studying here at the University, we can offer you support and guidance on any welfare concerns you may have.
The service is completely confidential and aims to be flexible and responsive to your needs.
If you are care experienced and due to start an undergraduate course, you are eligible to access the £2500 Care Experienced Bursary over the course of a 3-year programme or £3250 if you are engaged in 4-year study programme comprising a foundation or sandwich year.
To receive the bursary, you need to meet the following criteria:
The University will pay the bursary in instalments, typically, £750 in the first year, £750 in the second year and £1000 in the final year.
If you are undertaking 4 years of study including either a foundation or sandwich year a further £750 bursary award will be paid in that qualifying year to a maximum of £3250.
Eligible care experienced students can apply for financial support through the University Hardship Fund which is non-repayable.
For further details about care experienced support visit our care leavers page.
If you you are still unsure and would like to discuss your individual circumstances please contact us below.
This is where we can evidence that you are covered by the following UCAS definition of care experience:
Being care experienced means you will have spent time living with foster carers under local authority care, in residential care (e.g.
a children’s home), looked after at home under a supervision order, or in kinship care with relatives or friends, either officially (e.g.
a special guardianship order) or informally without local authority support*.
​
Kinship care – family or friends care – is where a child lives full-time or most of the time with a relative or close family friend, usually because their parents are not able to care for them.
You can find out more here: https://compass.kinship.org.uk/advice-and-information/what-is-kinship-care/ .
*Please be aware that informal kinship care can be very difficult to evidence , but we would like to try to consider your circumstances where possible.
You may be able to evidence this through something such as a:

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/courses/full-time/undergraduate/science-extended-degree-leading-to-a-bsc-hons-degree:
1 year full-time (Year 0 of a 4/5 years degree including placement year).
This programme is only open to cohorts of students with company sponsorship.
For information please contact Dr Mosttafa Alghadhi.
Ask a question
To ask a question about this course or studying at the University of Huddersfield, please complete the form below and we’ll get back to you as soon as possible.
Date of Birth *
{{form.gdprlabel}}
I would like the University to send me information using:
We’ll send you a confirmation email and our team will get back to you to answer your question.
In the meantime, you can request a prospectus or book on to an Open Day , or close this window to continue looking at courses.
There seems to be a problem at the moment.
You can send us an email instead, or try submitting the form again.
This programme is not available to international students.
Instead, international students should apply for our international foundation programmes delivered by our International Study Centre on campus.
For more information, please visit International Study Centre.
Ready to jumpstart your education in the sciences?
Our Science Extended Degree leading to a BSc(Hons) degree aims to provide you with a solid foundational understanding of the four main disciplines of biology, chemistry, physics and maths.
Throughout the one-year duration of this course, you’ll complete five modules in the following:
On successful completion of this year (you must pass all five modules), you'll be able to continue onto the first year of your degree in the following science subject areas:
Please note, many of the courses offered by the School of Applied Sciences are offered ‘with a research placement’.
If you wish to progress on to a ‘with research placement’ degree, you will be required to achieve an overall pass of at least 50 per cent.
You may also be able to progress on to the first year of courses in health sciences, including Diagnostic Radiography, Midwifery and Physiotherapy, or onto professional courses elsewhere in the University such as Accounting or Law.****
* Progression onto Biological Science related courses, and Forensic Science related courses is subject to a pass of 40% in all modules, with the exception of Biomedical Science BSc(Hons) which is subject to a pass in all modules with an overall pass mark of at least 50 per cent.
**Progression onto Chemical Engineering BEng(Hons) is dependent on achieving a minimum pass mark of 60 per cent in the Maths and Physics module.
Progression onto Chemical Engineering MEng is also dependent on achieving a minimum pass mark of 60 per cent in the Maths and Physics module, plus an overall pass mark of at least 70 per cent.
***Progression onto Optometry and Pharmacy is dependent on meeting stringent performance levels in the Science Extended Degree.
You must pass all modules with an overall pass mark of at least 70 per cent.
Plus at least 70 per cent in the Chemistry module and 70 per cent in the Maths and Physics module.
You may also undertake an interview with the Optometry or Pharmacy admissions staff.
****Progression onto these courses is subject to candidates meeting appropriate entry requirements.
You’ll be taught by academic and industry experts through lectures, tutorials and laboratory practicals in our modern facilities and state-of-the-art labs.
This course will challenge you, open your mind to potentially new learning techniques and equip you with the scientific knowledge and practical skills needed to prepare you for your further studies.
Should you need any support throughout your educational journey, our team of professional, dedicated and friendly staff are available to assist you.
You’ll even find support outside the classroom with the help of our academic skills tutors and your very own personal tutor.
These tutors will aid you in developing your writing style, understanding the material, and preparing for exams.
To find out if you’re eligible to start this course in September 2025 and get more information on how to apply, please see our Clearing pages or call our Clearing Helpline on 0333 987 9000 .
If you’re interested in studying this course in September 2026, please view the 2026-27 course information.
This module seeks to provide a framework of knowledge of living systems for students with little or no advanced biological education.
An introduction to cellular biology explains cell structure and function on the basis of the information stored in DNA and how it is used to produce active proteins.
On the basis of this knowledge, inheritance of information through cell division and reproduction is considered together with evolution as a core to our understanding of life.
Finally the major ways in which cells in a body communicate with each other - the nervous, transport and exchange and immune systems - are dealt with.
The module is delivered by a combination of lectures with practical work to give experience in the laboratory and illustrate some of the lecture material.
This module will provide you with an appreciation of what chemistry is and why it is important.
It will concentrate on the basic concepts underpinning chemistry and consider the wide variety of chemical processes that influence our daily lives.
This module introduces you to some of the basic concepts of science, mainly mathematical and physical concepts.
The module will be delivered by a combination of lectures, self-paced online videos, tutorials, practicals and online quizzes.
The tutorials and quizzes will reinforce the lecture and video content, and the practicals will develop data analysis and experimental skills.
This module will help develop the skills required to successfully complete a scientific degree.
You'll have the opportunity to learn what is expected of you at university, how to get the best out of lectures and tutorials and how to find and use information effectively.
The material covered will have an employability theme running through it.
Successful completion of the module will permit you to take greater control of your own learning and how to apply it to your future careers.
This module will also introduce you to the key skills required for your future employment.
You'll undertake self-assessment of your existing skill set and identify areas requiring development in your skills audit.
You'll map these skills to your future potential careers to identify transferable skills required.
A series of 'employability challenges' will help you identify and link your transferable skills.
The course is delivered through a programme of lectures and tutorials supported by on-line resources and guest speakers.
You are expected to expand and develop your knowledge of the main themes through independent study and completion of an e-portfolio.
This module introduces you to the scientific method, including data acquisition, experimental design, statistical analysis, interpretation and evaluation of evidence.
A core component of the module focuses on the application of statistical techniques to aid in the analysis of student generated data.
This module will also involve the practical application of the research skills developed in the module Science Skills.
The course has a varied subject matter and is designed to give you the opportunity to improve your knowledge and understanding of science.
On average 27.8%* of the study time on this year is spent with your tutors (either face to face or online) in lectures, seminars, tutorials etc.
*based on 2023/2024 timetables
You will be taught through a series of lectures, tutorials, seminars and laboratory practicals.
Assessment will include coursework, eportfolio, projects and laboratory work in addition to examinations.
Your module specification/course handbook will provide full details of the assessment criteria applying to your course.
Feedback (usually written) is normally provided on all coursework submissions within three term time weeks – unless the submission was made towards the end of the second term in which case feedback would be available on request after the formal publication of results.
Feedback on exam performance/final coursework is available on request after the publication of results.
Huddersfield is the only University where 100% of the teaching staff are Fellows of the Higher Education Academy.*
*permanent staff, after probation: some recently appointed colleagues will only obtain recognition in the months after their arrival in Huddersfield, once they have started teaching.
Further information
The teaching year normally starts in September with breaks at Christmas and Easter, finishing with a main examination/assessment period around May/June.
Timetables are normally available one month before registration.
As this is a full-time course you may have to attend every day of the week.
Your course is made up of modules and each module is worth a number of credits.
Each year you study modules to the value of 120 credits.
Should you progress onto a bachelor's qualification, there are up to an additional 480 credits in total and 360 credits in total if you choose not to take the supervised work experience year.
These credits can come from a combination of core, compulsory and optional modules but please note that optional modules may not run if we do not have enough students interested.
The University of Huddersfield has been rated Gold in all three aspects of the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023.
We were the only university in Yorkshire and the Humber and the North West to achieve Gold ratings in all three aspects of the TEF among those announced in September 2023.
In fact only 13 Universities, out of the 96 that were announced in September 2023, were Gold in all three ratings.
We are second in the country for National Teaching Fellowships, which mark the UK’s best lecturers in Higher Education, winning a total of 24 since 2008 (2025 data).
We won the first Global Teaching Excellence Award, recognising the University’s commitment to world-class teaching and its success in developing students as independent learners and critical thinkers (Higher Education Academy, 2017).
Visit ‘Our experts’ page where you’ll find in-depth profiles of all our academic staff
At Huddersfield, you'll study the Global Professional Award (GPA) alongside your degree* so that you gain valuable qualities and experiences that could help you to get the career you want, no matter what your field of study is.
On completion of the Award, you'll receive a GPA certificate from the University of Huddersfield, alongside the specialist subject skills and knowledge you gain as part of your degree, which may help to set you apart from other graduates.
Giving students access to the Global Professional Award is one of the reasons the University won ‘Best University Employability Strategy’ award at the National Graduate Recruitment Awards 2021.
Find out more on the Global Professional Award webpage.
Curious about science but want extra support to build your skills and confidence?
In this video, discover how our Science Extended Degree gives you a strong foundation in chemistry, biology, and maths before progressing onto a full BSc course.
With expert teaching and hands-on lab experience, Huddersfield is the perfect place to start your science journey.
Watch Nadine, Owen and Paul's film to learn more about how the Science Extended Degree helped prepare them for success on their chosen degree courses.
Get inspired by real students and their careers.
Check out the personalised guidance we offer you.
Discover all the support available so you can thrive.
See how our innovative research shapes what you'll learn.
We know you’re coming to university to study on your chosen subject, meet new people and broaden your horizons.
So while you’re here (and even after you graduate) the Careers and Employability Service offer professional help, support and guidance, including industry-supported workshops, careers fairs and one-to-one guidance sessions.
Find out more about the service.
I'm enjoying working in an industrial lab, preparing and testing nicotine containing aerosols.
The analytical techniques I learnt during my course such as hplc and gc-ms have the provided knowledge and experience required for this role.
Humera Kouser , graduated Science Extended Degree in 2016 and Forensic and Analytical Science MSci in 2020, now a Scientist at Broughton Nicotine Services.
Our researchers carry out work that makes a real difference to people's lives:
*REF2021
At the University of Huddersfield, you'll find support networks and services to help you get ahead in your studies and social life.
Whether you study at undergraduate or postgraduate level, you'll soon discover that you're never far away from our dedicated staff and resources to help you to navigate through your personal student journey.
Find out more about all our support services .
The maximum fees we will charge for UK based students on undergraduate courses in 2025/26 will be £9,535 per year for full-time students (subject to parliamentary approval).
We review and revise fee levels in line with inflation (RPI-X) and regulatory permissions.
Tuition fees will cover the cost of your study at the University as well as charges for registration, tuition, supervision and examinations.
For more information about funding, fees and finance for UK students, including what your tuition fee covers, please see Fees and finance .
If you are an EU or international student coming to study at the University of Huddersfield, please visit the International Fees and Finance pages for full details of tuition fees and support available.
Read more about the Lifelong Learning Entitlement (LLE) .
Please email the Student Finance Office or call 01484 472210 for more information about fees and finance.
We will always try to deliver your course as described on this web page.
However, sometimes we may have to make changes as set out below.
If we propose to make a major change to a course that you are holding an offer for, then we will tell you as soon as possible so that you can decide whether to withdraw your application prior to enrolment.
Although we always try and run all of the course we offer, we may occasionally have to withdraw a course you have applied for or combine your programme with another programme if we consider this reasonably necessary to ensure a good student experience, for example if there are not enough applicants to ensure you have a good learning experience.
Where this is the case we will notify you as soon as reasonably possible and we will contact you to discuss other suitable courses with us we can transfer your application to.
If we notify you that the course you have applied to has been withdrawn or combined, and you do not wish to transfer to another course with us, you may cancel your application and we will refund you any deposits or fees you have paid to us.
We will always try to deliver your course and other services as described.
However, sometimes we may have to make changes as set out below:
Where your course allows you to choose modules from a range of options, we will review these each year and change them to reflect the expertise of our staff, current trends in research and as a result of student feedback or demand for certain modules.
We will always ensure that you have a range of options to choose from and we will let you know in good time the options available for you to choose for the following year.
A major change in this context is a change that materially changes the services available to you; or the outcomes, or a significant part, of your course, such as the nature of the award or a substantial change to module content, teaching days (part time provision), classes, type of delivery or assessment of the core curriculum.
For example, it may be necessary to make a major change to reflect changes in the law or the requirements of the University’s regulators; to meet the latest requirements of a commissioning or accrediting body; to improve the quality of educational provision; in response to student, examiners’ or other course evaluators’ feedback; and/or to reflect academic or professional changes within subject areas.
Major changes may also be necessary because of circumstances outside our reasonable control, such as a key member of staff leaving the University or being unable to teach, where they have a particular specialism that can’t be adequately covered by other members of staff; or due to damage or interruption to buildings, facilities or equipment.
Major changes would usually be made with effect from the next academic year, but this may not always be the case.
We will notify you as soon as possible should we need to make a major change and will carry out suitable consultation with affected students.
If you reasonably believe that the proposed change will cause you detriment or hardship we will, if appropriate, work with you to try to reduce the adverse effect on you or find an appropriate solution.
Where an appropriate solution cannot be found and you contact us in writing before the change takes effect you can cancel your registration and withdraw from the University without liability to the University for future tuition fees.
We will provide reasonable support to assist you with transferring to another university if you wish to do so.
Where this is the case, a formal exit strategy will be followed and we will notify you as soon as possible about what your options are, which may include transferring to a suitable replacement course for which you are qualified, being provided with individual teaching to complete the award for which you were registered, or claiming an interim award and exiting the University.
If you do not wish to take up any of the options that are made available to you, then you can cancel your registration and withdraw from the course without liability to the University for future tuition fees and you will be entitled to a refund of all course fees paid to date.
You should read these carefully before you enrol.
Please note that this information is subject to change and you are advised to check our website regularly for any changes before you enrol at the University.
A person who is not party to this agreement shall not have any rights under or in connection with it.
Only you and the University shall have any right to enforce or rely on the agreement.
We aim to create conditions where staff and students are treated solely on the basis of their merits, abilities and potential, regardless of gender, age, race, caste, class, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origins, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, family responsibility, trade union activity, political or religious belief, or age.
Please visit our website to see our Equal Opportunities and Diversity Policy
The University holds personal data on all enquirers, applicants and enrolled students.
All such data is kept and processed in accordance with the provisions of the Data Protection Legislation.
The University’s Data Protection Policy and Privacy Notices are available on the University website.
Under the 1994 Education Act, students at all UK universities have the right to join, or not to join, the Students’ Union.
There is no membership fee.
If you choose not to join you have the right not to be disadvantaged; however, you are not entitled to vote, take part in elections, or hold any office.
The following arrangements apply in order that non-Union members are not disadvantaged: 
Non-members are welcome to take part in the activities of Affiliated Clubs and Societies on payment of the appropriate subscription.
However, they may not vote or hold office in the society or club.
Union members may be offered a discounted subscription.
Non-members are free to use Union facilities on the same basis as members.
Welfare, catering and shops are available to non-members as well as members.
Union members may be offered a discounted price.
+44 (0)1484 422288
© {{footer.date | date:"yyyy"}} University of Huddersfield - All rights reserved.
The University of Huddersfield is a member of Yorkshire Universities
Switch to inverse colours
Switch to standard colours

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/courses/full-time/undergraduate/engineering-foundation-year:
Year 0 of a 4 or 5 year full-time degree
Perhaps you're fascinated by engineering but have never formally studied the subject.
Or you have an interest in the world of computing or maths and want to take your next steps into an exciting future.
You may have decided on a career change.
This course could also be ideal route for you if you do not have the usual academic qualifications to study at degree level.
Being ready for a STEM degree will open pathways into the professional world of high technology industries.
From there, you will have the opportunity to potentially address important issues, for example, the ever-pressing challenge of a sustainable future.
This course has been designed to give you a strong foundational understanding of key areas of mathematics and engineering in preparation for further study on a range of courses within the University.
The Foundation Year isn’t a stand-alone course, but provides an introductory level study that leads to the following accredited courses:
Computing:
Engineering:
Automotive and Motorsport Engineering BEng(Hons), Civil Engineering BEng (Hons) Electronic and Electrical Engineering BEng(Hons), Electronic and Communication Engineering BEng(Hons), Electronic Engineering and Computer Systems BEng(Hons), Mechanical Engineering BEng(Hons), Mechatronic Engineering BEng(Hons),
Games Development: Games Development (Production) BSc(Hons)
Quantity Surveying and Construction Project Management: Quantity Surveying BSc(Hons) and Construction Management Project BSc(Hons)
To progress onto a degree, you must gain an average mark of 40 per cent and have passed each component of your Foundation Year.
This course is year 0 of a 3 or 4 year full-time degree (your degree length is dependant if you take a placement year).
You’ll study the foundations of mathematics and engineering while also building your confidence in the practical application of engineering skills.
If you are a home student, on completion of the Engineering Foundation Year, you’ll automatically be considered for a £1,000 scholarship towards the cost of your tuition fees, subject to passing specified eligibility criteria.
Read about the full eligibility criteria .
In this module you explore and practice using the necessary mathematical tools and principles required for your first-year studies.
You will begin with some basics in arithmetic, algebra, and trigonometry these will be followed rapidly by the more advanced areas of sets, matrices, vectors and calculus.
In this module you will begin to understand the physical principles that govern the operation of our world that will underpin your future studies of mechanical, civil and electrical engineering.
You will also gain the necessary experimental and analytical skills you will need to progress into your choice of Engineering degree.
In this module you will explore the importance of communication in computing and engineering.
With the opportunity to practice this in both written and verbal forms and gain confidence in presenting to a group.
You will also explore how to source relevant and well documented information to support your reporting needs.
These research and communication skills will form the basis for your ongoing needs as a professional engineer.
This may be your first introduction to some basic engineering skills.
You will gain an appreciation of basic electronics and measurement and have the opportunity to build your skills in practical application of engineering skills through guided investigation and discovery learning.
Aspects of computer aided design, civil, mechanical and electrical and electronic engineering are introduced, including digital electronics, computer interfacing, control, design, constructions, manufacture and mechanical testing.
You will be taught in in a variety of delivery methods which can include tutorials and practical group sessions, and an average of 17%* of the study time on this course is spent with your tutors (either face to face or online).
Throughout your studies, you will have the opportunity to get continual feedback through weekly SAIL (Score as I Learn) assignments so you will feel confident in your studies and be able to access support when you need it.
A variety of assessment strategies will be used depending on the type and nature of the module.
These include  exams and in-class tests, reports on laboratory experiments, laboratory-based assignments, and projects.
Feedback is normally provided on all coursework submissions within three term time weeks – unless the submission was made towards the end of the session in which case feedback would be available on request after the formal publication of results.
*based on the course structure for 2025 entry as at December 2023.
As this is a full-time course, you may have to attend every day of the week.
After successfully completing the Foundation Year you will be able to progress onto our undergraduate courses.
The course you progress onto is made up of modules, and each module is worth a number of credits.
You will study modules totalling 120 credits.
A tour of our Department of Engineering facilities.
Ever wondered how you will use our facilities as part of your course?
Follow Connor on a tour who explains all.
Research plays an important role in informing all our teaching and learning activities.
Our research community has expertise in such diverse areas as precision engineering, intelligent interfaces, systems engineering, and diagnostics.
Our research environment is lively and collaborative, and well stocked with cutting edge equipment.
Our Centre for Precision Technologies is widely regarded as the best research facility of its type in the UK and one of the top three in Europe.
Through research our staff remain up-to-date with the latest developments in their field, and contribute to society, which means you develop knowledge and skills that are current and highly relevant to industry.
For more information, find out more about our Research institutes and centres .
This is an example of the work produced by 2nd year students who take part in the Design and Enterprise Challenge.
Each year, our engineering, computer science and information systems students take part in a unique design challenge, solving real industry problems posed by key figures from leading firms.
View the PDF: Group 29 Poster
View the PDF: Group 6 Poster
View the PDF: Group 26 Poster
Discover the job roles our graduates are working in now.
Learn about pursuing a Master’s or PhD at Huddersfield.
Successful completion of the Foundation Year course allows you to progress onto Year 1 of your chosen degree.
Students from this course have gone on to successes including graduating with an MEng or first class BEng(Hons) degree.
Our previous engineering graduates have been employed by companies such as The D.E shaw group, Schneider Electric, Bentley Motors Ltd and Cummins Inc.
*of undergraduate graduates from the School of Computing and Engineering who are in work and/or further study within fifteen months of graduation (HESA Graduate Outcomes 21/22, UK domiciled graduates).
However, we also work with you to focus on life after you have graduated to help you towards achieving your ambitions.
Find out more about the service
An undergraduate degree from the University of Huddersfield, which you will be entitled to enter after the successful completion of the Foundation Year, could be the start of an exciting career in your chosen field.
Our graduates go on to succeed in a whole range of exciting careers.
As a graduate of the University of Huddersfield you'll become a member of our alumni community, allowing you to stay in touch and continue to access university services.
I hugely recommend the foundation year.
I gained a good understanding of basic engineering principles and it even gave me an advantage over others in some areas, such as CAD and report writing.
I had the opportunity to sample the various disciplines to decide on the right career path.
When I finished the year, I went on to complete the Mechanical Engineering BEng(Hons) degree.
Kris Entwistle , Mechanical Engineering BEng(Hons), Aerodynamic Designer at Williams F1
If you complete the course (pass all 4 modules) and attain an average of 40% or over, you can progress on to one of the following courses:
Computing:
Information Technology BSc(Hons)
Engineering:
Automotive and Motorsport Engineering BEng(Hons), Civil Engineering BEng (Hons) Electronic and Electrical Engineering BEng(Hons), Electronic and Communication Engineering BEng(Hons), Electronic Engineering and Computer Systems BEng(Hons), Mechanical Engineering BEng(Hons) and Mechatronic Engineering BEng(Hons).
Quantity Surveying and Construction Project Management: Quantity Surveying BSc (Hons) and Construction Management Project BSc (Hons)
Whether you study at undergraduate or postgraduate level, you'll soon discover that you're never 
far away from our dedicated staff and resources to help you to navigate through your personal student journey.
Find out more about all our support services.
Automotive and Motorsport Engineering BEng(Hons)
Full-time
Undergraduate
Our course explores everything from the design and engineering of automotive components and systems to the mass production of sustainable road vehicles.
Mechatronic Engineering BEng(Hons)
This course integrates mechanical, electrical, electronic, communication, control and computer science, to provide you with skills to create complex systems.
Electronic and Electrical Engineering BEng(Hons)
Electronic and electrical engineering underpins every aspect of our modern life and is key to help society achieve a more sustainable focused future.
Computer Science BSc(Hons)
Study a range of topics from software engineering to artificial intelligence or distributed computing, to help you build your knowledge of computer science principles and develop your computing skills.
This course covers general computing and software engineering knowledge that apply across the computing industry, as well as games programming skills.
Computer Science with Artificial Intelligence BSc(Hons)
This course will give you the opportunity to learn how to build intelligent systems that transform everyday lives.
Computer Science with Cyber Security BSc(Hons)
The monetary value of data has led to an increase in cyber-crime, meaning computing professionals with cyber security skills are in high-demand.
Computing BSc(Hons)
Our course cover topics including software engineering, cyber security, plus a foundation of knowledge in of all aspects of computing.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/scholarships:
Each year we welcome students from a diverse range of backgrounds from all over the world.
We offer a variety of scholarships to provide extra financial assistance with the costs of study to eligible students.
Connect with our international advisers to discuss your grade equivilancies.
We run regular drop-in sessions so you can discuss your questions about studying at the University with our team.
The University offers a series of research scholarships and funding opportunities.
Available for intakes in September 2025 and January 2026, we are offering and additional £1,000 if you'd like to switch from a University in the USA to us.
Discover the Vice-Chancellor's Scholarship, awarding excellence to University of Huddersfield graduates.
Explore the prestigious Chevening Scholarship offered by the UK Government.
As part of our partnership with the British Council and the GREAT Britain Campaign we can offer two GREAT scholarships.
We offer basketball scholarships to talented students who wish to fulfil their sporting ambitions whilst studying for a degree.
Our netball programme offer for our first team and scholarship students is unrivalled within the university sector.
Discover undergraduate, postgraduate and research degrees, as well as preparatory courses.
Explore tuition fees and entry requirements for our courses.
Make an application to the University using our online application form.
Our Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship Scheme provides a fee waiver of at least 50% (rising to 100% in some Schools) on full-time or part-time research degrees to international students and those from the EU.
Eligibility criteria
To be eligible for our Vice-Chancellor's Scholarship you must:
•    Have a first-class honours degree •    Achieved Distinction at taught Master’s level
or
•    Have been recommended on the basis of your Master’s by Research by your supervisor and academic school.
•    Have graduated from the University of Huddersfield in the last three years.
If you are due to graduate in the current academic year, then any offer will be conditional on your degree outcome.
General
Our Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship Scheme is available for research undertaken on either a full-time or part-time basis.
Research degrees include the following awards; PhD, Master of Arts by Research, Master of Science by Research and Master of Enterprise.
Our Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship Scheme is available for the standard registration period only; for doctoral awards this will be either 3 years full-time or 6 years part-time and for Master’s by Research awards this will be either 1 year full time or 2 years part-time.
If you have any queries or require further information please contact study@hud.ac.uk
How to apply?
To apply, complete our expression of interest form .
Please make clear on your application that you wish to be considered for our Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship Scheme.
Applications must be submitted as follows to be considered for our Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship Scheme:
Selection process
School of Arts and Humanities - sah.research@hud.ac.uk School of Applied Sciences -  SASResearchAdmin@hud.ac.uk School of Computing and Engineering -  sce.research.admin@hud.ac.uk School of Human and Health Science - HHSPhDApps@hud.ac.uk Please find more information on the alternate scholarships offered by Huddersfield Business School and the School of Education and Professional Development on their scholarships pages.
VC scholarships are part of a suite of scholarships offered by the University, available for various start dates.
To find out more about what other Scholarships are currently available, please visit our School Scholarship pages
This prestigious and highly competitive award is a full scholarship covering your tuition fees and living expenses.
Chevening Scholarships are the UK government’s global scholarship programme, funded by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) and partner organisations.
The programme makes awards to outstanding scholars with leadership potential from around the world to study postgraduate courses at universities in the UK.
The Chevening programme was established in 1983 and has developed into a prestigious international scheme.
Chevening Scholars come from more than 150 countries and territories worldwide (excluding the USA and the EU), and this year the Scholarships will support more than 1,500 individuals.
There are over 43,000 Chevening alumni around the world who together comprise an influential and highly regarded global network.
The programme provides full or part funding for full-time courses at postgraduate level, normally a one-year Master’s degree, in any subject and at any UK university.
Full information including how to apply is available at Chevening .
These scholarships can not be awarded in conjunction with the University of Huddersfield Scholarships for new international undergraduate and Master's students.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/applicants/how-to-pay-your-fees:
How to pay your deposit if you are an applicant.
Information on how to pay your fees when you are a student at the University.
Information for employers on sponsors on how to pay the fees for your nominated student.
The amount you are required to pay is detailed on your Conditional Offer letter.
There are several ways to pay your deposit and secure your place at the University of Huddersfield.
We offer specific payments options to you depending on which country you are paying from.
Please proceed to pay now to view what secure payment options are available to you.
You will be required to enter your applicant details in the first instance, and then you will be taken through to our payment platform, Flywire, where you can view the different payment options available to you and proceed to making your payment.
Our recommended method of payment is through credit or debit card, as this is the quickest way for your payment to be received into the University.
This means that we can identify very quickly whether you have met the deposit condition of your offer.
Additionally, if this is the final condition you are required to fulfil, it means we can proceed to your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) without any delays.
If you have a UK bank account, you also have the option when paying by card to set up your next payment instalment.
This means that you do not need to worry about paying your remaining balance of your tuition fees by the deadline, as this will be automatically taken from your account.
You can then ensure you do not miss the payment deadline, and you can continue with your studies without any issues.
You just need to ensure that you have sufficient money in the account to cover your fees ready for the payment to be taken.
Once you are in the UK and have set up your bank account, you can then set up the recurring payments for the remainder of your fees.
Proceed to pay now
If you are a current student you can pay your fees securely online, on campus (when the Cash Office is open) or over the phone (if using a UK bank account).
Secure online card payment
You can pay online through our secure Payment Gateway using a credit or debit card.
Pay on campus
The Cash Office is currently closed.
Opening dates will be updated here.
The University does not accept cash payment.
The employer or sponsor should provide the University with written confirmation on letter-headed paper of their tuition fees.
The letter should include the University student number, your full name, name of the course that you will be studying and the full invoice address.
Where tuition and related fees are to be paid in part only, the amount to be paid by the employer or sponsor should be clearly stated.
The letter should be sent to the University email address in your offer letter.
If you have any problems you can contact the International Office .
Employers/sponsors will be invoiced for the appropriate fee as soon as possible and the invoice will be payable within 28 days of the invoice date.
We regret that we are unable to allow employers/sponsors to pay in instalments.
Get advice, support and guidance through all stages of your journey to Huddersfield
Explore the tuition fees for your chosen course, and discover the scholarships available for study at Huddersfield.
Join one of our regular drop-in sessions to discuss your application, student services or immigration queries.
Ready to join us?
Get enrolment and travel information for your journey to Huddersfield.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/policies/registry/awards-taught:
Regulations for Awards (Taught Courses)
Regulations for awards (taught courses)
*Course assessment meetings (CAMs)
Regulations for awards taught courses
Our Regulations for Awards (Taught Courses) are also available within a single MS Word document:
Regulations for Awards (Taught Courses) 25-26

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/policies/registry/awards-pgr:
Regulations for Awards (Research Degrees)
Regulations for awards (research degrees)
Our Regulations for Awards (Research Degrees) are also available within a single MS Word document:
Regulations for Awards (Research Degrees) 2025-26

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/international-study-centre:
If you do not meet the University’s direct entry requirements, you may be able to study a preparatory course offered by Study Group.
They offer a range of pathway programmes through the International Study Centre (ISC), located on the University of Huddersfield campus.
On successful completion of your preparation programme and achieving the required grades, you will progress automatically onto your chosen degree course at the University, without having to apply again.
This programme provides a direct path to the first year of an undergraduate degree at the University of Huddersfield.
This programme is equivalent to the first year of an undergraduate degree and is for students who are overqualified for the International Foundation Year but underqualified for direct entry to the first year of an undergraduate degree.
A 12-week programme for English language and study skills to succeed in a range of business-related postgraduate degrees at the University.
"The overall study structure of the ISC is great.
I was in small classes, so I found it easy to make friends.
Every term there's something new you look forward to, and that made it easy for me to learn the course content.
"I think being an ISC student before you start your degree is a great way to get a feel for studying at the University.
It made it so much easier when I was transitioning onto my undergraduate course; I knew the University, I knew the whole campus, I had some great friends already."
Progressed to BEng Chemical Engineering
Join the ISC’s English language preparation programmes for entry onto the ISC courses.
Make an enquiry or get support with your application from the dedicated Study Group team.
Find your perfect course by browsing our undergraduate and postgraduate degree courses

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/pre-sessional-english:
Our Pre-Sessional English Programmes will help you to develop your English language and study skills to help you progress on to your chosen degree at the University of Huddersfield.
Our Pre-Sessional Programme (PSP) is delivered on our campus and online.
The courses run between 6 weeks and 12 weeks depending on your current level of English.
If you chose to do your Pre-sessional English Programme on campus, you will need a student visa.
On completion of the necessary conditions of the PSP offer, you would then be issued with a joint CAS which would cover both the Pre-Sessional English and your degree programme.
You would then obtain a visa covering both programmes here at the University of Huddersfield.
On successful completion of your Pre-Sessional Programme, you would simply then progress straight onto enrolment for the degree programme.
There are two intake options that allow you to start your degree in either September or January.
To study our Pre-Sessional Programme you must have a conditional offer to study your degree with us.
If you decide to study the Pre-Sessional Programme, please email us at osadmissions@hud.ac.uk with a copy of your English Language qualification and we will process the offer for you.
"Our Pre-Sessional English Programmes aim to help you develop your English language and academic study skills for your chosen degree course; including how to write in the correct academic style and present to academics and peers."
David Cliffe
International Recruitment Officer
Browse our undergraduate, postgraduate and pathway courses.
Apply online now using our application form.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/immigration:
The Immigration & Compliance Team, based in the International Office, provides a comprehensive visa advice service.
We offer guidance to both current and prospective international students, as well as staff, on a wide range of immigration matters.
Whether you are considering joining the University of Huddersfield, are already studying here, or have recently graduated, we are here to support you.
Please refer to the sections below for more information on how new students can apply for a visa to study in the UK, along with other important visa and immigration guidance for current students.
Find out if you need a visa and what type of visa would be suitable for your study needs.
Find out what you need to know during your entire period of study at the University.
Do you want to stay in the UK after your studies?
Find out what visas are available for students.
Contact the Immigration team

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/meet-us/webinars-and-drop-in-sessions:
If you have already applied, you might find a webinar a useful way to find out more about student life or your chosen subject area.
All applicants will be invited to the right webinar for your course and any other support and pre-departure sessions.
They’re a great way to find out more about studying at Huddersfield before you arrive.
Our webinars are live online events where a speaker from the University of Huddersfield will deliver a presentation on a specific topic.
You can participate by submitting questions during or after the presentation.
There's lots of ways to get more information about studying at the University.
Our international support advisers are here to help guide you through all stages of your journey to Huddersfield.
We run a number of drop-in sessions to help you get the information you need, whether you're consdiering applying to the University or you've already made an application.
Drop-in sessions open at specified times and are a chance for you to speak to a representative at the University on a one-to-one basis.
When you click the link to join, you'll be placed in a queue and will be paired with a university support adviser as soon as one becomes available.
This will allow you to speak privately to the University and we can discuss your enquiry or any questions relating to your application status.
Join a student support drop-in session with our international admissions team.
Monday to Friday 10.00am - 11.00am (UK Time).
Chat to our immigration team about your visa queries.
Monday - Friday 12:00pm - 1:00pm (UK time)
Find our what university life is really like at Huddersfield by asking our students on Unibuddy.
Meet us at one of our upcoming overseas visits or education fairs.
Browse our visits calendar and view upcoming events.
We run several International Information Days throughout the year, giving you a chance to speak to our academics Schools and support services.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/immigration/before-you-arrive/evisas:
The Home Office is replacing all physical visas e.g.
visa stickers in passports and BRPs with an online immigration system called an ‘eVisa’.
This means when your student visa application is successful, your eVisa will be linked with your passport.
An eVisa is a digital immigration document that confirms your visa status and allows UK organisations i.e.
universities, employers and landlords etc.
to verify your immigration status in the UK
You should follow the student visa online application procedure, and it will prompt you if you need to create a UKVI account as part of the visa application process.
If you are asked to use the 'UK Immigration: ID Check’ mobile app to create a UKVI account, you will be able to access your eVisa when your application is successful.
Alternatively, when you receive a Visa decision email from UKVI confirming that your visa application is successful, you must follow the steps in this email to create a UKVI account via this link https://www.gov.uk/get-access-evisa so the UKVI can link your passport to your eVisa.
You must complete this step before travelling to the UK.
Once your passport is linked, you will be able to view your eVisa online here: https://www.gov.uk/view-prove-immigration-status
Your eVisa should display your name, date of birth, nationality, immigration status (e.g.
Student Route), and the start and end dates of your visa.
It should also include the University of Huddersfield’s sponsor licence number.
You can use this Home Office YouTube video tutorial that offers a step by step guide on creating a UKVI account to link and access your eVisa.
Alternatively, follow our step-by-step PDF guide: How to create a UKVI account to access your eVisa
If you applied for a new student visa in the UK, you will be advised to use the 'UK Immigration: ID Check' app, which means you will be able to access your eVisa when your application is successful.
Follow Step 7 in our Guide to access your eVisa and get a share code
Make sure your eVisa is linked to your passport in your UKVI account before traveling.
Read UKVI’s advice here to ensure that your eVisa has the correct information and learn what to do if you have obtained a new passport.
See also our Student eVisa Checklist .
Watch this YouTube video on how to travel with your eVisa.
You must check your eVisa for any errors .
Errors on your eVisa must be reported as soon as you notice these.
If you have spotted an error e.g.
name or length of the visa, you must immediately seek advice from an immigration adviser by attending one of our online Immigration Drop-in Sessions .
eVisas - UKCISA
Online Immigration Status (eVisa) – Home Office
Right to work
Right to rent
Student eVisa Checklist

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/immigration/contact-visa-and-immigration:
The Immigration & Compliance team is trained and authorised to provide immigration advice and assistance to students and staff.
We are happy to answer queries about immigration and compliance issues.
We run a regular Immigration Drop-In Sessions for face-to-face student advice and we can also book a detailed appointment for more complex queries.
Immigration & Compliance Team
International Office | University of Huddersfield
Queensgate | Huddersfield | HD1 3DH
immigration@hud.ac.uk
www.hud.ac.uk/international/immigration

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/leaving-for-the-uk/international-enrolment:
Completing pre-enrolment on the MyHud portal:
Watch our helpful video for full details on how to log in to your pre-enrolment portal and complete your pre-enrolment
Find out what to do if you haven't received a link for pre-enrolment.
Find out what to do if you are struggling to log in to pre-enrol.
Visit the International Office in Student Central building , Level 4, behind the iPoint reception desk to collect your student ID card
We cannot complete your enrolment or issue your student ID card if you do not bring the above documents or have a current UK address within a one-hour journey from the University by public transport.
If you have any concerns about your UK accommodation address, contact enrolment@hud.ac.uk for confirmation.
For further support with enrolment, we will be available daily between 2.00 pm and 3.00 pm (UK time) on MS Teams .
Refer to this checklist of common problems:
If you have an unconditional offer and have not received a link to pre-enrolment, please check your email junk/spam folder and if you have an agent, check that they have not received it on your behalf.
If you still cannot locate your email, we may not have your correct email address and we recommend that you contact the International Student Experience Team for further help.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/international/applicants/admissions-team:
Hi, I’m Lyndsy Johnstone, the International Admissions Manager here at Huddersfield.
I have a fantastic team who are all here to help you on your admissions journey, from your application to your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS)!
A very warm welcome from your international admissions team!
We know that it can be a challenging time applying to study in the UK.
There are many processes to follow, as well as the personal and emotional impact on deciding to study here.
We are here to support you through your application journey with us, and are available on e-mail, or in person at one of our daily drop-in sessions.
Email: osadmissions@hud.ac.uk .
Daily-drop in sessions:
Monday – Friday
10am - 11am UK time
Join here to speak to one of the team
We are looking forward to supporting you through your journey, and you becoming part of the University of Huddersfield community!
Do you need guidance fast and outside of our drop-in times?
Please see full details of some of the frequently asked queries below .
Find out how to access MyHud
Find out information relating to fee payment
Find out the scholarships we have on offer
Find out the English Language requirements needed in order to study here

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/study/apply:
Learn how to apply for an Undergraduate course.
Learn how to apply for a Postgraduate Taught degree.
Learn how to apply for a Research degree.
Learn how to apply to Huddersfield if you're an International Student.
Learn how to apply for a Distance Learning course.
Learn how to apply for a Degree Apprenticeship.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2025/march/worlds-top-universities-2025-qs-rankings:
This is the highest-ever number of ranked subjects for the University.
It includes two subjects in the Top 100 and 10 subjects in the Top 500 in the world.
Compared to the previous year, three new subjects have been ranked for the first time, which are Accounting & Finance, Economics & Econometrics, and Medicine.
The 2025 edition of the rankings, released this month by global higher education analyst QS Quacquarelli Symonds , names the world’s best universities for the study of 55 academic disciplines and five broad faculty areas.
Highlights for the University of Huddersfield include:
In total, the 14 subjects where the University of Huddersfield is named among the world’s top universities are: Performing Arts , Petroleum Engineering , Nursing , English Language & Literature , Communication & Media Studies , Architecture / Built Environment , Education , Engineering - Mechanical, Aeronautical & Manufacturing , Accounting & Finance , Engineering - Electrical & Electronic , Business & Management Studies , Economics & Econometrics , Computer Science & Information Systems , and Medicine .
The University’s Pro Vice-Chancellor for International, Professor Alistair Sambell commented: “I am pleased to see that 14 subjects have now achieved formal ranking in the 2025 QS world university subject rankings.
This is the highest number of subjects receiving a formal QS ranking for the University.
“This includes two subjects in the Top 100 and 10 subjects in the world’s top 500 for their discipline.
This is great recognition for the outstanding work of colleagues across the institution and a continued improvement on an international stage.
I want to congratulate our students, researchers, educators, and professional staff on this achievement.”
The QS World University Rankings provide an independent analysis of the performance of more than 16,400 individual university programmes, with 1,747 universities in 148 locations around the world included in the final publication.
The top locations by number of ranked institutions are USA, China, UK, France, India, Germany and Italy.
This year there were also 171 newcomer universities from around the world who entered the rankings for the first time.
To see the full results, visit the QS Top Universities website here .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/health/workforce-development:
Here at the University of Huddersfield, we collaborate closely with our partners organisations to ensure our courses align with current NHS and Healthcare priorities.
Our programmes are continuously updated to reflect the latest advancements in clinical practice, ensuring they remain relevant and impactful.
By choosing one of our professional courses, you’ll become part of a dynamic and diverse learning community, engaging with cutting-edge international research.
Our experienced, highly qualified tutors are committed to delivering exceptional teaching, empowering you to thrive in your role and contribute to the future of Healthcare.
This course is designed for health and social care professionals who are ready to elevate their leadership and management skills and make a greater impact in their field.
This course is designed for ambitious healthcare professionals who would like to gain a recognised teaching qualification.
This Leadership and Management PgCert is designed for health and social care professionals who are ready to elevate their leadership and management skills and make a greater impact in their field.
Learn more about the course - https://courses.hud.ac.uk/2025-26/part-time/postgraduate/leadership-and-management-pgcert
This Health Professional Education MSc is designed for ambitious healthcare professionals who would like to gain a recognised teaching qualification.
Learn more about the course - https://courses.hud.ac.uk/2025-26/full-time/postgraduate/health-professional-education-msc
Admissions closes 30th April 2025
View our September 2025 courses
View our January 2026 courses
Admissions closes 31st January 2026
Leadership and Management in Health and Social Care
Health Professional Education PgCert
Tissue Viability and Leg Ulcer Management PgCert (Distance Learning)
Tissue Viability and Wound Management (Distance Learning) (Masters)
Leg Ulcer Management (Distance Learning) (Masters)
Acute Care PgCert
Urgent Care PgCert
Palliative and End-of-Life Care PgCert
Independent and Supplementary Prescribing
Assessment and Examination of the Newborn
Electrocardiograph (ECG) Monitoring and Interpretation
Personal and Practice Development
Clinical Risk Management in Mental Health and Learning Disability Settings (Distance Learning)
Leadership and Management PgCert
Health Professional Education MSc
Managing Minor Injuries
Communicable Disease and Infection Control
Advanced Remote Clinical Assessment Skills (Distance Learning)
Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion in a Health and Social Care Environment (Distance Learning)
Frailty, identification and interventions (Distance Learning)
Working with Vulnerable Groups (LD & MH) (Distance Learning)
Our Workforce Development offering is currently under review, and we expect to announce updates in summer of 2025
Find out about the funding options you may eligible to apply for
Follow these steps to apply to one of our courses
Please stay tuned - our Workforce Development offering is currently under review, and we expect to announce updates in summer of 2025.
We’ve carefully considered your feedback and are working to make our courses as accessible as possible, whilst maintaining our high levels of academic integrity.
If you would like to be notified once the new course structure is available, please complete this form , and we will ensure you're kept informed.
Form link: http://hud.ac/tlb
The Independent and Supplementary Prescribing module may be eligible for funding from NHS England.
To access the funding, you must be working for an eligible employer within the West Yorkshire area and have their support to undertake the course.
Our other courses are not eligible for NHS funding, however, if you are working and your course is relevant to your job, your employer may be willing to sponsor you.
Detailed guidance on such funding arrangements is available in their funding guide.
If funding via your employer is not available to you then you can self-fund - Funding your studies - University of Huddersfield
Join student Ruth as she takes you on a tour of the University’s state-of-the-art Daphne Steele Building, part of our Health Innovation Campus.
I really enjoyed my time on the Health Professional Education PgCert at the University and gained HEA Fellowship.
As a clinical nurse specialist, the course's varied teaching styles enhanced my skills and positively impacted my clinical and leadership roles.
It’s helped me support colleagues in delivering learner-centred teaching.
The lecturers were approachable and empowering - I’d recommend formal study to anyone involved in teaching".
Victoria Ali.
Graduate from the Health Professional Education PgCert.
If you would like to discuss your options, don't hesitate to get in touch with us using the following methods:
Email - hhs-wfd-cpd@hud.ac.uk
Telephone - 01484 957504

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subjects/psychology/investigative:
Investigative psychology is about applying psychological principles to criminal investigations and the justice system.
A career in this field allows you to combine your interest in human behaviour with the challenge of solving crimes and improving legal processes.
Whether you’re analysing criminal behaviour, providing expert testimony in court, or helping law enforcement with crime profiling, investigative psychology offers a unique opportunity to make a significant impact on public safety and justice.
In roles like criminal profiler, forensic psychologist, or investigative consultant, you’ll collaborate with police forces, the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), and other agencies to understand and interpret criminal behaviour.
You could analyse crime patterns, assist in suspect identification, or provide expert testimony in court.
As a researcher or academic, you may contribute to the development of new methods in criminal profiling or help improve investigative practices.
With specialisms in areas like terrorism, organized crime, or cybercrime, investigative psychology offers you the chance to tackle complex criminal behaviour and contribute to more effective justice outcomes.
Investigative psychology is about more than understanding criminal behaviour—it’s about applying psychological principles to solve crimes and improve the criminal justice system.
A career in investigative psychology allows you to explore human behaviour in the context of crime, helping to identify offenders, support law enforcement, and contribute to the safety and well-being of society.
Whether you're profiling criminals, conducting research on crime patterns, or providing expert psychological assessments in legal proceedings, investigative psychology offers a unique and impactful career path.
In roles like criminal profiler, forensic psychologist, or investigative consultant, you’ll directly assist in criminal investigations.
You could analyse crime scenes and behaviour to create offender profiles, provide expert testimony in court, or help law enforcement develop strategies to solve complex cases.
As a researcher, you may study patterns of criminal behaviour to improve investigative techniques or influence policy in the criminal justice system.
Whether focusing on areas like violent crime, terrorism, or cybercrime, investigative psychology offers a wide range of opportunities to make a significant difference in the field of law enforcement.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/how-to-apply/interviews:
Once you’ve sent your form in to UCAS/DfE Apply you may need to attend an interview or audition, or show your portfolio, depending on the course you’ve applied for ( you can see if this applies to you from the course listings ).
We’ve put together some information for you about these – but don’t worry, when you are invited you will be given full details of what will happen, including if your interview, audition or portfolio will be online.
All our interviews are designed to be as inclusive as possible.
As part of the interview process you’ll have the opportunity to share any disability, medical, or cultural requirements in advance, so that appropriate reasonable adjustments can be made.
The important thing to bear in mind is that your interview or audition is a two way thing.
As well as tutors checking you can handle the course, it is your chance to check us out, to make sure that Huddersfield is the right place for you.
There are no trick questions and we won’t be trying to trip you up.
We just want to find out what makes you tick.
If you’ve never had an interview or shown a portfolio, don’t worry, it’s not too formal – it just helps us get to know you and assess your application.
The friendly staff in the Student Recruitment Team will be happy to give you guidance on the process, or put you in touch with a subject-specialist who can answer your questions.
You can give us a call on 01484 472625 .
Interview information for Architecture courses.
Interview information for Art and Design courses.
Interview information for Drama and Musical Theatre courses.
Interview information for Fashion and Costume courses.
Interview information for Health and Social Work.
Interview information for Journalism, Media, English and History courses.
Interview information for Music courses.
Interview information for Nursing.
Interview information for Pharmacy.
Interview information for Science Extended Degree leading to a BSc(Hons) .
Interview information for Teaching courses
As part of your application, we would like to see a brief portfolio to include pieces of your work which you feel best demonstrate your range of skills and interests.
The below information includes details for Architecture/Architecture (International) (RIBA Part 1)
Please prepare a portfolio (15 - 25 images) of your work.
It is useful to include photographs from your sketchbooks that show a range of skills and idea development.
If you want to include moving image or animation.
Please upload your moving image work to a website (for example Vimeo).
Then include the link as part of your portfolio.
Make sure your portfolio has your name at the front and save the Portfolio as a PDF file with a Maximum file size of 20 MB
Once we’ve seen your portfolio, we will let you know our decision as soon as possible.
The below information includes details for the following subject areas within Art and Design:
Fine Art BA(Hons), Fine Art and Illustration BA(Hons), Graphic Design BA(Hons), Graphic Design and Animation BA(Hons), Illustration BA(Hons), Interior Design BA(Hons) and Photography BA(Hons).
it is useful to include photographs from your sketchbooks that show a range of skills and idea development.
Make sure your portfolio has your name at the front and save the Portfolio as a PDF file with a Maximum file size of 20 MB.
The below information includes details for the following subject areas within Fashion and Costume:
Costume with Textiles BA(Hons) and Fashion Design with Textiles BA(Hons)
Applications for Fashion Marketing BA(Hons) do not require a portfolio.
You will be invited to an interview, and we encourage you to bring a piece of coursework from any discipline to discuss or examples of any images, news stories or perhaps a fashion campaign you have found interesting.
Fashion Marketing BA(Hons)
Once you have applied via UCAS, you will be sent an email from our Admissions Team detailing your interview date and time, platform eg Microsoft Teams (for online interviews).
The interview will take place with a relevant tutor and is an opportunity to discuss the course and ask any questions you might have.
After your interview, we will let you know our decision as soon as possible.
Please note that this process may take some time due to high volumes of applications, so we appreciate your patience.
The below information includes details for the following courses:
BMus Music Performance, BMus Music and BMus Popular Music
If you are a BMus Music Performance applicant, then we need to hear you perform before we can make you an offer for this course.
If you are a BMus Music or BMus Popular Music applicant, you don’t need to audition gain entry to the course, but we strongly recommend you take the opportunity to visit us for an optional advice lesson.
For auditions and advice lessons, you need to bring your instrument and music / backing tracks to play two contrasting pieces.
Please note that piano accompaniment will not be provided.
If you are a popular music performer you can use a backing track, but if you plan to play from your phone, please make sure you can connect to a 3.5mm jack cable.
If you would like us to play the audio file for you please share this in advance of the day by sending it to mmtadmissions@hud.ac.uk .
If you opt for an online audition, then make sure you test your set-up for audio quality in advance.
When you arrive on campus, you will be welcomed and given information about our courses by one of our specialist tutors.
You’ll have a chance to meet staff and some of our current students, who will then take you on a tour of our facilities.
Music Performance, Music and Popular Music applicants will then either have a one-to-one audition, advice lesson, or a short informal interview and chat about your musical interests and experience.
On some selected events, we also offer performance workshops as well as the audition / advice lesson.
This is a great opportunity to meet staff and students and to see our facilities, as well as to ask any questions about the courses and environment here at Huddersfield.
Although we think that visiting in person is the best way to experience what we offer, we understand that it might not always be possible for everyone and will do our best to offer some online events as well as offering bespoke options.
Please contact us using mmtadmissions@hud.ac.uk if you want to discuss this further.
English BA(Hons), English Literature and History BA(Hons), English Literature BA(Hons), English Literature with Creative Writing BA(Hons), Film Studies and English Literature BA(Hons), History BA(Hons), Multimedia Journalism BA(Hons)
Once you have applied via UCAS, you will be sent an email from our team to make arrangements for the date and time of your interview.
Interviews will be held via Teams, or over the telephone, depending on your preference.
Your interview will take place with a member of academic staff who teaches on the course you have applied for.
It is an opportunity to discuss the course and your interests, for us to get to know one another, and for you ask any questions you might have.
We want passionate, enthusiastic students who can work well in groups and are interested in developing their practical skills along with the ability and desire to engage in critical and reflective thinking.
The day will include a 90 minute workshop where we will warm-up and then work collaboratively to create a piece of performance.
Afterwards, there will be some light refreshment and a tour of the Drama facilities, followed by a discussion
of the courses in an open forum where you can ask questions about any aspect of the course and the university.
There will also be the opportunity to discuss matter privately with a member of the Drama team, if you wish.
Comfortable clothing to wear or change into plus light footwear, for the workshop (barefoot is fine for this).
For Musical Theatre we will require you to prepare a formal musical audition piece.
This should be 16 bars from a published musical.
Please bring a recording of the music track that you can sing to.
We will provide a Bluetooth speaker for you to use, so the music can be played from your phone or other device.
In addition to the singing, we are very interested in your ability to work effectively with others, your responses to ideas and creative problems and your level of concentration and focus and your critical engagement with all aspects of Drama, Theatre and Performance.
These are the qualities we will be looking for during the workshop.
Therefore, you will also be making some creative work with applicants for the Acting and Performance course.
For Acting and Performance courses we do not require you to prepare a formal audition piece.
We are more immediately interested in your ability to work effectively with others, your response to ideas and creative problems and your level of concentration and focus and your critical engagement with all aspects of Drama, Theatre and Performance.
You'll be invited to participate in either an online or face-to-face interview.
This is a 15-minute interview with an academic member of staff where professionalism and NHS values are assessed through some scenarios.
An article from the Pharmacy Journal or piece of written material relevant to pharmacy is also discussed (you'll be sent the article in advance of the interview) as well as aspects of your personal statement to assess your understanding, listening and communication skills.
Depending on your course, interviews will either take place in person on campus or over the phone.
You’ll receive more details, including in your invitation email.
For additional information, please see below.
Your UCAS Track will be updated with the outcome of your interview as soon as we’ve made a decision.
If you are offered a place and accept this, we will send further information about things that need to be completed before you start your course, such as your Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) check, which is a requirement for working with children.
If you have any questions about interviews, please contact sbel-education@hud.ac.uk
Your interview invitation will include information on what will take place on the day.
The interview will include a 1-1 interview with one of our tutors.
We’ll ask you to bring an object that could be used to help children learn.
We’ll ask you to give an explanation and demonstration of your chosen object.
We’ll also ask you to bring a children’s story book.
You’ll be asked to explain your choice of book and read a short section of the book.
You will be asked to complete a short writing task.
We will send you further specific details about preparing for the tasks if you are invited for interview.
We’re looking for you to demonstrate good personal skills and knowledge appropriate to the course.
We’ll refer to your personal statement and expect you to show your passion for teaching.
We will send you further specific details if you are invited for interview – our aim isn’t to surprise you or put you on the spot.
We want to get to know you and consider whether you’re right for the course.
It’s also a great opportunity for you to think about whether the course is right for you.
The interview will begin with a presentation by a course tutor.
You will then give a short presentation to the interviewer.
You will then have an interview with the course tutor and you will be asked to complete a short writing task.
Good personal skills and knowledge appropriate to the course.
We would like you to demonstrate awareness of the lifelong learning sector.
Your interview will be conducted by telephone, and we aim to contact you promptly once a tutor has reviewed your application.
During the interview, you’ll be asked about your experience working with children and young people, your study habits and skills, and how the course aligns with your career and/or educational goals.
Our aim isn’t to surprise you or put you on the spot.
Interviews are an essential requirement for our health professional and social work courses and the format of these varies depending on the course you would like to study.
If you are invited to interview you will be sent an email from our Admissions Team detailing your interview date and time, platform eg Microsoft Teams (for online interviews), the format (Individual or group), photo ID you are required to show and tasks you may be required to complete prior to interview.
We want enthusiastic students who have a passion to work in their chosen health or social work profession, as well as knowledge and understanding of what the profession involves and the skills and attributes required.
Wear something that makes you feel confident and professional – comfort matters too!
Find out how to get to the University so you can attend your interview, audition, or portfolio review.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/clearing/open-days:
If you’ve been made an offer by the University of Huddersfield, you'll be invited via email to join us at our Clearing Open Day on Saturday 16 August 2025, in Student Central from 10am – 2pm .
You will find lots of useful and interesting information on this day.
You don’t have to attend, but if you have never visited us before it is advisable to come along so you can be confident that you are making the right decision.
If you have a question about our Clearing Open Day, chances are someone else has already asked it.
Welcome to the University of Huddersfield!
Take this 60 second tour of our beautiful campus and go inside our impressive buildings.
This film showcases just some of the fantastic architecture we have here in Huddersfield.
There is no dress code for the day.
Wear whatever you feel comfortable in.
When you arrive at the University, please follow the Open Day signs to our check-in area in Student Central.
You can print out a copy of our Campus map to help you find your way around campus on the day.
Whether you are driving to Huddersfield or using public transport, everything you need to know in order to find us is on our campus location webpage.
Parking is available free of charge for visitors in Firth Street Car Park.
Firth Street Car Park is located to the north of campus between Little Aspley Hall and 3M Buckley Innovation Centre (15 on campus map).
Postcode for sat nav: HD1 3BN
Yes of course, bring as many people as you like.
There is plenty of quality accommodation available in and around Huddersfield.
There also are a number of hotels close to the University and town centre that you can book.
Yes, the University campus is fully accessible to disabled visitors.
There is an Accessible Route Map ‌ to help you find these routes around campus.
For further information please visit our ' How to find us ' webpage.
HudLets has a variety to choose from all-in-one place: Phone 01484 258601 Email hudlets@hud.ac.uk Office opening Hours: 8am – 4pm, Monday to Thursday, 8am – 3pm Friday
For other accommodation options, you’ll need to contact the accommodation provider directly.
For any questions you might have about attending the Clearing Open Day, please email us at opendays@hud.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/after-you-apply/next-steps:
What to expect should you be invited to attend an interview or audition, or show your portfolio.
Get all the info you need to help prepare before your academic journey with us starts.
If you have questions about your application then please contact our friendly Student Recruitment team.
Our students can answer any questions you might have about Huddersfield or student life in general.
Learn about our support services, from careers to wellbeing and accommodation to student finance.
Parents' information also available.
With so much to get stuck into you’ll be spoilt for choice!
You can join, Sports Clubs, Societies and get volunteering experience.
The University of Huddersfield campus is situated in a cosmopolitan and vibrant town, and is close to big cities and the great outdoors.
Read more about the benefits of studying in Huddersfield, Yorkshire.
Your university experience will create memories that stick with you for a lifetime.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/uni-life/commuting-to-university/cycling:
Here at the University of Huddersfield we are working hard to improve the facilities we provide to cyclists, helping students build cycling into their daily routine.
Incorporating cycling into your commute, even just a couple of times a week has an array of benefits for both you and the environment.
The parking and shower facilities available to cyclists on campus.
Information on the Abandoned Cycles Procedure and tips on how to store your bike securly.
Find out how to plan your journey by bike.
A range of facilities are provided and maintained by the University to encourage active travel to campus, including cycle parking, showers and changing facilities.
We offer a variety of cycle parking across campus, this ranges from sheltered Sheffield Stands to swipe access storage shelters, and individual lockers.
Contact Estates General Enquiries to arrange swipe access to the secure shelters, alternatively collect a key for the individual storage lockers from the main University Reception.
View the facility locations on the Cycle parking and tool station map , and further images of the different types of cycle parking spaces .
There are a range of shower and changing facilities available.
View the full list of shower and changing facilities The shower and changing facilities located in the Sport Centre on level 3 of the Student Central Building are open to students who are not members of the gym.
Speak to a member of staff on reception at the Sports Centre to gain access.
There are two cycle repair areas available on campus.
These can be found at the Harold Wilson cycle parking area and the Sparck Jones cycle parking area.
The kits contain:
The Sustainability Team have purchased a small pool of emergency bike maintenance equipment including:
This equipment is located at the University Reception and can be borrowed free of charge students on campus.
Please contact Estates General Enquiries to report an issue with a cycle facility on campus.
It is important that our buildings and cycle parking facilities are used correctly and safely.
Where cycles are inappropriately parked or suspected to be abandoned they will be removed my Security Servces.
For full details please read the Abandoned Cycles Procedure .
Cycling is a great way to stay active; here are a few hints and tips to keep you safe while cycling:
Should you suspect your bicycle of being stolen on campus please contact Security Services via email or on 01484 47 2220 .
Find your route using the National Cycle Network provided by Sustrans to plan your journey by bike.
Outside of West Yorkshire, and across the rest of the UK take a look at Cycling UK's Journey Planner , allowing you to plan your route depending on the journeys quietness, speed and distance.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/schools-and-colleges-liaison-service/headstart:
Headstart Huddersfield is our fair access scheme that offers eligible students , interested in applying to the University of Huddersfield, the opportunity to gain an extra 8 UCAS points.
The scheme has been designed with the intention of providing fairer access for those groups currently facing barriers and therefore underrepresented in Higher Education.
In addition to Headstart, we offer a variety of fairer access opportunities and support, which you can find out more about on our contextual admissions page.
There are many benefits to the programme for students:
To complete Headstart you must attend an Open Day or Taster Day and write an assignment about your experience.
To apply, you and your Tutor Referee must complete and submit the online Headstart registration form by the specified deadline.
Please note: we may contact your Tutor Referee to verify your eligibility.
We reserve the right to remove you from the scheme should further checks reveal that you do not meet the eligibility criteria.
You must complete and submit the online Headstart registration form by the specified deadline.
You must first check your eligibility for the scheme and, if eligible, complete and submit the online registration form.
All of the key dates and deadlines for the scheme are outlined here.
Find out about the terms and conditions for this scheme.
Check your eligibility for Headstart Huddersfield.
If you have further questions about Headstart Huddersfield email: s.craven@hud.ac.uk or tel: 01484 957129.
We are unable to discuss individual applications to the scheme with anyone other than the applicant with the exception of us contacting a nominated Tutor Referee to confirm eligibility.
The video explains how to check eligibility, the benefits of Headstart, how to register, as well as what 's required to gain the 8 UCAS points.
Deadline for submission: Friday 29 May 2026
*Students submitting assignments by the UCAS deadline of Wednesday 14th January 2026 will be notified of their results in February 2026.
Please note: late registrations or submissions will not be accepted.
To qualify for the scheme, you must meet at least one of the eligibility criteria.
If you are under 21 your eligibility must be verified by a Tutor Referee.
The scheme is not available for any student who is currently studying or who has passed the Progression Module with either the University of Huddersfield or Leeds Beckett University, as UCAS points cannot be combined from both schemes.
UCAS points will only be awarded to eligible students who complete and submit the Headstart Assignment by the specified deadline, and who are notified in writing that they have passed.
The 8 UCAS points from Headstart will be taken into account at the point of confirmation of place (on results day).
8 UCAS points are the equivalent of one grade.
For example, where an applicant has a conditional offer of 120 UCAS points they can meet the conditions of the offer by achieving 112 UCAS points (3 A Levels with grades BBC or equivalent) and successful completion of Headstart (8 UCAS points) making a total of 120 UCAS points.
Successful completion of Headstart Huddersfield does not guarantee a place on a University of Huddersfield course.
Where specific grades are required from specific subjects, these cannot be superseded by points from Headstart.
The University of Huddersfield will guarantee interviews, auditions or offers to all Headstart Huddersfield students who meet the published academic and non-academic entry requirements.
In order for the 8 UCAS points from Headstart to be recognised by The University of Huddersfield, it must be recorded on the UCAS application.
If your UCAS application has already been submitted please contact us for details on what to do next.
Recording Headstart on UCAS applications
In the Education section, select ' Add Qualification .' Type 'other' in the search box and select ' Other (UK qualification) ' from the list.
Then add the following details:
Subject title: Headstart Huddersfield
Qualification date: May [year of completion]
Awarding organisation: UOH (abbreviation of University of Huddersfield)
Result: PENDING

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/open-days/undergraduate/highlights:
There’s nothing like quite like coming to one of our Open Days to get a feel for the place; an opportunity to explore our beautiful campus, meet staff and current students and see all the amazing facilities.
Here are just some of the highlights you can expect when you visit!
Subjects
See our Campus
Choose Huddersfield
Accommodation
Student life
Explore Huddersfield
Student finance
Chat about student life
Got a question about making an application?
Huddersfield offers a whole range of undergraduate courses across almost 40 subject areas.
From Art and Science to Sport and Youth so there’s sure to be something for you.
Our canal side campus offers amazing facilities to support your studies plus green spaces, places to eat, and a gym.
From stand-out lecturers to studying on a campus that’s got everything you need to start a global career.
Find out what makes Huddersfield a great first choice university.
There are loads of opportunities to get involved at Huddersfield.
Joining a student society, learning new skills, experiencing new cultures or find part-time work.
Huddersfield is not only a student friendly, but also budget friendly option.
Beautiful countryside, independent shops, big nightlife: they’re all on your doorstep when you’re living in Huddersfield.
You’ll find all the support and services you need to help get ahead in your studies and social life.
Find out everything you need to know about tuition fees, students loans and payment information.
Our students are available to answer all your questions about student life.
Our friendly Student Recruitment Team is on hand.
If you're an international student and have questions about studying then please contact our International Office.
If you're an international student and have questions about studying at Huddersfield, please get in touch with our International Office.
Here's how you can contact them:
Email us: international.office@hud.ac.uk
Chat: Chat with the International Office.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/open-days/undergraduate/campus/support:
We understand you're still considering your university options and that means you'll have questions about the kind of support available when you're a student at the University of Huddersfield.
Find out about the support available Alternatively, if you'd prefer to chat with our current students they are available.
Huddersfield has great accommodation for students.
Discover all your options with HudLets.
Find out more about the support at the University for those times when you might find it harder to manage your wellbeing or if you have on-going mental health issues, a specific learning difficulty, a physical or sensory impairment, a long-term medical condition or an autistic spectrum condition.
If you need to discuss how to get support in place for a disability, specific learning difficulty, mental health issues or a long-term condition, you can book an appointment with one of our advisers.
Fill in the form and we'll get back to you with a date and time.
Advice and guidance on fees and living costs while at university, including applications to Student Finance England for financial support.
Guidance and advice on how you can help your child with their University journey.
Careers & Employability Service is here to help you find work opportunities.
The Library has a wide range of books, ebooks, online resources and more to support your studies.
Help and support for students & graduates who are exploring self-employment, freelancing and business start-up.
The Student Finance team offer advice and guidance on fees and living costs while at university, including applications to Student Finance England for financial support.
Here are more resources about Student Finance.
My Student Finance Booklet
Student Finance Factsheet
Student Finance presentation
The Student Finance team are holding a talk session on the Open Day.
Going to university is an exciting time.
It marks a big life change, not just for students but also for their parents or carers and can at times can seem like a complicated and overwhelming decision to make.
You might also be interested in our Parents' guide and Parents' Factsheet .
Lots of other resources can be found on the Schools and Colleges Liaison webpages.
The Enterprise Team can help you get your business venture, freelance service, or self-employment idea off the ground.
From ideation, to start-up, and beyond we provide lots of exciting opportunities for students and graduates (you can have enterprise support for life!) including workshops and start-up events, signposting to organisations for help and support, potential to apply for grant funding, and access to the Enterprise Hub incubation space.
Learn all about The Enterprise Team.
Chat with the team.
Study at a time that's right for you with all the information you need to hand in our library.
It's located in the heart of campus near Student Central, our main hub for student services.
The library offers a number of services as well as managing the computing services available for students .
Huddersfield Students' Union exists to make student life better.
It's a charity run by students for students, which means it's 100% focused on your interests, concerns and wellbeing.
They run over 100 sports clubs, societies and academic societies.
Get involved.
The Students' Union are available to chat online if you'd like to speak to someone.
Huddersfield has great opportunities for our students, from joining societies to part-time work and experiencing new cultures.
Discover some of the ways to make the most of your time at University.
Email us
Chat with the International Office.
Huddersfield has great recommended and approved student accommodation for Students.
DIGS is the preferred, recommended and approved accommodation provider for the University of Huddersfield.
Chat with DIGS staff to learn about their accommodation in Huddersfield.
HudLets is run by Huddersfield Students' Union who work with landlords and accommodation firms around Huddersfield.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/informationgovernance/travel-cost-contribution-scheme:
To ensure our Undergraduate Open Days and Applicant Visit Days are as accessible as possible, we’re offering a contribution towards your travel costs.
The scheme applies to visitors who attend an on-campus Open Day and/or Applicant Visit Day event held between September 2024 and June 2025 allowing you to claim up to £75 towards the cost of travel depending on where you live in the UK.
If you’re attending one of our eligible events and would like to claim a contribution towards your travel expenses, simply pre-register for one of our on campus Open Days and/or Applicant Visit Days, making sure you enter your home postcode.
Please check this carefully to ensure your postcode is properly entered.
You will only be able to claim your travel contribution if your attendance is recorded on the day, so make sure you go to one of our check-in points during the event.
Only UK-based Undergradaute enquirers and applicants who are not current students at the University can claim this travel contribution.
The University reserves the right to withdraw or change the terms of this offer at any time and no compensation shall be payable to you as a result of any changes.
The University’s decision on whether to award a contribution is final.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/schools/huddersfield-business-school:
Welcome to Huddersfield Business School
Our students learn and develop in a modern, professional business school environment.
We offer a wide range of undergraduate, postgraduate, and executive/professional development qualifications.
All courses are designed to provide an inspirational and innovative learning experience.
Our staff and students have an excellent track record of working in partnership with a wide range of organisations in private, public, and voluntary sectors and we welcome opportunities to work with organisations of all sizes, large and small.
Organisations can benefit from working with us by utilising our research and consultancy services, gaining access to student talent, and drawing on our range of professional development and business growth opportunities.
Our purpose is to enrich lives, enhance organisations, and engage communities.
We are extremely proud of all our external accreditation, partnerships and rankings - view them all here .
Huddersfield Business School is AACSB-accredited and we were recently named Business School of the Year 2023 at the Times Higher Education Awards.
Our department draws on the expertise of staff with national and international reputations for their research, teaching and professional engagement.
We offer courses at undergraduate, masters and doctoral level.
Learn about our mission and vision, staff, and partners.
Grow your business and enhance your team's professional development with support from Huddersfield Business School.
Huddersfield Business School is an internationally renowned business school.
Learn more about our international student experience, global research links and collaborative teaching partnerships.
Huddersfield Business School is the largest department in the School of Business, Education and Law housing around half of the students in the School.
We have an active and dynamic research community in Huddersfield Business School.
Huddersfield Business School engages a range of partners across West Yorkshire and beyond.
Huddersfield Business School is delighted to be a partner member in the Kirklees Top 100 Initiative which celebrates the success of companies and organisations in Kirklees.
These companies are key to making the region a rich and diverse hub of economic activity.
Keep up to date with our latest stories on our professional development programmes, research, awards and much more.
It is a vibrant community of ~60 academic staff who are recognised experts undertaking responsible teaching, research, and enterprise.
We provide a dynamic learning environment where all members of staff are committed to providing an excellent and engaging student experience.
We offer a broad range of innovative taught programmes aiming to equip our highly employable graduates with the latest knowledge and real-world skills to maximise their future potential, enabling them to be employed in a wide range of careers spanning the private, public and voluntary sectors.
We can offer you a broad range of study areas from business management, accounting, finance and economics to international business, marketing, and project and operations management.
In collaboration with our external partners and our national award-winning Employability and Placement Team, we provide a range of placement and internship opportunities for undergraduate and postgraduate students.
Our finance and economics students will benefit from a fully equipped stock exchange-style trading room which complements other computer facilities in our thriving School.
Our excellence in teaching and student experience is evidenced in our excellent National Student Satisfaction Survey and the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey.
We have been successful in the delivery of a MSc Strategic Communication Leadership programme exclusively to the Government Communication Service bespoke for the Cabinet Office over the years.
We firmly believe in business and education working together to help prepare our students for their future careers.
Our students are taught by professionals from industry/practice and other businesses in the region, to allow them to develop a number of technical and professional skills.
In their first year of study, our accountancy and finance undergraduate students get an opportunity to work closely with staff from pwc, a big international firm of chartered accountants.
This allows them to gain an insight into how accountants work in diverse organisations and how it is not always 'just about the numbers'!
Our research is broad and diverse largely including banking and finance, behavioural and experimental economics, corporate governance, diversity, economics and econometrics, employability, entrepreneurship and SMEs, finance, human resource management, innovation, international business, leadership, management accounting, public relations, sociology of work, sustainability and the environment, strategy and strategic communication.
Our research has been funded by InnovateUK, Leverhulme Trust, Welcome Trust, and the ESRC, to name a few.
Our work has been published in leading journals such as British Journal of Management , Entrepreneurship: Theory and Practice , Human Resource Management , Human Resource Management Journal, Human Relations , Journal of Management Studies , Journal of Organizational Behavior , Organization Studies , Regional Studies , Research Policy , Work, Employment and Society , Sociology , among others.
Our Postgraduate Research students including PhD and DBA are a vital part of our vibrant research community.
Our experienced members of staff are committed to supporting our PGR students.
We welcome new inquiries.
Our staff list provides full details of research interests so please have a look if you are considering research in a particular area.
Further information is available on our School Research page.
We are proud of the diversity of ways of knowledge exchange that we use our expertise and research to engage with external partners in the public, private and third sectors across West Yorkshire, the UK, and beyond.
We have a strong team delivering executive education programmes, including apprenticeships at Degree and Masters levels and the recently introduced Help to Grow (a government-backed, practical 12-week management programme designed to support senior managers of small and medium-sized businesses to boost their business performance, resilience, and long-term growth).
We engage in other activities to support the management and leadership development of organisations in the region and beyond.
Some examples of our researchers have made positive impacts on the region and far beyond through collaboration include:
Our staff also work closely with colleagues at The Economics Network and the Office for National Statistics .
Explore our range of blogs that cover a wide variety of helpful, interesting topics by our students, staff and academics.
Would you like more information?
Please get in touch with our friendly team.
Why not follow us on social media?

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/helptogrow:
Designed to be undertaken alongside full-time work, the programme is delivered through a combination of online sessions and some face to face learning.
Business mentoring is also available to support you to develop a tailored growth plan for your business.
September 2025 cohort
Our 10th cohort starts on Tuesday 16th September 2025.
What you'll learn and how it will be delivered.
Is the course right for you and your business?
Our friendly team are on hand to answer any queries you have about the Help to Grow Management programme.
Hear from business leaders as they share their transformative experiences with the programme, highlighting the impact it has had on their professional growth, personal development, and the remarkable enhancements within their businesses.
The course consists of a combination of online and face-to-face sessions alongside case study workshops and peer-to-peer calls.
Face-to-face sessions take place at Huddersfield Business School, HD1 3DH.
The curriculum has been designed to help you to create a tailored business plan to begin implementing immediately.
Please contact us if you'd like to discuss the programme.
The Help to Grow: Management course is for business owners, leaders, or senior managers from all business sectors.
To be eligible, you and your business must meet the following criteria:
Only one person per business can participate in the programme, but your entire business will benefit, from increased productivity to enhanced employee wellbeing and more.
Please contact us for more information or to discuss your eligibility.
If a second person from your organisation would like to join the Help to Grow programme, you will receive a 50% discount for this employee - you must be a company that employs 10 people or more to receive this bursary.
Huddersfield Business School has been accredited by the Small Business Charter, an award which recognises the high quality, tailored guidance we provide to support small businesses and the local economy.
The Help to Grow: Management Course is delivered in partnership with Small Business Charter.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/schools/huddersfield-business-school/business-support-and-professional-development:
Here at Huddersfield Business School, we have a proven track record of working in collaboration with a wide array of private, public, and voluntary sector organisations.
Our expertise lies in facilitating business growth and achieving strategic objectives for local, national, and international companies.
Alongside this, we offer an array of professional development programmes designed to upskill your workforce, enhancing their knowledge, awareness, and confidence.
Engage with us through our diverse event formats, which include local community engagement workshops and enriching business breakfast networking opportunities.
In 2023 we won the Times Higher Education Business School of the Year Award for embedding ourselves in the local region and supporting communities - click the banner to read more!
Explore our range of business growth programmes and enhance your professional development.
Our students are your future customers, inspire the next generation.
Our academic team of experts can provide you with innovative knowledge at the forefront of your industry.
The Partners in Scheme is a network of organisations that support the School with providing content, time and expertise to enhance the curriculum, support student projects and strengthen external engagement and societal impact.
The Huddersfield Health Innovation Partnership is a collaboration between the University of Huddersfield, 3M Buckley Innovation Centre, Business Kirklees, the NHS and other local and regional health and wellbeing partners.
The Kirklees Top 100 helps strengthen bonds within the Kirklees business community through collaborative opportunities and sharing best practice.
Our dedicated Stakeholder Engagement team are here to support you and your business.
Sign up to our mailing list to stay updated with our future events and business growth programmes.
Take a read of our business blogs, providing you support and highlighting our business case studies and partnerships.
Peter Beaumont - Associate Director at Monty Miracle
"The Help to Grow Management programme has facilitated a growth surge of 362% for the business.
It also helped our growth in mindset and allowed us to think about what our long-term goals are."
Jack Woodhams - Co-founder of Menfulness
"The student consultancy gave me strategic options to help support our growth.
I can't thank the university and students enough for their efforts."
Khatizi Bibi - Managing Director at Deluxe Beds Ltd
"The valuable insight received from this project allowed the company to access new research ideas as well as discover alternative funding options.
We've made a lot of progress and there have been multiple improvements made to the company."
Huddersfield Business School's Advisory Board comprises of leading experts holding senior positions within business, the public or voluntary sectors.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/lorem/nathan-smith/open-days/undergraduate-before:
It's a great chance to look at the facilities, talk to staff and current students from the course you are interested in and find out about those key things that matter to you.
There are also a number of campus tours running from 15 January 2020 through to March 2020.
You can learn more and book on the Campus Tour page.
A sample of what happens at Open Day including registration, talks and a detailed programme of the day.
Information about what you need to bring to an Open Day and who to contact with any queries or special requirements.
How to get to the University of Huddersfield, parking information and contribution to travel costs.
Then book an Open Day to come and see the campus in person.
There is no better way to get a feel for the atmosphere at the University and finding out about the courses and facilities.
We offer a wide range of subject-specific activities to inspire interest and provide valuable guidance about our courses.
Parking is available on a first come first served basis in our Print Works Car Park (postcode HD1 6RZ) and Queen Street Car Park (postcode HD1 3DU).
For information about Open Day Car Parking and walking routes to the event check-in, download our Open Day Campus Map There are a number of public car parks located close to the University campus and Huddersfield town centre that you can use if the University car parks become full.
For more information on getting to the University of Huddersfield by train or bus please visit our maps and directions page.
On the day, you will see our Student Ambassadors in orange T-shirts across the University campus.
They will point you in the right direction and answer any questions that you might have about life in Huddersfield.
For more detailed information about receiving confirmation of your registration and what you need to bring to an Open Day, please read our Open Days Frequently Asked Questions.
Should you have any queries or special requirements for us to take into consideration on the Open Day please contact us before the day on +44 (0)1484 472282 or email opendays@hud.ac.uk.
To find out more about our courses, student finance, accommodation or applying and support, please visit our undergraduate study pages.
*The University is number one in England for the proportion of staff with teaching qualifications (HESA 2019).
Huddersfield is the only University where 100% of the permanent teaching staff are Fellows of the Higher Education Academy.
Permanent staff, after probation: some recently appointed colleagues will only obtain recognition in the months after their arrival in Huddersfield, once they have started teaching; research degrees applies to those on contracts of more than half-time.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2024/april/qs-rankings-2024-huddersfield:
The University of Huddersfield has been named as one of the world's top universities in 13 subjects, and in the top 300 for 10 of those subjects in the 2024 QS World University Rankings By Subject .
The 2024 edition of the rankings, released by global higher education analyst QS Quacquarelli Symonds, names the world’s best universities for the study of 55 academic disciplines (narrow subject areas) and five broad subject areas.
Compared to the previous year, the institution is ranked in four additional subjects with another three of the University’s programmes improving in rank.
The University’s reputation for excellence in Music is underlined by its global ranking of 20, and 6th in the UK.
The University is:
The 13 subjects where the University of Huddersfield is named among the world’s top universities are: Music , Performing Arts , Communication & Media Studies , Petroleum Engineering , Education , English Language & Literature , Sociology , Mechanical Engineering, Aeronautical & Manufacturing , Engineering - Electrical & Electronic , Computer Science & Information Systems , Business & Management Studies , Nursing , and Architecture and the Built Environment .
“I am delighted to see the continued improvement in the global standing of the University of Huddersfield,” says University Pro Vice-Chancellor International Professor Alistair Sambell.
"Thirteen subjects have now achieved formal ranking in the 2024 QS world university subject rankings, with 10 of these in the world top 300 for their discipline.
This is great recognition for the outstanding work of colleagues across the institution on an international stage.
I want to congratulate our students, researchers, educators, and professional staff on this achievement."
Other highlights:
The QS World University Rankings provide an independent comparative analysis on the performance of more than 16,400 individual university programmes, taken by students at more than 1500 universities in 96 locations around the world, across 55 academic disciplines and five broad faculty areas.
United Kingdom has 1569 programmes ranked across 103 institutions.
Of these, 338 climb the table, and 109 rank for the first time.
UK institutions top 16 subject tables and boast the world’s highest concentration of programmes in the world’s top three, with 4% placing in this tier.
Reputation indicators are based on the responses of more than 240,000 employers and academics to QS surveys while Citations per Paper and H-Index measure research impact and productivity.
International Research Network (IRN) is used to assess cross-border research collaboration.
Visit the QS Top Universities website to see the full results.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2023/september/tef-gold-status-2023-university-huddersfield:
The University of Huddersfield has achieved the pinnacle of recognition with an outstanding Gold rating in the Office for Students’ latest Teaching Excellence Framework.
The University of Huddersfield has achieved the pinnacle of recognition with an outstanding Gold rating, the highest accolade attainable, in the Office for Students’ latest Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF).
This accolade reflects the university's unwavering commitment to providing an exceptional student experience and fostering excellent student outcomes.
Notably, the University secured a Gold rating in both critical categories of student experience and student outcomes, solidifying its position as an institution dedicated to excellence.
This remarkable accomplishment marks a continuation of the Gold status awarded during the 2017 evaluation.
We are the only university in Yorkshire to achieve three Gold ratings in the 2023 TEF.
The TEF, overseen by the Office for Students (OfS), serves as a catalyst for higher education institutions to excel in teaching, learning, and nurturing students towards successful educational journeys.
It assigns overall ratings of gold, silver, or bronze, along with evaluating student experience and student outcomes.
The University of Huddersfield's triumphant achievement lies in its attainment of the coveted Gold rating across all three dimensions.
The TEF panel's evaluation commended the University for its "outstanding teaching, feedback, and assessment practices," underscoring their efficacy in nurturing student learning, progression, and achievement.
Furthermore, the University's unwavering focus on enhancing students' future employability garnered praise, as the panel acknowledged its highly effective approaches in ensuring students not only succeed but also thrive beyond their academic pursuits.
University of Huddersfield Vice-Chancellor, Professor Bob Cryan , stated, “I am absolutely delighted that Huddersfield has been rated as Gold in this exercise.
Thank you to everyone involved in our submission, and to all colleagues and students in our community who work so hard to deliver excellence in everything we do.”
Taha Khan, Students’ Union President, expressed, “Being awarded TEF Gold is a fantastic achievement for the institution.
On behalf of the students, I’d like to thank all the staff who have worked incredibly hard to deliver excellent teaching and support.”
In assessing the University's approach to learning resources, the panel found "compelling evidence of outstanding physical and virtual learning resources" tailored to support exceptional teaching and learning.
Additionally, it acknowledged the University's commitment to student engagement across diverse demographics and its continuous pursuit of enhancing student experiences and outcomes.
Under the category of Student Outcomes, the University's data-driven strategies received accolades for their role in fostering educational gains throughout students' Huddersfield journey.
Initiatives such as the Global Professional Award , the Huddersfield University Differential Attainment Project (HuDAP), extensive placement opportunities, and course-level employer engagement all contribute to students achieving excellent degree outcomes, regardless of their backgrounds .
This outstanding recognition builds on the Global Teaching Excellence Award and solidifies the University of Huddersfield's position as a beacon of educational excellence, dedicated to empowering its students with the tools and opportunities they need to succeed in both their academic pursuits and future careers.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2023/december/the-award-2023-business-school-of-year:
One of the standout achievements for the School has been the Help to Grow programme , a government-backed scheme to support small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
In 2021-22, 170 of the university’s Master’s students provided consultancy services for 33 clients.
Judges commended the School for its “very clear purpose and identity” and programmes of work, which “aligned brilliantly with the distinctiveness of the region”.
“The school has delivered fantastic evidence of impact and outcomes, such as job creation and high levels of engagement to the benefit of students, the local community, employers and the economy”.
Professor Sambell said, “This is an absolutely fantastic achievement, reflecting the work of academic and professional services colleagues across the School.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2019/september/rae-fellowship-simon-iwnicki-huddersfield:
Professor Iwnicki is one of 54 Fellows to be elected this year by the Academy
THE University of Huddersfield’s Professor Simon Iwnicki has been elected a Fellow of one of the world’s most exclusive and prestigious engineering bodies.
It will help ensure that rail innovation receives high priority.
Professor Iwnicki is Director of the Institute of Railway Research , which is based at the University.
Its extensive facilities will soon be augmented by new rigs that will test key issues such as passenger ride comfort and the performance of pantographs.
Now, he has been elected as a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, which was formed in 1976, with the backing of the HRH The Duke of Edinburgh.
Its earliest Fellows included jet engine visionary Sir Frank Whittle, design guru Sir Ove Arup, radar pioneer Sir George MacFarlane and bouncing bomb inventor Sir Barnes Wallis.
Election to the Academy is by invitation only with about 50 Fellows elected each year after they have been nominated by existing Fellows.
The Fellows are elected for their “outstanding and continuing contributions to the profession”.
Professor Iwnicki will have the honour officially conferred on him at a special function held later this year in November.
He is the third University of Huddersfield engineer to receive a Fellowship.
The metrology researcher Professor Dame Xiangqian (Jane) Jiang was elected in 2012 and the University’s Vice-Chancellor, electrical engineer Professor Bob Cryan , became a Fellow in 2016.
The Institute of Railway Research welcomed leading industry experts to speak at the opening event

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2019/june/decarbonisation-task-force-allen-huddersfield:
RAIL and business experts at the University of Huddersfield are to share an award enabling them to make a powerful case for new technology that could play a key role in eliminating carbon emissions by freight trains in the UK.
In response to a Government call for the use of diesel-only trains to be eradicated by 2040, the Rail Safety and Standards Board (RSSB) set up a Decarbonisation Task Force and launched a competition, with a total prize pot of £2 million to be distributed among research teams exploring novel solutions to the problem.
One of the six winners was a project titled Digital Displacement for Non-Passenger Rail , developed by a consortium of Artemis Intelligent Power, the University of Huddersfield and Direct Rail Services, with support from Freightliner and Voith Turbo.
The project, with an overall grant of £120k, will examine the possibilities provided by digital displacement technology developed by Artemis as a more efficient alternative to conventional hydraulic pumps for providing traction and auxiliary power for freight locomotives, shunters and on-track plant.
Use of this technology will help facilitate the development of environmentally-beneficial hybrid locomotives, says Professor Paul Allen , who is Assistant Director of the University of Huddersfield’s Institute of Railway Research .
He will work with Dr Messaoud Mehafdi , a Senior Lecturer in the University’s Business School.
The two will hold talks with key industry figures and prepare a business case for adoption of the digital displacement technology by freight train operators.
Professor Allen explained that a conventional hydraulic pump that operates constantly is inefficient.
“But with an electronically-controlled, mechatronic digital displacement pump, you can effectively switch idle cylinders on and off.”
The system has been trialled in Scotland in a passenger train and this demonstrated the benefits of hybrid drive technology for rail vehicles.
“But freight is very challenging to decarbonise because you need a lot of power.
At the moment, only diesel engines and overhead electrification can provide those levels of power within the confines of our Victorian infrastructure,” said Professor Allen.
“So if you don’t have overhead lines, it is difficult to fully decarbonise freight locos.”
However, the technology developed by Artemis holds out the prospect of developing new hybrid engines for freight locomotives.
“You could potentially replace a traction package with hydraulic motors, using accumulators to store hydraulic oil under pressure, harvesting this energy under braking, then using it to drive the resultant diesel or electric hybrid vehicle forward.
It is an energy storage device using hydraulic engineering,” explained Professor Allen.
His collaboration with Dr Mehafdi is now underway and will be completed by the end of 2019.
Wheels can lose their profile in less than a month leading to severe vibration, discomfort for passengers and serious safety concerns
The University’s Institute of Railway Research welcomed leading industry experts to speak at the opening event
The pantograph test rig will join the Institute of Railway Research £4.5m test rig designed to evaluate vehicular and tracks systems

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2019/february/rail-pantograph-test-rig-huddersfield:
ELECTRIFICATION – leading to improved services and massive reductions in carbon emissions – is the future for railways.
But there is a vital need for research that will improve the technology, especially the pantographs that collect current from overhead catenary wires.
When they fail, schedules are disrupted and there can be safety risks.
Now, the University of Huddersfield’s Institute of Railway Research (IRR) is to be the site for a world-class, £3.5 million pantograph testing rig.
Supervising its design and installation is a professor who is a leading expert in the field.
“We aim to improve pantograph and catenary technologies, to get better current collection, and to support the rail industry, helping it to solve problems,” said João Pombo , who is Professor of Railway Technology at the Institute.
He is joined in the work by Senior Research Fellow Dr Pedro Antunes .
The two scientists have taken part in a succession of research projects dealing with pantograph-catenary interaction.
For example, the University of Huddersfield’s IRR is leading an ongoing investigation, titled Dynamic Behaviour and Quality of the Current Collection .
Part of the EU’s Shift2Rail programme, it has received funding of 700,000 euros and involves universities, institutions and firms from the UK, Italy and Portugal.
One of its goals is to develop new methods – involving reliable computer simulation – that would simplify the acceptance of new pantograph and catenary designs.
“The current standards are based on data from the 1980s and 1990s and they are rather strict, preventing the development of new technology,” states Professor Pombo.
His research addresses a wide range of performance, operational and safety issues arising from electrification.
There is a need to improve the quality of current collection, avoiding the problem of “arcing”, when pantographs lose contact with the catenary, resulting in loss of power to the locomotive and high temperatures that deteriorate the contacting elements.
Professor Pombo and Dr Antunes are also exploring ways to reduce wear or damage to pantographs and catenary systems, thereby decreasing the life-cycle costs and avoiding disruptions to rail traffic, such as the serious delays to trains from Paddington in late 2018, when a train brought down some overhead wires.
The new test rig at the Institute will be available for research and testing by scientists, engineers and companies from around the world.
Currently under construction by Italian conglomerate Simpro , the rig will be installed and operational in the IRR in 2020.
It will be a full-scale rig.
Pantographs brought for testing will sit on a moving table that mimics the behaviour of a train and will interact with a virtual catenary, modelled by an advanced computer software.
“The rig is designed to be flexible and will be open for the industry to come to us with a new pantograph or new catenary and ask us to carry out tests in order to de-risk or validate their developments,” said Dr Antunes.
The behaviour and performance of pantographs on high speed lines – such as the UK’s forthcoming HS2 – is one key area of research.
For example, Professor Pombo and Dr Antunes have worked with the rail electrification firm KLK on a new design of rigid catenary that could help France’s national rail company SNCF achieve its aim to increase the speed of its trains in some tunnels.
“But the problems are not just associated with high speed.
We also want to upgrade conventional speed trains,” said Dr Antunes.
“Even a small improvement of 10 or 20 kph in the conventional rail network rail will bring great benefits.”
There are also issues that are specific to the UK, which was an early adopter of electrification but has suffered from low levels of investment in system renewal.
Also, the large number of Victorian tunnels with limited levels of clearance pose problems for pantograph-catenary use.
The Director of the Institute of Railway Research, Professor Simon Iwnicki, said: “I am delighted that João and Pedro have joined us.
Under João’s leadership, our pantograph research will now be unrivalled in the world and will deliver benefits for the railways and everyone who uses them.”
The Institute of Rail Research is a partner for the new vehicle that will introduce greater passenger comfort, capacity and safety
The Centre of Excellence, within the University’s Institute of Railway Research, will develop the rolling stock of the future
Institute of Railway Research’s David Crosbee and Professor Paul Allen won the T.A.Stewart-Dyer Prize/Frederick Harvey Trevithick Prize

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2024/april/educate-north-awards-university-diversity-win:
(Image: ER Photography)
The University of Huddersfield has triumphed at the Educate North Awards 2024 winning the Diversity, Equality and Inclusion award.
Judges praised the University’s unique Global Professional Award (GPA) , which is a ground-breaking, innovative employability and enterprise programme that adopts a holistic approach to student development.
They said: “This is an innovative employability and enterprise programme which addresses the potential barriers faced by students, in particular those who are first-in-family graduates from less-privileged socio-economic backgrounds.
A strong submission with impressive scale, illustrating a fantastic initiative for skills – GPA and CMI awards.
This is increasingly becoming expected of Universities and here, the institution has embedded something distinctive and impactful.
Great work.”
Launched in 2019, GPA was designed through collaboration with students, careers and student services staff and academic teams.
It interlinks themes of employability, enterprise, well-being, and global and social awareness, to enrich all Huddersfield undergraduates’ opportunities for academic and graduate success.
GPA is a three-year programme, validated through the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), to which the majority of full-time undergraduates are automatically enrolled.
Students attend workshops each term with dedicated GPA trainers, and also access a range of self-directed learning materials to supplement their learning.
This is all aimed at increasing confidence and capabilities to develop high-performing and socially conscious graduates.
It has been particularly successful in engaging students who do not traditionally participate in student development initiatives.
All students who successfully complete the GPA programme graduate with a Level 5 CMI Award in leadership and management providing a tangible addition to their prospects in competitive graduate roles.
Claire Aydogan, Head of Careers and Employability at the University of Huddersfield , who was part of the team accepting the Diversity, Equality and Inclusion Award on the night, said: “We are delighted with this award to be recognised for our work around EDI.
In today’s rapidly evolving world fostering diversity, equality and inclusion is paramount for individuals and organisations to achieve success.
This award not only celebrates a unique high-quality programme, delivered by an inspirational team but more importantly recognises our aim to unlock our students' full potential, be empowered and thrive in their chosen futures.”
The University of Huddersfield was also shortlisted at the Educate North Awards 2024 in the Business School of the Year and Apprenticeship Award categories.
The Awards, in their tenth year, aim to celebrate, recognise and share best practice and excellence in the education sector in the North.
The ceremony itself was held on 18 April in Manchester with over 20 awards being handed out on the night.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2022/november/huddersfield-the-2022-award-win:
The University of Huddersfield has won the Outstanding Contribution to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion at the 2022 Times Higher Education (THE) Awards at a ceremony in London.
It claimed the award for the Huddersfield Differential Attainment Project , which makes innovative use of data analysis to help identify complex factors behind differential achievement across a range of student characteristics.
The data helps staff at School and course level pinpoint where they can target interventions to ensure our students achieve their best, whatever their background.
The award is the culmination of several years’ work by the University to reduce the attainment gap, led by its Strategic Teaching and Learning Team, which worked with staff across all Schools to plan and implement interventions.
Developments supporting all students across the institution include intensive transition programmes built around our award-winning Flying Start initiative.
This helps students move successfully from schools and colleges into higher education from the point at which they make a decision to come to the University of Huddersfield.
Other interventions include IT bursary schemes, curriculum redesign, a focus on personal academic tutoring, academic integrity training and enhanced academic and technical support.
Praising the University’s efforts, the THE judges said, “A vital component in promoting equal opportunity was a digital support scheme that offered laptops on loan, scholarships and £500 IT bursaries for students from low-income families.
All this meant the university was well placed to move to online learning when coronavirus lockdowns began in 2020 because students had access to targeted support to study independently.
“Too often, efforts to close the attainment gap in UK higher education have generated more noise than impact.
But the University of Huddersfield has proved that strategic, focused actions can make a real difference.
“The university analysed data to identify complex, intersecting factors affecting student outcomes in different contexts.
The results informed the development of targeted plans at departmental and course level.”
Professor Jane Owen-Lynch, Pro Vice-Chancellor for Learning and Teaching, said, “We are absolutely delighted to win this award.
It is a fantastic recognition for years of hard work and reducing the attainment gap, especially in the face of the challenges that the COVID-19 pandemic presented us with.
"I want to pay particular tribute to the core team, but also to all the staff across the institution for their contribution in helping to give our students the confidence and ability to be successful in higher education, whatever their background and context.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2021/september/sovereign-design-house-winner-huds-design-awards:
A FORMER shower block transformed into a chic café situated on the University of Huddersfield’s campus has come top in the annual Huddersfield Design Awards.
The University’s Sovereign Design House has won Best Refurbishment and Overall Winner for the stunning way it has transformed a derelict bath house on the site of an old foundry into a café and art gallery.
The annual awards organised by the Huddersfield Civic Society throw the spotlight on the best designs in Huddersfield.
Other winners were a memorial garden for the Windrush generation from Caribbean countries and artwork in the town’s Victorian Greenhead Park .
Broadbent’s engineering company had sold some of its site on Queen Street South to the University and part of it featured a derelict bath house which had been originally designed by architects Abbey Hanson Rowe in 1954 and the Huddersfield-based practice – now simply known as AHR – returned to turn it into something spectacular.
It’s one of the very few buildings in Huddersfield to have a roof terrace and the café will be open to the public from the 20 September.
The bath house is a Grade II listed building as it’s thought to be the only remaining purpose-built bath house for foundry workers in the UK.
AHR have included the old showers, soap holders and walls into the design along with original lockers to capture its history.
A floor has been removed to allow light to flood into the building which is ideal to hire for functions and it is situated adjacent to the University’s award-winning Barbara Hepworth Building.
AHR director Andrew France said: “One of the key challenges to overcome was the severely dilapidated state of the building which had been unoccupied for 10 years.
The building was in a very poor state of repair with water ingress, a partially collapsed roof, vermin issues and general vandalism.
“We worked to restore many of the building’s authentic properties including its roof terrace and sun lounge with the use of local stone, another distinguishing feature.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2021/april/university-retains-hr-excellence-in-research-award:
The University of Huddersfield is pleased to announce that it has retained its HR Excellence in Research award for its long-term commitment to the career development of its researchers.
The award follows the eight-year review of the University by the UK Excellence in Research Panel, and is one of a number of UK institutions with the award from Vitae, a non-profit programme that is part of the Careers Research & Advisory Centre (CRAC) Ltd.
The University first received the award in 2011.
Ruth Sivori, the University’s Head of Human Resources, commented: “The HR Excellence in Research Award is an important mechanism for implementing the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, and in retaining their Awards institutions demonstrate their long-term commitment to the career development of researchers.
“We are delighted to have retained the award at the eight-year review stage, through internal re-assessment confirmed by the UK HR Excellence in Research Award Panel.
We are confident that within the reviews and action plans developed that our strategies and activities undertaken for the Concordat are aligned with the overall University Strategy.”
Under its review, the University provided the panel with details of its action plan to support its researchers, including full access to training to allow for experience across the University, and a stable working environment through longer contracts or permanent roles.
The University web page on HR Excellence in Research is being updated with more information.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2020/november/uni-of-huddersfield-shortlisted-2020-the-awards:
Ahead of the annual Times Higher Education Awards next week, the University’s Director of Teaching, Learning and Student Experience within the School of Human and Health Sciences, who has been shortlisted in this year’s awards in recognition of her innovative teaching methods, was invited by Times Higher Education to write about how she manages with teaching online.
With most students new to online learning, many may lack the confidence to actively participate in group classes.
Here, Dr Blakeley offers tips on how to best develop students’ confidence and foster a sense of belonging that aids interaction, among students in the virtual classroom.
“Many colleagues in higher education have been grappling with how to encourage online interaction.
It can be a depressing experience when faced with a reluctance by students to turn on their videos or use their microphones.
Yet it is important to remember how alien this also feels for them.
This is particularly the case for first-year students who have not had the advantage of getting to know either their tutors or peers before being plunged into this online world.
They might lack confidence in you, each other and themselves.
In this context, we need to redefine our primary role as tutors and what counts as participation on the part of students.
“Students are looking for tutors to provide some certainty in an uncertain world and some positivity amid the gloom.
Don’t underestimate just how important your weekly online session might be for students in terms of providing a connection to some kind of normality.”
Dr Georgina Blakeley
Teaching in an online environment is as much about maintaining a social presence as it is about delivering content or developing skills.
Students need to know who you are and that you are there for them.
This is especially important for new students who might have had no prior contact with the teaching staff.
At the very least make sure you have your photo uploaded so they can see what you look like.
It might be amusing to have a photo of Shrek rather than yourself but that’s not terribly helpful to students who have no idea who you are.
Pay attention to the things that make you look like a real, and therefore approachable person.
Short, introductory videos where your children and/or pets interrupt you can be much more effective at making connections with students than professionally produced ones.
They can see that your life is as complicated as theirs, that you’re also struggling with different responsibilities and that you’re not perfect.
Other tools could include drop-ins, weekly newsletters, podcasts and discussion boards.
These are as much about social interaction as they are about information.
Also, think about how to use social media to build more informal connections with students.
This might entail posting a provocative question for students to respond to or it might be helping students take over a social media channel for the day so they can share study tips with each other.
“There is no such thing as a digital generation so don’t assume that being proficient on something like TikTok will make students comfortable on university platforms.”
Anything that gives students confidence and allows them to start from a position of authority or expertise is always helpful.
Don’t underestimate just how nervous many students will feel in an online environment: start from their own experience where they are the experts.
Get them to share their study experience at the start of a session: for example, ask them to share their top tips on managing their time or organising their study space.
Students are not only at a distance from lecturers; they are at a distance from each other and the sense of support they get from each other.
Interacting online can be awkward so it is important to structure interaction for students so they can engage with each other.
In other words, plan spontaneity!
Build time into teaching sessions for the informal, more fun stuff.
Doing a poll that asks students to use two words to describe how they’re feeling produces a nice word cloud that can effectively open the door to them talking about their hopes and fears.
Do a fun quiz to get them competing against each other in a low-stakes way.
It is also important to establish codes of conduct so students can learn how to interact positively online.
There is no such thing as a digital generation so don’t assume that being proficient on something like TikTok will make students comfortable on university platforms.
“Plan spontaneity!
Build time into teaching sessions for the informal, more fun stuff.”
Students differ enormously in their ability and readiness to engage online.
Few readily take to using the microphone for example.
This means that tutors need to rethink and value other ways in which students interact and engage.
The chatbox can be a powerful tool of interaction, allowing students to talk to each other and to the tutor.
Once students become more confident about using the chat, you can assign different students to monitor it, thereby nudging them to take more responsibility for their learning while also encouraging peer-to-peer learning.
Learn to enjoy the use of emojis and gifs: these count as student interaction and should be valued as such.
Asking students to use an emoji to express how they’re feeling can be a way to check in with all your students during a session.
Teaching in an online environment can often feel like talking in a vacuum because there are none of the usual cues that you get in a physical environment.
You can’t see students laughing, falling asleep or daydreaming.
This means that it is important to check their engagement more regularly than in an on-campus session.
Ask every 10 minutes or so for students to “applaud” if they have understood or post a smiley if they are ready to go to the next section.
If the medium allows, do a quick poll to see how your students are feeling or to check understanding.
Your goal is to get students to “lean in” and to do this you need to re-engage them frequently.
Similarly, don’t dismiss the silent students.
They might be learning in different ways to their more vocal peers, but their learning experience could be just as valuable for them, as long as you check regularly that they are engaging with their learning.
Students are looking for tutors to provide some certainty in an uncertain world and some positivity amid the gloom.
Don’t underestimate just how important your weekly online session might be for students in terms of providing a connection to some kind of normality.
For some, it might be their one fixed point in the week.
Make it a good one.”
This article was written by Dr Georgina Blakeley and first published by Times Higher Education .
The University’s Estates Department has been shortlisted for an ‘Outstanding Estates Strategy’ with the construction of the University’s Barbara Hepworth Building and an innovative scheme, that has given 150 young people with learning difficulties the chance to experience the world of work across the campus, has been named in the shortlist for ‘Outstanding Contribution to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion’.
The winners will be announced in an online awards ceremony taking place on 26 November.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2019/march/national-technology-awards-3mbic-huddersfield:
THE University’s 3M Buckley Innovation Centre (3M BIC) have been shortlisted for a national technology award in recognition of the investment in technology that has allowed small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) across the region to access advanced technologies to aid business growth and product development.
The National Technology Awards celebrate the pioneers of new technology and help drive standards and encourage excellence.
Shortlisted for the Technology Investment category, the entry focuses on the University’s technology investment made through the Huddersfield Innovation and Incubation Project (HIIP).
This was made possible with £2.9m funding from the Leeds City Region Enterprise Partnership (LEP), delivered by the West Yorkshire Combined Authority, through the Leeds City Region Growth Deal – a £1bn package of government investment to accelerate growth and create jobs across Leeds City Region.
The HIIP has allowed the University to purchase a range of transformational technologies to assist regional businesses to assess, adopt and use them to develop new and improved products, increase productivity and growth, all managed through the 3M BIC.
The 3M BIC acts as a gateway to the University’s research centres supporting business to academia collaborations and directly impacts the growth of tenants, network members and wider regional economy.
New equipment at the 3M BIC ranges from scanning and design tools; additive manufacture (AM) in polymers and metals; inspection equipment, including x-Ray; virtual and augmented reality (VR/AR), and eye tracking capabilities, all of which would usually be out of reach for SMEs.
In the coming months, businesses will also be able to access training initiatives to upskill existing staff or new recruits in additive manufacturing.
Michael Wilson, Centre Manager at the 3M BIC and Director of the HIIP, said: “Emerging technologies and competition are putting increased pressure on businesses of all sizes to innovate and diversify.
This is having a detrimental effect on SMEs and micro businesses that are struggling to keep up with their bigger counterparts.
They are needing to react quicker to marketplace challenges and innovate.
“We spotted a need for businesses, specifically SMEs, to access and adopt transformational technologies, essential for the growth of the UK’s manufacturing sector and to drive forward the Northern Powerhouse.
Through the HIIP, SMEs in the region are being given the opportunity to invest in research and development and exploit innovation through technology that would usually be out of their reach, as well as the chance to compete with larger companies.”
Roger Marsh, Chair of the Leeds City Region Enterprise Partnership (LEP), said: “I am delighted the LEP is supporting local small- and medium-sized enterprises through the University of Huddersfield’s 3M Buckley Innovation Centre, enabling access to a range of innovative technologies.
We want businesses across West Yorkshire to be able to compete with national counterparts, creating more and better jobs for local people so our region is recognised globally as a strong, successful economy.”
The National Technology Awards ceremony will take place on 16 May at the London Marriott Hotel.
The development of the technology, currently being patented, will enable the production of development intricate, high-strength components
The University will join with pioneering technology company PAXMAN to create the new PAXMAN Scalp Cooling Research Centre

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2018/april/unisflyingstartprojecttopsguardianuniversityawards:
AN innovative scheme that ensures new students get off to a flying start and make the most of their courses has earned a prestigious national award for the University of Huddersfield.
At the 2018 Guardian University Awards , it was named as winner of the Course and Curriculum Design category, after judges were impressed by a project that is named Flying Start , launched at the beginning of the current academic year.
Described as “an intense, aspiration-building, academically-challenging introduction to undergraduate study”, it consists of a two-week timetable of special sessions designed to stimulate academic interest, develop good study habits and provide opportunities for students to work and engage socially.
Flying Start students take part in quizzes and debates, subject-based film clubs, lab skills workshops, campus orienteering and special trips.
They also get the chance to meet successful alumni and begin thinking about their career goals.
So far, 900 students have experienced Flying Start and it has it led to a significant improvement in their sense of belonging, engagement and confidence.
Now, it is set to expand and the numbers taking will be doubled when the new academic year begins.
The scheme was conceived by the University of Huddersfield’s Pro Vice-Chancellor for Teaching and Learning, Professor Christine Jarvis, and she was one of the party that accepted the Guardian award, at a ceremony held at LSO St Luke’s in London.
Professor Jarvis was joined on the podium by two other key figures in the development and introduction of Flying Start , University of Huddersfield lecturers Jane Wormald and Katy Suggitt.
But she is quick to praise the contribution made by the large numbers of academic tutors and support staff who have helped launch the scheme.
“It was so impressive how all those people got together and did this work in a very intense period over the summer,” said Professor Jarvis.
“It was quite a feat and this was recognised by the judges, who commented how impressed they were by the scale of what we have done.”
Flying Start was developed as part of a wider project that has received funding from the Office for Students (OfS).
The University of Huddersfield has assembled a consortium of four institutions that has been investigating ways to overcome barriers that can prevent some students making a success of their courses.
For example, students who live at home while studying often apply to university as part of tight-knit friendship groups and this can prevent them from building new connections during their studies.
After Flying Start had been devised, a group of Huddersfield courses was chosen in order to pilot the scheme.
Now, it is to be more widely rolled out, with Business School and the School of Applied Sciences implementing Flying Start across all of their first year cohorts in September 2018.
In time, it is likely that the scheme will spread throughout the University, said Professor Jarvis.
“There are twice as many people want to do it this year as last year.
Word has spread through the staff that it is well worth doing, even though it is a lot of work.”
The implementation and success of Flying Start has been charted by University of Huddersfield Dr Cheryl Reynolds, who is project manager for the OfS-funded consortium.
She has told how evaluations have revealed that Flying Start students, particularly males, scored significantly higher for relationship formation, confidence and a sense of belonging.
“A focus group of tutors revealed that they, too, perceived FS as developing a greater sense of belonging, enthusiasm for the subject and independent learning,” states Dr Reynolds.
Huddersfield heads figures for teaching excellence in English higher education
The University beat 26 other finalists to become the first winner of the award pioneered by the Higher Education Academy

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2018/june/huddersfieldscoopstwothelmasatmajorlondonceremony:
The University of Huddersfield was the big winner at the tenth anniversary of a major awards ceremony.
It scooped two prizes in a scheme designed to celebrate the work of teams that provide expert support to the teaching and research activities of higher education institutions.
When the 2018 Times Higher Education Leadership and Management Awards were announced at an event in London, Huddersfield was the only double winner, in the categories of Outstanding Leadership and Management Team and Outstanding Strategic Planning Team .
Members of both teams took to the stage at the Grosvenor House Hotel to receive their awards – known as THELMAS – at a ceremony hosted by the actor and TV presenter Richard Ayoade.
The editor of Times Higher Education, John Gill, said that the 10th edition of his magazine’s awards scheme had produced a “stellar crop” of winners.
“The members of our judging panel were left inspired by the examples of individual and collective brilliance that shone through from the hundreds of entries,” he added, and congratulated Huddersfield for its success in taking two prizes back to Yorkshire.
Among the senior University of Huddersfield figures who attended the event and took to the podium were the Vice-Chancellor, Professor Bob Cryan , and his Deputy, Professor Tim Thornton .
“We are proud to have won many awards and distinctions in recent years,” said Professor Cryan.
“Our success at the 2018 THELMAS is an outstanding result that reflects the strength, commitment, dedication and hard work of all of the leadership team across the University.
I am just so proud to serve alongside them.” Professor Cryan added that the latest awards meant that Huddersfield had become the first UK institution to achieve a “full set” of all the top prizes in its sector.
They include Times Higher Education’s coveted University of the Year (2013) and Entrepreneurial University of the Year (2012).
In 2017, leading educationalists from around the world selected the University of Huddersfield as the first winner of the Global Teaching Excellence Award.
Other top honours received by the University include the Inspiring University Leader Award bestowed on Professor Cryan at the 2013 Guardian Higher Education Awards .
What the judges had to say...
Here is what the judges had to say about the two University of Huddersfield successes at the 2018 THELMAS:
The judges praised the University of Huddersfield’s leadership team for “pulling together to create a truly impressive transformation right across the University”.
Several years ago, Huddersfield’s nine-strong executive team – seven of whom have been working together for 10 years – decided to focus on creating a “strategy map” for the institution running from 2013 to 2018.
In following this, the emphasis was on achieving institutional excellence across teaching quality, staff qualifications, financial health and quality of estate, and by 2016-17 the results were clearly evident.
That year, the University’s success on its strategy was recognised repeatedly: it was revealed to have the highest proportion of academic staff with teaching qualifications or accreditation in England (90 per cent); it was ranked as the top mainstream higher education institution in England by the Higher Education Statistics Agency’s financial security index for the fifth successive year; and it performed strongly in HESA data on the condition of university estates.
Also that year, Huddersfield won not only a gold award in the Teaching Excellence Framework, but also first place in the Higher Education Academy’s Global Teaching Excellence Awards .
One strategic aim was to create an exemplary resource base, and Huddersfield is now delivering a £250 million capital plan – without borrowing.
The judges said that the leadership team’s “strong sense of direction developed via the use of a strategy map and their close consultation with staff to focus on teaching quality, academic staff qualifications and a well-considered capital plan is notable.
The University has also achieved excellent external individual and institutional validations and demonstrated strong financial sustainability.”
A data-based strategy that identifies students at risk of dropping out – combined with interventions to help them stay the course – earned the University of Huddersfield the accolade in this category.
Huddersfield’s strategic planning team, which has been responsible for implementing a five-year plan to enhance the student experience across the University, identified metrics to evaluate the student experience – dropout rates, student satisfaction, degree outcomes and employment – and hired a research fellow to run statistical analyses of the data.
This revealed that ethnicity was a proxy for many other factors, including living at home, having caring responsibilities for siblings and level of parental education – all of which needed to be understood when supporting students.
The team communicated the results to the Students’ Union, student support services, personal tutors and the University senior management team.
They also designed a range of interventions, including the Student Priority Support System, which ranked students by their risk of dropping out and used nudge theory to help keep them at university.
Since the project was launched, there has been improvement across all four metrics.
Delegations from the Department for Education and from Danish universities have visited Huddersfield to learn more about the project.
The judges praised the way that the Huddersfield planning team “maintained the strategic focus on students’ experience throughout the development of the strategic plan.
Their identification and correlation of proxy indicators to predict interventions was considered to be innovative and to offer good opportunities for transference elsewhere.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2018/april/unicatererstaketopnationalaward:
THE catering team at the University of Huddersfield has tasted more success.
At a ceremony in London it came away with two awards, further recognition for a service that has rapidly turned itself into one of the best in its sector.
The event was the Cost Sector Catering Awards , which have been held for the past 25 years, and are especially prestigious because they cover almost every aspect of the industry in the UK.
Huddersfield Catering Services were announced as winners of the University/College Award , while Catering Operations Manager Michaela Booth received the Innovation Award , in recognition of the transformation she has helped to bring about since her appointment 24 months ago.
The twin CSC awards follow the Team of the Year Award received by Huddersfield at the 2017 conference of TUCO, the professional membership body for in-house caterers in the higher and further education sector.
The Cost Sector Catering Awards had an audience of 700 at the Hilton London Metropole.
The MC was TV and radio personality Gyles Brandreth.
The only disappointment for the University of Huddersfield contingent was that Head Chef Lee Allsup was pipped at the post for the Chef of the Year category for which he had been shortlisted.
But later in the year he stands to scoop an award of his own, as a nominee for top Public Sector Chef in the ceremony organised by the Craft Guild of Chefs.
Among the party from Huddersfield at the awards was Assistant Director of Estates and Facilities Heather Whitehead, who was delighted by the recognition of the University’s Catering Services, which has a 70 strong staff – plus 25 part-time student workers – and operates 11 outlets on the campus.
Under the Michaela’s leadership – she can boast more than 20 years’ experience of catering in the education sector – together with the teamwork shown by all our staff, the service has seen major transformation.
Alongside a large increase in sales, the service maintains its high standards through a twice-yearly independent audited by a specialist consultancy, which now awards marks of more than 90 per cent and bestows a gold rating.
Heather Whitehead commented: “The awards recognise the hard work and achievement of every member of the Catering Services, as well as the support and investment of University senior managers, who gave Michaela and the team the chance and believed in what they could deliver.
“We see this as an important milestone in the journey but there is still so much more that we want to achieve at Huddersfield.
The University is growing with new buildings opening almost every year and we want to ensure that brilliant catering is at the heart of each new development to enhance the overall student experience on campus.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/lorem/archive/first-for-teaching:
You're going to be weighing up lots of things before making your decision about where to go to university.
But the standard of teaching is bound to be high on your list.
Knowledgeable, qualified teachers can inspire you to be the best that you can be and support you to achieve great things.
Everyone at Huddersfield puts the experience of our students at the heart of their work.
Professor Tim Thornton, Deputy Vice-Chancellor
We are joint-first in the UK for the proportion of professionally-qualified teaching staff and were the inaugural university to achieve recognition of this.* 94% of our academic staff hold an appropriate teaching qualification.
We're second in the country for National Teaching Fellowships.
Think of them like the teaching Oscars – they rate the UK’s best lecturers.
It’s part of our drive for teaching excellence, which helps you achieve great things too.
(2021 data)
And we're the UK’s only university where 100% of permanent teaching staff are Fellows of the Higher Education Academy**.
So you'll learn from some of the best, helping you be the best.
* HESA – Initially awarded in 2016, maintained in 2017, 2018 and 2019.
Joint first in 2020 and 2021.
** permanent staff, after probation: some recently appointed colleagues will only obtain recognition in the months after their arrival in Huddersfield, once they have started teaching.
So, Huddersfield is first for professionally qualified teaching staff.
What does this award mean?
The University of Huddersfield leads the field with over 90% of its academics holding a teaching qualification – the second place institution came in with 84%.
In December 2016 the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE) released figures comparing the number of academics holding a teaching qualification in 130 universities across England.
If I can inspire students to want to study, research and grow – instil in them a thirst for knowledge and practical experience – I feel this is the best path to effective learning, and in turn greater student achievement.
Dr Mark Mynett, Senior Lecturer in Music Technology and Production, winner of the University's Inspirational Teacher award 2016
I'd looked around some other universities but the staff here made a really good impression on me, they were so engaging and approachable.
Alec Tomlinson, Food and Nutrition BSc(Hons)
My lecturers make the subject what it is.
They are really approachable and genuinely want you to do your best.
Claire Hudson, History BA(Hons)
Come and visit us at one of our University Open Days guide .
Our Undergraduate Open Days run between June and December and we also run a Postgraduate Study Fair for those interested in postgraduate study.
Information about the teaching award and what Huddersfield has to offer

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/senior-staff/vice-chancellor:
Bob holds two first class honours degrees (Engineering, Mathematics), an MBA and two doctorates (PhD, DSc) and he is a Chartered Engineer, a Fellow of the Institution of Engineering Technology and a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
He has just completed his tenure as President of the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET), the largest professional engineering body in Europe.
Bob is delighted that the hard work of the University’s staff and students is being recognised through many awards including: Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF 2023) Gold, Ofsted Outstanding for apprenticeship provision in 2023, the Higher Education Academy’s first ever Global Teaching Excellence award in 2017, a Queen's Anniversary Prize (2015, 2019 & 2021); The Daily Telegraph Educate North New University of the Year 2015/16; the Times Higher University of the Year 2013/14; the Queen’s Award for Enterprise (International Trade) 2013 and 2022; and the Times Higher Entrepreneurial University of the Year 2012/13.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2015/june/universityssuccessinnorthernpowerhouseawards.php:
{{item.desc}}
Thu, 04 Jun 2015 11:08:00 BST
Vice-Chancellor Professor Bob Cryan is pictured receiving his leadership award at the ceremony.
Photo Credit: Alex Stone of Don't Panic Projects.
THE University of Huddersfield is a double winner in a new awards scheme designed to celebrate the crucial role of Higher Education in the “Northern powerhouse”.
At the inaugural Educate North Awards , Huddersfield was named New University of the Year, and its Vice-Chancellor, Professor Bob Cryan CBE , won the Leadership Award.
Professor Cryan - who was present at the event - said that he was delighted by his personal victory and by the title bestowed on the University of Huddersfield.
“We’ve won a lot of awards in recent years, but the excitement and the pride never fade.
Every prize like this is a tribute to the hard work of our staff and students in making sure that our University continues to make remarkable progress,” he said.
Educate North – backed by The Telegraph Media Group in association with UMIP and Barclays - was launched this year in order to celebrate the excellence of the Northern education sector, seen as crucial to the economic future of a region that the Government has dubbed a potential “Northern powerhouse”.
There were seventeen awards and Universities from across the northern region made the  shortlist including Liverpool, Lancaster, Leeds, Hull, York, Newcastle and of course Huddersfield.
Pictured right: The award ceremony where the University received the New University of the Year title from the awards patron John Kennedy CBE.
‌In addition to the awards ceremony, the inaugural Educate North event also featured a conference at which speakers discussed the importance of the region’s universities in sparking innovation and excellence.
There was a shortlist of three for the title New University of the Year – sponsored by John Kennedy CBE - Huddersfield being selected as the winner.
The term “new university” is used in the sector to describe institutions which made the transition to full university status in the early 1990s.
Professor Cryan’s Leadership Award comes in the year that he received his CBE , bestowed at Buckingham Palace for his contribution to Higher Education.
He has been Vice-Chancellor of the University of Huddersfield since 2007 and is a past winner of the Guardian Inspiring Leader of the Year Award .
His role in the economic regeneration of the North has included chairing the Business Innovation Growth panel of the Leeds City Region and membership of the Leeds City Region LEP Board.
Also, he is a Deputy Lieutenant for West Yorkshire .
When the University of Huddersfield made its official submission to the Educate North Awards - leading to the New University of the Year title – it stressed its role in the regional economy.
“We are internationally engaged, but also a product of the traditions and values of industrial Yorkshire and the North of England and dedicated to making a key contribution to the economic regeneration of the region through teaching, research and entrepreneurialism.”
‌In recent years, Huddersfield has been  recognised as Times Higher Education University of the Year , plus Entrepreneurial University of the Year ,  and it has received two Queen’s Awards .
‌In addition to victory in two categories at Educate North, the University of Huddersfield was also shortlisted for  Research Project of the Year.
This was for Extended Play , an innovative new publishing platform developed by Professor Alex Coles (pictured left) of the School of Art, Design and Architecture .
Speaking about the new awards scheme, Professor Phil Harris, chairman of the judging panel, welcomed the recognition given to northern institutions, saying many were beginning to challenge the authority of the 'golden triangle' universities of Oxford, Cambridge and London, especially in science, technology and engineering.
Back to news index - June
© {{date | date:"yyyy"}} University of Huddersfield - All rights reserved.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2017/august/universityawardedgoldinteachingexcellenceframework:
THE excellence of its teaching has earned the University of Huddersfield a coveted Gold Award in a major new assessment scheme.
It is one of only two institutions in Yorkshire and the Humber to receive a Gold Award.
This confirms it as one of the top educational institutions in the UK.
Factors such as highly-qualified staff, individualised learning support and rapid feedback on coursework have propelled the University into the top category of the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF).
Introduced by the UK Government, its main aim is to “provide clear information to students about where the best provision can be found”.
The TEF is administered by the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE), which has now announced rankings for Year Two of the scheme.
HEFCE states that the Gold Award signifies that “provision is consistently outstanding and of the highest quality found in the UK Higher Education Sector”.
Huddersfield was one of just 59 to achieve the top Gold Award, and became one of only two ‘Gold universities’ in Yorkshire
A total of 299 universities, colleges and other providers of higher education volunteered to participate in the TEF – which becomes compulsory from 2018 – and they were appraised by a HEFCE panel that used a wide range of data to focus on ‘core metrics’ that covered elements such as teaching quality, the learning environment and what students gain from their courses, including added employability.
A highly-detailed 15-page submission also formed part of the assessment process.
The University of Huddersfield’s document highlighted factors such as its Strategy Map, which has a central aim of inspiring students through outstanding teaching.
Huddersfield’s 19,000 students also benefit from a high-quality campus, ranked in the top 10 per cent nationally.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2018/march/unihighintopquartilefornumberoflecturingstaffwithphds:
A STRATEGY to ensure that its lecturers are the best qualified in UK Higher Education has led to the University of Huddersfield surging up tables compiled by the sector’s official statistics agency.
Huddersfield has retained its first place ranking for the proportion of staff who hold a teaching qualification.
It also leads the university sector for the numbers who hold postgraduate degrees.
And it is making exceptional progress in its drive to ensure that all lecturers have doctorates – the gold standard for expertise in their subject areas.
New figures show that the proportion of Huddersfield staff who have been awarded PhDs is already one of the highest out of the 164 institutions surveyed by the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA), which just released data for 2016-17.
And because all full-time lecturers at Huddersfield are required to register for doctoral study, this figure will rapidly increase.
Already, with 66.48 per cent of staff holding doctorates, Huddersfield is well inside the upper quartile for the UK Higher Education sector, ahead of 135 institutions that include the universities of Leeds, Birmingham, Hull, Lancaster, Cranfield and University College London.
As more and more Huddersfield staff complete their doctoral projects, it seems certain that the University will soon surpass even Cambridge University, where 66.61 per cent of lecturers currently hold PhDs.
The figures from HESA also show that 94.1 per cent of academic staff at Huddersfield hold Master’s degrees or higher, including doctorates.
Only two very small, specialised institutions have returned a higher figure.
It was in 2013 that the University of Huddersfield’s official strategy first insisted that all full-time, permanent lecturers have a doctorate or study to acquire one.
HESA’s data show that rapid progress has been made towards this goal.
In 2013, 39.32 per cent of teaching staff had PhDs.
Now it has climbed to 66.40 per cent.
In 2011, the figure was 33.04 per cent, meaning that it has doubled in well under a decade.
Delighted by the latest HESA figures, the University of Huddersfield’s Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Professor Tim Thornton, said: “It is part of our strategy that 100 per cent of academic staff should hold or be registered for a doctorate because this qualification is absolute proof of their right to teach at university level, and it helps to guarantee that our students receive a first-class education from people whose expertise includes original research in their subject areas.”
Since 2016, Huddersfield has also headed HESA’s table showing the percentage of staff with an academic teaching qualification.
With a latest figure of 94.1 per cent – up from 93 per cent in the last data set – it has retained the top spot among English universities.
The next-placed institution is at 92.2 per cent, and many return considerably lower figures.
In 2017, the high proportion of staff with teaching qualifications, alongside factors such individualised learning support and rapid feedback on coursework, helped to secure Gold status in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) introduced by the Government to “provide clear information to students about where the best provision can be found”.
Also in 2017, the University was the inaugural winner of the Global Teaching Excellence Award , beating a shortlist of over 20 leading institutions across five continents.
The University will receive the funding for Material Science and Engineering doctoral projects as part of the Doctoral Training Partnerships

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2018/july/huddersfield-top-four-for-employability:
HUDDERSFIELD is established as one of the top four universities in England for ensuring the employability of graduates.
The Government-backed Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) has released new figures showing the numbers of former students who are either working or have moved on to further studies six months after their graduation in 2016-17.
At Huddersfield, the proportion is 97.3%.
This is the fourth best figure among English universities described as “mainstream” – meaning they are not specialist colleges and that they have a total annual income of £100 million or more.
Fourth place means that the Huddersfield has the best record for employability among mainstream universities in the North of England.
Also, the statistics show Huddersfield performing markedly better than its “benchmark” – arrived at through various factors, including entry qualifications of students.
Consistently strong performances in graduate employment have been an important factor in securing Huddersfield its coveted Gold award in the UK Government’s Teaching Excellence Framework and winning it the first ever Global Teaching Excellence Award.
The Vice-Chancellor at the University of Huddersfield, Professor Bob Cryan, is delighted by the new HESA figures.
“They are further official recognition of the success of the lecturers, support staff, and students themselves who had worked hard to ensure this achievement, as well as all the partners in industry and the professions with whom we work so closely,” he said.
“Employability of graduates is at the core of our mission as a university, and has been since we originated 177 years ago,” continued Professor Cryan.
“It is written into our current strategy that we should inspire employable and enterprising graduates, and it is uplifting to see this bearing fruit.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2018/july/cmi-level7:
THE University of Huddersfield is becoming one of the best-managed organisations in the country, said a leading expert when she took part in a ceremony attended by its Chancellor, His Royal Highness The Duke of York.
The event was the presentation of certificates to the first 82 members of the University’s staff who have achieved the qualification Chartered Manager, as bestowed by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI).
It is the aim of the University to become the world’s first large organisation to be led by a team with 100 per cent Chartered status.
Eventually, some 350 will have undergone the rigorous accreditation.
It is expected that the process will be completed by 2020.
By then, all managers will have taken a bespoke course of blended study, workshops, tutorials and e-learning designed to tackle leadership challenges at the University.
A special ceremony took place at the University’s St Paul’s Hall for the first cohort to have earned the CMI’s L7 postgraduate-level Strategic Management and Leadership certificate.
After receiving their framed awards, they were congratulated by The Duke, who said that the University represented a “pinnacle” of teamwork.
Also present was Ann Francke, who is CEO of the CMI.
She praised the University’s decision to seek Chartered status for all of its leaders and told how the benefits would cascade throughout the institution, especially as managers would have to ensure that they maintained their levels of capability.
“I have no doubt that the University of Huddersfield will become one of the best-managed teams in the country,” said Ms Francke.
The University’s senior team includes seven who have been appointed CMI Companions – the invitation-only network for successful business leaders.
This is more than any other organisation, and one of them is the University’s Vice-Chancellor, Professor Bob Cryan.
Speaking at the start of the awards ceremony he expressed his pride in the project to secure 100 per cent Chartered status and explained the thinking behind it – that all managers should pose themselves the question “what gives me the right to manage?”
“The right qualifications are key to it and at the University of Huddersfield, we are poised to have the best-qualified management team in the HE sector.
Congratulations to those of you who are in the vanguard of this,” said Professor Cryan.
But there would be no resting on laurels, he added.
“A strength of the CMI process is that it includes annual reviews if Chartered status is to be maintained.
This ensures we must all keep our practice up-to-date.
As a result, the benchmark for managerial excellence at the University of Huddersfield is constantly being raised.”
Chartered Manager is the highest accreditation in the field of management, and is currently held by more than 6,500 professional managers working across all industries and sectors.
According to CMI research, Chartered Managers add an average of £391,000 of value to their employers.
Managers can achieve Chartered status through a number of routes, including taking CMI-backed qualifications, taking a Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship, or demonstrating professional experience.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2019/february/cmi-companion-chair-bob-cryan:
UNIVERSITY of Huddersfield Vice-Chancellor Professor Bob Cryan is to be the new Chair of the Board of Companions of the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) and has become a member of its Board of Trustees.
The appointment has been hailed as a “great milestone” by the CMI’s Chief Executive.
The University is the first higher education institution in the world to aim for all its managers to achieve the qualification Chartered Manager (CMgr), as awarded by the CMI.
This means that 350 of the University’s managers will qualify as CMgr, and several have also achieved the higher honours awarded by the CMI, including Fellowships.
The top honour is Companionship, held by Professor Bob Cryan and several of his senior colleagues.
The first members of staff to become CMgr received certificates at a ceremony presided over by the University’s Chancellor, HRH The Duke of York.
The CEO of the CMI, Anne Francke, was a special guest and she praised the initiative taken by Professor Cryan, stating that “organisations that invest effectively in management outperform the rest, boosting their results by 20 per cent and their productivity by a third”.
Now Professor Cryan succeeds Patrick Dunne, who has served as Chair of the CMI Board of Companions and as a CMI Trustee since 2013.
“The Chartered Management Institute sets the Gold standard internationally for management and leadership,” said Professor Cryan.
“To join the CMI Board of Trustees and to be appointed as Chair of the CMI Board of Companions is both an honour and a privilege,” he continued, and added that he was looking forward to working with Anne Francke and with Bruce Carnegie-Brown, President of CMI, in order to “further the CMI’s mission of increasing the number and standard of professionally-qualified managers, both in the UK and internationally.”
Announcing the appointment of Professor Cryan, Bruce Carnegie-Brown said: “Bob brings a wealth of experience from across the education sector and has a proven track record of building successful partnerships between business and education.
He is an inspirational leader and will be a huge asset to CMI.”
CEO Ann Francke said: “The appointment of Bob, an award-winning leader, represents a great milestone for CMI as we seek to better engage our membership community and drive up professional standards in management and leadership.
Commitment to high quality and impactful leadership has always been both a passion and at the heart of Bob’s achievements throughout his career and I look forward to working with Bob in the years ahead.”
Over the course of his career Professor Cryan’s many achievements include becoming the UK’s youngest professor of engineering, at the age of 30, and subsequently the youngest leader of a UK University upon his appointment to the role of Vice-Chancellor at Huddersfield in 2007.
Under his leadership, the University of Huddersfield has also been recognised through the Higher Education Academy’s first ever Global Teaching Excellence Award and a Gold rating in the 2017 Teaching Excellence Framework, The Daily Telegraph Educate North New University of the Year 2015/16 , a Queen’s Anniversary Prize in 2015 and the Times Higher University of the Year 2013/14.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/estates:
This very clear and succinct mission statement enables Estates and Facilities to remain totally focused on delivering top class facilities within quality buildings that are constructed, maintained and operated to the highest possible standards.
The services delivered on campus will remain customer focused and responsive to the changing needs of the business and the client’s requirements.
Estates and Facilities, Property Services Group, which encompass Property Services, Combined Service Group and the Estates Helpdesk are committed to improving our service delivery and increasing customer satisfaction by ensuring that the services we provide reflect the on-going needs of our customers through our Customer Service Standards.
Estates and Facilities are committed to providing high quality accommodation for teaching and learning.
The University of Huddersfield is committed to the environment in the way it manages the campus.
Contact details of the Estates and Facilities service
View our customer service information and let us know what you think of our service
Come and meet the people and services who make up the Estates and Facilities Team
A central point of contact for all departments to log repairs and requests for services
Find out more about the work of the Estates and Facilities staff throughout the pandemic.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/sustainability/biodiversity:
Biodiversity is the variety and variability of life on Earth, typically a measure of variation at the genetic, species and ecosystem level.
Biodiversity is an important component of sustainability, playing a vital role in supporting ecosystem services such as: cl imate change mitigation, maintaining healthy soil s for food production, improved air quality and improved Quality of Life for users through the provision of green space for leisure, recreation and learning.
It is because of these benefits, and the alarming rate of global biodiversity decline that the University of Huddersfield is committed to not only conserving but enhancing the environment around us.
We will ensure a net gain in biodiversity on campus, and in the wider Huddersfield area by introducing and maintaining wildlife c orridors to the wider urban and rural landscapes surrounding the Universit y’s campus.
There are a variety of initiatives taking place both on and off campus aimed at enhancing biodiversity and connecting people with nature.
Take a look of some of the steps we have taken below:
Check out the work we've been doing to make campus Hedgehog friendly!
Take a look at the planting regimes that we're implementing on campus and across the student realm areas.
We have an allotment groups at the University, check here to find our more or to get involved!
There are several short walks in nature in and around campus, see more here!
In 2021 JCA were commissioned by the University to undertake an ecological assessment of the Queensgate campus
In 2021 JCA were commissioned to assess the trees on the Queensgate Campus
The University of Hudder sfield is lucky enough to have access to an Allotment Group called the 'Feel Good Gardening Gang', which has three locations over campus.
Used coff ee grounds from the University are incorporated into the compost at the allotment and in a bid to close the loop excess produce from the allotment is utilised by the University kitchen and incorporated into the menu at International Kitchen.
Su pported by the Sustainability Team, the Staff and Student Allotment was established in the Summer of 2018 by a group of staff volunteers from Computing and Library Services .
The group were awarded a group of planters located centrally on campus by Schwann Building, each planter has been adopted by teams from departments across the University who come together to exchange growing tips, harvests and company over the lunchtime period.
The group have hosted picnic events at the University, attended by the Vice Chancellor Professor Bob Cryan where expertise alongside home grown and homemade produce was shared among staff.
The success of the small Staff Allotment Group has allowed us to expand the project to cover more areas of campus and to welcome the input of students too.
If you wish to get involved with either of the allotment groups please contact us at sustainability@hud.ac.uk
The University is currently working to make its' campus hedgehog friendly as part of the Hedgehog Friendly Campus campaign.
This campaign is particularly important to us as despite being the nations favourite mammal, the hedgehog is suffering from a dramatic population decline.
Since the year 2000, urban hedgehogs have declined by 30%, and rural hedgehogs are down by 50%.
Headed by the Sustainability Team the University has assembled HudHogs, a working group to champion hedgehogs on and off of campus.
Take a look below at some of the work that HudHogs have been up to over the last 12 months:
If you have a passion for hedgehogs or would simply like to know more, please get in touch with us here to see how you can join the campaign.
Check out Daniella's Hedgehog Blog , a fellow member of HudsHogs to see why she joined the campaign and see how she's been involved so far!
You could also take a look at some of the tips below to help you make your own garden hedgehog friendly:
Green Walks
Environmental psychologists know that encounters with the natural world are beneficial for our health and wellbeing.
Research suggests that exposure to nature bo osts our mood and can reduce blood pressure, heart rate and muscle tension resulting in reduced levels of stress.
It is because of these benefits that we are committed to creating and maintaining accessible green space for our students, staff and members of the public to enjoy.
We are very lucky to have a variety of habitats on campus including the Huddersfield Narrow Canal, w oodland and managed landscaped grounds .
To help you explore the environment on and around campus easily we have collaborated with local community group Environment Kirklees on their Greenstreams project to tidy up the footpaths that run along the River Colne and to open up the space for walkers to enjoy.
Two short walk s ha ve been de signed that incorporates the University of Huddersfield’s grounds and the River Colne catchment, these are easy to access and if you link the two routes together by walking down Kingsmill Road the route becomes a 2 km circular route, the perfect distance to be completed on your lunch break !
Check out the Greenstreams campus walk here!
It is important to take a break from your desk, and in addition to the benefits of interacting with nature there are even more pros of walking too!
Being active gets the heart pumping faster and circulates more blood, resulting in more oxygen -rich blood getting to the brain thus boosting brain function and creativity.
The positive effects on wellbeing of a walk through nature can last up to 7-hours, with sunlight exposure also being found to last up t o 7-hours after an individual has experienced it.
For more information on wellbeing for Students at the University visit the Wellbeing Support pages here , or visit the Staff Wellbeing Pages.
The University of Huddersfield has a densely packed town centre campus with limited greenspace; however , our aim is that with careful planning and planting we can maximise the benefits of the space that we have.
Student realm landscaping will centre around maximising the space for biodiversity, while creating seating areas, walkways and recreational spaces that enable users to enjoy the green areas that are available on campus.
As we continue to develop the estate and its grounds new planting regimes are being developed focusing on the introduction of native species that are both insect and bee friendly.
It is our hope that these pollinator friendly species coupled with an increase in fruit trees, bushes, herbs and other sensory species will result in a net increase in biodiversity while creating a n environment that can be enjoyed by staff and students on campus.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/sustainability/carbonenergyandwater:
The University of Huddersfield is committed to reducing the impact of our estate on climate change.
Over the last 20 years, we have made significant progress in this mission:
The Net Zero Carbon Emissions Plan sets out ambitious targets for further carbon reduction:
Estates and Facilities are busy making the University’s decarbonisation pathway into a reality.
Explore some of our high-profile projects below:
The University has lots of on-site solar panels.
Learn about how the University is building a highly efficient estate.
Learn more about the energy audit programme.
There are a lot of ways to get involved with decarbonisation at the University.
Every year the University tries to break it's record of energy and carbon saved during the Christmas shutdown.
Campus will be getting greener and brighter!
Read about how we monitor and track our progress with carbon reduction.
Learn more about the related policies.
Our decarbonisation work supports the UN SDGs.
We have three buildings on campus with photovoltaic (PV) solar panels which generate over 375,000 kWh each year.
This is equivalent to the energy which would be required to power a typical electric car for a journey 6 times around the circumference of the earth!
The University has a range of new buildings and redevelopments which incorporate market leading technologies.
All of the new buildings are ‘fossil fuel free’, generally utilising air source heat pump technology to heat and cool the buildings.
Every redevelopment or refurbishment project is taken as a significant opportunity to optimise and upgrade equipment – whether this be lighting, heating, ventilation, or research equipment.
Our highest profile projects are the new National Health Innovation Campus (NHIC) and the redevelopment of our historic Ramsden Building .
The University’s Sustainability Team are in the process of conducting a thorough energy survey of the highest energy consuming buildings on the Queensgate campus.
This programme is continually highlighting opportunities to improve the efficiency of our equipment, reducing our overall carbon footprint.
The current programme for energy reviews can be seen below:
Our ambitious Net Zero targets will not be achieved easily.
We need collaboration, ideas and support from the whole University community.
Here are some ideas of how you can get involved in supporting this mission:
Every year the University tries to break its record of energy and carbon saved during the Christmas campus shutdown.
Christmas 2024 saw a highly successful Christmas Switch-Off campaign.
Thanks to the enthusiastic collaboration between staff and students, approximately 97 tonnes of CO 2 were saved , which is equivalent to approximately 2% of our annual carbon footprint (scope 1 and 2).
Between 2024 and 2026, we will upgrade all our old light fittings to highly efficient LED fixtures.
Scope 1 (direct emissions) and Scope 2 (emissions from electricity use)
The University’s Net Zero Carbon Emissions Plan sets out an absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions target of 3,000 tonnes CO 2 per year by 2030.
Each year, the University reports our progress against this target in the University’s financial statement .
Our emissions are measured according to the Standardised Carbon Emissions Framework (SCEF) , which complies with the GHG Protocol and aligns with the approach taken by most other Higher and Further Education institutions in the UK.
Scope 3 (indirect emissions)
This represents the largest source of emissions from the university's activities, and the hardest to manage due to them falling outside the organisation’s direct control.
Areas that create Scope 3 emissions include business travel, goods and services procured, building and facilities management and construction, Information and Communication Technology services, waste, and water management.
Scope 3 emissions can vary significantly from year to year based upon internal and external factors affecting the university.
The university's reported indirect emissions figure for 2023/24 is 17747.57tco 2 e.
The university will continue to develop its measurement framework to ensure the application of a robust Scope 3 evaluation system.
The University's Carbon Neutral Strategy and Net Zero Carbon Emissions Plan ensure that the University is working towards goals 6, 7 , 9 , 11, 12, and 13 of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/sustainability/cycling:
Here at the University of Huddersfield we are working hard to improve the facilities we provide to cyclists, helping our staff, students and visitors to build cycling into their daily routine.
Incorporating cycling into your commute, even just a couple of times a week has an array of benefits for both you and the environment, including:
Check here for the latest training opportunities.
Check here to view the benefits available to cyclists at the University.
Find out more about purchasing or hiring a bike.
There are a range of shower and changing facilities available for use by students, staff and visitors to the University.
View the full list of shower and changing facilities The shower and changing facilities located in the Sport Centre on level 3 of the Student Central Building are open to staff, students and visitors who are not members of the gym.
This equipment is located at the University Reception and can be borrowed free of charge by any staff or student on campus.
Where cycles are inappropriately parked or suspected to be abandoned they will be removed my Security Services.
The Sustainability Team run regular bike maintenance and cycle proficiency workshops (on campus and along the canal towpaths), accessible to both staff and student cyclists .
These will vary in difficulty, from beginner cycle training, to more in depth bike mechanics.
If you are interested in joining a training cycle session then contact the Sustainability Team to find out more about the next training opportunities.
CVCT run free training sessions from learning to ride, how to ride safely on the roads and control traffic, as well as 1-1 sessions to help you plan a cycle friendly route from your home to wherever you want to go.
Bikes and helmets are available to use, so you don't need a bike to join a session.
Sessions are available weekly at the Leeds Road Sports Centre in Huddersfield and fortnightly at the Walk Wheel Ride base in Slaithwaite in the Colne Valley.
Click here to find out more.
The University of Huddersfield is pleased to be working with Halfords Cycle2Work to offer employees with tax free bikes for work.
For more information view the Cycle 2 Work poster here.
The University has also partnered up with other national and local companies to offer discounts on bikes and cycle products to employees.
Visit the Employee Benefits webpage for further information on how to redeem these benefits.
Are you keen to start cycling, but don't have a bike?
Streetbikes are a locally based company and recycle donated and unwanted bikes to return them back to the community and bring them back to life.
Their recycled bikes are available at affordable prices, and all of the funds that are generated go straight back into the charity.
If you are interested in seeing what bikes are available for purchase than please arrange a visit to their workshop based in Milnsbridge.
Experience Community are a c ompany that help physically disabled people enjoy the benefits of outdoor and green spaces.
They advise on suppliers for a fleet of mobility equipment including wheelchair clip-on attachments, off-road wheelchairs, trikes and adapted (AKA non-standard) cycles.
Get in touch if you would are interested in hiring or purchasing adapted cycling equipment.
See the Employee Benefits section for more information on cycle to work schemes and discounts on bikes and cycling accessories from various suppliers.
If you live in West Yorkshire you can use the West Yorkshire Cycle Routes and maps provided by Cycling UK to plan your journey by bike.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/sustainability/education-for-sustainable-development:
"We will place sustainability at the heart of our curriculum, ensuring it is at the centre of our understanding of future global professionals"
The University of Huddersfield is committed to educating our students on the importance of sustainable development.
We are committed to enabling our educators to integrate education for sustainable development (ESD) into our teaching.
This process is led by the Pro-Vice Chancellor for Teaching & Learning Prof.
Jane Owen-Lynch.
Most full-time undergraduate students are enrolled on to the Global Professional Award, which they are expected to complete alongside their degrees.
In live workshops and through self-directed resources, students are taught about the importance of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in workplaces and wider society.
They are required to reflect on their current and future engagement with the SDGs, and to consider the impact this can have on themselves and those around them, helping our learners to become truly global professionals.
The annual Teaching and Learning Conference enables peer led workshops to share best practice and enable discussion on methods to incorporate ESD into module design.
Examples include the School of Applied Sciences (SAS) who have mapped their geosciences courses to the SDGs, and the Huddersfield Business School who have been longstanding advanced signatories to the UN Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME)
Further details on how the Sustainable Development Goals have been embedded into our Global Professional Award and teaching can be found on our pages where the university has mapped its progress towards delivering the SDGs (see link below)
The University has embedded the Sustainable Development Goals into its education provision
Huddersfield Business School is an Advanced Signatory with the Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME), who partner with the United Nations to promote corporate sustainability and social responsibility in management-related academic institutions.
The Global Professional Award (GPA) is a three-year programme in which undergraduate students develop key capabilities related to employability, wellbeing, and enterprise.
The GPA is accredited to Level 5 with the Chartered Management Institute (CMI)

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/sustainability/environmentalaudits:
As part of our ambition to continually improve the sustainability of its operations, the University regularly conducts internal audits.
These audits involve a quantitative comparison of our environmental performance against a baseline figure.
Over time, there is an ambition to demonstrate a significant measured improvement in each metric.
The results of each audit are used internally to track progress and evaluate strategic priorities.
The most recent audit reports for each of the seven environmental categories can be downloaded below.
Learn more about the C onstruction and Refurbishment Audit.
Learn more about the Emissions Audit.
Learn more about the Water Audit
Find out more about the Travel Audit.
Find out more about the Waste Management Audit.
Find more about the Energy Audit.
Find out more about the Biodiversity Audit
Learn more about the carbon emissions from local Non-University Owned Student Residential Accommodation.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/sustainability/fairtrade:
The University of Huddersfield’s Catering department works closely with the Sustainability Team to ensure that possible sustainable choices are made when it comes to the provision of food on campus.
The University prides itself on offering students, staff, and visitors a variety of healthy, sustainable, and cost-effective options when visiting our Huddersfood outlets.
The University supports a variety of projects including the Fairtrade University Award, The Staff Allotments, Storthes Hall Allotment, and purchases in accordance with a variety of food standards and assurances.
You can check out the Fairtrade Policy and Action Plan to find out more about the campaign below.
Huddersfood has 10 outlets across campus, all of which serve a selection of hot and cold beverages.
Vegetarian ad Vegan options are available from all outlets however you can also find the PETA recognised Veggie Hut at No.
10 located on Level 1 of Harold Wilson, where you can find a variety of vegetarian and vegan options.
How the University's Catering Service will embed sustainability into its operations
The University assigns great importance to its global impact, and therefore is committed to supporting, and promoting Fairtrade
Action plan for implementing Fairtrade at the University
Staying hydrated has been proven to help the general health and cognitive function in students.
The University provides water fountains located across our campus and, unless otherwise identified, water from kitchenettes is also drinkable.
Due to coronavirus protocols the current advice is to bring your own refillable and sealable water bottle on to campus to reduce the potential routes of virus transfer, these may be filled from water fountains or suitable taps.
As the use of campus increases this advice will continue to reduce the number of single-use cups that may be used.
If you have any accessibility issues in using or locating water fountains, please speak to a member of catering staff or at iPoint and they will help you.
Fairtrade is a growing international movement, which aims to alleviate Third World poverty by ensuring that producers in developing countries get a fair deal for their products.
Fairtrade is about fairer prices, decent working conditions, local sustainability, and fair terms of trade for farmers and workers in the developing world.
The Fairtrade mark guarantees a price that covers the cost of production, a social premium for producer groups to invest in business or community development and long-term trading relationships which provide real security.
By purchasing products with the Fairtrade mark you can play a significant role in improving the trading conditions of the world’s most disadvantaged producers.
We have championed Fairtrade both on campus since 2009, and in the wider community as part of the Kirklees Fairtrade Forum which has secured Fairtrade Borough status for Kirklees since 2011.
Over the last 2-years the University of Huddersfield and the Students’ Union have developed a partnership to champion Fairtrade at the University while working towards the redeveloped NUS Fairtrade University Award.
The partnership has recently developed an all new to ensure the continued growth and support of Fairtrade and ethical purchasing across campus.
For further information on what the University is doing to support Fairtrade please refer to the Fairtrade Policy.
Over the last 12 months the University has increased the range of Fairtrade products available to purchase and hosted a variety of events on campus.
Where possible Fairtrade ingredients are incorporated into dishes served at the Huddersfood outlets, and a large proportion of tea, coffee and sugar served is now Fairtrade as standard.
You can view our Fairtrade Impact 2022 .
The Fairtrade University and College Award is a partnership scheme run by The Fairtrade Foundation and the NUS.
The scheme aims to provide opportunities for universities to develop continually, year on year to become Fairtrade accredited and to progress up a tiered award system.
The award introduces scope to recognise ethical sourcing and programmes that are not Fairtrade, encouraging student engagement through increased Fairtrade product range and the student auditor programme.
Try Fairtrade- where possible purchase Fairtrade products such as Tea, Coffee, and Sugar.
You can also purchase a selection of Fairtrade chocolates and snack bars at all Huddersfood Outlets and in the Students’ Union Shop.
Promote Fairtrade- introduce people to Fairtrade at home and on campus.
Get in touch to see how you can incorporate Fairtrade into your event!
Join in- don’t forget to look out for Fairtrade events taking place across campus, especially during Fairtrade Fortnight which takes place every February.
The University purchases and serves food in accordance with the following certificates and assurances:
The University is committed to supporting local farmers and businesses, and where possible buys its produce locally.
Many of our suppliers are from Bradford, Sheffield and York and provide us with local produce including bread, sandwiches, crisps, milk and seasonable vegetables.
The Allotment Project located on campus gained great momentum as an educational and social space for staff throughout the summer and autumn of 2019, resulting in an increased demand for similar projects.
The mini-allotments were unable to be tended by the group during the Coronavirus pandemic so the University organised to have these replanted with herbs and other edibles for the enjoyment of the whole University community as they return to campus.
This project is currently under development to allow its’ expansion to include more staff and students at locations across the University Estate.
These planters are adopted by small groups or departments, get in touch to register your interest!
Take a look at the projects taking place at the University
We are a Fairtrade University!
Find out what standards we purchase to.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/sustainability/campus-green-spaces:
All around the campus there are a selection of green spaces and flower beds found in designated planters, architectural landscaping and the layout of the land the campus is built upon.
The Campus Support and Grounds Maintenance team plan, design and tend to these areas over the various seasons of the year, so the areas are always visually interesting, contain native, insect attracting plants and are biodiverse.
Did you know that staff and students have the opportunity to be involved with gardening on campus too?
It is well known that gardening and being outside in the fresh Yorkshire air can have many health and wellbeing benefits, as well as providing a gentle form of exercise and improving mental health.
Being surrounded by plants and flowers can help to reduce the heart rate and lower stress levels.
Caring for and watching a living thing grow, can give a sense of achievement and reward.
The University has an internal teams group called ' Feel Good Gardening Gang ' which all staff and students may join.
Members can share gardening knowledge, learn new skills and make new connections and friends.
The group also runs events such as plant swaps, coffee/lunch meet ups, talks and walks around campus.
The University has gardening spaces on campus which are available for use to all Staff and Students.
These gardens consist of:
Find out more about each area below.
Plant it, harvest it then eat it!
Learn about the Staff and Student allotments and planters, and how you can be come involved.
Find out more about the Orchards on Campus
Come and join the internal teams group where we discuss and share all things gardening, and arrange planting activities on campus:
Feel Good Gardening Gang
Find out more about the Kitchen Herb Garden on Campus.
Find out more about the edible fruit bushes
The orchard is planted on a little banking to the side of the Barbara Hepworth Building.
There are a selection of fruit trees grown here, such as plum, apple and pear trees.
In the warmer months when the trees contain fruit, Staff and Students have access to pick and eat the fruit.
The Catering Team also use the seasonal produce in their menu's across the various catering outlets.
The Kitchen Herb garden is located at the back of the Sir John Ramsden Building.
It contains herbs such as rosemary, mint and thyme.
These herbs are often used by the University Catering team to enhance and flavour the dishes they create for the various catering outlets.
Staff and students can also pick herbs from the open access herb garden to add to any cooking dishes they may create at home .
It is also possible to take part in tending the herb garden through organised sessions advertised on the upcoming gardening events scheduled at various times over the year.
Based behind the Barbara Hepworth building is a series of planters which contain fruit growing bushes, such a gooseberry, blackcurrant and raspberry bushes.
These are available for Staff and Students to pick and eat over the warmer seasons when the bushes produce fruit.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/sustainability/sustainabilitychampions:
There are a variety of ways for students, staff and visitors to get involved with sustainability at the University.
We host regular events, workshops and information sessions and also collaborate with colleagues across the University to incorpo rate sustainability into their teaching and research.
Find out more about what we’ve been up to, and how you can get involved below.
Find out about our engagement programme here!
Take a look at some of the projects taking place at the University.
Hear all about our annual Green Week.
Find out how sustainability is embedded into teaching and learning at the Universitry of Huddersfield
There are a lot of ways to get involved with sustainability at the University, take a look here.
Green Rewards is the first sustainability competition at our university!
It’s a fun and engaging way for staff and students to achieve more sustainable actions.
The Sustainability Champion network was established in 2019 and allows staff to join regular meetings with the Sustainability to share their thoughts and ideas on sustainability and to work on specific projects through working groups.
We are now looking to further develop this engagement programme to involve students and expand the current working groups to include more areas and projects.
The working group will cover the following:
If you’d like to join the developing Sustainability Champion programme, or have ideas about specific projects or working groups get in touch via email.
The University regularly collaborates with the local community organisation Environment Projects in Kirklees (EPIKS), collaborating on E-bike events and hire shcemes, hosting litter picks along the River Colne, and working to map new Greenstreams campus walk around the University and wider River Colne basin.
Walking routes have been mapped which will be installed on campus in the new academic year, these will encourage staff and students to stay healthy by taking active breaks from their work or learning.
Further collaborative projects include The Canalside Project, a practical skills programme supporting 15 students from Kirklees College who attended weekly sessions with the Grounds Maintenance Team between October 2019 and March 2020.
The University also offers a Supported Internship programme for students with the grounds maintenance team; and provides short placements to students within a variety of roles in Estates and Facilities, giving individuals practical experience of the workplace environment.
The Mini-Allotment Project located on campus gained great momentum as an educational and social space for staff throughout the summer and autumn of 2019, resulting in an increased demand for similar projects.
The mini-allotments were unable to be tended by the group during the Coronavirus pandemic so the University organised to have these replanted with herbs and other edibles for the enjoyment of the whole University community as they return to campus.
Thias project is currently under development to allow its’ expansion to include more staff and students at locations across the University Estate.
Working in collaboration with Huddersfield Students' Union , our annual Green Week consists of a variety of events based around sustainability, attended and hosted by students and staff from across the University.
Have a look at this years Line up , at our previous Green Weeks or get in touch if you would like to get involved and host your own event.
The University continues to develop opportunities and partnerships to embed sustainability within the student curriculum.
Events Management students engage with Fairtrade in their learning by organising the annual Fairtrade Fortnight headline event on behalf of the University and Kirklees Fairtrade Forum as part of their final year project.
This has contributed to the University successfully achieving the new 1* University and Colleges Fairtrade Award, promoting and engaging with Fairtrade at the University and in the wider community as an active member of the Kirklees Fairtrade Forum.
Computing and Engineering students have frequently engaged with sustainability as part of their degree courses.
In both 2019 and 2020 the Sustainability Team were invited to set a challenge as part of the Computing and Engineering undergraduate Design Week event, with the cross-disciplinary design of an innovative solution to a real-world problem.
Students are also able to engage with us through extra-curricular activities to help build their CV’s and portfolios.
Students have previously attended training via SOS UK to become Fairtrade auditors, attended sustainability conferences free of charge and contributed to social media content through blog posts, videos and photographs.
Future opportunities are being explored to establish research opportunities on campus where undergraduate students are able to participate in longitudinal research projects as part of their studies.
There are many ways for you to get involved with sustainability at the University.
Check out some of our ideas below, and don’t forget to follow us on Instagram @ HudSustainability :
For students
For staff
The first ever University of Huddersfield sustainability competition 🌍
We're thrilled to announce the launch of Green Rewards, the first sustainability competition at our university!
It’s a fun and engaging way for staff and students to track their positive environmental, social and other impacts and work in teams to achieve more.
Start earning points for taking relevant actions — like reducing waste and energy usage, sustainable shopping, or participation in GPA Global Awareness activities.
There are monthly prizes to be won, plus you gain wellbeing, learning and socialising benefits as well!
How to sign up
Need further details?
Contact the Sustainability Team at sustainability@hud.ac.uk or call 07903428272 if you have any questions about the Green Rewards programme and signing up.
Who will be crowned the ultimate Sustainability Champion?

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/sustainability/governance:
Established in 2019 by the Senior Leadership Team, and chaired by Deputy Vice Chancellor Professor Tim Thornton, the Climate Emergency Steering Group includes representation from key stakeholders in sustainability at the University including:
The Carbon Emergency Steering Group provides guidance to both the University's Senior Leadership Group on day-to-day operations, and to University Council which is the principal decision-making body at the University
University Council oversees the delivery of the Environmental and Sustainability Policy and Net Zero Strategy: A Ten Point Plan for the Planet.
View the full structure here Sustainability governance
Based in Estates and Facilities, the Sustainability Team centrally supports the delivery of the Environmental and Sustainability Policy and Net Zero Strategy: A Ten Point Plan for the Planet .
With support from colleagues based both within Estates and facilities, and the wider University Community, the Sustainability Team works on a variety of areas including:
To report practical campus issues relating to energy, water or waste management - email Estates@hud.ac.uk
General sustainability information - email sustainability@hud.ac.uk
Ben Onyido
Philip Tower
Emily Rye
Lucy Goulding
Sally Hobson
Campus Support Manager (Estates and Facilities)
Allan Butters
Assistant Campus Support Manager (Estates and Facilities)
Julian Hirst
Car Parking Attendant (Estates and Facilities)
Chloe Mosley
Sustainability Administration Assistant (Estates and Facilities)
Helen Border
Senior Planning Analyst
Georgina Kipling
Business Liaison Officer
Based in the Students Union
Danny Levick
Head of Student Experience
Head of Student Experience - Senior Students' Union staff member responsible for overseeing the delivery of the Union's Environmental Sustainability Policy and Chair of the Union's Sustainability Committee.
Dawoud Shah
Sustainability Projects Assistant (Students' Union)
Student Staff member delivering events, driving student engagement in environmental issues and gathering information that supports the Union's submission for a Green Impact Award.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/sustainability/greenweek:
Introducing Green Week: Participating in Sustainability, our annual sustainability celebration!
Each year’s theme is about exploring how you, and the University can engage with, and support sustainability.
Working in collaboration the Sustainability Team and the Huddersfield Students' Union want to bring you inspiring ideas for how you can take a more sustainable approach through your personal life at home, your studies or professional role, and your involvement in your local community, while showcasing some of the amazing activities already being carried out in the University and Huddersfield Students' Union community in support of the Sustainable Development Goals .
Join us on a unique opportunity to restore our local peatlands and boost climate resilience.
Take a break from your desk or studies, to experience ‘hands on’ reforesting an area of land within our community, and show you care about trees!
Come and join us for a fully guided tour of the University's first building to achieve the Platinum WELL Building Standard and learn how this has been incorporated into the building to enhance the building user's health and wellbeing.
Explore the University's first building to open on the new Southgate, National Innovation Health Campus (NIHC), on a special green week building tour.
Join the Sustainability Team to find out what the university is doing to reduce it's energy usage on campus to reach carbon neutrality, learn some tips on how to save energy at home, and how to become a Sustainability Champion.
Come and watch the University Head Chef cook up a storm with fruit grown on our campus orchard and make a 'Humble Crumble'!
Tasting samples will be available, as well as a take home recipe kit!
Find out more about this local charity which revives and reuses donated goods to sells them at affordable prices to our local community.
They will have a stall selling goods and information about volunteering opportunities.
Meet our local representative from the Yorkshire Wildlife Trust to find out how you can become involved and empowered to take more action for nature and help wildlife thrive.
The Student Union's crafting wizard Daisy, will be running a special ' Green Week-What's on Wednesday crafting workshop ' in Student Central where you can drop by and create some sustainable crafts.
Fancy doing a bit of sustainable clothing shopping?
Oxfam will be providing a pop-up stall in the Student Central Building, where you can purchase vintage clothing, accessories and work wear, ready for your work placement or workplace after graduation.
Join the Students Union 'Climbing & Mountaineering Club' for a Wellbeing Walk in the countryside in Holmfirth.
Vintage Folk brings the freshest, one-of-a-kind vintage gems ready for you to purchase for your University wardrobe.
Sustainability is at the heart of everything they do.
Keep up to date with all of our upcoming tree planting sessions running throughout November 2024, February 2025, and March 2025, open to all Students and Staff.
Our November 2024 'Green Week' Tree planting date is scheduled for Wednesday 20th November 2024 .
Time: 12.30PM-16.00PM
Click here to book your place and see more information about a session.
(Please note warm water proof clothing and sturdy footwear are essential for the activity).
We hope to see you at a planting session soon!
The Jo Cox More in Common Centre is the first University of Huddersfield building to be constructed to the WELL Building Standard.
It was the first Higher Education building in the United Kingdom to achieve precertification to the standard.
The building became operational in early 2023 and fully certified in June 2024.
Tours are available for all Staff and Students at the University.
Date: Tuesday 19th November
Time: 12.15PM-13.00PM
Duration: 45 minutes
Meeting Point: Jo Cox More in Common Building (entrance way)
Please click here to book your place
Please note if you have a group booking, or require a tour on a different date then please contact the Sustainability team for further information.
We hope to see you on a tour soon!
Are you curious to explore the Daphne Steele Building, the University’s first Building on the new National Innovation Health campus (NHIC)?
Located at Southgate in the centre of Huddersfield, the building is named in honour of the NHS’s first black matron Daphne Steele and is already welcoming healthcare students through its doors.
This highly sustainable building is the second University building to be built to the prestigious WELL Building Standard which ensures the highest standards for the health and wellbeing of students, staff and users.
It is on track for Platinum Pre-certification which is the highest level achievable within the standard.
Andy Thompson, School Manager of the Human Health Sciences will lead the tour and share his expertise on the specialist clinical teaching facilities, world leading research facilities and public facing clinics and services, where the next generation of healthcare professionals will learn the skills and knowledge needed to help improve health outcomes and lead innovation in healthcare for the North of England.
Date: Thursday 21 st November
Time: 9.30AM-11.00AM (approximately 90 mins)
Location: Daphne Steele Building , Queensgate, Huddersfield, HD1 1AD
Meeting point: Daphne Steele 'Pulse Cafe' (just opposite the reception on the ground floor)
Click here to book your place
The session will be interactive, and the audience will be asked for their input on how to shape and achieve the university’s sustainability goals.
We’ll provide a history of the University of Huddersfield’s relationship with carbon over the years.
We’ll talk about previous and current attempts to reduce the university’s carbon emissions, such as the university’s present decarbonisation plan.
We’ll dive into what this means for attendees at a personal level, and how they can lower their carbon impacts at home.
We’ll also let them know how they can become Sustainability Champions on campus and what this would entail!
The talk will conclude with a Q&A and light refreshments.
Date: Thursday 21st November 2024
Time: 1pm-2pm
Location: Jo Cox Building, Community Hall
This is the concluding event of our 'Plant a Plate' series where we have planted a selection of fruits, nurtured and harvested them, and will now be cooking with the produce from the fruit trees and bushes which have been growing on campus over the year.
The University Head Chef will be presenting a live cooking demonstration on how to make a delicious 'Humble Crumble' using the fruit harvested from the University orchard and fruit bush planters, as well as giving top cooking tips!
Attendees will be given the opportunity to try a sample of the crumble and receive a recipe pack containing all of the dry ingredients to make the dish at home.
Date: Friday 22nd November 2024
Time: 2PM-3PM
Location: Jo Cox More in Common Building, Main communal hall (on the right hand side).
No need to book a place, just turn up in good time as tasty samples and recipe kits will be on a first come, first served basis!
Revive Reuse
Revive is a local community interest company charity that sells donated items or reusable items that they have intercepted at Leeds City Council and Kirklees Council waste recycling sites.
Part of their remit is to make reusable items available to our local communities at affordable prices.
In doing so, they hope to alleviate poverty and hardship - improving the quality of life of those around us.
Revive provide employment and opportunities for those from socially excluded backgrounds.
They offer these people the chance to develop skills and socialise in a safe environment.
As a result, this can reduce isolation, improve mental health and help those in our communities contribute to the area in which they live.
Revive have opportunities for volunteering in their Huddersfield based shop which can include the following duties:
Volunteering
You will receive basic training and an introduction to our site.
This will include our health and safety, policies and procedures.
We also often give all our volunteers the opportunity to apply for courses.
These courses could be anything from, Health & Safety, Professional Boundaries, PAT (Portable Appliance Testing) and Bicycle Maintenance.
If you are interested in volunteering with Revive then please come and speak to the Volunteer Coordinators on campus to see what opportunities are currently available.
If you would like to donate your unwanted items to Revive you can use the donation banks which are located at the Revive shop which is located next to the bus station in Huddersfield town centre, 8 Upperhead Row, HD1 2JL.
Date: Wednesday 20th November 2024
Time: 12PM-5PM
Location: Student Central
Do you care about wildlife in your local community?
Then come and meet our local representative from the Yorkshire Wildlife Trust to find out how you can become involved and empowered to take more action for nature and help wildlife thrive.
Find out more about volunteering opportunities with Yorkshire Wildlife Trust, or how to join their Team Wilder to access a toolkit to help you bring people together and create amazing places for wildlife within Yorkshire to help fight species extinction.
You can also make a personalised wildlife badge to wear with pride and show your support.
Date: Monday 18 th November 2024
Time: 10.00AM-4.00PM
Location: Schwann Building Atrium (outside the Library entrance)
There will be a range of sustainable activities at the crafting stand, including sunflower planting with the Disabled Students Society.
This is a drop in session so there is no need to book.
Time: 12PM-4PM
Location: Student Central (outside the Students Union Shop)
Fairtrade Pudding Club!
Grab yourself a special ' green week pudding ' made with ethically sourced ingredients from Fairtrade and Rainforest Alliance.
Friday 22nd November
11.45AM-14.00PM
Student Central, International Kitchen
We are excited to announce that as part of our Green Week celebrations The Global Professional Award Team and volunteer students are working on a special collaboration with Oxfam to host a Pop-up pre-loved and vintage clothing stall, with a special rail focusing on professional 'work wear', so you can be tip top ready for your upcoming placement or ready for upcoming interviews following graduation.
The Oxfam campaigning team will be on campus and will be raising awareness of climate justice , and students will have the opportunity to sign up to the pledge .
Oxfam is a charity that partners to communities around the world tackling poverty.
When people come together, powerful change can happen.
" We are Oxfam.
Together we can make a more equal future, free from poverty ".
Do your bit by coming and having a browse and treat yourself to some pre-loved clothing, take a stance against fast fashion, support a worthy cause and know that you have made a sustainable purchase.
Time: 10.00am-4.00pm
Location: Student Central Building (Student Lounge)
Get ready for an adventure!
Join us for a Wellbeing Walk with the Climbing & Mountaineering Club on Saturday, 23rd November.
We’ll embark on a journey to the breath taking countryside at Holmfirth, travelling by public transport.
Experience the beauty of nature while enjoying fresh air and stunning views.
It’s a fantastic opportunity to connect with fellow students, unwind, and boost your wellbeing.
Don’t miss out on this chance to recharge and explore.
Date: Saturday 23rd November
Time: 9:15am-4pm.
Location: This event takes place in Holmfirth, please meet the Climbing and Mountaineering at Huddersfield Students' Union by 9:15am.
Event Accessibility:
This event will take place in Holmfirth and will require the use of public transport.
If you have any specific accessibility requirements please contact Danny Levick, Participation & Events Manager - d.levick@hud.ac.uk
Vintage Folk were founded in Manchester in 2017 and have since made it their aim to bring affordable, sustainable, and quality vintage clothing to the masses.
Choosing second-hand clothing not only reduces the amount of waste that ends up in landfills, but also gives new life to unique pieces that may have otherwise been forgotten.
Vintage clothing is also known for its premium quality and better craftsmanship, and there is something special about wearing a garment that has been around for decades and has stood the test of time.
Plus, vintage clothes often have a story behind them and add a touch of character to any wardrobe.
You never know what hidden gems you might find!
Join them on their journey towards a more sustainable future, one garment at a time.
Date: Monday 18th November
Time: 9.00AM-5.00PM
Location: Student Central-Central Lounge
Find out more about previous Green weeks

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/sustainability/leaf:
The Laboratory Efficiency Assessment Framework (LEAF) is an innovative scheme to drive improvements in laboratory efficiency
LEAF is our sustainable labs accreditation programme on campus.
It provides a framework for lab users to consider their working practices and improve their environmental performance.
The scheme recognises all the great things you are already doing and provides a structure for planning your next steps.
It covers energy use, equipment, space use, ventilation, procurement, waste, samples and chemicals.
The University has committed to achieving net zero carbon emissions for scope 1 and 2 by 2030, and for scope 3 by 2045.
For us to achieve this we need to consider how we operate in all spaces across the University, including labs and workshops.
Laboratories and workshops are high resource use spaces which are estimated to use
Source: My Green Lab
LEAF helps you identify practical steps to make your lab more sustainable.
It is usually done in teams.
Participants complete a set of criteria to reach Bronze, Silver or Gold standard in turn, and can estimate the carbon and financial savings their actions have achieved.
The LEAF programme comprises the following:
1.The Framework (online): This consists of actions relating to waste, travel, energy, water, procurement, and research quality.
Each action is supported by a rationale as well as evidenced guidance to help implement it.
2.Calculators (online): These tools enable lab users to estimate the current sustainability performance of their lab and track improvements as they implement changes.
3 .
Toolkit and Resources: To support and optimise the implementation of LEAF, a toolkit of materials will be developed including technical guides, procedural guides, inductions, and further resources.
4.User Engagement & Training: To help initiate your LEAF programme, we offer each institution a tailored workshop to engage laboratory staff and students on sustainable science, and to introduce LEAF.
In the 2021/22 academic year, 8 labs in Applied Sciences successfully piloted the scheme and achieved the Bronze LEAF award.
In the following academic year 2022/23, 10 further labs in Applied Science achieved the Bronze Leaf Award.
Currently in the Academic year 2023/24 there are now 30 labs in Applied Science which are working towards their Bronze LEAF Award.
The 18 Labs which have already achieved the Bronze LEAF Award, are now progressing onto the next level of award and aiming to complete Silver Leaf Award status later in the year.
If you would like to find out more our sign up to join the scheme for future rounds, please register your interest with the Sustainability Team at sustainability@hud.ac.uk or speak to the Technical team in your department.
Teams are organised by themselves and can be based in laboratories or workshops and anyone can initiate and lead a team.
LEAF teams can cover a research group within a lab, a whole lab or a group of labs.
Once you have registered you will be supported by your local Technical team and the Sustainability Team to complete the programme.
In November 2022, the first eight labs in Applied Science were presented with their Award Certificates by the Deputy Chancellor Professor Tim Thornton, for successfully completing their Bronze Award LEAF accreditation.
Participating in the LEAF initiative has improved the environmental performance of these labs.
The labs have taken a range of fundamental steps to help make lab facilities more sustainable - from improving their induction and exit processes, to visual reminders to save energy by switching off and closing fume cupboards.
These Labs will now progress forwards towards their Silver LEAF accreditation.
In November 2023, 10 more Laboratories from Applied Sciences successfully achieved the Bronze LEAF Award.
Deputy Chancellor Professor Tim Thornton presented the Lab Members with their award certificates.
All of the Bronze Award Laboratories will now be working together focusing on attaining the Silver LEAF award.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/sustainability/policies:
The University has adopted the following policies and strategic plans, which set out our aims and objectives for working towards environmental sustainability and acting with greater ethical and social responsibility:
The University of Huddersfield is committed to the principles of environmental protection and sustainable development
This strategy includes the Targets and overarching approach to achieving Carbon neutrality as an institution
The University of Huddersfield assigns great importance to Fairtrade
The University will not invest directly into organisations whose values do not reflect those of the University
Corporate, Social and Environmental Procurement Policy
This plan sets out the targets and principles on how the University will achieve its Net Zero targets
How the University's Catering Service will embed sustainability into its operations
The University of Huddersfield recognises the need to address its transport issues
This plan sets out the University of Huddersfield's commitment to managing waste and recycling for environmental improvement
Find out more about the:
Travel plan
Travel Policy
The University has reported its Environmental and Sustainability impacts through the annual Financial Statements from 2007/08 onwards.
These reports are audited by external independent auditors and approved by University Council.
The University supplies environmental performance data annually to the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) Estates Management Record, which is externally audited and publicly available.
Externally audited and approved Financial Statements
Externally audited and publicly available data from across the HE sector
The University is committed to the principles of environmental protection and sustainable development
The University continues its commitment to principles of Sustainable Development and Environmental protection
An overview of environmental sustainability initiatives on campus during 2016-17
To measure the implementation of the Strategies and Policies listed above, the following metrics and targets have been developed and will be reported against annually.
SMART targets and metrics to monitor performance against the University's Environmental and Sustainability policies and strategies

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/sustainability/purchasing:
The University endeavours to consider all areas of Sustainability when making purchasing decisions.
Particular attention is paid to Economic, Environmental and Social concerns.
It is appreciated that every single purchase has hidden human health, environmental, and social impacts and that it is possible to reduce adverse impacts by building positive relationships with suppliers and addressing these areas.
The University also holds an important place within the local community and where regulation permits looks to ensure that spending benefits the local region.
More details on this can be found within the Financial Statements.
The University has recently reviewed its Corporate Social and Environmental Purchasing Policy which can be found within the policies webpages.
The University is committed to preventing Modern Slavery in its supply chain.
The University of Huddersfield's Modern Slavery Statement can be found under the Further Information tab below.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/sustainability/sustainablebuildings:
Our goal is to endeavour to introduce sustainable factors into all new buildings and refurbishments, and to aim for the highest environmental standards that we can whilst achieving our academic priorities.
To meet this objective the University will incorporate sustainable standards including, but not limited to the Building Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) and the WELL Building Standard when undertaking new building and refurbishment projects.
The Barbara Hepworth Building, home to the School of Art, Design and Architecture, was completed in July 2019.
The Charles Sikes Building is home to the Huddersfield Business School.
Predominantly used for teaching, the Oastler Building is located on ring road and accessed from the University Plaza.
Find out more about the refurbishments of the Sir Patrick Stewart Building and converted mills Sparck Jones and Haslett Building.
The Richard Steinitz Building (formerly the Creative Arts Building) is centrally located on campus.
This central hub is home to the Students' Union and Huddersfood's International Kitchen
The Barbara Hepworth Building, home to the School of Art, Design and Architecture, was completed in July 2019 in time for the Academic Year, 2019/2020.
The building was constructed to high environmental standards, achieving both BREEAM Excellent (71.8%) and EPC A, in addition to this, the Barbara Hepworth Building was also awarded winner of Project of the Year at the Constructing Excellence awards , shortlisted for Education Estates Innovation in Delivering Value and shortlisted for the RIBA Yorkshire Awards 2020.
The building was constructed with the well-being of users in mind, with excellent access to natural light throughout and high quality LED lighting.
The ventilation strategy was a key element of the design, combining a mixed-mode hybrid system of automatically controlled windows for natural ventilation alongside a high volume/low velocity fan system from Breathing Buildings to ensure excellent air quality with fewer draughts from air movement.
CFD analysis was undertaken to ensure the large atrium was a key component of the heating and cooling strategy throughout the large areas of open learning space in the building, taking advantage of the ‘stack effect’.
The home of the Huddersfield Business School, Charles Sikes Building incorporated the old Albany Mills building with a new extension constructed with a mixture of steel and structural timber.
Opened in 2012, the building achieved BREEAM 'Very Good' and was the most sustainable building on campus at it's time of construction.
The building receives heat from the Schwann Building via a district heat network running on the underside of the canal footbridge.
The newly installed modulating boilers, plate heat exchangers and control panels in the Schwann boiler room has improved efficiencies and reduced the energy needed to heat almost a quarter of campus.
The Oastler Building, opened in 2017, was built with environmental sustainability in mind and is one of the University's greenest buildings on campus.
Built to BREEAM Excellent and EPC 'A' standards, this complex building utilises CO2 sensors throughout, linked to lighting sensors to control the ventilation systems.
The heating system utilises Air Source Heat Pumps (ASHP), a 50kW Combined Heat and Power Unit (CHP) and Heat Recovery Units (HRU) to reduce the amount of heat generated from traditional gas boilers.
In addition we have now added in a link to Student Central to provide additional heat needed for that building and maximise the use of the ASHPs and CHP.
Oastler has a sedum 'Blue roof', a combination of green roof planting with water attenuation to capture rainfall, slowing the runoff of water and minimising impact on the drainage network.
The aim is to capture and release water back into the atmosphere from evapotranspiration.
Formerly the Canalside West and East, Sparck Jones and Haslett are both convertied mills, refurbished for the school of Computing and Engineering.
Sparck Jones , a 6 storey converted mill, was awarded the Ironbridge Trust Award for the ‘Best historical building back into use’ following its refurbishment in 1995.
Similarly, the refurbishment of the Haslett Building hat followed has resulted in several heritage building awards since its conversion in 1998.
The building maintains many original mill features over its 5 floors.
Remodelling of this former church and Sunday school into music and drama spaces took place during 2006, with the stained glass fully refurbished by Local Craftsmen.
It was awarded ‘Best Restoration Project’ by the Yorkshire Development Agency in 2006.
The Richard Steinitz Building was awarded a ‘Very Good’ BREEAM rating, and incorporates a range of eco-friendly features like solar panels and wind turbines, and is made of construction materials that will be fully recyclable at the ends of its life.
The Student Central building is a hub on campus, home to the Students’ Union and Huddersfoods International Kitchen.
The Student Central building was built to BREEAM 'Very Good' standard, and has a sedum 'Blue Roof' installed a combination of green roof planting with water attenuation to capture rainfall, slowing the runoff of water and minimising impact on the drainage network.
In addition the building has no independent heating source and uses a combination of the boilers in Schwann Building and also heat from the Oastler Building, the majority of the building is also naturally ventilated and utilises automatic window controls linked to the temperature and weather sensors

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/sustainable-development:
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, adopted by all United Nations Member States in 2015, provides a shared blueprint for peace and prosperity for people and the planet, now and into the future.
At its heart are the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which are an urgent call for action by all countries - developed and developing - in a global partnership.
They recognize that ending poverty and other deprivations must go hand-in-hand with strategies that improve health and education, reduce inequality, and spur economic growth – all while tackling climate change and working to preserve our oceans and forests.
When the University adopted its Ten Point Plan for Climate Action in 2020 it undertook to report against the SDGs, and indications of activity against the seventeen SDGs, drawn from other University reports, are to be found here, and will be updated annually.
View reports for 2020.
View reports for 2021.
View reports for 2022.
View reports for 2023.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/sustainability/travelplan:
The University of Huddersfield recognises the need to address its transport issues as a component of its long-term business planning and Estates Strategy to ensure we meet our corporate aims and objectives as set out by the University Strategy map.
In January 2007, the University developed a Sustainable Travel Framework, which outlined the University's policy and commitment to transport issues.
A further Travel Plan was published in May 2018, reporting the results of the Sustainable Travel Framework between 2007-2017; outlining new aims and strategies for the 2017-2023 period.
View the Travel Plan in full on the Policies section of the Sustainability webpages.
The Travel Plan highlights the progress made between 2007-2017.
These achievements include:
The second revision of the Travel Plan outlines six core aims:
This travel document builds upon the Sustainable Travel Framework, outlining strategies that will allow the University to expand sustainably.
These eight strategies focus on:
Targets have been set for each strategy and we will work to achieve our objectives and targets with Local Authorities and Transport organisations throughout the academic year and until the foreseeable future.
For information on how to get to the University click below
For information on cycling at the University click below
For information on planning your journey via public transport click below.
The University of Huddersfield Travel Plan 2017-2023 was introduced to provide a package of practical measures designed to build on our previous achievements and further promote sustainable travel choices amongst our students and staff.
To increase the number of staff and students walking to campus and to elevate the importance of the pedestrian within the University Quarter.
The following items were highlighted on the travel plan: -

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/sustainability/treeplanting:
The project will help to remove carbon from the air, reduce flooding, improve air and water quality and increase biodiversity.
Please follow the link to find out more about the Kirklees Woodland Creation scheme.
The sessions will help towards completing one of the University's Carbon Neutral Strategies commitments :
1.
We will partner with the West Yorkshire Forest to plant at least one tree for every student who enrols with us, including work on urban tree-planting and tree-planting with schools.
I am delighted to see the launch of the University’s tree-planting scheme, offering the chance for students and staff to be part of practical efforts to address the climate emergency.
The University has always been keen to ensure its efforts benefit local communities and others from which our students are drawn, and the tree-planting scheme will make a real difference in and around Huddersfield itself.
Tim Thornton - Deputy Vice-Chancellor
What will happen on a tree planting session?
How long will it last?
The sessions will last for around three and three quarter hours (12.15PM-4PM), including the transport from the University to the tree planting site, and back again.
This may vary slightly depending on the hours of daylight and the distance of the site.
The exact times will be shared in the booking confirmation.
What do I need to bring?
All transport, tools, trees, hi-vis, gardening gloves and refreshments will be included.
Attendees are required to wear warm, waterproof, outdoor clothing (thermal layers are great and a hat) and sensible shoes (walking or wellington boots are ideal).
You might want to bring a bottle of water too, as it can be thirsty work!
When will the sessions run?
The tree planting season runs from November to February.
This is the best time to plant trees, as the trees are dormant and less likely to be damaged, and the ground is wet enough for the saplings roots to get established.
The sessions will run on Wednesday afternoons (from 12.15PM-4PM), throughout November 2025, December 2025, January 2026 and  February 2026.
Who can apply?
The sessions are open to all Staff* and Students at the University.
*Please note Staff will need to get their Line Managers approval before signing up for a session.
All final bookings will be confirmed.
In the event of low attendance, bookings may be cancelled or an alternative session offered.
Can the tree planting sessions count towards my Global Professional Award?
Yes they can!
It can count towards your GPA Practical Experience Elective modules.
See more about Elective ideas in the Opportunities Catalogue and speak with your GPA contact for further information.
Find out how to book a space on a tree planting session, and see the full range of dates available.
Where are the trees going to be planted?
Check if your question has an answer here!
Tree planting can only happen when the trees are dormant.
The tree planting season will begin from November and run through to March.
The next sites we will be working on are currently being surveyed and checked.
As soon as this has been completed we will list the locations below.
If you would like to make a group booking then email the Sustainability Team
Please note depending on group booking sizes, there may be other attendees participating on a session.
Where are the trees being planted?
There are various sites around the Kirklees district which have been specifically chosen by Kirklees Council dependant on their geographical location, surrounding community needs, current ecological wildlife value and the relationship with landscape topography.
The tree species will be a mix of native, deciduous, broadleaf, suitable to the soil conditions on the site.
The University will be working on one large site in the Castle Hill area.
The creation of the woodlands will;
Please see some commonly asked questions about the tree planting sessions;
Please speak with your GPA contact for further information.
What happens if the weather changes?
We will try to continue the session as long as we can do, but if the weather becomes adverse then we will have to cancel the session and return the University.
We will give you the opportunity to book onto another session though.
Do I need to bring a packed lunch?
You are welcome to bring a packed lunch and eat it when we take a break from the tree planting.
However we recommend eating your lunch before the session as we generally take the break around two thirds of the way through, so you may be very hungry at this point!
A hot drink and biscuits will be provided at the break.
What happens if I need the toilet when on site?
We will be working in the beautiful West Yorkshire countryside, and will advise a WC visit before we leave the University.
However don't worry there will be a portaloo available onsite for emergency use.
I have limited mobility, can I participate in a session?
Please bear in mind that due to the nature of the work, the sessions do involve a lot of physical work and standing for long periods of time.
The ground may also be uneven, on a slope, slippery or wet.
If you have limited mobility please contact the Sustainability Team and we will speak with the facilitators and find out more information about your needs and the suitability of the locations.
Have a different question?
Please email the Sustainability Team and we will answer your query.
Find out more about our ' Forest of Freshers!
'.
If you have any further questions, or would like to make a group booking for the tree planting sessions then please contact the Sustainability team.
See for yourself what happens at a tree planting session!
Many thanks to our Students Archie Burden and Jamie Goodlad, who made this video as part of their degree project.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/sustainability/waste-and-recycling:
Our overriding ambition is to reduce the amount of waste we produce on campus and to ensure that any waste we do generate is dealt with in a sustainable and responsible manner.
We have already committed to this in the University's Environmental Policy, which states that we will minimse waste and continue to take positive steps to adopt the waste hierarchy to: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle and Responsibly Dispose.
The Waste Hierarchy sets out waste management options in order of their environmental impacts, giving priority to the prevention of waste, while highlighting how we can gain added value from resources through re-use, recycling and recovery.
View the Waste Hierarchy here.
For those tricky bits of trash check out our A-Z Waste Guide , or email us for further information.
Discover how the University is reducing and reusing its waste, and what you can do to reduce yours!
The University has a growing number of recycling schemes to cater for multiple types of waste.
Unfortunately it isn't always possible to avoid or reuse materials, subsequently the following strategies have been developed to increase recycling and reduce the amount of general waste being sent for inciniration.
The Bin the Bin Campaign was rolled out across the University in November 2016, introducing centralised waste recycling points across all University buildings.
These centralised recycling points replaced individual waste bins that were previously located in classrooms, lecture theatres and under desks.
This initiative helps the University to reduce the amount of general waste, and maximise the volume of Dry Mixed Recycling (DMR).
Furthermore, this scheme has also dramatically reduced the amount of plastic bin bags used and disposed of!
A new initiative to increase recycling across the University’s catering outlets has been introduced to encourage the recycling of plastic bottles.
As part of this scheme a separate bin has been provided to catering outlets exclusively for plastic bottles.
This ensures that all plastic milk bottles are being recycled, as opposed to being disposed of in general waste.
2019 has seen the implementation of a new scheme to recycle waste coffee grounds across the University’s catering outlets.
These coffee grounds are being used across campus for composting and as a fertiliser by our Grounds Maintenance Team, as well as by the Students Union Allotment and Garden Society (formally known as HarvestHud) at Storthes Hall Park.
The use of coffee grounds on our landscaped areas has an array of benefits including increased plant growth and health, as well as improved soil health.
Before the initiative was implemented, over 300kg of coffee waste was generated each week across the universities 12 catering outlets, with over 88,000 cups of coffee sold annually.
This waste was sent for incineration along with the rest of the general waste from campus, at a cost for the university and generating carbon in the process.
This is therefore a great initiative both environmentally and economically for the University.
In September 2017 a new contract with Sonoco Alcore introduced 2 cardboard skips to the University, encouraging departments to flatten their cardboard and place it in to the skips as opposed to the dry mixed recycling bins.
This segregation of cardboard removed over 26,000kg of cardboard last year alone!
The success of this new waste stream has encouraged us to begin rolling out a new scheme across offices in the University, where staff members segregate their paper and cardboard waste at source.
Although this has only been introduced across two buildings on campus we have already seen a big difference in our recycling figgures and are excited to see the effect this has when expanded across the whole University estate!
Across campus little pink pods have appeared...
These pink pods are made from recycled chewing gum and are used to collect used chewing gum on campus.
Once full these GumDrops are taken away and recycled into new products, including pencils, rulers, wellies and lunch boxes!
A new scheme has also reduced the amount of food waste that enters our general waste.
Any food waste generated in the University's kitchen that cannot be frozen or donated is now taken away in speacialist receptacles to a plant in Doncaster where it undergoes a proccess called anaerobic degestion.
This process biologically breaks down organic matter, transforming the liquid produced into a bio-fertiliser to be used in agricultural processes.
The University has partenered up with the Battery Back Scheme to allow staff and students to recycle portable household-style batteries on campus.
Batteries are classed as hazardous waste and should not be placed in normal waste bins.
The battery bins can take any sixe of waste portable battery, and both rechargable and non-rechargable versions, including but not exclusive to:
Some portable batteries contain hazardous materials, however they are safe if handled correctly.
Discarded batteries can also present a very small risk of fire and source of ignition.
Please follow these simple instructions to stay safe:
There are multiple battery drop off location across campus, check here for your nearest bin.
The University has made a conscious effort to reduce and reuse the materials used on campus, take a look at some of the examples below:
Here are a few hints and tips to help you cut down the waste you generate...
Canal clean up cruise!
We are setting sail on the 12th July to pick litter from the Broad Canal by boat.
For further information and to book your place, click the link below.
Join the Estates 'Waste Guru' on the next ' Magical Mystery Waste and Recycling Tour ', which takes you behind the scenes, to learn about the implementations that we have in place to manage waste at the University.
Our new Undergraduate Pocket Prospectus's use 65% less material per item than the previous version.
They are also printed with the Carbon Capture Programme to offset CO 2 emitted during the manufacture and distribution by planting trees in the UK through the Woodland Trusts Woodland Carbon Scheme.
Find out how to dispose of coffee cups correctly
Find out how various types of food waste is recycled
Find out how to dispose of crisp packets correctly
Find out more about how you can recycle metal items on campus
Find out how you can recycle plastic items on campus
Find out how you can recycle paper and cardboard on campus
Find out how to recycle glass on campus
Find out more about recycling furniture
Find out how to dispose of electrical waste
Find out how you can recycle batteries on campus
Find out how to recycle ink cartridges
Find out what is classed as Hazardous waste , and the correct method of disposal.
The Catering Services team work very hard to reduce as much food waste as possible on campus.
However the food waste which is produced is recycled in the following ways:
Food Waste
Please use the dedicated food waste bins .
Please note that food waste also includes used coffee grounds and tea bags.
These bins are located in:
The food waste is then collected by Refood, and recycled using anaerobic digestion, which turns the waste into gas and fertiliser.
For an overview of the processes that occur to the food waste at the Refood plant, please watch this informative video .
Pizza Boxes
Please use the pizza box recycling point in International Kitchen (Level 4 Student Central) for your empty pizza boxes.
If not possible, please use the general waste bins.
Please separate any food waste and dispose of this in the food waste bins.
Crisp packets
Crisp packets are made of plastic, not foil.
They cannot be placed in the mixed recycling bins and must be disposed of in the black general waste bins .
Chewing Gum
Please dispose of gum in the pink GumDrop receptacles located across campus:
The gumdrop disposal points help to reduce the energy and costs needed to power wash the grounds around campus, and keep the areas looking clean and smart.
The collected gum from the Gumdrops is recycled to create a range of new compound products in the rubber and plastics industry, such as soles for trainers, wellington boots, phone covers and stationary.
Coffee waste
Please pour coffee/hot drink liquid waste into the specific liquid waste bins around campus.
Please place used coffee grounds and tea bags into the food waste bins around campus.
You can find these bins located in:
Level 4, Student Central, International kitchen, Neo Pizza and Pasta, Cafe Central
Level 4, Student Central, Starbucks
Level 5, Student Central, Eco Eats
Level 2, Charles Sikes, Street Cafe
Level 1, Joseph Priestley, Caffeine Lab
Level 1, Harold Wilson, No.10 Cafe
Level 1, Sparck Jones, Espresso Deli, Weavers
Ground Level , Sovereign Design House, Toast House
Coffee cups
Coffee cups cannot be recycled at must be disposed of in the black general waste bins .
Please note there is a 15p charge on disposable coffee cups at all of the hot drinks outlets on campus (if you being your own cup there is no charge).
Follow the link to find out more about the Coffee Cup Levy
Coffee bean waste
Coffee bean waste is collected from the outlets over campus, it is then used by the Grounds Maintenance team to enrich the ground with nutrients in the planted areas around campus.
Coffee bean waste is a great natural slug repellent!
You can recycle the following waste metals in the green dry mixed recycling bins:
Aluminium tin cans
Please make sure your tins are empty.
Aluminium foil
Ensure that the foil is clean and dry, (if contaminated with food please use the general waste bins ).
Metals (small items)
Please use the dry mixed recycling bins for small items (e.g.
aluminium and steel cans, staples).
Metals (large items)
If reusable, offer on the Staff Hub notice board for reuse within the University.
If not possible or unsuccessful, please contact the Estates Helpdesk to arrange collection.
To do this please log a job for collection via Estates online , or contact the helpdesk on; 01484 472550.
You can dispose of the following in the black general waste bins :
Please use the general waste bins.
Crisp packets are not made out of foil, they are made out of plastic and cannot be recycled.
You can recycle the following plastic items in the green mixed recycling bins :
Plastic bottles (including plastic milk bottles)
Please make sure they are empty, squashed and have the lid on
You can dispose of the following plastic items in the black general waste bins :
Plastics (soft)
Please use the black general waste bins .
(e.g.
cling film, crisp packets).
Plastics (flexible)
yoghurt pots).
Plastics (hard)
CD containers).
Polystyrene
Packaging should be returned with the supplier on request at point of purchase.
For large quantities contact the Estates Helpdesk to arrange collection.
For small quantities use the general waste bins.
The following can be disposed of in the black general waste bins :
Plastic Folders
If reusable, set up a stationery box in your area or offer on the Staff Hub notice board for reuse within the University.
If unsuccessful or not possible, put plastic or lever arch components of the folder in the black general waste bins , and dispose of the cardboard body of the folder in the blue office paper and cardboard bins.
Please see below which types of paper and Cardboard can be recycled in the blue recycling paper and cardboard bins :
Cardboard (small amounts)
Please use the blue office paper and cardboard bins for small quantities of cardboard.
Once full, office bins should be decanted into the larger blue paper wheelie bins in centralised locations.
All cardboard must be clean and dry.
Cardboard (large amounts)
Where this is not possible, contact the Estates Helpdesk to arrange a collection.
Paper (standard, waxy or glossy)
All printouts on campus should be duplex printed where possible.
Set up a scrap paper box in your stationery area for paper that can be reused and use this as opposed to post-it notes.
Please use the blue office paper and cardboard bins for small quantities of paper.
*NOTE: if you cannot tear paper it may have a plastic film coating and should be put in the general waste bin*
Paper confidential
The University has a confidential waste policy.
All confidential waste should be placed in designated collection consoles or sacks .
To obtain collection sacks or to make arrangements for large collections, contact Joe Byrne in Procurement Services.
Catalogues and Directories
Newspaper
Christmas cards
Junk mail and glossy magazines
Books
Firstly, offer for reuse on the Staff Hub notice board.
If this is unsuccessful, or for any out of date books or journals, please dispose of these in the Book Harvest boxes that can be found at the following locations: • Charles Sikes Building- The Street Café • Harold Wilson Building- atrium • Ramsden Building- foyer • Sparck Jones Building- Espresso and Deli@ Weavers These boxes are placed for collections twice a year, please contact estates@hud.ac.uk to find out when the next collection in scheduled.
Students can also utilise the book swap shelf outside of the Students’ Union (level 5 Student Central), in exchange for a small donation to RAG.
The following can be disposed of in the dry mixed recycling bins :
Envelopes
Set up a box in your stationery area for reusable envelopes.
For envelopes not in a reusable condition, including window envelopes, please use the dry mixed recycling bins .
The following can be disposed of in the general waste bins :
Folders
If unsuccessful or not possible, put plastic or lever arch components of the folder in the general waste bins , and dispose of the cardboard body of the folder in the blue office paper and cardboard bins .
Envelopes (padded)
If not of a reusable condition, please use the general waste bins.
Laminated paper and posters
Please use the general waste bins .
Tetra Pak cartons
Blue paper towels and hand towels
Tissues
Find out how to recycle glass on campus:
Bottles (glass)
Please contact the Estates Helpdesk if you have any glass items for disposal.
A collection will be organised and the glass disposed of in our glass recycling facility.
*NOTE: Broken glass can be collected, but must be wrapped in paper and labelled clearly*
Glass containers (e.g.
coffee jars)
Glass containers (from Laboratories)
Contact your School Technician for advice.
Fluorescent tubes
Redundant fluorescent lamps are collected by Estates for specialist disposal.
*NOTE: fluorescent lamps are classed as hazardous waste and must not be placed in general waste bins*
Furniture
Under no circumstances should furniture items be taken for domestic use and/or sold for personal profit.
If unsuccessful contact Allan Butters to organise a collection by an approved reuse and renovation contractor.
The University’s in-house team may be able to undertake repairs.
If waste disposal is required, contact the Estates Helpdesk to arrange a collection.
Please allow adequate lead time to make arrangements and ensure waste is stored within the building prior to collection.
Items should not be stored outside.
Please dispose of electrical equipment in the following ways:
Electricals (excluding IT equipment)
If equipment is in working order, offer on the Staff Hub notice board for reuse within the University.
Under no circumstances should electrical items be taken for domestic use and/or sold for personal profit.
If you are a department receiving a used electrical item, the equipment must be electrically tested for safety e.g.
PAT test.
If reuse is not possible, contact IT Support who will identify the appropriate disposal route.
*NOTE: it is illegal to dispose of WEEE waste in the general waste stream*
IT Equipment
This includes all computers, associated peripherals and cables.
Contact your departmental IT Officer (if you have one) or otherwise contact the IT Support Helpline , who will identify the appropriate disposal route and make arrangements for you.
For full details follow this link: disposal of equipment
Mobile phones
For redundant mobile phones contact your departmental IT Officer (if you have one), otherwise contact the IT Support Helpline, who will identify the appropriate disposal route and make arrangements for you.
Telephones
Redundant desk phones are collected by Telephone Services for reuse or recycling of usable parts before disposal.
Please use the dedicated battery recycling bins on campus:
Batteries (domestic)
Please use the battery recycling bins for all portable batteries (e.g.
AAA, AA, C, D, button cell, laptop, mobile phone, camera and portable power tool batteries).
Bins are located in: - Student Central , near i-Point - Schwann Building , Library entrance - Charles Sikes Building , reception - Bronte Lecture Theatres , entrance foyer - Sparck Jones Building , foyer
*NOTE: Batteries are now classed as hazardous waste and should not be placed in general waste bins*
Batteries (large)
This includes all large, industrial batteries containing lithium, cadmium, mercury and lead acid (e.g.
car batteries).
Contact your School Technician to check if you have a specific procedure in your area.
Otherwise contact the Estates Helpdesk to arrange collection.
*NOTE: Batteries are classed as hazardous waste and should not be placed in general waste bins*
Ink Cartridges (from desktop printers)
The University stationery supplier Lyreco offers a take-back scheme and supplies collection boxes for used cartridges to be taken away for recycling.
Contact the person responsible for ordering cartridges in your department to find out the arrangements in your area.
To set up a new collection scheme for your department - when you place an order with Lyreco select the product code for collections from their catalogue.
Contact Joe Byrne in Procurement Services for further information.
Hazardous waste must be disposed in specific ways as per each type of hazardous waste:
Aerosols
All aerosol containers should be treated as hazardous waste (even if empty).
For example, those containing chemicals, paints, resins or adhesives.
Please contact the Estates Helpdesk to arrange removal.
*NOTE: Aerosols are now classed as hazardous waste and should not be placed in general waste bins*
Chemicals
Clinical Waste
Find out how to dispose of wood
Find out more about where to dispose of vaping vessels and electronic cigarettes.
Find out how to recycle clothing and textiles
Wood can be disposed of in the following ways:
Wood (small)
For small items, such as coffee stirrers, please use the black general waste bins .
Wood (large)
If not reusable, contact the Estates Helpdesk to arrange a collection.
Pallets
Pallets should be returned with the supplier on delivery.
If this is not possible, a collection should be organised for when the supplier is next delivering.
This should be organised at point of purchase.
Where it is not possible to return the pallets to the supplier, contact the Estates Helpdesk to arrange collection.
Both single use and refillable vaping vessels and e-cigarettes can be disposed of in the vape disposal point, located outside of the University's Student's Union shop.
The waste vapes and e-cigarettes are collected by the locally based company 'Waste Experts'.
They are cleaned to remove the eliquid (which is a hazardous waste as it contains nicotine), this prevents the risk of the liquid seeping into the environment (which can contaminate soil and water when the vapes are commonly disposed of in landfill).
The vapes are then dismantled and various parts are recycled.
The reuse of the parts of the vapes reduces the pressure of natural resources such as lithium (used for batteries) being overmined.
Clothing and Textiles
Clothes that are in good condition can be offered for reuse on student and staff networks such as the Staff Hub notice board .
Alternatively donate them to local charity shops or textile banks.
There is a British Heart Foundation donation bank located in the Students’ Union, Level 5, Student Central.
The University Computing and Library Services (CLS) purchase IT equipment every year where spend can reach in the region of £2 million plus.
This amount of spend involves purchasing a high quantity of IT items and in turn generates a considerable amount of cardboard, polystyrene and foam waste from the packaging.
In previous years much of this waste was left to the University to dispose of and often would incur a cost.
However CLS have now worked with their key supplier ‘STONE Computers’, renegotiated terms under contract agreements and STONE now take the all the packaging (cardboard, polystyrene and foam waste) at no cost to the University.
They even take packaging from equipment purchased from other suppliers.
This is hugely beneficial to the University as it has reduced costs and waste storage for the University and contributes to the University’s sustainability agenda.
Is this something you could do with any of your suppliers?
Please speak to the sustainability team if you would like any advice on pushing back packaging and helping to recycle more on campus; sustainability@hud.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/sustainability/wellbuildingstandard:
The WELL Building Standard is a way of designing and operating a building to enhance the wellbeing and health of its students, staff, visitors, or the public accessing services within the building.
The University of Huddersfield has committed to implementing the WELL Building Standard in its new construction projects.
WELL applies the science of how physical and social environments affect human health, well-being, and performance.
Developed over 10 years and backed by the latest scientific research, WELL outlines key building-level and organisational strategies across ten categories.
We believe that buildings should be developed with people’s health and wellness at the centre of design.
The WELL Building Standard takes a holistic approach to health in the built environment addressing behaviour, operations and design
International WELL Building Institute -
The standard is organised around ten key concepts, each relates to a different interaction with a person's health and well-being
Each concept is broken down into features and are categorised as either Preconditions —necessary for baseline WELL Certification, or Optimisations —optional enhancements, which together determine the level of certification above baseline certification.
Features can be:
Every WELL project must achieve all precondititons and then may score points for any aditional optimisations completed.
These scores add up to a rating from BRONZE (all preconditions met) to PLATINUM (all preconditions met, plus an additional 40 points achieved).
The WELL building standard is designed to measure the actual performance of the building project and not just the design so testing is undertaken once the project is operational and in use before the project can be certified
Find out more about the WELL building Standard by visiting their website (external) .
Find out more about the WELL Building Standard within the Jo Cox More in Common Centre
Find out more about how the WELL Building Standard is being built into the new Daphne Steele Building

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/physical-life-sciences:
The Department of Physical and Life Sciences includes teaching and research in the following areas:
Our departments draw on the expertise of staff with national and international reputations for their research, teaching and professional engagement.
{{item.jobTitle}}

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/pharmacy:
The Department of Pharmacy is a vibrant teaching and research environment within the School of Applied Sciences and brings together a team of experienced and professional academic staff, with excellent local, national and international profiles.
We offer a range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses contributing to the development of the profession.
Being uniquely situated in both science and practice, we deliver truly multidisciplinary research across the breath of pharmacy-related disciplines, in our newly constructed laboratories equipped with instrumentation needed to undertake cutting edge research and with our collaborators across the School, universities and globally.
The Centre for Biomarker research led by Dr Patrick McHugh, looks to explore the underlying aetiology of many diseases, including CNS-related conditions.
Our ambition is to develop biomarkers to help improve the understanding, diagnosis and treatment of such disease.
The Pharmaceutical Policy and Practice Research Centre provides a platform to enhance quality and quantity of research outputs in a competitive research environment.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/vision-sciences:
The Department of Optometry and Vision Sciences (OVS) was created in 2019 within the School of Applied Sciences University of Huddersfield.
The department offers the BSc (Hons) in Optometry delivered in dedicated, purpose built accommodations as part of a ~£18.2 million development in the School of Applied Sciences.
Taking up the whole of the ground floor, are purpose built pre-clinical teaching areas and a new University Eye Clinic, where students develop key clinical skills aligned with modern optometric practice.
As they progress through the 3 year BSc (Hons) Optometry course, students will continue to develop their clinical and patient management skills using modern optometric equipment under the supervision of experienced academic and clinical tutors.
Students benefit from access to a range of fully equipped and dedicated pre-clinical laboratories in Optometry that contain equipment for spectacle and ophthalmic lens repair and measurement and specialist equipment for eye and examinations and vision assessments.
As a new department we are developing our research base.
Our initial areas of focus are centred on clinical and non-clinical problems in paediatric and binocular vision, particularly visual acuity (crowding), stereopsis and amblyopia, and research into the effectiveness of optometric procedures.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/design-architecture:
Our programmes focus on cutting-edge design practice and address some of the latest challenges and opportunities for our industries, including Sustainability, User Centred Design, and Building Information Modelling.
Our international and industry-led focus provides students with opportunities to really broaden their perspectives and understand the need to deliver innovative solutions that satisfy the physical, cultural and social conditions wherever development is required.
A radical reconceptualisation of teaching and research practice.
The lab conducts theory based and applied research generally into product design, and especially in the built environment, pushing the impact of design thinking and practice to new areas.
The overarching ethos of CUDAS, Architecture and Sustainability is that design informs all aspects of academic research of the built environment, whether in the historical, cultural, theoretical or environmental contexts.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/media-humanities-arts:
The Department of Media, Humanities and the Arts includes teaching and research in the following areas:
The Centre for Research in New Music (CeReNeM) is a community of world-leading artists and scholars who bring innovative and interdisciplinary perspectives to research in composition, performance, sonic arts and multimedia, music technology, improvisation, analysis, and new music studies.
The Centre for Research in Music and its Technologies (CRMT) brings together researchers investigating musics and musical cultures using a variety of historical, critical analytical and technological methodologies.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/schools/education:
Welcome to the School of Education
We offer an excellent working environment with a wide range of courses across teacher training and education.
The School prepares students to work with all ages and levels, from early years through to adult education.
As well as initial training for professionals in early years and for teachers, lecturers, trainers and youth workers, we offer extensive opportunities for continuing professional development.
We welcome a wide range of international undergraduate and postgraduate students to study and do research with us and provide short courses in teacher education for international delegates.
Most academic staff have very close working relationships with the professional field and are engaged in a range of outreach activities.
We strive to reach out with our research, scholarship and partnerships to influence the world around us.
We expect high standards from ourselves and take considerable pride in our work.
The School has a thriving research culture, and hosts a range of lectures and seminars, which attract external partners as well as staff and research students.
Our research activities have a collaborative approach and are organised through our overarching Huddersfield Centre for Research in Education and Society (HudCRES) .
The REF2021 national research quality assessment exercise saw the School of Education make substantial progress forward in how the quality of our educational research was rated.
It saw us more than double the number of our staff whose research was submitted compared to REF2014.
Despite this sizeable increase in the staff included, our research quality ratings increased further.
In particular, 67% of our ‘research impact’ activity was rated as 3*(internationally excellent) or 4* (world leading).
Similarly, for the first time ever, part of our ‘research environment’ evidence submission was rated as 4* (world leading), highlighting our strong international research collaborations.
This increase in both the quantity and quality of our educational research saw the School of Education rise to 29 th (out of 83 submissions nationally) in the Education 'Research Power’ table from REF2021.
We are student-centred in our approach to teaching and learning, and prioritise the needs, interests, and abilities of our students, and aim to foster an engaging and personalised educational experience.
We endeavour to empower our students to actively participate in their own learning journey, and within the School, academic staff act as facilitators who guide our students through exploration and critical thinking.
Assessment is used as a tool for feedback and growth and student progress.
We aim to develop autonomous, motivated, lifelong learners who are prepared for the challenges of the dynamic, ever-evolving world beyond the classroom.
The School of Education aims to offer our students an excellent experience and to develop them to be superb professionals, critical thinkers and action researchers.
Teacher Education provision within the School of Business, Education and Law at the University of Huddersfield has been graded as GOOD across all phases: Early Years, Primary, Secondary and Lifelong Learning.
Our internationally renowned academics are committed to undertaking research which makes a real difference to people's lives.
The Education and Training Consortium is a partnership of 21 Further and Higher Education Institutions providing a range of professional HE qualifications.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/law-school:
Welcome to the Law School
The Law School continues to go from strength to strength and offers a range of attractive and innovative undergraduate, professional and postgraduate courses which equip students for a wide range of potential employment including the legal profession.
The Law School has an experienced and professional staff team involved in the delivery of its courses across undergraduate, postgraduate taught, postgraduate research and professional levels.
Our staff bring a wide range of experience gained through both legal research and practice, with a balanced mix of professionally qualified staff, either as solicitors or barristers, and those who are research active.
Many of our colleagues are involved in external activities that support the quality assurance of legal education and influence policy development nationally and internationally through their research, thereby extending the reach and reputation of the School.
The School has a unique student centred Legal Advice Clinic which is located in the Oastler Building and gives students the opportunity to research real life legal issues and give advice to members of the public.
We also operate a mentoring scheme which teams up students with a professional working in practice to provide insights into working in law.
Our Undergraduate degrees also include an optional placement year which increases experience and is a useful aid to employability on graduation.
We have innovative Partners in Law scheme whereby we work closely with the following local and national firms:
Members of Law School staff are researching in many fields including Jurisprudence concentrating on law and morality, Immigration , Child Protection including the rights of the refugee child and the systems to protect them and clinical legal education and Legal Education .
We have a small but tightly focused group of research students who are integrated into the work of the school.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/computer-science:
Our School is an exciting place in which to learn, research and teach.
We aim to provide an inspirational learning experience, underpinned by pioneering research and delivered by innovative and creative practitioners.
We believe strongly in the quality of the support we offer our students, employers and all our working partners which in turn has helped to establish a reputation for the quality and professionalism of our courses, our teaching, and our internationally recognised research.
The Department of Computer Science comprises the following subjects: Computing, Cyber Security and Intelligent systems, Information Systems, Games Development.
The Department has a vibrant and rapidly growing research community with expertise in such diverse areas as visualisation, information and systems engineering and intelligent systems.
It is our aim to research and develop new methods and technology in computer science that will have a real impact on global grand challenges in areas such as transport, health, security, and energy.
Our staff bring energy and enthusiasm to their work, offering expertise in their fields.
Their established industry links allow us to continually refresh and update our teaching and research.
Professor and Head of Department
R.Hill@hud.ac.uk
Acting Dean
l.t.fleming2@hud.ac.uk | 01484 256232
Associate Dean - Teaching and learning
a.crampton@hud.ac.uk
Associate Dean of Research Innovation and Knowledge Exchange
p.d.allen@hud.ac.uk
Professor and Associate Dean
R.Kharel@hud.ac.uk
Unveiling Research Excellence: School of Computing and Engineering at the University of Huddersfield
In this video, we'll take you on a virtual tour of the world-class facilities, cutting-edge research strengths, and the inspiring environment within the School of Computing and Engineering.
The School of Computing and Engineering boasts a vibrant and successful research environment, with over 180 academics and researchers actively engaged in ground-breaking research with real-world applications.
With activities over a range of computer science and engineering disciplines, we have a large portfolio of research and innovation projects supported by funding from, for example, UKRI (EPSRC, STFC and Innovate UK), the Royal Academy of Engineering, EU Horizon Programmes, and direct industry contracts.
The latest 2021 REF results show that the research carried out in the School has increased significantly in quality and impact as well as volume since the last assessment in 2014.
This is a clear recognition of the excellent research that is now being carried out here and the impact it is having as well as the hard work that colleagues in the school have put into bidding for research funding and producing world class outputs.
The highlights:
✔️ In Computer Science 83.3% of Impact was at 3* or 4*
Researchers in computer science are working on visualisation, information and systems engineering and intelligent systems.
Our facilities are industry standard, incorporating a dedicated computer networking, mobile and forensic computing laboratory, as well as creative studio environments and industry standard software.
Our aim is to research and develop new methods and technologies in computer science that will have a real impact on global grand challenges in areas such as transport, health, security, and energy.
The Centre for Sustainable Computing explores research areas including high performance analytics, sustainable software engineering and digital twinning
The Centre for Cyber Security (CCS) at Huddersfield aims to develop and demonstrate advanced knowledge beneficial to understanding and mitigating cyber threats
The Centre for Autonomous and Intelligent Systems covers on developing intelligent machines capable of independent decision-making and task execution, with the main objectives of enabling agents to perceive, understand, and interact with their environment
The Centre for Audio and Psychoacoustic Engineering aims to identify real-world problems and research gaps in audio and music applications and provide perceptually-motivated engineering solutions

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/engineering-technology:
There are several different disciplines in the field of engineering.
While all engineers work to problem-solve, engineers work to solve specific issues relevant to the field that they work within.
The different engineering disciplines that the Department of Engineering cover include:
The Department staff have expertise in such diverse areas as precision engineering, intelligent interfaces, systems engineering, and diagnostics.
They bring energy and enthusiasm to their work, offering expertise in their fields.
Their established industry links allow us to continually refresh and update our teaching and research activities, keeping pace with an ever-changing and increasingly technological world.
We believe in the importance of professional skills and accredited qualifications to help our students rapidly advance in their chosen careers, many of our courses are accredited by their respective awarding body.
Acting Head of Department (Engineering)
K.Walton@hud.ac.uk | 01484 256270
Our research environment is lively and collaborative.
Our Centre for Precision Technologies (CPT) is at the forefront of creating new measurement techniques, we apply novel techniques to real world problems.
Highly innovative research and strong links with industry resulted in the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) designating the CPT as a National Centre of Excellence in Advanced Metrology.
Research carried out in our Institute of Railway Research (IRR) has helped to improve the knowledge of the way in which railway vehicles interact with the track, including key performance aspects such as suspension performance, wheel-rail contact, traction, and braking.
This research is leading to increased safety and reliability levels, reducing costs and improved performance of the railway system.
The IRR was awarded the Queen’s Anniversary Prize in 2019.
The latest 2021 REF results show that the research carried out in the school has increased significantly in quality and impact as well as volume since the last assessment in 2014.
✔️ In Engineering 50% of Impact was at 4* (‘World Leading’)!
The Centre for Precision Technologies (CPT) is a centre of excellence for collaborative metrology research, solving real-world manufacturing problems through cutting edge metrology research in precision engineering.
Material research and engineering activity at the University of Huddersfield is spread over all seven schools and more than 12 research institutes and groups.
The Institute of Railway Research (IRR) within the School of Computing and Engineering at The University of Huddersfield is a world leading centre in the field of railway engineering and risk.
The centre for efficiency and performance engineering (cepe) aims to advance the scope and sensitivity of machinery fault detection and diagnosis and of plant performance and emissions monitoring.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/allied-health-professions-sport-exercise:
The applied nature of the courses and the range of placement opportunities offered within many of them prepares students for employment across health, social care and sport and exercise sectors.
The innovative research conducted within the Department is designed to improve healthcare provision, enhance athletic performance and contribute to the national and international public health agenda.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/social-psychological-sciences:
The Department of Social and Psychological Sciences includes teaching and research in the following areas:
The Centre for Applied Childhood, Youth and Family Research (CACYFR) is an internationally renowned centre of excellence for innovative research that tackles some of the most entrenched social problems impacting children, youth and families.
Originally located in a West Yorkshire police station almost 20 years ago, increasing demand for our work has led us to grow over time into a vibrant research community, moving onto the University campus in 2004.
Founded in 2009, the Centre for Citizenship, Conflict, Identity and Diversity (CCID) is at the forefront of social science research within the University and beyond.
The Secure Societies Institute (SSI) is an inter-disciplinary research platform at the University of Huddersfield committed to developing a secure society for all.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/nursing:
The Department of Nursing offers a range of courses to equip students to work across a diversity of healthcare settings as nurses.
We have excellent teaching and learning facilities, as well as high-quality placement provision.
All our academic staff are research active and are committed to promoting nursing research, as well as providing high-quality teaching
Welcome to the pages for the Centre for Applied Research in Health.
Please use the navigation blocks on the left and below to discover more about the Centre.
Welcome to the pages for the Institute of Skin Integrity and Infection Prevention.
Please use the navigation blocks below to find out more about the institute and our activities.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/senior-staff/chancellor:
Formerly the Chairman and CEO of giant US-based technology company 3M, Sir George was knighted in 2011.
He gained a BSc in electrical and electronic engineering in 1972 and went onto acquire a PhD in engineering in 1976.
Sir George says "My memories of Huddersfield are very positive I had a superb education here, and I will be forever grateful for that.
We had some excellent teachers and Huddersfield set me off on the right path towards the future."
The son of a Sheffield steelworker, though raised by foster parents, George Buckley attended a school for physically disabled children and left school at the age of 15, but from childhood, his ambition was to become an electrical engineer.
His studies at Huddersfield helped to make this vision a reality.
He currently holds posts that include the Chairmanship of UK manufacturer and technology innovator Smiths Group plc.
He has most recently retired as Chairman of Stanley Black & Decker Inc, who are the world's largest makers of hand and power tools, and he is a retired member of the board of Hitachi, the Japanese industrial conglomerate, and PepsiCo Inc, the US food and drink giant.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2017/september/huddersfieldwinsglobalteachingexcellenceaward:
LEADING educationalists from around the world have selected the University of Huddersfield as the first winner of the Global Teaching Excellence Award.
Following the University’s achievement of Gold-ranked status in the UK’s Government-backed Teaching Excellence Framework, the new distinction is added confirmation that Huddersfield’s educational standards are world class.
The Global Teaching Excellence Awards (GTEA) are organised by the UK-based Higher Education Academy (HEA), and entries were received from around the world.
In July, it was announced that Huddersfield had been shortlisted, alongside 26 other finalists from countries that included Australia, Switzerland, Canada, South Africa and The Netherlands.
Several other British institutions also reached the final.
Now, at an HEA function in Westminster, Huddersfield has been announced as the overall winner.
Its Global Teaching Excellence Award was accepted by Professor Bob Cryan, who expressed his delight at the latest honour, which comes as he celebrates his tenth anniversary as the University’s Vice-Chancellor.
I am absolutely thrilled and proud that the University of Huddersfield has won this award
Bob Cryan
“Over the past ten years we have worked incredibly hard to build a student experience that is second to none.
Winning GTEA is a huge tribute to the leadership team, our staff and our students, all of whom have formed an incredible partnership to make our University and its teaching so very special.”
The HEA assembled a 17-strong judging panel – including several professors – from nine countries.
The University of Huddersfield’s entry described the high professional standards that all its teaching staff must reach.
This had led to the University being ranked first in the UK for levels of qualifications among staff.
The Global Teaching Excellence Award entry also emphasised factors such as the outstanding levels of academic support offered to students; the valuable work experience that is available; plus an international strategy that creates extensive opportunities for overseas collaboration.
The entry included the statement that: “We are one of the most socially-inclusive universities, and our record in skilled graduate employment is a testament to our success in providing the very best professional and technical education”.
The Higher Education Academy’s Chief Executive, Professor Stephanie Marshall, congratulated the University of Huddersfield, stating that its submission was unanimously applauded by the international panel of judges for the drive and energy with which the executive team is leading teaching.
“I’d also highlight the University’s success in developing students as independent learners and critical thinkers,” she added.
“With high quality submissions from around the world, I think this award has really captured the imagination of the higher education sector and will help raise the profile of teaching globally,” said Professor Marshall.
“The 27 finalists all had compelling submissions in meeting the criteria of leadership, teaching and student support, and we are delighted to recognise that outstanding work and share the learning from GTEA.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/community-impact/community-engagement:
Getting involved in volunteering while studying is not only fun and rewarding, but also helps gain extra skills and experiences.
The Students’ Union supports students to volunteer with organisations in their local community, whether within West Yorkshire or beyond, and partnerships with local charities in and around Kirklees have meant students can take part in one day volunteering events or offer more regular support to organisations such as Oxfam, The Welcome Centre and British Heart Foundation.
Many of the clubs and societies also run fundraising events or need volunteers to support their projects, such as HarvestHud , and the Students’ Union is always looking for extra volunteers for a range of events, including those taking place over Freshers.
Students can register their interest at huddersfield.su/volunteering .
In 2018 a new Holocaust Exhibition and Learning Centre opened at the University.
It is expected to be visited by around 20,000 people a year, including many school parties from throughout the region.
This project has received funding of almost £1 million, including more than £600,000 from the Heritage Lottery Fund – it is being developed in tandem with the Leeds-based Holocaust Survivors' Friendship Association.
The National Health Innovation Campus will open in 2024.
The campus will feature a range of public facing facilities, including our award-winning podiatry clinic, our THRIVE telehealth service and new clinics dedicated to sports and physiotherapy, parents and children and mental health.
The campus will include world-leading research facilities and specialist clinical teaching facilities.
As the demand for health professionals continues to grow, the campus will enable the rapid expansion of courses in nursing, midwifery, allied health and human sciences, enabling the University to play a leading role in increasing the NHS and social care workforce.
The campus will also deliver a major boost to regeneration and jobs and a growing international profile will see a huge expansion in training and education work.
The University works with schools and colleges in the region to ensure that young people are aware of the options available to them.
The University works together with Kirklees Council through the Kirklees Learning Progression Board, the Kirklees Community Learning Trust and the Studio School initiative.
The University has similar connections in Wakefield.
Our engagement with schools and colleges includes activities designed to: raise aspirations, reduce perceived barriers to higher education, support attainment, encourage access to the professions and provide clear information for parents and carers.
In addition to our regular work throughout each academic year we also run the Progression Module and the Aspire Project.
We work with around 900 students at 10 schools and colleges on The Progression Module, a formal programme of study which gives Year 12 students the opportunity to investigate and research progression routes - primarily into Higher Education.
In order to encourage young people to consider higher education, and the benefits it can bring them in future life, the University is launching a new project, in partnership with local schools.
This aims to address the issue that 15% of highly able pupils who score on the top 10% nationally at age 11 fail to achieve in the top 25% at GCSE” (Missing Talent – research by the Sutton Trust).
This 10 year project aims to improve SATS and level 2 examination results and progression to post 16 and HE courses for the pupils it works with.
Headstart Huddersfield is a scheme that offers eligible students, interested in applying to the University of Huddersfield, the opportunity to gain an extra 8 UCAS points.
There are many benefits to the programme for students.
Many members of staff are volunteers with local charities and community groups.
In addition many also serve as governors at local schools and colleges.
If your school or college has vacancies on its board please contact us, to see if we have a member of staff who might be suitable, by emailing enquiriesvco@hud.ac.uk .
The University acts as a professional partner for One Community .
One Community was set up in 2010 with the aim of generating funds to support local community groups, and to ensure that the Kirklees area would have a Community Foundation.
The University and its China Office support a charity called the China Children and Teenagers' Foundation (CCTF) .
The purpose of CCTF is to care for, foster, and educate children and teenagers in China and to assist the government in improving the children and teenagers' education and welfare conditions.
Our University has a growing connection with China and it is our goal to work with our China Office to put something back into grass-roots education there.
It is easy to think that China is a large, rich country, but its rate of growth is leaving some families and young people in rural villages behind as their parents move to find work in the big cities, so this is our chance to help out in a small way.
You may notice some fund-raising going on around campus, particularly during the Spring Festival Celebrations.
Through these initiatives we support a number of children in Anqing Primary School, a remote school in the countryside of Guiizhou province.
Our China Office visit the school regularly and periodically our students travel out to China in order to hand over our donation and to spend some time with the children in the school.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/community-impact/events:
You can find details on the events calendar .
Huddersfield Contemporary Music Festival is the UK's largest international festival of new and experimental music and is run in partnership with the University of Huddersfield.
It was founded 1978 by the University's Professor Richard Steinitz.
To find out about this year's programme of events visit the festival's website .
Since its inception in 2006, the Huddersfield Literature Festival has provided innovative and high profile events to support and showcase both established and new, emerging writers and performers, as well as offering the opportunity to attend workshops and masterclasses.
The University of Huddersfield is a supporter of the Festival and many events are held on the University campus.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/community-impact/sustainable-building:
Here is a list of our key environmental policies:

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/community-impact/services:
Free reference access We welcome members of the public to use our library facilities for reference purposes free of charge.
Just bring along two forms of recognised identification (one to include your current address) to our Reception Desk and you will be issued with a Guest Pass.
You can use all available print-based and some audiovisual materials (subject to policy and licensing) and gain access to our Archives and Special Collections (may require appointment).
You can also use a limited range of our computing facilities (please note you must be 18 or over).
The campus will feature a range of public facing facilities, including our award-winning podiatry clinic which services the needs of the public, our THRIVE telehealth service, which has been established with partners Age UK Wakefield and Aspire and new sports and physiotherapy clinics, parent and child clinics and mental health clinics.
The University's Podiatry Clinic is open to anyone with a lower limb problem and accepts direct self-referral in addition to referrals from other Healthcare Professionals.
You can see a Podiatrist for any foot or lower limb problems.
At your first appointment a full assessment is completed to identify your specific requirements.
To find out more please visit the Clinic's webpages .
The Gait and Performance Clinic enables individuals at all levels of sport and fitness to benefit from cutting-edge sports science testing.
Our services are suitable for individuals and teams, from elite athletes to recreational exercisers.
Situated at the University of Huddersfield, offers a full Optometry service to the public including eye examinations, prescriptions and dispensing for spectacles and contact lenses.
For more information please visit the Valli Opticians website .
The University of Huddersfield’s Legal Advice Clinic can give free legal advice to members of the public.
The advice is provided by the University’s law students under the supervision of experienced members of staff.
The University of Huddersfield’s Health and Wellbeing Academy (HWA) aspires to be an international centre of excellence dedicated to improving the health and wellbeing of communities through innovation and collaboration.
Heritage Quay is the official archive for the University of Huddersfield, acting as the guardian of the archives of other organisations, families and individuals dating back over 200 years.
Its 21st-century role is to collect and secure the future of archives, both digital and physical, to preserve them for generations to come, making them as accessible and available as possible.
You can find out what Heritage Quay has to offer by taking a look at its website - there are numerous events throughout the year.
Team Hud Associate memberships are available to purchase by people outside of the University who wish to access the Sport and Fitness facilities, to include the Sports Hall, Fitness Centre and Fitness Classes.
Associate membership packages start at £10.50/month and are available to purchase by adults 18 years and over.
Team Hud also offer a College student membership for 18+ at £35 for 3 months.
If you are interested in a tour of our facilities or if you would like to speak with a member of staff then please contact us by either phone on, 01484 472093 or by email, teamhud@hud.ac.uk
Further information can be found on the Team Hud website.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/history/175:
In 2016 our institution celebrated a very special anniversary.
We marked 175 years since an educational institute was set up in Huddersfield to educate local working people.
In 1841, it was known as a Young Men’s Mental Improvement Society and had about 400 students.
Since then we’ve grown into a university with over 23,000 students.
On these pages you can explore a timeline of our history, find out more about the university estate, and see where our alumni’s ambitions have taken them.
Explore the key milestones, facts, figures and personalities of the University’s history in our interactive multimedia timeline.
Read about some of the special events and activities that took place during the anniversary.
Our greetings map represents our worldwide network.
Alumni have left short messages to share the global celebration of our anniversary.
Read about the important local figures that we have renamed our buildings for in our 175 th year.
Explore the University’s built heritage through a specially designed walking tour.
Extra photographic and audio content is available on this page.
Explore the timeline
This interactive timeline is hosted by the Internet Archive website ‘Wayback Machine’

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/vco/hac:
Every year the University awards a small number of Honorary Degrees at our graduation ceremonies.
Our honorary award holders are a source of inspiration to our graduates and provide positive role models for their future.
They are individuals who have demonstrated outstanding achievement in a field or activity aligned to the mission and values of the University, or for their exceptional contribution to the University or local community.
A list of previous Honorary graduates is available on our website at Honorary graduates .
We are now seeking nominations for the July and November 2026 ceremonies.
Please note that only nominations from the University community will be considered and that we particularly welcome nominations that support the University’s commitment to equality and diversity.
Eligible nominations will be considered by the Honorary Awards Committee each October, and recommendations will be made to the University’s Senate and Council as appropriate.
Explore the Honorary Awards Committee Terms of Reference for more information on how nominations are considered.
If you would like to make a nomination, please do so by Tuesday 16 September 2025 at the latest.
Please read the Honorary Awards Guidelines before completing the Nomination Form.
If you have any queries about the nomination process, please contact Imogen Hale .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2025/july/princess-royal-honorary-doctorate:
Her Royal Highness the Princess Royal has been conferred with an Honorary Doctorate by the University of Huddersfield for her services to the arts.
The Princess Royal was presented with her doctorate in front of over 100 graduating students and their families during the University’s graduation week in the University’s Oastler Building.
Giving the oration, the University’s Director of Research, Innovation and Knowledge Exchange Professor Parik Goswami said, “I personally witnessed Her Royal Highness’s heartfelt and considered speeches on some of the challenges and opportunities the industry faces at the UK Fashion and Textile Association ’s Sustainability in Textiles events in the last two years.
Most importantly, The Princess Royal also attended and addressed the Textile Institute’s annual conference in 2023 hosted by the University of Huddersfield.
“Her Royal Highness has an extraordinary passion for the fashion and textile sector and demonstrates a genuine interest in the intricate craftsmanship, technical skills and creativity that define the industry.
“Her frequent visits are not only a testament to her commitment but also serve as a significant morale booster for those involved in the industry.
The Princess Royal’s presence and encouragement have created a positive ripple effect, enhancing the visibility and prestige of UK fashion and textiles on a global stage.”
Whilst on campus, Her Royal Highness also visited Heritage Quay , the University’s archive facility and exhibition space.
She viewed the current display, ‘The town that taught itself’, which commemorates 200 years of technical and professional education in Huddersfield , and as well as work by students Charlotte Holland, Ellen Raine, Liza Smeeton, Mandy Shepherd and Talia Bechelet from the BA Textiles and BA Costumes with Textiles’ end of year showcases.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2025/july/three-honorary-doctorates-awards-graduates:
Former Huddersfield MP Barry Sheerman, wedding dress designer Kate Halfpenny and the Bishop of Leeds, Right Reverend Nick Baines, have received Honorary Doctorates from the University of Huddersfield, joining hundreds of students at ceremonies on campus throughout Graduation.
Barry, who served as the Member of Parliament for Huddersfield for 45 years until his retirement in 2024, was presented with an award of Doctor of the University in recognition of his outstanding political service and lifelong public commitment to representing the people of Huddersfield.
He spoke with passion about how he has dedicated his life to finding the talent that everybody has inside of them.
He told those graduating that they all have “enormous talent” and the country needed them, with the hard work starting now.
He added: “We need you.
We need your talent.
We need your inspiration.
We need your knowledge, but above all, we need your passion.”
Barry Sheerman
Kate, who is behind Halfpenny London, one of the UK’s leading luxury bridalwear brands, received an award of Doctor of the University in recognition of her outstanding contribution to fashion design, creative entrepreneurship, and her continued support for students and education.
She spoke of how her time at the University of Huddersfield provided the inspiration for her future career, describing the institution as “planting the seed of opportunity” in all the ways you can express yourself through garments and clothes.
“It was just so eye-opening,” she added.
Kate Halfpenny
Nick, who has been the Bishop of Leeds, covering the largest diocese in the Church of England, for a decade, was presented with an award of Doctor of the University in recognition of his outstanding achievements in knowledge generation, ordained and episcopal ministry.
During a speech, he referred to a quote he’d previously used, which he felt was appropriate for today’s graduates: “We are not driven by fear, we’re drawn by hope.”
He described the University as being “drawn to the future” with a focus on innovation, future orientation and excellent leadership.
Rev Nick Baines
All three were awarded honorary doctorates at separate ceremonies that took place in the University’s Oastler Building on 14 and 15 July.
Each year, the University of Huddersfield bestows honorary degrees on notable individuals who have attained success and recognition in their chosen field.
For details on how to submit a nomination for a future award, please click here .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2024/july/july-2024-huddersfield-honorary-doctorates:
Oscar-winning costume designer Jenny Beavan OBE was thrilled with her honorary doctorate from the University of Huddersfield as she joined hundreds of students to celebrate Graduation Week on campus.
Chief Constable of West Yorkshire John Robins and Ed Anderson CBE, Lord-Lieutenant of West Yorkshire , were also awarded honorary doctorates at ceremonies in the university’s Oastler Building.
Jenny, who has won Academy Awards for films as diverse as A Room With a View , Mad Max: Fury Road and Cruella , also met Costume with Textiles graduates Ellie Johns, Hannah Dixon, Charlotte Edwards, Zara Williams and Anya Carmichael at the Lawrence Batley Theatre where the students showed off their work from the final year of their degrees.
She also visited the Barbara Hepworth Building to view the facilities and equipment available to the students.
She also revealed that she had Huddersfield alumni alongside her when working on a new film adaptation of Alan Bennett’s The Choral in West Yorkshire, which wrapped just a couple of weeks ago.
“What an extraordinary honour, and I cannot thank you enough for thinking of me,” she told her graduates, family and staff graduation ceremony.
“It is particularly wonderful, because as a costume designer we are often quite low in the pack - the costume crew are often way down on the list of a filming unit.
Study Costumes with Textiles at the University of Huddersfield
“I had an amazing morning going around the studios, the incredible facilities and some of the work done by the students here.
I'm thrilled as I have had Huddersfield students working with me on my last job, a film called The Choral which was filmed in this part of the world.
It is an Alan Bennett story set in World War 1, so it feels like I’ve come full circle because it’s a Yorkshire story and here I am in Huddersfield.
I am deeply honoured.”
Jenny with students Ellie Johns, Hannah Dixon, Charlotte Edwards, Zara Williams and Anya Carmichael
Jenny chats with students and staff about the costumes and the ideas behind them
Jenny met with students in the nearby Lawrence Batley Theatre.
Jenny visited the costume and textiles workspaces in the university's Liz Garland
Ed Anderson
John Robins
One of our many graduates celebrates her degree
A happy time for this cool customer
Our graduates enjoyed meeting up with their friends for the ceremonies in the Oastler Building
University Chancellor Sir George Buckley and Vice-Chancellor Professor Bob Cryan
Congratulations to all of our graduates!
John Robins, who became Chief Constable in 2019, said he was humbled by his honorary doctorate and urged graduates to throw themselves into whatever career they choose.
“Fellow graduates today, whatever careers or career you choose, I wish you genuinely all the professional satisfaction and enjoyment that I’ve had out of my own career.
And it's not for me to give you advice, but all I would say is work hard.
Throw yourselves into your work, your chosen work, and enjoy it.
Find time to enjoy your careers whatever you choose.
“Thank you to the University of Huddersfield.
This does mean a tremendous amount to me and to my colleagues, but most of all best wishes to my fellow graduates for your future chosen careers.”
Ed Anderson, currently Chairman of National Savings and Investments and formerly CEO of Leeds-Bradford Airport, encouraged graduates to try something new and different for their next step.
“The University has a special place in my heart, and there is a world full of opportunities for our graduates.
“Some of you in the audience will know what they want to do, but others, like myself, will not.
I advise you to be open-minded, to embrace opportunities and to take on challenges outside of your comfort zone.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2023/july/adil-ray-honorary-doctorates-july-2023:
The University of Huddersfield’s graduates have been encouraged to follow their dreams by the recipients of honorary doctorates awarded during the July graduation fortnight.
July’s honoraries included broadcaster and Huddersfield alumni Adil Ray OBE, who looked back to his time at the University in the 1990s by saying that it was the whole experience, including what he did outside of lectures, that was just as important as his Business degree.
Also receiving honorary doctorates were Zenebu Hailu Dubale for her outstanding work with refugees in Huddersfield, Graham McKenzie for his contribution to the world-renowned Huddersfield Contemporary Music Festival and Aonghus Gordon OBE for his charitable work for young people living with disabilities.
...graduated from Huddersfield in 1997 and has subsequently written and starred in acclaimed comedy Citizen Khan for the BBC as well as presenting numerous documentaries and Good Morning Britain on ITV
Acting, writing award-winning comedy, holding politicians to account on breakfast TV and making hard-hitting documentaries make Adil a true all-rounder of the modern media landscape.
He graduated in Marketing from Huddersfield in 1997 having arrived here through Clearing.
He wrote and starred in the highly-successful BBC sitcom Citizen Khan, appeared in the acclaimed drama Stephen about the murder of Stephen Lawrence, hosts Good Morning Britain on ITV and recently presented the thought-provoking documentary Is Cricket Racist on Channel 4.
This eclectic career had its roots when he attended Huddersfield, when his spell as a DJ at the Student’s Union helped inspire his early career after graduating.
“I truly do believe that dreams can come true.
Everything I have done, I believed that I could do it,” Adil says.
“I was honest with myself, I worked hard and was disciplined and from that I believe there can only be one outcome – that your dream can come true.
“I’ll ask anyone graduating what their next dream is because they absolutely can do it.
My advice is to a small thing every day towards that dream, that could be send an email, apply for a job, just five minutes of your day even on weekends or birthdays.
But if you do that every day, it becomes part of yourself, and if you’re honest with yourself then there is only one way and that is that your dream can come true.
“I grew up thinking that if I saw somebody who was a comedian, I thought that I'd like to do that.
Doing a documentary?
I want to do that.
“I feel ‘Why not?’ If you want to become a footballer, then then try to learn to be a footballer.
If you want to be an architect, then do it.
Just keep your eyes and ears open and go for it and really live your dreams.”
Adil Ray reflects on his time as a student in Huddersfield, and tells students that they should follow their dreams.
...has guided and led the world-renowned festival since 2006
Graham McKenzie has been Artistic Director & Chief Executive for the Huddersfield Contemporary Music Festival since 2006 and an Honorary Research Fellow University of Huddersfield since 2008.
Graham is a curator and writer in the field of experimental and new music.
He is Programme Advisor to the Glasgow Jazz Festival and an Associate Member of Centre for Research in New Music at the University of Huddersfield.
He recalled how a visit to the careers adviser at school in Glasgow revealed that he and his fellow pupils were likely to be categorised as likely to end up in the shipyards, armed forces of Barlinnie gaol.
As he looked back on his 18 years as HCMF director, he encouraged graduates to follow their passions for their career.
Always dare to dream, always dare to imagine what you might do next.
Look at your goals, and what you are currently doing, and ask yourself is what I am doing now helping me get there?
If not, then think about what will help you.
"Some artists will say they don’t contact me because they don’t want to bother me, but a festival is only as good as the ideas that artists bring forward.
“It has been a real privilege to be the artistic director of HCMF for the last 18 years, and I thought I’d only do three when I turned up to take the job.
I have had such amazing support while in the role from the University, from the Vice-Chancellor’s office to colleagues in the music department, and the festival has worldwide reputation that we keep building upon.
It is a wonderful personal honour, and I hope to use it to further the ambitions of the HCMF.”
Graham McKenzie
...has distinguished track record of leadership of charities for people with disabilities
Aonghus Gordon has a distinguished track record of development and leadership with several ground-breaking charities that provide high quality environments and opportunities for people with disabilities.
He is the founding Trustee of Ruskin Mill Trust and Ruskin Mill Land Trust, which acquire and restore redundant iconic industrial buildings and transforming them into educational and cultural centres, winning many awards and commendations.
His first experience of teaching young people with ADHD and Asperger’s Syndrome did not go well, but a suggestion that he could teach in the outdoors led to some revelatory results.
“It’s a delight to receive this award, which does come as the result of a lot of hard work.
My first teaching experience did not go so well as the young people I worked with did not want to learn inside the classroom.
I asked to take it outdoors, which I did and then decided to set up my own schools.
“Working outside and being aware of the trees, birds, light and temperature held them and meant they had a relationship with what I call lawful, natural beauty.
The young people then told me they did not know this was possible.”
The University partners with Ruskin Mill Trust to deliver a Master’s in Practical Skills Therapeutic Education (PSTE) , the idea for which came from Aonghus seeing how young people were stimulated by working with pottery and ironworks in the outdoors.
“The materials and the natural world did not lie to them – they were truthful,” Aonghus adds.
“What was powerful was they could see themselves in the object, and they accepted the authority of failure, which is difficult for a young person but they carried on looking to perfect themselves.
If you put the world into a practical context, they will aspire to create a degree of perfection.
“PSTE evolved from that and I am very grateful to University of Huddersfield for validating this as a Master’s and I want to thank the University for the amazing support myself and the Trust have received.”
...has helped make a vital difference in helping to improve the lives of refugees in Huddersfield
Zenebu Hailu Dubale is a refugee from Ethiopia who has made Huddersfield her home after arriving in 1999.
Since 2010, she has been a Trustee and the Chairperson for the Ethiopian Orthodox Church in the UK.
This national role has included the trustees purchasing a church in Huddersfield which will be used for community worship and wider community activities for people from across the UK.
Zenebu has made a distinctive and outstanding difference to the lives of refugees in the town.
Dedicated to building on the benefits that migration brings to the area, she actively creates opportunities to ensure that Huddersfield continues to be a welcoming community.
Most recently, Zenebu has been part of the rapid response to the war in Ukraine, supporting women and child refugees following their arrival in Kirklees.
She was recruited as a local leader as part of the ‘Every Vaccination Matters’ programme to combat COVID-19.
She helped with information to dispel fears and delivered culturally sensitive workshops for which she received a Community Champion award.
Zenebu has worked in Huddersfield town centre as a mental health and wellbeing worker for WomenCentre Kirklees , offering peer support for women seeking asylum, refugees and new migrants.
She plays a substantial role in helping transform women’s lives and outcomes for their families.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2023/november/nitin-sawhney-honoary-doctorate-delight:
Acclaimed musician Nitin Sawhney has hailed his “special” long-term relationship with the University of Huddersfield after receiving his honorary doctorate from the institution.
The multi-instrumentalist, club DJ, producer, songwriter and activist has added his doctorate to a raft of awards which include an Ivor Novello Lifetime Achievement but music students at the university have been benefitting from his knowledge in the shape of internships and a scholarship for a number of years.
“It is wonderful to receive this,” says Nitin, “particularly as although I've had a few honorary doctorates which I'm very proud of but this is particularly special I've had a great relationship with the university for a very long time.”
Nitin’s 1999 album Beyond Skin was nominated for the Mercury Music Prize, and he marked the release of his latest, Identity , with a concert at London’s Royal Albert Hall.
He has scored major BBC documentaries including Human Planet and Wonders of the Monsoon , the 2018 film Mowgli , but in 2022 he played keyboards on Pink Floyd’s ‘Hey, hey (rise up)’, the legendary band’s first new music since the 1990s which raised money for Ukrainian refugees.
Nitin reflects on receiving his honorary doctorate.
“I've known David Gilmour on and off for many years and he asked me how would I feel about being a member of Pink Floyd for a track?
And I said, ‘Well, I don't know, you're such an unsuccessful band!’ They were so, so generous and Dave insisted that I was part of the band.
I've absolutely adored Pink Floyd since I was a kid but he was saying that all the photographs, all the interviews have to be us as a band.
It was very generous of him.”
Discover more about music courses at the University of Huddersfield
With his ongoing relationship with the university seeing students given the chance to work with his organisation, Nitin is passionate about giving budding musicians and producers the chance which his role with the PRS Foundation also offers.
“I feel very passionate about new music and talent development.
The PRS Foundation is very much about inclusivity and diversity.
Tt's a real leader in terms of how we've created programmes like Power Up, for example, which help young black artists and black promoters and managers to really get a foothold in the industry.
Take a look at Nitin playing keyboards with Pink Floyd
“Nine out of the 12 Mercury nominees last year were people who'd been funded by the foundation.
The year before that it was eight out of the 12 Mercury nominees, so clearly the foundation has its finger on the pulse of development new talent.
And so I'm really very excited about continuing to work as the chair of its trustees and what the PRS Foundation stands for.
I feel very proud of its achievements.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2022/july/honorary-degrees-week-one-july-2022:
‘Play to your strengths’ and ‘it’s in your hands to make the most of your opportunities’ were among the key messages from the recipients of honorary degrees in the first week of July’s graduation ceremonies at the University of Huddersfield.
The honoraries included an Oscar winner, someone who has mixed records for some of the most famous acts in the world and one of the most influential women working in engineering.
And in John and Ian Warhurst, two local brothers who returned to the University for honorary awards to add to the degrees they achieved in the 1990s.
Angela advises the University's None in Three research centre
Angela is the Commissioner for Gender and Women’s Affairs in the Ministry of Gender, Labour and Social Development in the Government in the Republic of Uganda.
Her ground-breaking work on combatting violence against women and children plus gender equality and women’s empowerment in Uganda has led to Angela advising the University of Huddersfield’s None In Three initiative (Ni3).
Angela has been on the advisory board for Ni3 since 2018, helping this global research initiative to tackle gender-based violence (GBV) around the world through innovative prosocial gaming.
She spearheaded a strategy on eliminating violence against children in Uganda’s schools, and is chair of the COVID-19 sub-committee on GBV and violence against children in Uganda.
“There is no prosperity without peaceful co-existence but you have to make it happen so that all women and children can enjoy a violence-free home, communities, schools and the nation at large.
I am honoured by this award, it is an inspiration to take my work from Africa to a higher level.
“Working together we can do better, and the COVID context has taught us lessons that whatever happens in the private has a lot of influence on what is happening in the public.
“Change starts with me and you saying no to sexual-based gender violence.”
Angela Nakafeero discusses how the None In Three project has had a significant impact in Uganda.
Adele, Johnny Cash and Metallica are among the many big names Andrew has worked with.
Andrew’s award-winning career in music has seen him work with some of the biggest acts in the world as a mixer and engineer.
After starting out as a musician, Andrew found that his niche was behind the scenes, and after touring with Stevie Wonder and Michael Jackson he worked for several renowned producers including Don Was and Rick Rubin.
He has engineered or mixed for acts as varied as Metallica, Neil Diamond, Iggy Pop, U2, Green Day and Johnny Cash and has won Grammys for his work on albums by Adele, Red Hot Chilli Peppers and Ziggy Marley.
He relocated to the UK from Los Angeles in 2015, and is a member of the University’s Music and Audio Production (MAP) research group in the School of Computing and Engineering.
“At Huddersfield I love the combination of very in-depth study of parts of the process but always letting people get through a project and understanding every aspect of it.
Students really have an idea of what to expect when they come out of here.
It’s a really great foundation.
“A phrase I use a lot is ‘the only thing that matters is what comes out of the speakers.
You can be working on music and having a bad day but none of that matters because the listener will hit ‘Play’ and their experience is all they will get from the music.
They don’t know that you ran out of food, that you had low blood sugar or whatever when you were mixing it – that doesn’t matter.
“That can be broadened out to anything in your life and career, whatever comes out of you is how you are perceived in the world.
You should never compromise your art, you should do what you think is right and hopefully that translates.
Always try to make great art and be a good person – and that’s it.”
Andrew Scheps reflects on his career, the approach to his work and his connections to the University of Huddersfield.
Established a leading turbocharger repair parts supplier, and was involved in an attempt on the world land speed record.
Ian is a Chartered Mechanical Engineer, with a degree in Mechanical Engineering Design from the University of Huddersfield.
In 2002 he purchased Melett Ltd, a small aftermarket turbocharger parts business with three employees and around £250K turnover, and in 15 years it became one of the world’s largest aftermarket suppliers of turbocharger repair parts.
By the time he sold the business, it had a turnover of £30m and employed 250 people across Europe, the USA and China.
He subsequently took over the Bloodhound Land Speed Record Project , which recorded a top speed of 628mph in South Africa in 2019.
Ian is currently researching investment opportunities to support new start-up technologies in the automotive hydrogen and autonomous vehicle sectors.
Ian Warhurst, a Huddersfield graduate, talks about managing the Bloodhound Land Speed Record Project.
“I am still a bit astounded to get an honorary degree from the university I went to when I was younger.
“I enjoyed every minute of being here, and I have found that I’ve used my degree every day when running my business.
I’m an engineer but I find if you treat business like a machine, if all the components work together then the machine and the business work well.
“My advice is to keep it simple.
A project is a series of small steps and each usually has a straight forward answer, but we tend to over-complicate things.
Beginning to end is often complex, but one step at a time, don’t try to overthink and go with your gut feel.
“The future of transport is what interests me at the moment.
We are about to change the entire way in which everything moves around the planet.
The internal combustion engine is going to disappear at some point.
What replaces it?
It is really exciting at the moment and a real challenge for engineers coming through today.
“There is so much coming along, new technologies that need to be developed and the students of today will create the answers for tomorrow.
There should be abundant opportunities - we cannot get enough engineers.”
Ian (on the left) and John Warhurst reflect on what receiving Honorary Doctorates means to their family.
John earned an Academy Award for his work on Queen biopic Bohemian Rhapsody
Originally from Brighouse in West Yorkshire, John graduated from Huddersfield with a degree in Orchestral Composition and then continued for a Master’s degree in Electro-Acoustic Composition.
He is one of the film industry's most accomplished sound editors, having worked on blockbusters including Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King , Les Misérables and Bohemian Rhapsody , for which he won an Oscar in 2019.
In early 2020 he returned to the University to give an entertaining talk about how he helped recreate Queen’s famous performance at Live Aid for Bohemian Rhapsody .
John Warhurst talks about his time as a student at the University of Huddersfield, how he ended up working in the film industry and gives advice to students who want to follow in his footsteps.
"I remember Huddersfield very fondly.
It was a unique time when you had the freedom to have ideas.
These were heavily challenged by my lecturers and my fellow students, and we had a lot of debates about how terrible each others ideas were.
"What you study is secondary to the process of what you are studying, of being in a time in life where you can develop your ideas and the process and be challenged on them in hopefully as positive an environment as what I found at Huddersfield.
"I still apply many of the things I studied in music composition on the films I work on today, understanding the core of something, where it comes from and linking it all together.
"To be given this honorary award on the same day as my brother is a huge honour and a great pleasure for all our family."
Dr Sillem has extensive leadership experience in UK and international engineering and innovation
Hayaatun Sillem is CEO of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
She has extensive leadership experience in UK and international engineering, innovation, and diversity and inclusion activities.
She has been named as one of the ‘Inspiring 50 Women in Tech’ and one of the most influential women in engineering.
Dr Sillem chairs the UK government’s Innovation Expert Group and the St.
Andrews Prize for the Environment, and co-chairs with Sir Lewis Hamilton his Commission on Black representation in UK motorsport.
She has also served as Committee Specialist and later Specialist Adviser to the House of Commons Science and Technology Committee.
Dr Hayaatun Sillem talks about her inspirations, diversity in engineering and being a working mum.
"I came here last in 2019 and I can't believe how much has changed.
As ever it's such an exciting place to be and from an engineering perspective, really, it just is such an inspiring set of activities and people that I meet every single time I come.
"We have made progress in terms of improving diversity and inclusion in engineering, but unfortunately the pace of change is still not acceptable.
So we still have a profession in the UK that is made up of sixteen and a half percent women, which is still incredibly low when you look at international comparisons and other professions and there are lots of other aspects of our diversity deficit when you look at different characteristics that really troubles me.
"And it matters because engineers shape the world we live in in a really profound way.
And it's incredibly important that we can be reflective of the society that we serve.
What I can definitely see as a positive is that there is no serious leader in engineering now who does not consider it a personal and professional priority to improve diversity.
"It was quite funny when I took up this role, I learned quite quickly that some people are not very good at rearranging their facial expressions to hide their surprise.
So I've had a lot of people very taken aback to find that I'm doing the roles that I'm doing, and sometimes it can get a bit wearing.
But in the long term, I think they'll think twice about what a leader in engineering looks like.
"These are careers that will literally shape our future.
And I think one of my most important learnings personally has been that it's just incredibly important to embrace whatever makes you you."

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2022/july/rosie-jones-honorary-doctorates-huddersfield:
Taking what you discover at university onto a bigger stage was the theme for recipients of honorary doctorates in the second week of graduations at the University of Huddersfield, which included comedian, writer and Huddersfield alumna Rosie Jones.
She collected her award on the final day of ceremonies, with Chinese film maker Bo Yang and business leader Paul Grimwood having also been honoured earlier in the week.
But it was Rosie who gave possibly the sagest and best-received piece of advice when she told her audience, “Never forget to have fun, go out and have a kebab!”
One of the rising stars of the UK comedy scene
Rosie has become one of the must-see acts on the UK comedy circuit in the decade since she graduated from the University of Huddersfield with a first-class honours BA in English Language and Creative Writing.
She has starred on shows including The Last Leg, Live at the Apollo, The Jonathan Ross Show, Trip Hazard and The Last Leg in Tokyo.
She has written for the hit Netflix series Sex Education, had a recurring guest role in Casualty and published her first book, The Amazing Edie Eckhart, in 2021.
“It feels really emotional and I've already seen a lot of familiar faces from my time here, so I'm very happy to be home," she told the University website.
“It's a massive honour, because I hold Huddersfield very close to my heart.
It's just amazing that you remember me.
But secretly, I'm not allowed to say this, but I'm most excited about changing all my deliveries to Dr Rosie.
The power!
“I'm actually already a nightmare, even to my friends.
I'm warning them and saying 'just so you know, you're going to have to call me Dr Jones.' I think Huddersfield was the first place that I thought right I can be a writer and I'm going to bloody do this.
Rosie reflects on what the power she now has with "Doctor" in front of her name will mean to her...
“I studied creative writing and I had my first short story published when I was a student here and that just gave me the taste for it.
I mean, I'm so lucky to be able to perform comedy and then do serious acting roles, but if I'm honest writing scripts and books are the things that give me the most joy and I really found the writer in me when I was here at university.
“Growing up being a gay, disabled woman, I would read a book or turn on the TV and never see myself staring back.
I don't feel like I ever had a role model.
So, when I started to get a platform, I was aware that I wanted to be as vocal as I could about my disability and my sexuality and just be that person that other people can look at and think 'if she can do it, I can do it'.
“I'm very aware that when I go out there and I say 'here's my experience', you may have a different one, but if you want to listen to me, learn from me and be inspired by me, good, but at the end of the day I'm just Rosie.”
Has won awards around the world for his innovative stories.
Bo Yang grew up in the city of Haerbin in northern China, close to Russia.
He later moved to Xi’an with his parents to China’s West Film Factory during the late 1980s to 1990s, which is where he started developing an interest in film-making.
In the early 2000s Bo moved to New Zealand to study economics, before returning to China where he worked in film and television.
His work, Loach is a Fish Too (2005), received the art contribution award at the 18th Tokyo International Film Festival.
The feature film Wings (2011) and Feed me (2012) both received Innovation Awards at the 36th and 37th Montreal World Film Festival.
Recently Bo has been focused on popular television series for the Chinese market.
“You have one of the really advanced studios with all the same equipment here at Huddersfield, that we are using for TV series," says Bo.
"Those lights and motion cameras with spotless conditions.
So, as I told of them on the tour, I kind of envy you to some degree, that the students over here can have exactly the same equipment as the real commercial equipment that we in our jobs.
“There are too many kings and heroes on the big screen or small screen, but there are not a lot of people who turn their camera towards ordinary people, like people you meet every day.
They are also heroes, there are also tears and sweat happening every day, so if you put your eyes on those people every single day, you will be amazed how rich you can get from them.
For me it's always celebrating the celebration of humanity.
So that's why I tend to point my focus to the ordinary people."
Acclaimed film maker Bo Yang discusses how he took his skills onto a world stage.
“Back in the days when I was for the first time overseas in 2001, technology was not as advanced as today and you really had to find out a lot of things yourself and that's the whole experience, not only academically, but to have the whole experience of travel overseas.
“It basically put me in to society, with a broader aspect of society.
You need to go out and have a worldwide aspect.
I think that's very important and that's what I try to encourage my kids to do today.
“To the students now, I say to just enjoy your time.
I think the happiest time is when you can create whatever content you want to create, rather than get bounded by more commercial or political aspects.
Just after university, I think that's the happiest time for you to really create the content you really enjoy.”
Former Chairman and CEO of Nestlé USA
After graduating from Huddersfield in 1985 with a degree in Business Administration, Paul Grimwood has enjoyed an influential career in the food and drink industry both in the UK and overseas.
After beginning as an intern at the Mars Corporation while at Huddersfield, he eventually became its Commercial Director before moving to Highland Distillers as Managing Director for the UK and Ireland.
He joined Nestlé in 2001, and in 20 years with the company in a range of senior roles, culminating in becoming Chairman and CEO of Nestlé USA, he helped Nestlé and the wider food industry develop initiatives around environmental, sustainability, nutritional and health-related issues.
He was awarded with a CBE in 2018, and lives in semi-retirement in Yorkshire.
“The Mars internship framed everything that I went on to do after coming to Huddersfield.
It was something that I knew I wanted to do, to work in business and I needed something that was going to give me a pragmatic introduction to the business world and a good foundation, a good grounding.
But it wasn't actually until I went away and did what they called at that time a 'thick sandwich' course, which we now call an internship."
Paul Grimwood looks back to his time at Huddersfield and how important his internship turned out to be for his subsequent career.
“I went and worked for the Mars Group for a full year.
And all of a sudden, everything that everybody had been telling me for year one and year two, I started to understand.
And because it was a year's placement, I got a lot of great experience and some big projects to work on.
“Working in the food and drink industry for the Mars group probably set me up for the next 35 years of my career, because I stayed in that industry before finally coming to sort of semi-retirement a few years ago.
So, it really was foundational stuff for me for which I'll always be very grateful.
I certainly recommend anybody, first of all, to take a placement year somewhere and develop themselves hopefully in the middle of the degree.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2022/november/honorary-doctorates-november-2022:
Sarah is a familiar face and voice across the media as well as Visiting Professor of General Practice at the University of Huddersfield.
Dr Sarah Jarvis is a well-known face and voice on medical matters, regularly contributing to discussions on health on BBC Radio 2, Channel 5, LBC and more.
Sarah's books include A Younger Woman’s Diagnose-it-yourself Guide, Women’s Health for Life, Pregnancy for Dummies, Children’s Health for Dummies and The Welcome Visitor, a book on the ethics of dying co-authored with John Humphrys.
She founded the Women’s Taskforce at the Royal College of General Practitioners (RCGP) and was the RCGP Women’s Health spokesperson for over 15 years.
She is Visiting Professor in General Practice at the University of Huddersfield , and is patron of the University’s Institute of Skin Integrity and Infection Prevention (ISIaIP).
“To receive this honorary doctorate feels particularly exciting, but especially because I have worked so closely with Professor Karen Ousey at the ISIaIP,” says Dr Jarvis.
“She is such an inspiration, I have heard so much about the University of Huddersfield and its work so I feel very privileged and very honoured.
“I don’t think anyone today can fail to understand how important infection prevention is.
We had the most extraordinarily steep learning curve on how Covid was transmitted, and it fundamentally changed the advice I was being given and giving as a doctor.
If we didn’t have this institute and others like it we would be much, much slower to understand emerging diseases.
There has never been a time when the role of the institute has been more important.
Dr Sarah Jarvis reflects on her honorary doctorate and assesses the world that our 2022 graduates are moving into.
Regarding the National Health Innovation Campus which will become an integral part of the University in the next few years, she added, “We are in a position where we have never needed innovation more in the NHS.
Science has moved on dramatically, but new developments mean that we have to think differently.
We have to think innovatively on how we can help people to help themselves, as sadly there are far more lifestyle challenges today than there were when I became a GP 32 years ago.
“Obesity is presenting huge challenges.
We need to help people to help themselves, because as well as alcohol, drugs and tobacco, food can be really addictive too.”
And advising our recent graduates, she said, “I say follow your dreams but be aware that your dreams might change.
I wanted to be a GP from the age of eight, I have never regretted going into general practice – it is an extraordinary profession, but it is not at all what I expected it to be.
“If you are graduating from any discipline, but particularly in healthcare, be very proud about what you are doing.
You’ll change lives, you’ll save lives and you will make a huge difference.”
Nigel is passionate about helping young people from all backgrounds getting the chance to make their way into engineering careers.
After graduating from UMIST in 1978 with a Civil Engineering degree, Nigel began his career with John Laing Construction where he worked as an engineer on major construction projects in the UK and the Middle East.
Nigel is a registered professional engineer (C.Eng) and has a MBA from London Business School.
He held Executive Director roles with International Paint, Andersen Consulting (Accenture) and Experian plc.
In 2009 he was appointed Chief Executive of the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET), before retiring in June 2022.
“We cannot get enough engineering graduates,” says Nigel.
“The world is technology-enabled, everything we do has technology at the heart of it.
We have a shortage of skills in this country and in developing counties, so the more young people going into engineering, the better.
There has never been a better time to be one, and engineers are helping to make a better world.
“We need to make sure the opportunities are open to everybody and make it more inclusive for a more balanced society.”
Nigel Fine reveals how he became inspired from a young age to go into civil engineering and says the skills possessed by today's engineering graduates are sought after and in great demand.
Advising today’s graduates, he says that people skills are vital to complement technical skills.
“You should not expect to have all your career plans mapped out.
Careers are like marathons rather than sprints so pace yourself and be open to new opportunities whenever they come your way.
“As engineers and technologists, we are all taught to be creative, innovative, analytical, problem solvers and good team workers.
These are all relevant skills that can be applied throughout your careers.
“There are some simple lessons from my career experiences.
There is no substitute for hard work, seize opportunities for development and learning, and develop good collaborative working and people skills.
Show kindness and empathy.
Your new skills are in great demand all over the world, you have an amazing opportunity to engineer a better world.”
After graduating with Distinction in composition, electronic music and trombone from Huddersfield Polytechnic in 1989, Richard has lived and worked in The Netherlands.
Born in Cornwall in 1965, Richard played trombone in the local brass band, and was encouraged to compose by the trombonist and composer James Fulkerson.
After briefly studying theatre, he studied composition at what was then the Huddersfield Polytechnic.
After graduating, he moved to The Hague for postgraduate study in composition with Louis Andriessen at the Royal Conservatoire.
Richard still lives in the Netherlands, and in addition to his work as a freelance composer he also enjoys teaching at the Amsterdam Conservatoire, and is a guest teacher at the Royal Conservatoire in Birmingham.
His hobbies include composing music, recording sounds and trying to fix an old sailing boat.
“It really opened my eyes at Huddersfield in the 1980s, because I met people that were like me, people who were interested in music and arts that I just did not meet before.
They were experts in their field.
There was the Huddersfield Contemporary Music Festival as well, so I met all these amazing musicians and composers which was extraordinary.
“It was one of the first places to have an electronic music studio, which was fantastic.
It was at the cutting edge of music and recording.”
His advice to his fellow Huddersfield graduates is to enjoy the moment.
“Enjoy the journey, don’t worry about where it is going.
If you enjoy a subject, you will never be lost.
There is no such thing as ‘getting there’.
I have been sat in opera houses, listened to my compositions being played but I still think that I have to get up in the morning and that this is not the end of it.
There is always the next day.”
Here, Richard talks about how, after growing up in Cornwall, being a student at the University really opened his eyes to the world of music where he was surrounding by experts in their field and other students who enjoyed the same things he did.
He urges music students who are about to graduate to enjoy the journey and try not to dwell too much on where that journey is going to end.
Professor Paul Needham achieved his degree and PhD at the University of Huddersfield.
He is now Visiting Professor in the School of Computing and Engineering, and chair of the Industrial Advisory Board.
Paul is Head of Engineering for Air and Space Products at BAE Systems in Lancashire .
He came into engineering via a vocational route, starting as an apprentice and studying part-time with the University of Huddersfield, continuing through to a PhD in Aerospace Design for Manufacture, which achieved an Innovation Award.
His background has made him an inspiration to many engineers from non-traditional backgrounds, by demonstrating that engineering excellence is open to all.
He is a Visiting Professor in the School of Computing and Engineering at the University, where he chairs the industrial advisory board and is a PhD supervisor.
He also has a number of academic publications in his field.
“It is a great honour, I am really proud because the University was a big part of my career, both through my academic learning and on the industrial side,” says Paul.
“I have worked nationally and internationally, and this University has been a huge part of my development as an engineer.”
Professor Paul Needham looks back to when he was a PhD student at the University and ahead which he says will be an exciting future for today's graduates.
He believes that these are exciting times for today’s engineering graduates.
“Engineering is transforming quicker than I have ever known it.
The products we will develop tomorrow are far more complex than yesterday, so we need to grow and develop engineering in different ways as that’s what the customers want and expect.
In the next 10 years, engineering will develop products that don’t even exist today.
“I honestly believe there has never been a better time to be an engineer.
With the products we are going to develop, it is a great time.
“My advice is to work hard – put the hours in when needed.
Keep learning – whether that is academically or industrial placement or professional accreditation.
And it is important to know what you do not like more than what you do, as that will help you achieve.
If you work hard and keep learning, you will find the areas you want to work in.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2019/july/honorary-awards-businesspeople-huddersfield:
The University conferred honorary doctorates on Ann Francke, Simon Blagden CBE and Chris Brown OBE in the presence of the Chancellor, HRH The Duke of York, KG
LEARN from failure, embrace diversity, be fully prepared to take advantage of luck and be willing to have fun at work.
These were some of the lessons in life given by distinguished business figure when they spoke to new graduates of the University of Huddersfield at an awards ceremony, in the presence of the Chancellor, HRH The Duke of York, KG .
New graduates of the University’s Business School were receiving their awards, and at the same ceremony Honorary Doctorates of the University were conferred on Ann Francke, who is CEO of the Chartered Management Institute; Simon Blagden CBE, whose roles include the chairmanship of IT giant Fujitsu; and Chris Brown OBE, a business executive who has stood down after a long spell chairing the University of Huddersfield’s governing council.
Orations to recipients of Honorary Doctorates were delivered by the Vice-Chancellor of the University, Professor Bob Cryan .
In the video.
view the three business leaders receive their awards and hear the inspirational speeches delivered to the students graduating from the Business School from Ann Francke of the Chartered Management Institute and Simon Blagden CBE, whose roles include the chairmanship of IT giant Fujitsu.
He describes Simon Blagden as “a proud Yorkshireman with a global outlook” and provided details of his varied and successful career, working in senior positions in some of the most globally-recognised technology and telecommunications companies.
“With his international reach, Simon has spent a career championing British business overseas − and at home has been outspoken regarding the need for continuing skills development amongst the UK workforce, particularly in young people.
During his time at Fujitsu, it has come to be regarded as a champion of gender balance in a technically-skilled workforce,” said Professor Cryan.
When Mr Blagden spoke he analysed the relationship between success and hard work and added that “it’s OK for you to enjoy your work.
It’s OK to have fun.”
“Very few people achieve things on their own,” he continued.
“So surround yourself with good people and people you want to be with.”
He also spoke about the role of luck, rarely dealt with in books about business.
“The thing about luck is that you have to be ready for it, when the opportunity comes.
The studies you have just completed are part of being prepared,” Mr Blagden told the audience of graduates.
When Chris Brown received his award, Professor Cryan described his many successes as a businessman, a competitive swimmer and as a former High Sheriff of West Yorkshire.
He added that: “Chris Brown is a passionate believer in Higher Education – its power to transform individual lives and enable the regeneration of communities.
This philosophy is a perfect fit with the ideals of the University of Huddersfield, leading to his long and fruitful connection with this institution.”
In response, Mr Brown said that the University of Huddersfield had forged a very special niche in the Higher Education Sector.
It had developed unique skills in teaching and was also leading research in a wide range of subjects and fields.
“Out of that background inevitably come unique graduates,” said Mr Brown.
“I hope you will let the world know what a great institution the University of Huddersfield is.”
Delivering an oration for Ann Francke, Professor Cryan outlined her “long and distinguished record of achievement in leadership and management”, which included posts with famous companies such as Procter and Gamble, Boots and Mars.
Improvement of standards in leadership and management has been a particular focus of her time as CEO of the Chartered Management Institute, said Professor Cryan, who also cited her work on gender equality and the gender pay gap.
In response, Ann Francke urged the assembled business graduates to “go forth and become an inspirational manager”.
“When you have a bad boss at work it drags down every day.
I see this in productivity figures.
When you have a great boss, it is the number one driver of productivity,” she continued, adding that “great management and leadership can be learned.
You must learn it every day and practise it every day.”
She also urged the graduates to be champions of diversity.
“You have learned in your time at Huddersfield how to be inclusive,” she said.
“Please keep that as you go forward.”
Diversity delivers results, she said, producing figures that showed how improvements in gender balance have added £50 billion to the UK economy.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2019/july/john-dixon-honorary-awards-huddersfield:
ONE of the world’s most influential educationalists told an audience of newly-qualified teaching graduates that they face unprecedented challenges because of the impact of climate change.
John Dixon was speaking at the University of Huddersfield, during a ceremony in which he was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of the University.
An oration was delivered by Professor Ann Harris , who is an Associate Dean in the University’s School of Education and Professional Development .
“John Dixon has made a remarkable lifetime contribution to education, particularly to the teaching of English, in the UK and internationally, and he exemplifies what might be understood by lifelong learning,” she said.
Professor Harris went on to outline Mr Dixon’s career, which began as a schoolteacher in the 1950s and included the publication of several influential books in the 1960s.
In 1966, he was a prime mover in the Dartmouth Conference – officially titled the Anglo-American conference on the teaching and learning of English – that would have an enduring influence in English teaching.
Mr Dixon’s career also included chairing the Schools Council English Committee and directing the 16-19 English Project, developing new courses and assessment for schools and further education.
He was a founder member of the National Association for the Teaching of English and also taught at Bretton Hall College of Education.
Mr Dixon received his Honorary Doctorate at one of the July awards ceremonies taking place over nine days at the University of Huddersfield.
He addressed an audience of students who had graduated from the School of Education and Professional Development, and told them: “I believe that you are going to face perhaps a greater challenge in the world than any generation before you.
“If climate change has an impact on society across the whole of the civilised world, then you will be called on to make new efforts to meet those challenges and it is my greatest hope that you will unite together to meet them.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2019/july/gavin-sutherland-honorary-award-huddersfield:
GAVIN Sutherland’s studies at the University of Huddersfield were the prelude to a musical career that has brought him global respect as a conductor, composer and arranger, with more than 100 recordings to his name – from heavyweight work by Elgar to bestselling CDs of music from the Carry On movies.
Now, 26 years since he graduated with a music degree, after studying piano, trombone, conducting and orchestration, Mr Sutherland was back at the University to be awarded an Honorary Doctorate of the University.
It was bestowed at one of the 34 awards ceremonies that took place over nine days in July.
After receiving his doctorate, Mr Sutherland – who was born in County Durham – told his audience of new graduates that the University of Huddersfield was world-renowned as a centre of musical excellence.
He told how from the age of seven it had been his ambition to become a conductor and that studies at the University of Huddersfield had enabled him to diversify in a music business that had, since his graduation, been “been in a constant and rapid evolution”.
“Don’t ever leave behind what the University of Huddersfield brought to you,” said Mr Sutherland.
“This tremendous university has given you a chance to explore everything.
Leave no option unconsidered.”
Here, the globally-respected conductor, composer and Huddersfield Alumnus, Gavin Sutherland, talks about his career as Music Director with the English National Ballet and how he attributes much of his success to the University of Huddersfield for enabling him to diversify in a music business that has been constantly changing and rapidly evolving since he graduated 26 years ago.
Subtitles accompanying the video can be accessed by watching the video on YouTube .
An oration was delivered by Professor John Bryan , who told how even before he graduated with First Class Honours and a string of prizes, Gavin Sutherland had begun his career at Northern Ballet.
He had subsequently held musical directorships and guest conductor posts with leading ballet companies and orchestras around the world.
He is currently the Music Director of English National Ballet.
The first of his 100-plus CDs was made in 1997 and explored British light music, in the revival of which Mr Sutherland has been a key figure.
He is also a composer whose varied works include the musical of Little Women and a clarinet concerto.
Professor Bryan also outlined Gavin Sutherland’s international career, which has taken in performances at venues that include Sydney Opera House and Bogotá’s Teatro Colón.
“He now works regularly with major orchestras throughout Europe as well as the New Zealand Symphony Orchestra, the Tokyo Philharmonic Orchestra, Chicago Symphony and National Orchestra of Colombia,” continued Professor Bryan.
“Gavin Sutherland’s multi-faceted international career as conductor, pianist, composer and arranger, together with his important work in reconstructing lost scores and keeping alive the traditions of British music, must make him the most experienced and highly-achieving performing musician of our many alumni from the Department of Music.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2019/november/honorary-awards-burnley-mccann-2019-huddersfield:
TWO people who have reached the top of their professions received honorary awards at the University’s November Graduation Ceremonies.
One of the leading executives in the UK retail industry, Roger Burnley, and famous cornet player, known throughout the brass band world, Phillip McCann received Honorary Doctorates of the University alongside 1,500 students who received their awards at the ceremonies.
Cornet player Phillip McCann has earned an international reputation and has been the recipient of many accolades as a musician and latterly as a conductor.
An advocate of education and developing young talent, Phillip taught in the music department at the University of Huddersfield for almost 30 years and mentored many students who now hold important positions in music today.
Supermarket CEO Roger Burnley has enjoyed success in a number of senior positions in the retail market, both in the UK and overseas, and was promoted to his current position of President and CEO of UK supermarket chain Asda in 2018.
Roger is proud of his Yorkshire heritage – he was born in neighbouring Dewsbury – and is a lifelong fan of Huddersfield Town Football Club.
Phillip McCann is one of the best-known names in the bass band world.
He was born in Bo’ness, Scotland, where he began his playing career with the Kinneil Colliery Band.
He held the position of leader with the National Youth Brass Band of Great Britain for five years.
His long tenure as Principal Cornet at Black Dyke Band was during the band’s world-beating period.
His acclaimed series of CD Chandos recordings – The World’s Most Beautiful Melodies – is universally admired for the exquisite tone and musical expression in the playing.
These recordings are featured regularly on BBC Radio and on Classic FM.
Other broadcast credits recently have included an interview with Richard Baker’s informative Comparing Notes series.
Phillip’s unique style and tone quality has been used by composers to combine with orchestra for film and TV soundtracks such as Anna of the Five Towns , Woman of Substance and the immensely popular BBC TV series Hetty Wainthropp Investigates – the latter receiving an Ivor Novello Award in the category of Best Music commissioned for a Broadcast Production .
He has toured extensively both as a recitalist and for master-classes throughout the world and is a Yamaha Artist , assisting the Corporation in the development of their range of brass instruments.
Phillip has always been firmly committed to the teaching of brass band music and served for almost 30 years at the University of Huddersfield, including a period as Head of Brass and Woodwind.
He founded both the University’s Brass Band and Symphonic Wind Orchestra achieving local, regional, national and international acclaim.
Many of the students mentored by him occupy significant positions within today’s musical community as performers, conductors, composers and arrangers.
Although Phillip’s main activities continue to be a soloist and teacher, in recent years he has progressively increased his commitments as a conductor and was the founder of the Sellers International Band.
At the All England Masters Championship in 2003, Phillip was the recipient of the Masters’ Dedicated Service Award and in the same year, in recognition of his prominent position as cornet soloist, band trainer and teacher, he was awarded The Mortimer Medal from The Company of Worshipful Musicians.
His most recent accolade came in 2013 as the recipient of The Iles Medal , again from The Worshipful Company of Musicians, which makes him unique as the only person to be a recipient of both highly prestigious awards.
Born and bred in Yorkshire, Roger Burnley grew up in Dewsbury and attended Heckmondwike Grammar School, before going to Bournemouth University and obtaining a First in geography.
He began his retail career as a graduate at B&Q, where he progressed quickly and held a number of roles across retail management, buying and logistics.
In 1996, he moved to Asda as Director of Supply.
When Walmart bought Asda in 1999, Roger played an instrumental role within the senior integration team, splitting his time between the UK and Arkansas.
He then moved to Matalan as its Supply Chain Director, before being appointed Supply Chain Director at Sainsbury’s in 2006.
Roger spent the next ten years holding a number of board positions within the company, as Retail and Logistics Director, Managing Director of General Merchandise, Clothing and Logistics, and latterly, Retail and Operations Director.
Despite a career spanning three decades in a variety of roles, Roger has remained committed to his family roots and still lives locally with his wife, two children and, he proudly states, “a growing flock of sheep”.
He returned to Asda in October 2016, as Chief Operating Officer and Deputy Chief Executive, and played a crucial role in its turnaround before being promoted to become its President and CEO in January 2018.
A self-confessed ‘gadget geek’, Roger spends any spare time, running, cycling, sailing and snowboarding and is a lifelong Huddersfield Town AFC fan.
The University’s Vice-Chancellor Professor Bob Cryan received the title at the 2019 Huddersfield Examiner Business Awards
The ceremonies start today, Monday 11th, and run to Thursday 14th
Celebrations come to a halt as a mark of respect

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2014/february/honoraryawardsjuly2014.php:
Available documents: /news/2024/february/honoraryawardsjuly2014.php (mistyped character) /news/2015/february/honoraryawardsjuly2014.php (mistyped character) /news/2019/february/honoraryawardsjuly2014.php (mistyped character) /news/2017/february/honoraryawardsjuly2014.php (mistyped character) /news/2016/february/honoraryawardsjuly2014.php (mistyped character) /news/2012/february/honoraryawardsjuly2014.php (mistyped character) /news/2018/february/honoraryawardsjuly2014.php (mistyped character)

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2024/march/duchess-edinburgh-visits-university-campus:
The University of Huddersfield was delighted to welcome Her Royal Highness The Duchess of Edinburgh to the University campus when she visited key facilities and met staff and students.
The tour involved visiting the University’s Jo Cox More in Common Centre and the refurbished science facilities in the Joseph Priestley Building, including the Optometry Department and Valli Opticians.
Her Royal Highness was welcomed by University of Huddersfield Vice-Chancellor, Professor Bob Cryan , who commented: “It was an honour to welcome The Duchess of Edinburgh to the University of Huddersfield and to show her some of the many exciting developments on campus, including the Optometry Department and the public-facing University Valli Opticians, a valuable collaboration which provides our students with real-life experience in a public clinic.”
During the visit Her Royal Highness, in her role as patron of the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) , was able to meet staff who had completed their CMI qualifications, alongside CMI Chief Executive Ann Francke.
This took place in the multi-faith Jo Cox More in Common Centre, named after the late MP, which is situated in the centre of campus.
Under Professor Cryan’s leadership the University has a long-standing commitment to ensuring all its managers and leaders achieve Chartered Manager status and he has been Chair of the CMI Board of Companions since 2019.
Mayor of West Yorkshire, Tracy Brabin was also presented with a CMI Companion certificate by The Duchess during the visit.
A tour of the Optometry Department followed, where Professor of Functional Heterocyclic Materials Chemistry Mark Heron discussed research within the School of Applied Sciences.
A demonstration took place of photochromic dyes changing colour under bright light irradiation – the kind that are used in photochromic ophthalmic sun lenses.
Professor John Siderov , Head of Department for Optometry provided an introduction to optometry and the University’s clinical teaching space.
Her Royal Highness was shown an optical bench indicating how light is refracted and saw a demonstration of the principles in correcting faulty eyesight, as well as a video microscope that students use to view the eye for contact lenses fitting and checking the health of the eye.
This was followed by a tour of the Optometry Clinic including an explanation of assessments taking place for third year students and a chance to speak directly to a group of students to discuss the course and their future careers following graduation.
The Duchess of Edinburgh was able to witness first hand an ‘eye scan’ using the University’s state-of-the-art Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) scanner and had the opportunity to take measurements using one of the other instruments – an autorefractor, which measures the ‘power’ of the eye.
“We were extremely honoured and proud to welcome The Duchess of Edinburgh to spend time with some of our science students and to see the Optometry Department.
We’re very proud of our optometry facilities, which provide our students with an unparalleled learning experience,” commented Professor Siderov.
Following an £18.2 million redevelopment the Joseph Priestley Building provides students and researchers with state-of-the-art laboratories.
These new and improved facilities enable multi-disciplinary working and encourage the sharing of knowledge and ideas.
The Optometry Department is a major part of this redevelopment, taking up the whole of the ground floor of the Joseph Priestley (East) Building.
Here students can develop key clinical skills and benefit from the University’s partnership with Valli Opticians , a well-established independent opticians group within the local community.
Her Royal Highness spoke to director Moin Valli alongside Professor Michael Ginger , Dean of the School of Applied Sciences.
Following some final words from Professor Cryan, The Duchess of Edinburgh officially opened the refurbished facilities in the Joseph Priestley Building by unveiling a commemorative plaque in the atrium of the building.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2023/july/princess-royal-university-huddersfield-visit:
The University of Huddersfield was delighted to welcome Her Royal Highness The Princess Royal to the university campus when she addressed the 92nd Textile Institute World Conference (TIWC) held in the Barbara Hepworth Building.
The Princess Royal was attending TIWC in her capacity as President of the UK Fashion and Textile Association (UKFT).
The Princess Royal has a keen interest in sustainable manufacturing, and with the theme of TIWC being ‘ Sustainability of the Textile and Fashion Supply Chain – Transitioning to Zero Carbon and Zero Waste ’ she met with delegates to discover more about how the conference had addressed strategies to manage the impact of the textile and fashion supply chain on the environment and climate change.
She was welcomed by University of Huddersfield Vice-Chancellor, Professor Bob Cryan , conference Chairman Professor Parik Goswami , the University of Huddersfield’s Professor in Technical Textiles and Director of the Technical Textiles Research Centre , and Adam Mansell, the CEO of UKFT.
After words of welcome from Professor Cryan, The Princess Royal attended a round-table discussion of the textile industry’s roadmap to Net Zero chaired by Professor Goswami.
After delivering a speech to the conference, The Princess Royal met final year students from the University’s Textiles, Fashion and Costume Design courses and was shown the 2023 Graduate Showcase.
“We were extremely honoured and proud to welcome HRH The Princess Royal to the 92nd Textile Institute World Conference here at the University of Huddersfield,” said Professor Goswami.
“Her interest in our industry, and in particular our commitment to improving its sustainability, is a long-standing one and we were delighted that she attended this conference with this vital issue at its heart.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/accessagreements/transparency-information:
The information published on these pages shows:
It shows these numbers by reference to:
The University puts its students at the heart of everything it does and adopted an institutional Strategy in 2019 which included goals for 2025 to eliminate remaining statistically significant attainment gaps across the campus community, and this is reflected in our current Access and Participation Plan.
Working with our students and the Huddersfield Students’ Union, initiatives have been adopted to deliver these goals which are already producing results for all our students.
The data contained in the tables in this workbook have been rounded and suppressed as follows:
Numerators and denominators have been rounded to the nearest 10.
Where the numerator or denominator rounds to 20 or less, the data are suppressed with an "N".
Percentages are rounded according to the smallest, unsuppressed denominator in a given mode and characteristic.
If the denominator rounds to:
"N/A" is displayed where there is no provision in a given mode or level
"DP" indicates suppression for data protection reasons.
This is applied where the numerator is two or less, or differs from the denominator by no more than two students.
For further information you can download the full Transparency Report .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/senior-staff/deputyvice-chancellor:
Tim is a fellow of the Royal Historical Society and a fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
He is also General Editor of the Chetham Society, one of the oldest history publishing societies in Britain, founded in 1843 to publish 'Remains Historical and Literary connected with the Palatine Counties of Lancashire and Chester'.
Contact E-mail: t.j.thornton@hud.ac.uk
Tim works on the late medieval and early modern political and social history of the British Isles, spanning the period c.
1400-1650.
He specialises in the non-English territories of the crown.
He teaches on the foundation-level module Last Centuries of the Middle Ages; at intermediate level he teaches Social and Political History of Early Modern England, a course on the political, social and religious history of the period 1485-1660; and at honours level a special subject on the politics of Henry VIII's reign.
Tim studied at New College, Oxford, where he was awarded a first in Modern History and later completed his DPhil, under the supervision of Dr Christopher Haigh.
In 1997 Tim was awarded the Royal Historical Society's David Berry Prize for his work on the Isle of Man; in 1999 he was proxime accessit for the Society's Alexander Prize for an essay on the palatinate of Durham.
He was the first scholar based in a new University to win one of the Society's prizes, and only the second person to be recognised in two of the Society's awards.
In 2001 he won the Yorkshire History Prize for an essay on the visit of Henry VIII to Yorkshire in 1541.
Tim received his MBA in 2005.
Appointed Head of the Department of History, English, Languages and Media in 2003, Tim was on secondment as the first Head of University Centre Barnsley during 2005-6 and became Dean of the School of Music, Humanities and Media in October 2006.
He was appointed as PVC in October 2008 and became Deputy Vice-Chancellor in September 2015.
Tim is the author of numerous books and articles on late medieval and early modern history, including Cheshire and the Tudor State, 1480-1560 (2000), Prophecy, Politics and the People in Early Modern England (2006), and The Channel Island, 1370 - 1640: Between England and Normandy (2012).
Membership of Professional Organisations Tim is a fellow of the Royal Historical Society and a fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
Professor Tim Thornton - Research Staff profile

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/senior-staff/provice-chancellorforresearchinnovationandknowledgeexchange:
Andrew has to date graduated more than 60 research degrees, in the fields of Mechanical, Electrical and Diagnostic Engineering.
He has acted as external examiner at over 30 institutions, he holds visiting and honorary positions at 4 overseas universities, he sits on 3 large corporate scientific advisory boards, and he is also a Registered Expert Witness in 3 countries.
Contact E-mail: a.ball@hud.ac.uk
Graduating from the University of Leeds in 1987, Andrew attained a first class honours in Mechanical Engineering, his degree having been sponsored by BICC Electronic Cables.
Andrew went on to work for Ruston Gas Turbines and then gained a sponsorship from WM Engineering and the Royal Navy, enabling him to join the Total Technology Scheme at the University of Manchester, from which he graduated in 1991 with a PhD in Machinery Condition Monitoring.
Andrew then took the Shell sponsored lectureship in Maintenance Engineering at the University of Manchester; he was promoted to Professor of Maintenance Engineering in 1999, and was the Head of School of the Manchester School of Engineering from 2003 to 2004.
In 2005 he became Dean of Graduate Education and in late-2007 he moved to the University of Huddersfield as Professor of Diagnostic Engineering and Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Research and Enterprise.
Over the 25 years that he has been an academic, Andrew has established the largest independent plant maintenance and diagnostics research group in the world.
The Centre for Efficiency and Performance Engineering aims to advance the scope and sensitivity of machinery fault detection and diagnosis and of plant performance and emissions monitoring.
The philosophy is to use routine instrumentation where possible, to apply sophisticated signal processing, to develop non-intrusive on-line techniques and to focus upon incipient faults with the intention of predicting future behaviour.
The group is recognised internationally for its specialism in:
Machinery condition monitoring, fault detection and diagnosis Signal processing, feature extraction and pattern recognition Vibro-acoustic and vibro-impact analysis Model based and predictive methods Sensor development & novel measurement Non-intrusive parameter estimation Andrew’s personal research expertise is in the detection and diagnosis of faults in mechanical, electrical and electro-hydraulic machines, in data analysis and signal processing, and in measurement systems and sensor development.
He is the author of over 300 technical and professional publications, and he has spent a large amount of time lecturing and consulting to industry in all parts of the world.
Professor Andrew Ball - Research Staff profile

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/senior-staff/pro-vice-chancellor-international:
Alistair Sambell joined the University of Huddersfield in October 2020 as Pro Vice-Chancellor International.
Prior to this, he had worked at Edinburgh Napier University for 8 years, where he was the Senior Vice-Principal and Deputy Vice-Chancellor with a wide-ranging remit that included responsibility for all aspects of academic strategy development and delivery.
He was also previously Pro Vice-Chancellor and Executive Dean for the Faculty of Arts, Computing, Engineering and Sciences at Sheffield Hallam University, and was the founding Dean of the School of Computing, Engineering and Information Sciences at Northumbria University.
He brings a wealth of international experience from these previous roles including the development of partnerships and programme delivery in China, Malaysia, South Korea and Vietnam and was a director of an innovative new partnership of eight European Universities that came together in order to build research and teaching collaborations.
Contact
E-mail: a.j.sambell@hud.ac.uk
Alistair is an Electronic Engineer by background, graduating with both a First Class honours and DPhil from York University.
He was appointed to a Professorship in Engineering at Northumbria University in 2001, and was research active in engineering for the 2001, 2008 and 2014 research assessment exercises.
He has over 100 publications in electronic engineering (microwave antenna and solar cells) as well as pedagogy in Higher Education (innovative assessment) and has been an investigator on research projects exceeding £850k in value.
He is a Chartered Engineer, Fellow of the Institution of Engineering and Technology, a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (now Advance HE) and a Chartered Companion of the Chartered Management Institute.
He has served as a Director for FE Colleges and Training organisations in Newcastle, Sheffield and Edinburgh and made national contributions to HE through roles as an assessor for the inaugural Teaching Excellence Framework, membership of the QAA Engineering subject benchmarking groups and an academic accreditor for the IET.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/senior-staff/provice-chancellorlearningandteachingjaneol:
Jane has a distinctive multidisciplinary portfolio of research activity based in Biochemistry but spanning across collaborations in Physics, Psychology and Biology.
Her current work is based around biomarker analysis in physiological conditions including cerebrospinal fluid function in brain development, renal function in cardiovascular disease and biochemical markers of stress responses in acute stress.
Professor Owen-Lynch joined Huddersfield from Lancaster University where she was the first Head of Biomedical and Life Sciences in the Faculty of Health and Medicine, a new Faculty at Lancaster set up in 2008.
Under Jane’s leadership the Department achieved a rapid period of growth, almost doubling in size, income and student numbers and achieved a research excellence rating placing it within the top three departments in the subject area in the country.
In conjunction with collaborators in Physics she has just completed an ESRC funded project looking at the dynamics of cardiovascular ageing and this work is continuing at a cellular and clinical level.
Jane also has a wealth of experience linked with student facing activities primarily in admissions but including development of international courses and acting as project lead for building projects including multidisciplinary teaching laboratories.
She is also an active supporter of the Athena Swan agenda and orchestrated the Faculty Athena Swan submission at Lancaster which gained the Silver Award.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/senior-staff/universitysecretary:
Alison joined the University in January 2020 and has worked in professional higher education administration, leadership and management for 25 years.
Alison was previously at Oxford Brookes University providing interim leadership and guidance on strategic and operational planning, and prior to that she was University Secretary and Director of Planning, Legal and Governance at the University of Bradford.
‌Contact E-mail: A.Jones2@hud.ac.uk
Alison studied for an undergraduate degree in Literature and Philosophy at Middlesex University and for a Master’s in Strategic Decision Making at the University of Leeds, specialising in research and analysis into University governance structures and decision making following the publication of the Dearing Report.
Alison has been the Chair of the Higher Education Strategic Planners Association (HESPA) since 2015, through which she has served on the Complete University Guide Steering Group and the HESA Data Futures Programme Board.
She was formerly the Legal Blog Champion for the Association of Heads of University Administration.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/vco/officeoftheuniversitysecretary:
It provides a professional and effective service to the University Council and its committees enabling an ethos of transparency and participation in the governance of the University in support of its vision to be an inspiring innovative University of international renown.
University Secretary Alison Jones E-mail universitysecretary@hud.ac.uk
University Solicitor Rachel Main E-mail legal@hud.ac.uk
Office of the University Secretary Schwann Building University of Huddersfield Queensgate Huddersfield HD1 3DH

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/policies:
Policies relating to the Information, Records Management and Archives Service.
Policies relating to Library Services.
Policies relating to Computing Services.
Policies relating to Estates.
Policies relating to Finance.
Policies relating to Human Resources.
Policies relating to Student Recruitment.
Policies relating to Governance and Compliance.
Policies relating to Health and Safety.
Policies and Regulations relating to students.
Policies relating to Research and Enterprise.
Policies regarding sustainability.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2022/november/approval-for-first-building:
At a time when the NHS desperately needs to recruit staff to meet with the demands of patient care and health inequalities, the campus will be instrumental in training the next generation of health professionals.
This transformative project will enable the rapid expansion of courses in nursing, midwifery, allied health and human sciences and contribute to the economic prosperity of the region.
This first building on the Southgate site marks an exciting stage in the development, which will improve health outcomes and lead innovation in healthcare for the North of England.
The building will be named after Daphne Steele, (pictured below) an inspirational nurse and midwife who became the first black matron in Britain.
Daphne trained at St James’ Hospital in Balham, South London, after emigrating to the UK from Guyana in 1951.
She worked in the US but returned to the UK and served as a nurse at RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire before moving to Manchester as deputy matron at a nursing home.
When that home closed, she was encouraged to apply for the position of matron at St Winifred’s Hospital in Ilkley, West Yorkshire.
She became the first black matron in Britain and her appointment made news around the world.
University Vice-Chancellor Professor Bob Cryan said:
“I am delighted with this latest development, and it is another significant step towards our goal of improving health outcomes and leading innovation in healthcare for the North of England.
It is an honour to have this first building named after Daphne Steele and I would like to thank her family for this.
Such a ground-breaking figure is sure to inspire our students in their future careers.”
The National Health Innovation Campus will work with partners across the region to address some of the health and wellbeing issues facing Yorkshire and the Humber, including high levels of obesity, the third lowest life expectancy for men and women, and the second highest rate of deaths in infancy.
The campus will feature specialist clinical teaching facilities, world leading research facilities, public facing clinics and co-located public and private sector partners.
It will directly impact on the health outcomes of the people and communities across the North of England.
Health and wellbeing of individuals, medical technologies and associated services provide a key focus for economic development and business productivity, and the campus will deliver a major boost to regeneration and jobs.
Growth in the School of Human and Health Sciences has already delivered over 200 additional skilled jobs in the past four years, and planned development will deliver at least 100 more in the next five.
Further, a growing international profile will see a huge expansion in training and education work, quadrupling activity on the levels of 2018-19 by 2026 with major implications for inward investment.
Working with a range of stakeholders across the public, private and voluntary sectors will open up a diversity of income streams as well as opportunities for product and service development and design.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/national-health-innovation/invest:
Health, medical technologies and associated services provide a key focus for economic development, and the Campus will deliver a major boost to regeneration of the town centre and jobs.
That's why the University of Huddersfield is looking for organisations to partner with us.
Could that be you?
We know we are stronger together and are committed to building on current partnerships locally, nationally and globally, including work with service-users.
These partnerships will be at the heart of delivering the Campus vision and the University welcomes interest from potential partners.
The National Health Innovation Campus is a seven-acre site, with planning permission for up to seven buildings , all built to the WELL building standard .
This exciting new development offers regeneration, investment, employment and growth opportunities.
We are committed to building on current partnerships locally, nationally and globally.
See the current and planned buildings
Find out more about the University of Huddersfield National Health Innovation Campus (NHIC) project, which will be transformative for healthcare outcomes in the Yorkshire region, the North of England, the UK and Internationally.
The Campus will facilitate additional commercial benefits through the colocation of services and facilities, adding capacity to local health, care and support systems across Kirklees.
Potential opportunities include:
The campus will facilitate partnership and co-creation between the University and existing and new partners in health, care, and beyond
The campus will enable world-leading research and innovation, and their transfer into professional practice and industry.
The Campus will facilitate partnership and co-creation between the University and existing and new partners in health, care, and beyond.
Joint appointments and clinical academic partnerships will continue to enable cultural and scholarly interaction through the education of the current and future healthcare workforce, and to facilitate research capacity-building.
As a truly civic organisation we will continue to develop our work in collaboration with our partner key anchor organisations across Kirklees and the region including Local Authorities, NHS Trusts, community providers and private, independent and voluntary organisations, statutory and third sector, as well as social care providers and non-statutory bodies.
The University recognises that partnerships will be at the heart of delivering the Campus vision and the University welcomes interest from potential partners.
The facilities in the new campus will provide for expansions in internationally excellent and connected projects in fields such as:

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hwa:
The Health and Wellbeing Academy is part of the School of Human and Health Sciences.
To find out more, click here to view an overview of the School .
Our clinical services complement the provision of the NHS, other local health and care providers, and social care providers.
Our research is applied and has real world impact.
We disseminate our research findings through multiple channels, including journals, policy briefings, seminars, webinars and conferences.
Here at Huddersfield we work closely with our partner organisations to ensure that our courses meet NHS and Healthcare priorities.
The courses we deliver are therefore updated on a regular basis to ensure that they are contemporary in nature.
We are proud of the relationships we have with a wide range of health and care organisations, alongside businesses and private organisations.
#UniversityofHuddersfield

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/gsg:
Get Set Goal is a wellbeing service that forms part of the Health and Wellbeing Academy at the University of Huddersfield.
It is a service that is committed to improving the health and wellness of individuals and communities by helping people to achieve personal goals by making informed and positive lifestyle choices.
Delivered by healthcare students from the University of Huddersfield, Get Set Goal offers a series of one-to-one appointments to help improve the health and wellbeing of anyone 18+.
Appointments can be online or in person and are tailored to each individual’s needs.
Appointments are offered Monday to Friday 9am - 4pm excluding bank holidays
Book an appointment
Click the button below to fill in the form.
Click here to view our testimonial from Kirklees Local Services 2 You
Click here to view our testimonial from Huddersfield Mission
Click here to hear a testimony from a user of the Get Set Goal service
Simply put, wellbeing is about ‘how we are doing’.
It is personal and subjective and affects us all.
It includes many positive things such as feeling happy, healthy and our connections with friends and family.
Our wellbeing priorities are the things that are important to us personally.
This might include how we feel about ourselves, the quality of the relationships that we have with other people, and our sense of purpose.
These psychological needs are an important part of what makes us human, along with our ability to feel positive and negative emotions.
It matters how often, and for how long, we experience positive emotions – such as pleasure and a sense of purpose – or potentially negative emotions, like anxiety.
Evidence  suggests there are 5 steps you can take to improve your mental health and wellbeing.
Making changes in these areas could help you feel more positive and able to get the most out of life.
Good relationships are important for your mental wellbeing.
Being active is not only great for your physical health and fitness.
Evidence also shows it can also improve your mental wellbeing.
Research shows that learning new skills can also improve your mental wellbeing.
Research suggests that acts of giving and kindness can help improve your mental wellbeing.
Paying more attention to the present moment can improve your mental wellbeing.
Email: GetSetGoal@hud.ac.uk
Phone: 01484 472 201
Frequently asked questions.
This includes your thoughts and feelings, your body and the world around you.
Some people call this awareness "mindfulness".
Mindfulness can help you enjoy life more and understand yourself better.
It can positively change the way you feel about life and how you approach challenges.
Through a series of one-to-one sessions and/or workshops, members of the Get Set Goal team will work with you to create a personal plan to help you achieve your wellbeing goals.
They can:
Evidence also shows it can also improve your mental wellbeing by:
Research shows that learning new skills can also improve your mental wellbeing by:
Research suggests that acts of giving and kindness can help improve your mental wellbeing by:
It could be small acts of kindness towards other people, or larger ones like volunteering in your local community.
Q: Who can access Get Set Goal’s services?
Anyone aged 18 or over who would like to make positive changes to their health and wellbeing.
Q: Do I need to be to be referred to Get Set Goal by a Healthcare Professional?
No, you can refer yourself to the service.
Q: How long do appointments last?
Each appointment will last up to 45 minutes.
Q: How many appointments will I have?
This varies from client to client, but typically people tend to find that between 4 and 6 weekly sessions is sufficient for their needs.
Q: Who will be in attendance at my appointment?
Your appointment will be delivered by either one or two healthcare students who will be supervised by a qualified healthcare professional.
Q: Are appointments face-to-face or online?
Appointments are available online or face to face on campus at the University of Huddersfield.
Q: Can Get Set Goal employees refer me onto other healthcare services if needed?
Yes, if we feel that it is appropriate.
Q: Will the things discussed in the appointment be confidential?
Everything you tell us will be kept confidential unless we are either required to share something by law, or we believe that the reasons for sharing are so important that they override our confidentiality obligations.
Q: Can a relative, friend, or carer attend my appointment with me?
Yes, as long as you are comfortable discussing your wellbeing goals with them present.
Q: Will there be a chance to follow up on my progress once my weekly sessions are over?
Yes.
A few weeks after your final appointment we will check in with you to see how everything is going, and to see if there is anything else we can help you with.
Q: Will I be seen by the same Get Set Goal staff member at each of my appointments?
We will make every effort to ensure that you are seen by the same team members at each of your appointments.
Get Set Goal attend monthly, as part of our wellbeing event at Tolson Museum.
They offer health checks to the attendees, which is an invaluable way to review their health, in a convenient and accessible setting.
The Get Set Goal team are always warm and friendly, put the attendees at ease and explain the purpose of the checks carried out and the results.
The checks being offered monthly means that attendees can have repeat checks, so can see if any changes to their activities have improved their general health.
The service that Get Set Goal offers is vital and I am incredibly grateful for their continued visits to the museum.
Iain Long, Project Coordinator, Local Services 2 You
The Huddersfield University nursing students visit the Mission once a month and offer walk-in health checks for the customers who attend.
This is enormously successful and at the last session, we had a high number of attendees.
It is popular,because it is informal and people can just call in, which suits the lifestyle of many of the people who attend  the Mission.
Some of our customers either don't have a GP or find it difficult to access health care services.
The students are very friendly, professional and understanding.
Christine Quinn, Community & Health Officer, Huddersfield Mission

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/open-days/undergraduate/campus:
There are three check in locations across campus, make sure you check in so you can claim your travel contribution !
Should you have any queries or special requirements for us to take into consideration on the Open Day please contact us before the day on +44 (0)1484 472 282 or e-mail schools.liaison@hud.ac.uk .
You can browse the sessions that will be taking place for each area below:
Sessions can be booked when you register for the Open Day.
If you have already booked your Open Day, you can add and amend sessions associated with your booking via the link in the email you have been sent from opendays@hud.ac.uk
When you check in on the day, you'll receive a physical programme that includes the location for each session.
Student Ambassadors will be on hand to guide you around campus.
The University is a 10-minute walk from Huddersfield train station .
On the day one of our Student Ambassadors, will be at the station from 8:45 to 11:15 to direct you to the University campus.
Whether you're arriving at one of our Open Days by car, train, bus or on foot, you can find out how to get here on our maps and directions webpages to help you with your journey.
There’s free parking on the day in our University car parks for Open Day visitors.
They’re only a couple of minutes’ walk away.
Use the postcodes below:
Queen Street South - HD1 3DU (152 bays and 2 disabled bays) Firth Street - HD1 3BN (167 bays) St Pauls St - HD1 3DH (8 disabled bays)
Daphne Steele building is our brand new facility for Health Professional degree courses.
Please use the Open Day map to help you navigate around our campus.
Find out more about the Daphne Steele building which is now open.
Discover the food options and outlets based on campus.
As part of our ongoing campus developments, we continually aim to prioritise the the access of all students, staff and visitors to all areas campus.
This UCAS presentation covers:

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2018/november/barbara-hepworth-building-topping-out:
CONSTRUCTION of the University of Huddersfield’s new £30 million centre for the study of art, design and architecture is months ahead of schedule, and it has witnessed an unusual “topping out” ceremony conducted by the granddaughter of Dame Barbara Hepworth, the famous artist who has given the building its name.
Dr Sophie Bowness – who is an art historian and a trustee of the world-famous Hepworth Gallery in Wakefield – was invited to turn a bolt on one of the 146 aluminium panels that will be fixed to the glazed walls of the new building.
Their function will be to reduce solar glare, but architects AHR have ensured that they are also an artistic adornment.
One of the great sculptors of the 20th century, Barbara Hepworth, who lived from 1903 to 1975, was born and educated in Wakefield.
She relocated to Cornwall for the latter part of her career, but remained proud of her Yorkshire roots.
She was the first choice to be commemorated by the new University of Huddersfield building and at the topping out ceremony Vice-Chancellor Professor Bob Cryan thanked Dr Bowness – whose books and articles include analyses of Barbara Hepworth’s artworks – for giving permission to use her grandmother’s name.
Dr Sophie Bowness's book on her grandmother, sculptor Barbara Hepworth
The new £30 million Barbara Hepworth Building under construction
The ceremony was attended by key figures from building firm Morgan Sindall – including its Managing Director for Construction, Pat Boyle – and from architects AHR.
There were also lecturers and researchers from the University’s School of Art, Design and Architecture, including the Dean, Professor Mike Kagioglou, and a team from the Estates and Facilities Department, including Director Colin Blair and Assistant Director Tim Hosker.
After Dr Bowness had carried out the ceremony, Professor Cryan said that the University’s policy of naming buildings after famous local people was designed to inspire students, and the legacy of Barbara Hepworth would be sure to do that.
“When we started the design of the building, my brief was very simple – it’s got to make me go ‘wow’.
And it has done!” continued Professor Cryan.
“This university is all about lighting the fires of passion in the next generation of students and if you come and study in an environment like this you are bound to be excited.
The experience they will have here in this building is something that will stay with them for the rest of their lives.”
Professor Cryan praised the “dream team” from Morgan Sindall who had ensured that construction work was nine weeks ahead of schedule.
The Barbara Hepworth Building will be completed in the spring and be ready for use at the start of the 2019 academic year.
Director of Estates and Facilities Colin Blair MBE has won the 2018 Peter Middup Lifetime Achievement at the annual PFM Awards
The University will appear on the souvenir Huddersfield edition of the famous board game, featuring the iconic Oastler Building
The University will combine with Kirklees Council and the Arts Council to initiate a range of activities including a cultural quarter

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/inspire/ada:
Our School of global significance where research and teaching excellence meet creative practice, is award winning, professionally accredited and research intensive.
It is not just a place where you come to study, it is a community of creativity.
Coming to study art, design or architecture at the School of Arts and Humanities at the University of Huddersfield is much more than a checklist to a qualification, it provides you with the unique opportunity to grow, develop, inspire and succeed.
The area of Art and Design's approach builds on the potential for contemporary, experimental, commercial and trans-disciplinary practices.
The Department of Fashion and Textiles aims to be recognized as a global area of excellence in fashion/textile teaching and learning, technology, innovation and research.
Like, follow and chat with us through our social media channels

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2023/november/harold-wilson-lecture-2023-nick-thomas-symonds:
A new analysis of one of Huddersfield’s most famous sons will be at the heart of the 2023 Harold Wilson Lecture at the University of Huddersfield on 23 November.
The Huddersfield-born former prime minister himself will be the subject of the lecture to be delivered by Nick Thomas-Symonds MP , who published his biography, ‘ Harold Wilson – The Winner ’, to great acclaim in 2022.
Nick Thomas-Symonds will look at how he did it, what the cost to Wilson was and what lessons can be learned for the current political climate.
The lecture is free to attend and will start at 18:00 GMT in the Oastler Building on the university campus.
Tickets can be reserved via Eventbrite.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2022/october/john-major-harold-wilson-lecture-2022:
Former prime minister Sir John Major declared that young people becoming involved in politics is vital for the future of democracy in a fascinating and timely Harold Wilson Lecture held at the University of Huddersfield.
Sir John followed in the footsteps of one of his successors in Number 10 Downing Street, Gordon Brown , in delivering the lecture that commemorates the Huddersfield-born Labour MP who won four general elections and spent over eight years in office in the 1960s and 1970s.
His appearance at the University came just two days after Rishi Sunak became the UK’s third PM in a matter of weeks, following the resignations of Boris Johnson and Liz Truss.
Sir John served as PM for six-and-a-half years after succeeding Margaret Thatcher in November 1990.
Knighted in 2005, he has been an in-demand speaker and commentator on politics and particularly the UK’s relationship with Europe but has also written books on his lifelong love of cricket and music hall.
...delivered by former Prime Minister Rt Hon Sir John Major for the 2022 Harold Wilson Memorial Lecture.
“Young people are pretty turned off by politics at the moment,” he said.
“and that is a great shame.
We need young people not to say ‘that’s not for me, I don’t like what they are doing’ as that is the way democracy dies, if the best of the next generation turn away from being the parliamentarians of the future.
“Any young people here should not be put off by any time when parliament has a bad run.
They have an opportunity to change it.
If young people have a wish to go into parliament, have an ability and care about changing things – and I don’t care which party they belong to – I would encourage them to do it.
“If the big, solid centre which is the vast majority of this country turn away from politics and leave it to the super-enthusiasts on the right or left then we will not have the parliament we need.
So if young people want to come into politics, then it is in the nation’s interest that they do so.
“If politics degenerates to a clash of personalities and ideologies, and has no common endeavour then it is truly failing the public.
Without a moral element, then Parliament is a body without a heart.”
In a wide-ranging and topical talk under the title of ‘Why democracy matters’ which was followed by a lively Q and A session, Sir John spoke of his admiration for and friendship with his predecessor Lord Wilson.
Still looking across the political divide, he also paid a warm tribute to Huddersfield’s Labour MP Barry Sheerman, who recently announced that he will be standing down after representing the town at Westminster since 1979.
“Barry and I entered the House of Commons on the same day in 1979, and he’s still there!
To be in public service as an elected member of parliament for over 40 years is truly magnificent, and I am full of admiration for what you have done.”
Assessing the task facing Rishi Sunak, Sir John saw the new PM as having a ‘Herculean task’ on his hands and said that he has, “a truly wretched in-tray and he will have to carefully select his priorities.”
Looking at democracy around the world, Sir John warned about taking democracy for granted in the face of divisive political rhetoric.
“I fear for its future, as only one in eight nations is a full democracy.
Even in our own and stable country, democracy is under stress and needs to be protected.
We take democracy for granted in Britain, but we shouldn’t.
A look around the world warns us there is no room for complacency.
To spread it more widely, democracy needs to prove its merits with rising living standards and stable government.
“Democracy is fragile.
When countries discard democracy, populism and autocracy are waiting in the wings to replace it.
We should be wary of populism and the easy promises it makes that cannot be delivered.
Populists have no time for the middle ground, and the middle ground is where most people in our nation sit.”
The University was also delighted to welcome Professor Robin Wilson, son of Harold Wilson, and his wife Joy to the event.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/video-archive/2019-harold-wilson-lecture-by-rt-revd-nick-baines:
“For the first time in our history, we have a Government whose approved policy is to make the country poorer,” said Rt Revd Nick Baines when he delivered the 2019 Harold Wilson lecture.
He concluded the lecture by saying UK democracy needed to be reshaped, with a written constitution, proportional representation and even a redesign of the Commons chamber to reflect a new politics in which the two-party system was a thing of the past.
Vice-Chancellor Professor Bob Cryan welcomed the late Harold Wilson’s son, Professor Robin Wilson, accompanied by his wife Joy.
The lecture series commemorates the Huddersfield-born Labour politician who was Prime Minister during most of the 1960s and early 1970s.
It is co-organised by the University in tandem with the Huddersfield Episcopal Area and it's Bishop, Dr Jonathan Gibbs.
The Rt Hon Gordon Brown said 'we are in an endless cycle of despair about the country's future' at the annual Harold Wilson Lecture
John Bercow spoke to the University a day after the EU Referendum took place and told us what he thought about the political situation
The University produces lots of content featuring research, VIP interviews and visits, guest lectures and more.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2018/november/gordon-brown-harold-wilson-lecture:
These were the words of former Prime Minister The Rt Hon Gordon Brown when he delivered the University’s annual Harold Wilson Lecture.
Mr Brown went on to call a national conversation on how to end disunity in the country.
SPEAKING at the University of Huddersfield, former Labour Prime Minister Gordon Brown called for a renewal of the “social contract” that he claims kept people out of poverty and did not allow executive pay to soar to unacceptable levels.
He also scorned right-wing Brexiteer MPs as “back seat drivers” who are endangering the national interest.
“We are in an endless cycle of despair about the future of our country,” said Mr Brown, who called for a national conversation on how to end disunity.
He was speaking to a 650-plus audience when he delivered the annual Harold Wilson Lecture , which commemorates the Huddersfield-born Labour leader, victor of four general elections in the 1960s and 70s.
Mr Brown, who served as Chancellor of the Exchequer for 10 years before becoming Premier himself in 2007, praised the late Lord Wilson’s legacy and its relevance to the UK in 2018.
“The starting point is to learn lessons from Harold Wilson’s life, so that no matter how important economic objectives are, your priorities are not that the successful run away with all the gains and that you have a social conscience that benefits people in need,” said Mr Brown.
He analysed the achievements of the Wilson years, praising the Huddersfield-born politician’s internationalism, his determination to give every citizen the best possible chance in life – by founding the Open University, for example – and social justice legislation in areas such as race relations.
Mr Brown also expressed admiration for how Harold Wilson handled his party over the issue of Europe, at the time of the 1975 referendum, when Labour had a powerful Eurosceptic element.
“We forget sometimes how difficult it is for leaders to manage parties when they are such broad churches.
He kept Labour in the game and prevented it coming out as hostile to Europe,” said Mr Brown.
By contrast, the Conservatives in 2019 had allowed extremists on the right of the party – who believe that Brexit is the only answer – to take control of the public debate, said Mr Brown.
“These are the back seat drivers who are making it impossible for the national interest to be the issue that decides whether we are members of the EU, or how we negotiate, because their ideological considerations are driving the debate.”
Mr Brown delighted the audience with his polished delivery of several humorous anecdotes.
But he also produced facts and figures on poverty – claiming that Conservative governments had reversed improvements under Labour – and he described the foundations of the post-1945 social contract that existed in Britain and Europe.
They included a consensus that wages would earn people a decent income and keep them out of poverty.
But this was no longer the case, and three million working families stood to lose money under the Universal Credit system, said Mr Brown.
He also lambasted the massive pay awards for some executives.
“There always was top pay in our society, but it had to be justified on the basis of merit or effort or contribution to the community,” said Mr Brown.
“In the 1980s, people at the top in business felt that their merit and their effort justified them having 20 times the salary of the average employee,” he continued.
“So why is it that suddenly people at the top have a ratio that is not 20 times the average income but 120 times!
It is just because they can get away with it.
That is wrong and it is causing the social contract to break down,” said Mr Brown.
He said that none of the building blocks of the social contract was intact today and this explained the rise of popular protests such as anti-globalisation, protectionist, xenophobic, and isolationist movements, plus cultural pessimism and anti-politics sentiments.
Mr Brown was welcomed at the University of Huddersfield’s Oastler Building by the Vice-Chancellor, Professor Bob Cryan.
“It is no surprise that the event was fully subscribed several weeks ago – almost as soon as tickets were made available, in fact – because for the first time in the history of a lecture series commemorating a former Prime Minister, we have a former Prime Minister!” he said.
Professor Cryan welcomed as guests Harold Wilson’s son, Professor Robin Wilson and his wife Joy, and paid tribute to the ex-Premier’s widow, Lady Mary Wilson, who died in June, aged 102.
The Harold Wilson Lecture is organised in tandem with the Huddersfield Episcopal Area, and its Bishop, The Rt Revd Jonathan Gibbs, presided over the question-and-answer session that followed Mr Brown’s talk.
Lord Patel is the Chairman of the Social Work England and he was invited to speak to staff, students and local social workers at the University
His Excellency visited the University’s Centre for Precision Technology, the Ion Beam Centre and the Institute of Railway Research
The accelerator, named MIAMI-2, uses a microscope to investigate the effects of particles on materials from meteorites to nuclear fusion

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2020/february/students-design-mile-markers-at-london-marathon:
Architecture students from the University have won a national competition with their eye-catching designs for new mile markers that will be erected along the entire course of the Virgin London Marathon
A TEAM of architecture students at the University of Huddersfield will make their mark on the 2020 Virgin Money London Marathon and its 40,000-plus participants, plus the millions watching worldwide.
They have been declared winners of a nationwide competition – backed by the Stephen Lawrence Charitable Trust – to design eye-catching new mile markers to be erected along the course of the famous race.
These will replace the scaffolding-style structures that have been in use for several years.
The Huddersfield students took their inspiration from nature when they developed ingenious new mile markers that can rapidly be assembled from 3D-printed hexagons.
One of the team, Chantal Banker, explained: “When we looked at the brief it gave us an opportunity to inspire the community.
We saw the London Marathon as a community of runners – people from different backgrounds supporting different cultures all running together.
We took the hexagon from nature and how bees in a beehive make a community.”
Chantal and her teammates Haider Bokhari, Davina Lyn and Athis Rashid are all studying at the University of Huddersfield on the RIBA-validated Part II Master of Architecture course.
They formed themselves into one of more than 40 teams of students from around the UK who registered for the competition launched by the Stephen Lawrence Charitable Trust and London Marathon Events Ltd, with a brief to design a new structure for every one of the 26 miles on the course, which passes many world famous London landmarks.
The mile markers will display not only the distance but also the time, so that runners can keep a close tab on their performance.
The new competition follows 2018’s contest to design the Mile 18 Marker, in honour of Stephen Lawrence, the murdered teenager who nurtured ambitions to become an architect himself.
The judging panel chose the University of Huddersfield entry – described in a series of detailed architectural drawings and explanatory text – to join a final shortlist of 10.
And at a London ceremony it has now been named as the winner, with judges declaring their excitement at the design and its hexagons, which will enable rapid assembly, disassembly and easy transport and storage.
They will now be 3-D printed using recycled plastics, so that sustainability – a priority for the organisers of the London Marathon - is another key element in the success of the design.
The students and two of their tutors were present for the announcement, which took place at London’s Stephen Lawrence Centre, where the shortlisted designs are now on display.
The Huddersfield team – who are all Yorkshire-based - will also be present at the London Marathon itself, on April 26.
It is hoped that working prototypes of the hexagon-based mile markers will be ready by early March.
The University of Huddersfield’s Chantal Banker was already linked to the Stephen Lawrence Charitable Trust, as the recipient of a bursary under its Building Futures programme, which inspires and enables young people from disadvantaged and under-represented backgrounds to study and qualify as architects.
She and her student colleagues are delighted by their success.
“It’s a great accomplishment,” said Chantal, who aims for an architectural career based on sustainability and building for the community.
Sir Patrick Stewart visited the new £30m building that will house over 2,000 art, design and architecture students
The objective of the global forum (GLF-CEM) is to establish a body of academic leadership in Construction, Engineering and Management
The disaster risk research has been granted £541,655 and will improve the lives of the 3.5 million people living along the river

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2020/january/reception-of-classical-architecture-new-book:
At the request of the publishers, Professor Nicholas Temple was asked to develop ‘The Routledge Handbook on the Reception of Classical Architecture’ – the first comprehensive study of the subject
DURING the epoch of empires and colonisation, Europeans spread their conceptions of trade, slavery, religion, politics and art around the world.
Classical architecture was another global export and its impact is fully charted for the first time in a major new book co-edited by a University of Huddersfield professor.
Nicholas Temple is Professor of Architecture and Co-Director of the Centre of Urban Design, Architecture and Sustainability at the University and he collaborated with colleagues based at two U.S.
institutions to produce The Routledge Handbook on the Reception of Classical Architecture .
The recently-published book comprises 32 chapters written by scholars from China, Europe, Turkey, North America, Mexico, Australia and New Zealand.
The authors deal with a wide variety of topics, covering aspects of architecture in countries that include Italy, France, England, Scotland, the Nordic countries, Greece, Austria, Portugal, Romania, Germany, Poland, India, Singapore, China, the USA, Mexico, Brazil, New Zealand and Australia.
The book covers periods from the end of the Middle Ages to the modern world.
The global sweep of the Handbook on the Reception of Classical Architecture means that book launches are being planned in London, Rome, Shanghai, Sydney and New York.
“The book is the first comprehensive study of the reception of classical architecture in different parts of the world, and what classicism actually means in the context of issues as topical and controversial as colonisation, slavery and trade,” said Professor Temple, whose own research has included detailed work on the architecture of Italy.
The new book required about five years to compile, said Professor Temple, whose co-editors, both based in the United States, are Polish-born Andrzej Piotrowski , who is Professor of Architecture at the University of Minnesota, and Juan Manuel Heredia , who is from Mexico and now Associate Professor of Architecture at Portland State University.
In addition to their editorial role, the three editors collaborated on an introduction to the book and made chapter contributions, such as Professor Temple’s co-authored chapter on the influence of Renaissance Humanism on the architecture and spectacle of Fascist Italy.
The new publication fills a gap in knowledge about how architectural principles from Europe were exported to other parts of the world, said Professor Temple, who was invited by publishers to develop the book project during its early stages.
“There is an interesting, growing field of research into geographical influences on artistic and architectural developments, looking at the spread of European ideas across the globe in the Early Modern period – the age of discoveries, of trade and colonisation,” he explained.
One of the results was that architecture based on classical European models could be found in countries and territories as diverse as India, China, Mexico, West Africa, Singapore and Australia.
There are also relevancies to the modern world, argues Professor Temple.
“We don’t have colonisation as such any more, but you could say there is a different kind of colonising mentality in the shape of globalisation and the growing influence of particular countries, such as China.
The assumption has been that globalisation is a 20th and 21st century phenomenon, but I think this book indirectly contests this view through a more extended historical enquiry.
It doesn’t talk about corporatism and what globalisation became, but about an intellectual and ideological project in the early modern period with a Euro-centred perspective.”
– new book published in 2020
Early 2020 also sees the publication of Professor Temple’s latest sole-authored book, Architecture and the Language Debate .
It examines the creative exchanges between architects, artists and intellectuals, from the Early Renaissance to the beginning of the Enlightenment, in the forging of relationships between architecture and emerging concepts of language in early modern in Italy.
Prof Nicholas Temple interprets the 15th century goldsmith and sculpture Lorenzo Ghiberti’s incomplete manuscripts on artistic progress
Professor Nic Clear’s work appears in the Academy’s exhibition ‘What is radical today?
40 Positions on Architecture’
Professor Dilanthi Amaratunga spoke at the sixth session of the Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2019/september/patrick-stewart-star-trek-picard-huddersfield:
The University was delighted to welcome its Emeritus Chancellor, Sir Patrick Stewart, for an unexpected visit to the campus, which afforded the world-famous actor the opportunity to view the University’s new £30 million flagship building.
The Barbara Hepworth Building was officially opened during the recent July awards ceremonies and will be the new home for the University’s School of Art, Design and Architecture and over 2,000 students who will share the extensive space and facilities.
Sir Patrick, who finished filming the new Star Trek: Picard television series just a week ago, returned to the UK and was, as they say ‘just passing’, so he phoned to see if it would be possible to visit.
“We’re always delighted to welcome Sir Patrick to the University and he was very keen to view the latest addition to our campus, the Barbara Hepworth Building ,” said the University’s Vice-Chancellor, Professor Bob Cryan .
Sir Patrick was overwhelmed by the dynamic, state-of-the-art facility, which is designed to act as a “catalyst for creativity, collaboration and learning” and will ensure that Huddersfield’s creative students will have access to some of the most advanced facilities in the country.
The concept behind the building was inspired by the Bauhaus cultural movement where all creative disciplines benefit for being under one roof and the students can be inspired by the work of others.
The building takes its name – with the consent of the family – from the famous Yorkshire-born artist and sculptor, Dame Barbara Hepworth, and the University is already enjoying close links with the famous art gallery, also bearing the sculptor’s name, The Hepworth Wakefield.
“It could not be more appropriate that Dame Barbara Hepworth’s name is attached to this building,” said Sir Patrick.
“As I walked through the vast, open structure, it almost appears that the building is in motion and the vistas it presents are extraordinary,” he said.
The Barbara Hepworth opens its doors next week for the start of the academic year when fashion designers, architects, illustrators and animators will operate in the same environment as costume and graphic designers.
One of main features is the art visualisation suite, named the Phidias Lab, where students will be able to develop and prototype 3D models in an immersive VR environment and have the space and facility to experiment with emergent visualisation technology.
Sir Patrick has just finished filming the television series, Star Trek: Picard , which will see him revisit the role of Jean Luc Picard from the Star Trek franchise as captain of the Starship Enterprise, but this time will be different from his time directing operations on the ship’s bridge.
“I don’t regard it as going back, in fact, we are definitely moving the series forward and that’s what made the difference for me,” said Sir Patrick, who initially turned the part down twice.
The new series – broadcast dates still to be announced – is set 20 years after the last moment of its famous predecessor series, Star Trek: The Next Generation , which ran from 1987 to 1994.
It’s a new world, says the actor, who describes Picard as a man who has undergone disappointment, trauma and serious loss and, at first, not remotely the same man as he was.
“We are looking at a new world with new objectives, problems and issues that could not have been raised when we were making The Next Generation and I found that very exciting,” said Sir Patrick, who viewed the first three episodes just last week before flying back to the UK.
“It’s very exciting and people will be surprised and perhaps even shocked.”
And will we see him back on stage?
“Oh yes!” came the answer.
“I am not giving up my stage work, though it may have to wait for now because there are three projects that I have finished, two films and the TV series, which all need promotion.
So I am clearing the decks for that and then there is also the possibility of a second Picard series filming in March next year.”
Star Trek: Picard will be released at the end of January 2020.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2023/march/jo-cox-more-in-common-centre-opened:
The Jo Cox More in Common Centre at the University of Huddersfield has been formally opened in the presence of Jo's sister Kim Leadbeater MP and parents Jean and Gordon Leadbeater.
David Lammy MP , the Shadow Secretary of State for Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Affairs, and Mayor of West Yorkshire Tracy Brabin were also in attendance as a plaque was unveiled to officially open the new facility that replaces the Faith Centre that had been a feature of the Huddersfield campus for many years.
Jo’s family and other visitors were shown around the centre and met with members of the University’s varied faith societies, together with staff and contractors involved with the development of the project since its inception in 2021.
“It was a real honour and a genuine pleasure to be here for this very special and very personal event,” said Kim Leadbeater.
“We take great comfort that we have so many fantastic things that bear Jo’s name  and today is a fantastic example of that.
I felt very emotional walking up to the building to see her name on it this morning.
“The centre is ‘very Jo’!
It is a place for people to come together, for contemplation, faith, reflection, friendship and support.”
Discover more about the Jo Cox More In Common Centre
It is the first building at the University to be built to the WELL  Standard, enhancing sustainability, health and wellbeing through improved air, water, light and other factors.
It features a ‘living wall’ at the building's entrance which features mosses that also contribute to the WELL Standard , as well highlighting Jo's ethos that has inspired the establishment of the Centre - “We are far more united and have far more in common than that which divides us.”
Mr Lammy added, “Thank you for naming this wonderful building after Jo for the wonderful work that will go on here, supporting students with their wellbeing, faith, counselling and the opportunity for them to grow as people to achieve what they want to do in their lives.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/staff/2025/jan/jo-cox-building-tours:
Are you curious to have a look around the Jo Cox More in Common Building on campus and learn more about how it has been built and operates?
Come and join us on a guided tour!
The building is the first on campus, and only a handful of buildings in the UK to be awarded with the prestigious Platinum WELL Building Standard.
This is a standard that enhances the building user’s health and wellbeing and focuses on the building being built with natural materials and operating sustainably, over ten separate concepts.
The building is named after the MP Jo Cox and commemorates her ‘More in Common’ message as well as her ideas and ethos.
The primary purpose of the building is a multifaith centre and meeting point for all Staff and Students, to provide a peaceful space for reflection, prayers, and mindfulness.
The centre comprises of a community space, a congregational hall, separate male and female Muslim prayer rooms, ablution facilities, Christian and multi-faith rooms and a Chaplain’s office.
Some of the University’s counselling and learning support services are located in this contemporary and restful space.
There will be three tours available over the year, on the following dates;
Please meet at the Jo Cox More in Common’s entrance area.
Tours will last 45 minutes and run from 12.15PM-13.00PM .
A place can be booked by clicking a date above, scanning the QR code below, or following the booking link on the webpage:
https://hud.ac.uk/sustainability/wellbuildingstandard/jocoxcentre/
We hope to see you on a tour soon.
Estates and Facilities

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2024/september/jo-cox-centre-well-standard-platinum:
The University of Huddersfield ’s Jo Cox More in Common Centre has been awarded with the esteemed Platinum level WELL Certification through the International WELL Building Institute (IWBI), the global authority for transforming health and well-being through buildings, organizations and communities.
This award represents the highest level of WELL Certification recognizing design and operational strategies focusing on human health and well-being.
It also represents the first university student amenities building in the UK to achieve such an accolade and only the third Platinum level WELL Certified campus building in the world, setting a new benchmark for the post-secondary education sector to prioritize student health and well-being.
University of Huddersfield Deputy Vice-Chancellor Professor Tim Thornton commented, “The University’s community and faith facilities represent the same commitments to working for stronger communities, mutual respect and fairness that were championed by Jo Cox.
Working with the foundation which bears her name, the University works to break down divisions and build mutual understanding.
And WELL Platinum for the Jo Cox More in Common Centre demonstrates that commitment in the design and use of the campus buildings themselves.”
The Jo Cox More in Common Centre Centre, completed in 2023, is at the heart of the University campus.
The building is designed to provide a welcoming, calming environment for students and staff of all faiths, or none.
It provides the university community with dedicated space to gather, socialise, worship, and celebrate the common factors that unite them – closely aligned with the philosophy of the late Jo Cox MP, who is honoured in the naming of the building.
“Research shows evidence-based WELL strategies can improve our physical and mental health as well as productivity, and we are excited to see higher education institutions around the world are showing strong interest in adopting WELL to advance health and well-being for students, faculty and staff,” said Rachel Hodgdon, President and CEO, IWBI.
“We applaud the University of Huddersfield for its health leadership by achieving the first WELL Certification across higher education in the UK.”
Lee Felvus, Business Support Manager from the University’s Student Services, says, “Students have praised the design of the building, and the fact that it can be used for more than just prayers.
Its central location has been noted as a huge benefit, making it easier for students to go to pray before or after lectures.
The centre has been used for a range of activities including faith gatherings, coffee and cake events, wellbeing activities and much more.
It is a genuinely unique space on campus, and the experience of visitors is enhanced by the environment that has been justly rewarded with WELL Certification Platinum status.”
Forsta Projects , the WELL consultant for the project, and architect designer Bond Bryant, construction contractor Morgan Sindall Group, worked in seamless collaborations with the University integrating feature opportunities focused on the campus and building management, human resources, operational policies, and incentive schemes for the University to adopt to JCC in order to align with the WELL standard features.
“Not only did this collaborative process with the University make it possible to increase the WELL Certification from originally targeted Silver level to Platinum, it also showcased all the good work the University already do to improve physical and mental health that aligns with the WELL Standard and offered new ideas for how the University can increase on this with policies that can further improve the health and well-being of all occupants,” said Shaun Hill, director of Forsta Projects.
Health-centred WELL design features at the Jo Cox More In Common Centre include: •    advanced indoor air quality and an active monitoring system •    easy access to quality drinking water outlets to promote hydration •    underfloor heating for high level of thermal comfort •    healthy materials throughout •    biophilic designs for increased access to nature •    integrated universal design for equitable enjoyment of the space.
“In addition to design excellence, the University of Huddersfield also demonstrated tremendous leadership by adopting operational and management policies that prioritize student and employee health and earned additional points to achieve WELL Certification at the highest level,” said Ann Marie Aguilar, senior vice president of IWBI’s EMEA region.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/ouroffer/worklifebalance:
As a campus-based university, we are committed to enabling our colleagues to work to a hybrid model with a combination of on campus and remote working, where possible.
Many academics already have flexibility built into their working arrangements, where some aspects of academic work may be undertaken remotely.
Under our new Hybrid Working Framework, this flexibility has now been extended to our Professional Support Services colleagues, and offers the opportunity for some roles to be worked partly on campus and remotely from home.
To find out more about our Hybrid Working Framework, Guidance or Frequently asked Questions, please click here: Hybrid Working - University of Huddersfield
We have a range of family-friendly policies designed to support the work-life balance of our staff members with family responsibilities.
Our family friendly policies include:
Adoption Leave
Maternity Leave
Parental Leave
Paternity Leave
Shared Parental Leave
Flexible Working
In addition to these policies, we also offer:
We are also a breastfeeding friendly campus and there are no restrictions on bottle or breastfeeding at the University.
For more information please read our Breastfeeding Statement
The University recognises that a little flexibility can sometimes make a lot of difference in helping staff to balance the demands of work and personal life.
Here at the University we offer a range of flexible working options, including:
Where it is possible and practical, we will accommodate flexible arrangements.
However, requests will be considered against service needs and may be turned down if there is a good business reason for not being able to accommodate it.
Here at the University, we provide a generous annual leave offering in addition to bank holidays which includes:
Staff members also benefit from discretionary University closure days over the Christmas holiday period.
We also understand that there may be occasions when you may wish to take more than their standard contractual annual leave.
The University’s Annual Leave Purchase Scheme offers the opportunity to purchase additional leave through a salary sacrifice arrangement.
Staff members can exchange part of their salary for up to one week (37 hours) of additional annual leave pro-rated for part-time employees.
This provides a flexible option for those seeking extra time for personal or family commitments.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/ouroffer/rewardandrecognition:
We offer competitive rates of pay, which include annual incremental pay progression, up to the grade maximum.
We are a member of the Universities and Colleges Employers Association (UCEA) national negotiating framework for annual pay awards , providing for a yearly review of salary rates at a national level to ensure rates are consistent with peer institutions.
We are also a Living Wage accredited employer and our pay scales are aligned to the real living wage rate.
You can find out more about the real living wage and how it is calculated on the Living Wage Foundation website .
You can also find out more about your pay and our salary scales from this page on our website .
Our occupational pension schemes provide a valuable benefit to our staff members.
We provide the following three defined pension schemes, which all include a guaranteed income in retirement, as well as life assurance and protection for your family.
TPS is operated by Capita plc on behalf of the Department for Children, Schools & Families (DCSF).
Membership is available to full time, fractional and part time hourly paid academic staff and entry to the Scheme is automatic unless and individual opts out.
The WYPF is run in accordance with the Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS).
Membership is available to non-teaching staff and those not otherwise eligible for the TPS.
Entry is automatic for all full time and fractional staff unless they opt out.
The USS membership is only available to new academic and senior staff who commence employment with the University after 1 April 2003 and transfer from an existing USS institution with a break in service of less than one calendar month.
We value the dedication of our staff and recognise those who reach 15, 25, or 35 years of continuous service with a special award.
It’s our way of saying thank you for your loyalty and lasting contribution to the University.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/ouroffer/discountsandperks:
Vivup Lifestyle Savings are designed to enhance every part of your daily life.
Whether you're shopping at supermarkets, on the high street, or paying utility bills, you can enjoy a wide array of savings tailored to your needs.
Access exclusive discounts from top national retailers and local businesses with our Lifestyle Savings benefit.
Staff members can also enjoy further discounts via the number one student discount card, TOTUM.
TOTUM Professionals membership gives you access to hundreds of discounts, deals and offers on big-name brands both online and in store.
PLUS a FREE tastecard is included with every TOTUM card bought, giving you access to top savings at big restaurants, pizza delivery, daily hot and cold barista-made drinks, days out and more!

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/ouroffer/traveltowork:
The University is well connected and only a short 10 minute walk from Huddersfield's bus and railway stations.
Alternatively, to get here, you can use the Huddersfield free town bus that passes by the bus and train stations and stops near the University's main entrance.
To find out more about the travel savings you could make, please see below.
Staff members can make substantial savings on the cost of a First Bus monthly ticket.
Simply sign up to the easy, no hassle, monthly direct debit scheme for a minimum period of twelve months.
Average discounts available under this scheme exceed 20%.
The University has made an arrangement with Northern Rail under the travel season ticket loan scheme to provide staff members with unlimited travel, anytime, between two destinations for the price of 40 weeks travel, saving you 12 weeks.
Staff members are entitled to a 12% discount on a Corporate Annual MCard, which enables you to travel on buses and trains throughout West Yorkshire.
You can join the scheme at any time of year and pay for the annual card through instalment payments via payroll deduction.
The University can also make a loan available for the purchase of season tickets for travel by rail (second class fare), bus or other approved transport.
All employees of the University who have completed six month's service and whose appointments have at least twelve months to run, are eligible to apply.
Our cycle to work schemes, onsite facilities and University bike group, all aim to encourage active travel to campus.
Incorporating cycling into your commute, even just a couple of times a week, has an array of benefits for both you and the environment.
We provide access to several cycle to work schemes.
These schemes allow staff members to purchase bikes and make tax and national insurance savings of up to 47% .
Each scheme has an upper spend limit and all deductions are made over a 12 month period.
The bike must be primarily used for commuting journeys but it can also be used for additional leisure journeys.
As well as covering the purchase of traditional push bikes, the schemes also include e-bikes and some safety accessories.
We offer a variety of cycle parking across campus, these range from sheltered Sheffield Stands to swipe access storage shelters and individual lockers.
View the full list of shower and changing facilities .
This equipment can be borrowed free of charge by any staff on campus.
The cycling community here at the University of Huddersfield have come together with the Sustainability Team to form a Bike User Group (BUG).
The purpose of this group is to promote cycling at the University to new and existing cyclists, while working with the Sustainability Team to share ideas, concerns and to organise events.
Members of the BUG vary from keen cyclists who commute regularly, to complete beginners who are building the confidence to cycle to work!
The BUG has designated Cycling Champions located in each building on campus to help orientate new cyclists on the routes and facilities on and around campus.
Find out more about our onsite car parking options below.
Car parking on campus is limited.
The University offers two parking permit options, managed by Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR), staff members have the option to apply for either:
There are a number of alternative public car parks, as well as on-street parking and the Kingsgate shopping centre offering both long and short stay parking within walking distance of the University campus and town centre.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/ouroffer/healthandwellbeing:
Our Staff Wellbeing Team drives the wellbeing agenda in collaboration with various departments across the University.
They oversee a broad range of initiatives, including the Staff Wellbeing Confidential Support service, coordinating our Wellbeing Champions and MHFAiders® networks, and managing staff wellbeing communications, events, and activities.
Our Staff Wellbeing Room based on level 9 in the Schwann Building (SB9/07a) also offers a quiet and relaxing space for staff members to take time out during their working day.
It also hosts a selection of wellbeing books for staff members to borrow.
There is no need to book, staff are welcome to turn up.
All staff members have access to our 'Staff Wellbeing Confidential Support' service, the University's external provider of wellbeing support.
This service offers 24/7, free and confidential telephone counselling support to all staff members on a wide range of wellbeing issues such as anxiety, stress, bereavement, family difficulties, financial concerns etc.
The service also provides access to self-help workbooks, podcasts, financial advice, and support for domestic abuse through an online portal and can be used to support any issue that is affecting your wellbeing - it doesn't have to be work related.
Our onsite Occupational Health team are on hand to provide workplace advice and support to all staff members in relation to their physical and mental health.
A counselling service is also available to help staff members through times of difficulty.
To find out more about this service please visit: Occupational Health .
Across the University we have a network of MHFAiders®.
Our network of skilled MHFAiders® help to create a culture and environment whereby the whole university as a community are empowered to talk about mental health as part of everyday life, and work together at every level in promoting good mental wellbeing in the workplace.
MHFAiders® are based across campus and are trained in offering help to a person experiencing  mental health difficulties, experiencing a worsening of an existing mental health issue or are in a mental health crisis.
MHFAiders® are not medical professionals, but have useful information on signposting staff and students to the correct services, and offering instant support when needed.
On-campus prayer facilities are available to all staff members, including Islamic prayer rooms and a chaplaincy service.
To find out more please visit: Faith
We all know that exercise improves our physical wellbeing, but did you know it helps to improve your mental wellbeing as well?
Sport and physical activity can help lift your mood and reduce stress.
It can also improve sleep and reduce anxiety levels.
Our onsite Active Hud team offers a range of free wellbeing classes designed to help boost your mental wellbeing, including: Tai Chi, Afrobeats and yoga classes.
To find out more visit: Wellbeing
Our dedicated Staff Wellbeing team run a series of regular wellbeing groups including Menopause Talk and Support, Returning Parents, Staff Choir and Book Club.
We've partnered with Health Shield to provide you with access to health cover at a discounted rate.
Through the scheme, staff members can benefit from receiving money back on everyday healthcare costs such as dental, optical, massages and much more.
Our onsite Active Hud team have partnered with Kirklees Active Leisure to provide a great value Gym, Class and Swim offer to student and staff members.
The partnership gives staff access to swim, gym and classes at 10 sites across Kirklees as well as access to our gym on campus.
Our Active Hud gym boasts the following impressive on-site sports facilities:
Active Hud also provide a wide variety of group exercise classes to help improve your fitness levels or just help de-stress.
For further information please visit: Memberships and benefits - University of Huddersfield
Staff members who live within a three mile radius of campus are able to register at our onsite Health Centre.
The Health Centre is an NHS General Practice, providing general medical services to registered patients.
For further details of services provided please see the The University Health Centre website.
Our onsite Valli Opticians offer free eye test and contact lens appointments for all staff members.
Staff members can further benefit from discounts of up to 20% on all glasses.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/ouroffer/financialwellbeing:
Our Viv up Lifestyle Savings platform provides a range of mental health support and resources to help you manage your financial wellbeing.
Ask Bill – Provides access to f ree impartial help, advice and tips on how to reduce your utility bills, manage your money and deal with debt issues as well as support for tackling these problems in emergency situations.
Debt Advice – Dealing with debt can be stressful and can be a cause of worry, meaning you may find it difficult to concentrate on work or other responsibilities.
Angel Advance provides 24/7 online debt advice to get you back on track and make your finances more manageable.
Cost of Living Guides – Provides advice and tips on how to make the most of your staff benefits.
Discounts and Savings – Our s taff members have access to a wide range of lifestyle discounts, helping you to save money on things that matter the most.
On campus we have over 12 outlets where you can get great offers on a range of food and drink.
Find out about the different outlets and where you can find them
Follow HuddersFood on Instagram to keep up to date with the latest deals.
The University and the Student’s Union have partnered with Too Good To Go to reduce food waste on campus and provide the opportunity to buy delicious and substantial food at a reduced price.
To prevent delicious fresh food going to waste at University catering outlets, staff members can sign up to find out when and where are ‘magic bags’ of food are available from.
The University provides a range of options for more affordable travel and is committed to supporting and promoting travel by sustainable means.
To find out more, visit the Travel to Work section of our staff benefits page.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/ouroffer/ouruniversitycampus:
Research facilities alongside green spaces, places to eat and a gym.
We’ve invested nearly £156 million in campus development, and have fantastic facilities including specialist laboratories, studios, and performance spaces.
One of our most recent initiatives includes the opening of our impressive Daphne Steele Building, as part of the National Health Innovation Campus .
We have a working canal that runs through the heart of our campus which boasts a tree-lined towpath, perfect for those downtime moments.
Take a look round our campus, using our Virtual Campus Tour .
Discover more about what our campus has to offer by clicking on the headers below.
We have 12 outlets available across the University offering a fantastic range of food and drink options, including our International Kitchen, Eco Eats and Café Central – Starbucks.
Our Library is available for staff to access and is open seven days a week during term time and round the clock for most of the year, plus our computer labs are open 24 hours a day all year round.
Staff can access fitness classes and gym facilities on campus and at KAL Fitness Centres across the district.
These provide 7 day a week access to gym, class and swim facilities to suit your working patterns on campus and at home.
Our campus has a selection of green outdoor spaces, including a working canal that runs through the heart of our campus with a tree-lined towpath.
Our Campus Support and Grounds Maintenance team plan, design and tend to these areas over the various seasons of the year, so the areas are always visually interesting, contain native, insect attracting plants and are biodiverse.
The University also has gardening spaces on campus available for use to all staff and students.
To find out more visit our Sustainability webpage
Our brand new More In Common Centre contains prayer and community rooms for the use of staff and students across the University, of all faiths and none.
The centre is open from 7am-10pm on weekdays and 8am-9pm at the weekends.
We offer flexible permit parking options across all our seven campus car parks.
Our onsite Student Union shop, located in Student Central, offers a wide range of refreshments, stationary and University branded merchandise.
We aim to make our campus welcoming and inclusive to all students, staff and visitors.
Our University Campus Map display accessible routes, disabled entrances, gender neutral and accessible toilets.
To download a copy, please click here.
Our Staff Wellbeing Room offers a quiet and relaxing space for staff members to take time out during their working day.
Our onsite Valli Opticians, located in the Joseph Priestley East building, offers free eye tests and contact lens appointments for all staff members.
We have two cycle repair areas available on campus.
We also have a small pool of emergency bike maintenance equipment including:
Our buildings range from an historic 19th century church through to modern buildings including the home of Art, Design and Architecture, the Barbara Hepworth building.
Find out more about our buildings

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/ouroffer/ourinclusivecommunity:
We are committed to providing an inclusive learning and working environment where staff members work collaboratively and productively together, in a culture of mutual respect, dignity and belonging for all.
Advancing equality of opportunity, valuing diversity, and embedding inclusive practice is central to our University Strategy and reflected within our commitments, which include:
To find out more please visit: Equality, Diversity and Inclusion - University of Huddersfield
We also support our staff with the provision of several EDI networks, including:
Our Staff Equality Networks provide a safe space for staff sharing a protected characteristic or identity to access peer support, networking, and consultation with the University regarding policies and projects.
To help promote social wellbeing and connection, our dedicated Staff Wellbeing team run a series of regular wellbeing groups including Menopause Talk and Support, Returning Parents and our Staff Choir.
The Staff Wellbeing Team hosts a monthly Menopause Talk and Support session for staff.
Peer support is a vitally important and helpful way of supporting people through the menopause.
Have you recently returned from maternity, paternity, shared parental or adoption leave?
Or have you got little ones at home and you're having to juggle working, school drop offs, childcare, and the rest?
If so, our support group, offers the perfect opportunity to connect and talk with other members of staff who are going through similar circumstances.
Our University choir provides a positive, relaxed environment where staff can unwind and have fun singing popular tunes.
There is no audition, no singing ability or experience necessary and you won’t be asked to sing on your own (unless you really want to!).
All staff are welcome to attend.
Our international buddy scheme is available to new international colleagues who are relocating to the UK.
The focus of the scheme is to enable new international colleagues to connect with others who have already made the move to the UK, who can provide support based on their own experience.
We have collated a wealth of resources and information to help our international colleagues settle into life here in the United Kingdom and at the University.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/ouroffer/learninganddevelopment:
Find out more about our in-person training programmes, which cover a wide range of topics such as EDI, Wellbeing, Teaching and Learning and Personal Effectiveness.
Discover our comprehensive suite of E-Learning modules.
Learn more about the support and development opportunities we provide to our leaders and managers through our inhouse training programmes.
Find out more about our talent management tools and resources designed to help equip our people with the knowledge, skills and behaviours needed for both their career aspirations and our current and future organisational needs.
Learn more about our partnership with the University of Leeds and our coaching and mentoring support programme.
Discover our range of resources designed to help you settle into your role and University life as quickly and smoothly as possible.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/relocation/all-applicants:
Below is some information that aims to answer your questions and give you some helpful tips on settling into the town and beginning your new life here.
Find out more about accommodation.
Information on childcare and schools in the UK.
Information on our campus facilities at the University of Huddersfield.
Information about living in Huddersfield.
Surrounded by the beautiful Yorkshire countryside, we are based right in the town centre and at the heart of the local community, occupying a great central location in the UK.
Leeds and Manchester are both just a quick train ride away and good connections to the M62 and M1 mean it’s easy to reach the rest of the UK by car or bus.
Culture
Huddersfield has a strong cultural heritage, from the Grade I listed buildings, to long running cultural events including Huddersfield Literature Festival, Huddersfield Food & Drink Festival and the acclaimed Huddersfield Contemporary Music Festival.
We are fortunate to have the Lawrence Batley Theatre within walking distance of the University, where you’ll find a diverse line up of entertainment, comedy, dance, live music, theatre and cabaret.
The Piece Hall in nearby Halifax is unique - a Grade I listed Georgian masterpiece and the oldest remaining Georgian cloth hall in the world!
The huge open-air courtyard is today surrounded by unique and independent shops, bars, cafes and a restaurant, with the main central courtyard being a spectacular venue for a year-round events programme of live music, dance, film and other community events.
Music
If you enjoy live music, nearby Holmfirth, in the Holme Valley, is well known for its vibrant music scene.
The Picturedrome regularly hosts live music gigs from bands and solo artists.
Other music events range from live acoustic, brass bands, rock, acapella and jazz, to Holmfirth’s annual Festival of Folk in May.
Whilst Marsden in the Colne Valley hosts a popular Jazz festival in October.
Shopping
Whilst we are based in the town centre, with easy access to shops and supermarkets, the nearby villages of Slaithwaite, Marsden, Holmfirth and Honley offer independent boutiques, speciality shops and markets all within picturesque surroundings.
Sports and outdoor activities
If you enjoy hiking, cycling or climbing, these are all popular outdoor pastimes in and around the Pennine Hills.
The Holme Valley has quaint, quiet country lanes that are ideal for cyclists, walkers and horse riders.
Huddersfield also has a proud rugby and football heritage.
Rugby League was born in Huddersfield in 1895 and the Huddersfield Giants Super League team plays regularly at the John Smith’s stadium.
The stadium is also home to Huddersfield Town AFC.
Both teams have a loyal fan base in the town and the stadium also hosts non-sporting events and concerts.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/relocation/international:
As a global institution, situated at the heart of a multicultural and diverse town, the University of Huddersfield welcomes job applicants from all countries and nationalities.
Going to live and work in another country is a major change in anyone’s life and to help international job applicants plan for life in the UK, we have put together some information we hope you will find useful and will help to ensure a smooth transition to Huddersfield.
Financial support to assist with relocation is available to senior members of staff (grade 10 and above) taking up a first appointment with the University of at least three years’ duration.
Information on our buddy scheme for prospective international employees relocating to the UK.
Information on visas and immigration requirements before arriving in the UK.
Useful information for when you arrive in the UK.
Find out more about accommodation
Information on setting up home communications in the UK.
Information on health care in the UK including doctors, dentists and opticians.
Information on banking in the UK.
Information on transferring money to the UK.
Information on living costs in the UK.
Information on state benefits.
Information on taxes, pensions and National Insurance in the UK.
Information on leisure in Huddersfield and further afield.
Information on bringing your pet to the UK.
Information on travel within Huddersfield and further afield.
Information on driving in the UK.
Information on Trade Unions.
Information on voting in the UK.
Living costs will differ person to person based on an individuals circumstances.
In this section we provide an outline of the likely costs you will need to budget for each month.
Accommodation and the associated costs of accommodation are likely to be your main expense.
The level of expense will differ dependant on the type and area of the accommodation you chose.
In addition to accommodation costs, the following areas should be considered in your budget:
There are a number of websites available which provide the average costs of living in the UK and you can sometimes find ones which compare the costs in the UK to your current location.
To be paid a salary by the University you must hold a UK bank account or an account that receives a UK BACS transfer.
There are different UK banks and building societies to be found in Huddersfield town centre which include many of the major banks.
To find out more about the services that each bank offers it may be helpful to speak to an advisor in branch or over the phone.
All the major bank accounts have websites that explain more about the types of services they offer and how to set these up.
There are different types of accounts you can open in the UK and you can also have more than one.
You will be able to discuss the type of bank account that suits your requirements best with an advisor in branch.
The cash card is made of plastic and you can use this to withdraw money from a cash machine usually free of charge.
If there is a charge to use the machine this will be displayed to you before you finalise the transaction.
You will be issued with a four-digit Personal Identification Number (PIN).
You will need to keep this number safe and avoid sharing this with anyone.
The debit card allows you to withdraw money from a cash machine in the same way as a cash card.
You can also use this in place of cash in most shops.
You may also be able to request ’cash back’ in certain shops as a way of withdrawing cash from your bank account.
You can use your debit card to make online purchases however it is important to ensure the website is secure.
As with the cash card you will be provided with a four digit PIN number.
You will need to use in shops that have a chip and PIN machine.
In this case you will insert the card and enter your PIN number to pay.
Most cards have a contactless feature which allows you to pay for goods (currently up to £100) without the use of a PIN.
You can just tap the card on the device where contactless payment is accepted.
A standing order or direct debit can be set up to make automatic payments and are commonly used to pay rent and bills.
You can often choose the dates the payments are taken which can help in managing your finances.
Current accounts offer different services which vary from bank to bank.
You can find out what the current account offers by speaking to an advisor.
Some current accounts offer cash cards, debit cards and cheque books.
The current account may offer some interest.
It may be that you are offered a basic bank account at first.
This can later be updated to a current account and the bank or building society will be able to advise on this.
A savings account is designed to help people save money.
You may have a savings account alongside a current account.
Some savings accounts will make you enter a branch to withdraw money however others may issue you with a cash card.
This is to discourage you from spending your savings.
You may want to speak to an advisor to discuss interest rates associated to savings accounts as this will vary from bank to bank.
After deciding on a bank or building society you will need to open your bank account.
To do this you will need to visit the branch, unless it is an online bank in which case you should be able to do this online.
You will need to take with you:
You can ask for a letter confirming your employment from the payroll department who will be able to provide this for you on letter headed paper should you need this.
The bank will use this information to confirm your identity and address.
Once in the bank you will need to complete an application form and make a deposit into your new account.
You will receive your bank card and cheque book if applicable through the post.
You will be able to find out more information on how long this will take whilst in the branch.
You can use a website such as Money Saving Expert to compare different types of bank account from different banks.
A bank statement will show all transactions on your bank account since the last statement.
This is usually received once a month.
The statement will show your current balance and will be delivered either by post or by email.
You should contact your bank or building society immediately if anything on your statement looks incorrect.
Not all bank accounts offer interest however interest may be paid to you if your account is in credit.
The bank will automatically place this money into your account after tax is deducted from the amount.
You will pay interest if your bank account is overdrawn.
You may have an agreed overdraft limit with the bank.
In this case if you go over the agreed limit the bank will charge you high rate fees and the bank may not refuse your direct debits.
Both types of interest vary according to circumstances and you can find out more on this in branch or by looking on the account terms and conditions.
An online-only bank, sometimes called a challenger bank, digital bank or virtual bank, is one that provides all its banking facilities online and through app platforms on mobile and tablet devices.
Online-only banks have no need for physical branches.
Their services are provided using automated processes and real-time updates, offering customer support through in-app chat or by phone.
Digital banks and challenger banks also know they must stay ahead of the game with innovative features to appeal to customers.
So, if you choose an online-only bank, it’s likely you’ll be the first to benefit from the latest banking innovations.
Benefits to using an online-only bank may include:
Your National Insurance (NI) number is a number given to you by the UK government to keep track of your tax record and benefit entitlements and you will need this to enable you to work in the UK.
You may have been issued with a National Insurance Number if you applied for a visa to come to the UK.
If you do not already have one you must apply for a National Insurance number .
Your National Insurance number is unique to you and will stay the same.
You will pay National Insurance (NI) contributions if you are under the state pension age and the amount will be calculated on your earnings and deducted automatically from your pay.
NI contributions go towards State pensions and statutory payments such as maternity pay, paternity pay and sick pay.
Income Tax is a tax you pay on your income.
Most UK residents can receive a certain amount of income per year tax free.
Your tax free allowance will be reflected by your tax code.
Income tax will only be paid over your tax free allowance, this amount changes yearly.
Any income you receive above this amount is taxable and the rate of tax you pay varies depending on your income.
Further information on income tax rates is available on the Gov.uk website .
As an employee of The University of Huddersfield, your income tax will be automatically deducted from your pay using the Pay As You Earn system (PAYE) that all UK employers use.
You can view your tax code on your payslip.
To query this code or if you think you are paying too much or too little tax, you need to contact Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (HMRC).
HMRC can offer you advice and change your tax code if necessary.
You can ring them on 0300 200 3300.
You may be required to fill out a self assessment form.
This is filled in after the financial tax year has ended (4th April) and looks at all your income and decides whether you are on the correct tax code.
You can be fined if you do not submit your tax return before the set deadlines.
There is guidance available on the HMRC website for help on how to fill in the forms.
The University of Huddersfield offers two different pension schemes available to its employees.
You will be automatically enrolled on the appropriate scheme relevant to your position.
A proportion of your wages will automatically be paid into the scheme by the University.
The two pension schemes currently available for new members of staff are:
West Yorkshire Pension Fund: Available to support staff.
Further information can be found on the West Yorkshire Pension Fund website
Teachers Pensions Scheme: Available to academic members of staff.
Further information can be found on the Teachers' Pensions website
Should you have any questions, you can contact the Payroll team available at payroll@hud.ac.uk
You are not allowed to undertake paid or unpaid work additional to that for which you have been given permission by the Home Office.
The entitlement of your spouse/partner to undertake employment will be dependent upon your conditions of entry.
Your eligibility to undertake employment should be clear from the immigration documentation you  have been issued.
If in doubt, contact your HR department who will be able to advise you.
The University recognises the following trade unions for collective bargaining and would encourage all staff to join a trade union.
The University & College Union (UCU) is the largest post-school  teaching union in the world.
It understands the work you do, as academics, and the problems you face.
And, of course, the more members UCU has, the more effective the support and protection we offer will be.
The University of Huddersfield has a large body of UCU members, growing all the time.
Visit our own UCU at Huddersfield website or find out more about UCU, our campaigns and what UCU membership can offer you by visiting the UCU website .
UNISON is Britain and Europe's biggest public sector union with more than 1.3 million members working in the public services, for private contractors providing public services and in the essential utilities.
UNISON is also the largest UK trade union for support staff in higher education.
Our 50,000 HE members include registrars, librarians, personnel, technicians, administrators, clerks, secretaries, cleaners, craft workers, catering staff, porters and people working in IT, finance and estates management.
We work to improve pay and terms and conditions, work for fair and equal treatment for all staff and campaign for an end to discrimination and access to training and career opportunities at national, regional and local level.
Find out more about by visiting the UNISON website .
If you have pets and are thinking about bringing them with you there are certain requirements that you need to meet.
These differ, depending on the type of animal you wish to bring and whether you are bringing them into Great Britain (England, Wales and Scotland) or Northern Ireland.
The rules below relate to Great Britain.
Please see the Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs website for further information about bringing animals into Northern Ireland.
You can bring your dog, cat or ferret into Great Britain as long as they meet the right health and documentation requirements.
If you do not follow those rules, your pet may be put into quarantine for up to 4 months, or refused entry if you travelled by sea.
Useful Links:
The rules for other animals depend on whether you are bringing them from an EU country or from outside the EU.
Further information about this can be found on the Gov.uk website .
To check the exact rules for your pet, you can contact the Centre for International Trade in Carlisle:
Centre for International Trade: Carlisle imports@apha.gov.uk Telephone: 03000 200 301 Find out about call charges
Fax: 0208 0260 498
Centre for International Trade: Carlisle Eden Bridge House Lowther Street Carlisle CA3 8DX
Not all rental properties allow pets so you will need to take that into consideration when searching for a property to rent.
The Dogs Trust have created a website called Lets With Pets which gives you useful information on finding pet-friendly accommodation and advice for pet owners.
The RSPCA (Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals) is the largest animal welfare charity in the UK.
Their website provides information on finding a vet, pet health care costs in the UK and pet insurance.
You will need to check that you meet all the legal requirements before driving any vehicle In the UK.
You must wear a seatbelt in any vehicle where one is available as this is enforced by law.
You must have a licence that allows you to drive in the UK.
Whether you have this or not will depend on where your licence was issued.
This will also determine how long you are permitted to drive in the UK for.
To drive in the UK you will need to check if you can use your current licence or if you will need to apply to convert this to a UK Licence.
Any car that you may bring into the UK will need to be registered and taxed after six months.
It may be more cost effective to buy a second hand car.
There are other costs to consider also which can make running a car expensive in the UK.
These include:
You will need to make sure your vehicle has an up to date MOT and is taxed and insured otherwise it is illegal to drive without these.
You can find out more information regarding driving and owning a car in the UK on the Gov.uk website.
You can also find out more about road safety in the UK by reading the booklet ‘The Highway Code’, which you can buy in bookshops and is available on the Gov.uk website.
If you are planning on bringing a car to the UK you will need to be aware of the strict car import rules, which are listed on the Gov.uk website.
These rules differ, depending on whether you are bringing a car into Great Britain (England, Scotland or Wales) or Northern Ireland and also whether you are bringing a car on a permanent or temporary basis (less than 6 months).
Useful links:
Methods of transferring money vary from country to country, however, your bank in your home country should be able to advise you of the ways you can transfer your money to the UK.
The most common ways are:
You need to be registered to vote before you can vote in UK elections or referendums.
There are different rules on who can vote in different elections and referendums.
To vote in a general election you must:
To vote in a local government election you must:
You must also be one of the following:
Registering to vote doesn’t just mean you can have your say in elections.
It can also help to improve your credit score as financial lenders use the electoral roll to verify who you are and where you live which helps them to make sure that your application isn’t fraudulent and to avoid the risk of identity theft.
Benefits and tax credits are payments from the government to certain people on low incomes or to meet specific needs.
The Governments expects that anyone coming to the UK can maintain and accommodate themselves and their families until they are settled in the UK.
As a result, those who require immigration permission are generally subject to a ‘no recourse to public funds’ condition attached to their permission to enter or stay in the UK.
Anyone who claims public funds despite being subject to this condition may be breaking the law and could have their immigration permission curtailed and any further immigration applications refused.
Examples of benefits which are not considered to be restricted for immigration purposes include:
You should check if your immigration status permits you to claim ‘public funds’.
If you are on a visa, it is highly unlikely that you will be able to claim state benefits.
Whether you are renting in the UK or buying a property you will probably want to set up all your home communications (internet, TV, home phone and mobile phone) as soon as possible.
Most providers offer packages which include TV, landline (home telephone) and broadband (internet) services as a bundle.
These packages are often priced according to download speed and extras such as on-demand services and are usually cheaper than buying each element separately, but it pays to shop around to find the best deal for your needs.
There are a number of comparison sites such as Compare the Market , Money Supermarket and USwitch which may help you to determine the best provider and package for you.
There are a range of terrestrial TV channels to choose from in the UK.
Almost all channels are available nationwide through Freeview and the major subscription-based satellite and cable TV providers.
Anyone wanting to watch live TV in the UK, whether via Freeview, satellite or cable, will need a TV licence.
If you do not purchase a license and are caught watching television, you could be liable for a fine of up to £1,000.
To check if you need to buy a TV licence visit the TV Licensing website .
To watch Freeview, you will need a Freeview TV or Freeview box and an aerial either in your loft or on your roof.
TVs bought after 2010 will already have Freeview built in.
For an additional cost you can choose to subscribe to a satellite or cable tv provider, such as Sky, Virgin Media, or BT.
The cost will vary depending on the channels you want to watch (such as live sports or new movie releases), however, most offer a basic package which covers the most popular entertainment channels.
Satellite TV services use a satellite dish attached to your home to receive television broadcasts whereas cable television is delivered via fibre-optic cables in the ground.
The UK has access to several streaming platforms, such as Netflix, Amazon Prime and Disney+, to watch movies and TV on-demand for a subscription fee.
Companies who provide TV, Broadband and Phone packages may include free access to a paid streaming platform for a limited time as an incentive to buy a package from them.
In addition, the main broadcasters in the UK (BBC, ITV, Channel 4 and Channel 5) have their own streaming services, including BBC iPlayer and All 4 where you can catch up on any programmes you have missed and watch boxsets.
You may want to buy a local SIM card or brand-new phone when you arrive in the UK.
There are a number of UK operators to choose from and many offer deals depending on usage and budget.
Some providers also offer discounts if you choose to take out other services, such as internet or TV.
There are three types of mobile phone packages:
You can pay for a package which includes a new phone along with a set amount of minutes, text and data for a fixed monthly price.
Contracts are usually 18 or 24 months long and an application for a pay monthly mobile phone package would probably involve a credit check.
You only pay for the minutes, data and texts that you use and you ‘top up’ credit as and when you need to.
Once you use your minutes, data and texts you won’t be able to use your phone to make calls or send texts until you ‘top up’ again.
Pay as you go doesn’t tie you into a contract and you don’t need a credit check to get one.
As the name implies, you get a SIM card, but you don’t get a phone included.
With a SIM-only plan you pay a certain amount each month for data, calls and texts.
These plans are usually more flexible than pay-monthly contracts and you can get plans which last 30 days.
Keep in mind that if you do want to use a SIM-only SIM card, you may need to unlock your existing phone.
If your phone is locked it means that it will only work with the provider that you bought it from and you may need to contact them to request that they unlock it.
Lots of networks offer SIM-only contracts without a credit check.
A landline is a telephone connection which uses wires or fibre-optic cable to connect to the phone network.
Even if you do not plan on using a landline to make telephone calls, you may need one for internet connection.
Your property may already have a landline, or you may need one installing by an engineer.
You will also need to pay line rental before you can start using the landline.
Costs vary by suppliers and you can often get line rental included in package deals with internet and TV.
You can use comparison sites to help fine the best deal for you.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/artsandhumanities/ahstaff:
Dean, Associate Deans, Directors, School Manager and Heads of Department
View our academic staff and their research profiles

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/education-community-studies:
The Department offers a range of Master’s courses and has a thriving doctoral offer with over 100 students.
It offers professional accreditation to students on the early years and youth and community courses and offers postgraduate Early Years Initial Teacher Training, which was graded Good by Ofsted in 2016.
The doctoral programmes cover a wide range of subject areas associated with our senior research expertise, including informal education, youth, community cohesion, TESOL, legal education, professional identity and early years.
Delivering the internationally excellent educational research recognised in the 2014 REF is integral to our excellent reputation for developing professionals for all sectors of education and related professions.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/computingandengineeringhrpage/aboutus:
The School of Computing and Engineering is part of the award winning University of Huddersfield.
Find out more about our staff, students, achievements and goals.
Learn more about the School structure and its people.
Learn more about our Department of Computer Science
Learn more about our Department of Engineering
Learn more about the School and the University by browsing our key facts page.
Most of our Computing courses are accredited by the British Computer Society (BCS), which is the Chartered Institute for IT.
The majority of our full-time, undergraduate degrees in Electrical Engineering, and our Sound Engineering and Audio Technology course, are accredited by the Institute of Engineering and Technology (IET).
The majority of our Mechanical and Automotive Engineering degrees are accredited by the Institute of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE).
Our engineering courses are accredited by the Engineering council
Our Popular Music Production / Sound Engineering and Music Production degrees hold JAMES accreditation.
JAMES accredit courses in audio recording and music production and endorse relevance, quality and continuing innovation.
Our Games Development are accredited by ScreenSkills, the industry-led skills body for the UK's screen-based industries

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/computingandengineeringhrpage/research:
In the School of Computing and Engineering we have a vibrant and rapidly growing research community with world-class research in several key areas.
We are creating knowledge by working closely with industry colleagues to ensure that our research has real impact on society.
Our research activity is organised around our Research Institutes and Research Centres all of which carry out world-class research in their specific areas.
Within these Institutes and Centres there are smaller research groups, each with a specific research theme.
Our research has expanded significantly over the last 5 years with our research income increasing from £3.4M in 2013 to £11.9M in 2020.
In the 2021 REF we submitted 112 FTE staff under the Engineering and Computing and Informatics Units of Assessment.
In Engineering our Centre for Precision Technologies (CPT) is at the forefront of creating new measurement techniques, we apply novel techniques to real world problems.
Our Ion Beam Centre brings together the fields of innovative particle accelerator development and the use of particle accelerators for probing the properties of materials using the world-leading MIAMI and MEIS facilities at the University of Huddersfield.
Our Centre for Efficiency and Performance Engineering aims to improve the efficiency of industrial asset condition monitoring, structural health monitoring and non-destructive testing of various engineering structures and materials using novel, efficient and the most practical technologies and systems.
I am working at the University as a Research Assistant in the School of Computing and Engineering.
This role presents challenges and opportunities to enhance my skills and knowledge in novel ways, fuelling my passion for this interdisciplinary field.
I have received support from mentors in academic study and professional work, who have provided me with support at every level of my career with guidance, constructive feedback, and advice tailored to my individual goals.
Our research helps develop new methods and technology in Computer Science that have a real impact on global challenges in areas such as transport, health, security and energy.
Engineering has a vibrant and rapidly growing research community with expertise in such diverse areas as precision engineering, intelligent interfaces, systems engineering, and diagnostics.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/computingandengineeringhrpage/newsandevents:
Find out more about our undergraduate Open Days
Find out more about our Postgraduate Study Fairs
Come and take a look around campus on one of our Campus Tours

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/hhs/slt:
Acting Dean of School Acting Associate Dean (Research, Innovation and Knowledge Exchange)
Associate Dean (Teaching & Learning)
Associate Dean (International)
Head of  Social and Psychological Sciences
Acting Head of Department (Nursing)
Acting Head of Department (Allied Health Professions, Sport and Exercise)
School Director of Practice and Care Partnerships

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/2023/october/a-warm-hudds-welcome-for-patrick-stewart:
Following his sellout book tour in the US, Sir Patrick Stewart brought his memoir ‘Making it So’ to a packed audience at the University of Huddersfield.
Sir Patrick received a warm Huddersfield welcome when he visited the University, with whom he has a long-established relationship .
The world-famous actor of stage and screen was the University’s Chancellor from 2004 to 2015 and continues his commitment to the University as its Emeritus Chancellor.
His long-awaited memoir is a revealing portrait of his life, from his humble beginnings in Yorkshire to the heights of Hollywood and worldwide acclaim.
The Times describes the memoir as ‘gripping reading’ and the New York Times says that it is an ‘engaging self-portrait of life on the British stage and the starship U.S.S.
Enterprise’.
Having recently been named as a New York Times Bestseller and a Sunday Times Bestseller in the UK, it would seem that Sir Patrick Stewart has successfully explored the new frontier of writing with such rave reviews.
Sir Patrick was welcomed with great enthusiasm when he took to the floor and joked with the audience that he was so pleased to be back on campus that he was even missing his beloved Huddersfield Town Football Club playing at home that evening, before donning a supporter’s hat he produced from his jacket pocket.
The University’s Vice-Chancellor, Professor Bob Cryan commented: “We’re always delighted to welcome Sir Patrick Stewart to the University, and it was particularly special to be chosen as one of the venues for his UK book tour.
We had an unprecedented demand for tickets, and I am sure those lucky enough to be in the audience enjoyed the evening just as much as I did.”
The evening was hosted by the Mayor of West Yorkshire Tracy Brabin who asked Sir Patrick about his favourite part of the writing process and the highlights of his acting career, as well as asking him to share some of his memories of growing up in Yorkshire and his special relationship with Huddersfield.
“It was an honour to share the stage with the legendary Sir Patrick Stewart.
His inspirational memoir will allow people around the world to learn more about his journey - from his Yorkshire roots to the stars.
Creative young talent must be nurtured, and I’m thrilled that West Yorkshire has such an iconic role model to provide inspiration,” commented Tracy Brabin, Mayor of West Yorkshire.
Sir Patrick shared with the audience that he found writing the book a ‘wonderful experience’ that gave him the opportunity to think back to his childhood, describing how ‘the memories came flooding back’.
During the evening the audience enjoyed a lively Q&A session and Sir Patrick shared with them his love of the cinema growing up and his fond memories of being cast in his first film ‘Hennessy’ alongside the lead actor Rod Steiger.
He recalled how Rod invited him to share lunch with him on set and remembers to this day the words of advice he gave him “remember Patrick, the camera photographs thoughts.”
He went on to share his audition experience for Star Trek and the conflicting advice he received about accepting the role, fondly remembering the actress Eva Marie Saint’s advice to him to ‘take the job’ which of course he did.
During his visit Sir Patrick also called into Heritage Quay at the University and was given a tour of the exhibition ‘Sir Patrick Stewart: From Mirfield to the Stars’ , which is on display until 30 October.
The audience was invited to visit the exhibition after the event and eager fans queued up to explore the display.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/vco/senate:
The Senate is responsible for the consideration of the academic plan of the University, its associated academic activities and the resources needed to support them, and for advising the Vice-Chancellor and the University Council.
It is responsible also for a range of academic matters, such as the maintenance of academic standards and student performance.
Please click on the following link to view the Senate Terms of Reference ‌.
The Committee Structure Chart shows the relationship between the Senate and its committees.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/vco/governance/legalstatus:
The Further and Higher Education Act 1992 (section 77) enabled Higher Education Corporations who were Polytechnics to change their name to University and on 16 June 1992 the Privy Council gave its consent to the new name of the Corporation, The University of Huddersfield.
The University operates under an Instrument of Government approved by the UK Privy Council Office on 10 November 1993 and amended on 22 February 2012.
The Instrument of Government governs the membership and constitution of the Board of Governors (known as the University Council).
The ERA stipulates that any HEC should be conducted in accordance with articles of government, approved by the Secretary of State.
The Instrument and Articles of Government for the University were approved by the Privy Council on 10 November 1993.
The articles set out the regulations for the internal management of the University.
The University is a recognised body under section 216(1) of the Education Reform Act and the Education (Recognised Bodies) (England) Order 2007, which means that the University can offer degrees pursuant to its own degree awarding powers.
Issued by the Office of the University Secretary

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/lorem:
rearew

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/lorem/nathan-smith:
Inset a PDF here.
Terms and Conditions PGR
Campus map small
Guidance for tracking marketing campaigns.
A blog written by the Web Team about various things to do with the website.
Other useful guides and content
How to make QR codes
Core principle of SEO - a simple guide about the basic principle of SEO.
Supporting pages for developing the subject areas.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/lorem/nathan-smith/open-days:
If you have questions about Open Days at Huddersfield please visit our FAQ page.
Campus tours are a great chance to look at our facilities and see the campus for yourself.
An Open Day is all about you.
You can also find out about the town or city where the University is based and look around the different accommodation options if you are thinking of moving away from home.
Most universities will run a Clearing Open Day for students who have received a course place through Clearing.
The UCAS deadline is on the 15 January for courses that start in the following September.
You may be thinking “Why are Open Days important?” and “Should I go to an Open Day?”
Choosing a University is a big decision and it’s important you get it right.
Next it’s worth looking at dates and locations – you may be able to combine Open Days at Universities in the same area into one trip.
It’s a good idea to involve your parents when visiting Universities.
They will be interested in seeing where you'll be spending the next three years and will want to feel comfortable with your final choice.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/how-to-apply/writingapersonalstatement:
As part of your UCAS application, you’ll be expected to complete a Personal Statement.
Here you’ll find a little more information about what that involves, along with some tips for writing your Personal Statement.
As the name suggests, it’s a piece of prose writing that details your educational experience up to this point, as well as the extra-curricular activities that have led you to applying for university.
It’s a crucial part of your application as it allows universities and their lecturers to assess whether you’ll be a good fit on the course you’re applying to.
UCAS has introduced plans for a change to how Personal Statements are written for students who apply to start university in September 2026 onwards.
So, use the links below to find the information that’s relevant to you.
Personal Statements for those who are enrolling in 2026 won’t change.
You’ll be expected to write a Personal Statement that is up to 4000 characters.
This should cover your educational experience to date, additional qualifications you’ve gained and any extra-curricular activities that have informed your choice of subject or course.
The format of this Personal Statement is one long piece of text.
It can be broken up with paragraphs and headings but beyond that must be one clear and easy to read piece of writing.
You should try to cover several topics within your Personal Statement, these should include:
Make sure you try to include a ‘wow factor’, something that showcases what’s special about you.
You want to make sure your Personal Statement stands out from the crowd.
When writing your Personal Statement, make sure to take your time to get it right.
Remember: writing is rewriting.
So, once you have a version you’re happy with, go back and check it, tweaking and editing wherever you feel it’s needed.
Here are just some things to consider:
Don’t forget, the person reading your Personal Statement will be an admissions tutor who teaches on your chosen course.
When reading your Personal Statement, admissions tutors are looking for a statement that shows you at your best.
It needs to feel distinct and truthful to who you are and your interests.
Ultimately, they want to know that you will be a good fit for your course but also for the Higher Education experience.
The ideal Higher Education student will be:
Try and demonstrate some of these qualities in your Personal Statement using evidence and examples.
Read more top tips in our Personal Statement Dos and Don’ts blog .
You can make use of the UCAS website to find out what admissions tutors are looking for on their particular courses, and find contact details for UCAS.
You can also contact our Student Recruitment Team if you need any advice or support, by emailing study@hud.ac.uk or calling 01484 472625 Monday to Friday 10am to 4pm.
Did you know that we also offer a Personal Statement checking service at our Open Days, so you can bring your Personal Statement with you and get feedback!
Follow the links to check our upcoming Open Days and book your place.
Other useful links include:
The Student Room:
Studential:
UCAS:
For those students who are looking to enrol in September 2026, the process for Personal Statements is changing.
We’ve made this handy video for you or read on to find out more:
You will no longer be expected to write a single piece of prose of around 4000 characters.
Instead, your statement will be broken down into three new questions.
These are:
Structuring a Personal Statement in this way is what’s called ‘scaffolding questions’ – breaking down one complex question into three key responses.
The hope is that this will help you shape and structure your answers.
The reason for these changes is to allow UCAS to fulfil their commitment to equality and inclusion by providing more support to all potential applicants.
UCAS are hoping the nature of these questions will make it easier for everyone to articulate their experiences and aspirations regardless of their background or experience in longform writing.
To reach this decision, UCAS worked with over 1,200 UK and international students, around 200 teachers and advisers, as well as representatives from over 100 universities and colleges.
To find out more, visit the UCAS page .
The character count for these answers will be a minimum of 350 characters per answer but can add up to a maximum of 4000 characters in total.
This is the same word count as the previous format for Personal Statements and while the content will remain pretty much the same as before, it will be structured in accordance with the questions.
This means that you can use the word count in whatever way is most helpful to you.
If you want to answer one question in more detail, to do with your level of experience or the course you choose, then you can submit a longer answer.
So long as all the answers combined total no more than 4000 characters, it will all be considered.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/how-to-apply/entry-requirements:
The University’s standard minimum entry requirements for admission to undergraduate level courses are The Framework for Higher Education Qualifications of Degree-Awarding Bodies in England, Wales and Northern Ireland (FHEQ) Level 3 equivalent qualifications.
Individual course minimum requirements are, for many courses, higher and may also require minimum grades in specific subject areas.
These are our minimum entry requirements for undergraduate students.
Please check our course listings for course-specific entry requirements as your chosen course may require additional qualifications.
International qualifications will be considered and evaluated by referring to independently published guides recognised within the United Kingdom higher education sector such as UK Naric.
Further details can be found on our website
For entry to first degree courses, we’re looking for people who have one or more of the following level 3 qualifications:
Note: * Must not include an Advanced Subsidiary GCE (AS Level) in the same subject as an Advanced GCE (A Level)
Please check course listings for course-specific entry requirements.
The University of Huddersfield welcomes applications from students who have taken one of the Core Maths qualifications.
We believe that this qualification supports the development of mathematical skills for progression to higher education, particularly for those students applying to courses in subject areas such as psychology, geography, business and computing.
For the majority of our courses, we will make offers which can include the UCAS Tariff points gained from Core Maths; but please check our course-specific web pages for the specific entry requirements for the courses you are interested in.
The University of Huddersfield welcomes applications from students who have taken an Extended Project Qualification (EPQ).
We believe that the skills that students develop through the EPQ are directly relevant to and useful for university level study.
For the majority of our courses, we will make offers which can include the UCAS Tariff points gained from the EPQ; but please check our course-specific web pages for the specific entry requirements for the courses you are interested in.
In addition to those published on the UCAS Tariff , The University of Huddersfield will accept UCAS points from a number of schemes.
The University operates two of its own schemes: The Progression Module and Headstart Huddersfield .
The Progression Module is a structured Higher Education and employment preparation programme for sixth form and college students.
The scheme awards 12 UCAS points and is open to Year 12 students in registered schools and colleges.
For further information about the scheme please visit the Progression Module webpages.
Headstart Huddersfield offers eligible students, interested in applying to the University of Huddersfield, the opportunity to gain extra UCAS points.
The scheme awards 8 UCAS points to eligible Level 3 students (widening participation eligibility criteria is applied).
For further information about the scheme and how to check your eligibility please visit the Headstart webpages.
The University of Huddersfield will accept up to 8 UCAS points from any official scheme offering UCAS points to applicants, operated by a UK Higher Education institution.
UCAS points cannot be combined from schemes.
Successful completion of any of the above schemes does not guarantee a place on a University of Huddersfield course.
For UCAS points to be recognised, the scheme must be recorded on the UCAS application form under the qualifications section.
Select ‘other’ and enter the scheme title and awarding body (institution code).
For further information about the grading of GCSEs from 2017 onwards please see the Government guidance.
The University of Huddersfield welcomes applications from those who have significant work or life experience and who may not necessarily meet the published academic requirements for their chosen course.
As an applicant without traditional entry qualifications, you will be required to demonstrate evidence of your motivation, potential, knowledge and ability to study the course of your choice, and the University must be satisfied that your work or life experience is equivalent to the qualifications that other applicants will be studying.
For entry requirements for international students please visit our international webpages for more information.
If you have any queries about entry requirements or your qualifications are not listed here, please contact us as follows:
UK applicants - Student Recruitment Team at study@hud.ac.uk or call +44 (0)1484 472625
EU and International applicants - International Office at international.office@hud.ac.uk or call +44 (0) 1484 472383

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/how-to-apply/policies-data-protection:
Please read through the documents below that provide an overview of our admissions and data protection policies for our students.
We hope this information is helpful to you and if you have any queries, please email our Student Recruitment Team at study@hud.ac.uk or call us on +44 (0)1484 472 625 .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/business/case-studies/paxman:
Paxman Coolers Ltd needed to gain greater medical acceptance for its scalp cooling equipment in order to make it more widely acceptable as a treatment against hair loss during chemotherapeutic cancer treatments.
With initial funding from an Innovation Voucher the company joined in a Knowledge Transfer Partnership with the Schools of Applied Sciences and of Art, Design and Architecture to design an improved scalp cooling device and to establish a biologically-informed, evidence-based product development strategy.
The project team used cutting-edge research, analysis and rapid manufacturing techniques to develop several prototypes and to produce biological models that accurately represent the conditions that lead to chemotherapy-induced hair loss.
Paxman now has the capacity to accurately interpret clinical evidence in support of the efficacy of scalp cooling treatments and is developing a new cooling cap that is more comfortable for the patient, more effective in application and cheaper to mass produce.
The School of Applied Sciences will be publishing its findings and Paxman is applying for patent protection on the new cap design.
One of the most obvious and distressing side-effects of chemotherapy is the hair loss suffered by most patients.
Paxman Coolers Ltd manufactures scalp cooling equipment used worldwide to counter this effect but found that, despite significant empirical evidence of the efficacy of scalp cooling, uptake of the treatment was being hampered by a lack of clinical or biophysical studies that might explain the variable success rate.
To challenge this, Paxman engaged the expertise of researchers at two of the University of Huddersfield’s academic schools.
Initially funded by an Innovation Voucher from Kirklees Council, Paxman started working with the School of Applied Sciences, using its cutting-edge cell biology techniques to help identify the mechanisms that govern patients’ variable responses to scalp cooling.
Following additional funding from Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) and Technology Strategy Board (TSB) grants and from the Collaborative Ventures Fund at the University, the School of Art, Design and Architecture then joined the team to investigate the design of the scalp cooling cap.
This was the first time Paxman had worked within a KTP and for Patrick Burke, Technical Manager, the support from Services to Business was invaluable: “It’s quite rare to hold both KTP and TSB grants at the same time but the University’s Business Development Manager, Susan Lipthorpe, saw the opportunity for us to work across different departments and knew how to access the right funding to do this.
Previous validation of our cooling caps came purely from customer feedback so having the credentials of the University to support our grant applications gave them far greater weight.”
From the start, Paxman was clear about the targets it wanted to achieve and the University teams exceeded those expectations.
Using anthropometric data, 3D scanning and laser sintering technology, the product design team’s analysis and re-design of the existing cap produced several prototypes for testing.
In addition to providing significant improvements in patient comfort and thermal conductivity, the team also developed a novel manufacturing system that promises to reduce costs and facilitate flexible production of the new design.
The School of Applied Sciences focused on developing unique data gathering and interpretation systems to allow Paxman to understand and exploit the results of biological models.
“Clinical trials can take so long” says Mr Burke, “but the models developed by the University support the principle of cooling and are a great help in our efforts to convince a sceptical medical community.”
Mr Burke commented on working with the University: “There was an absolutely productive relationship between all the partners.
They are highly skilled academics but also completely understood the practical and business aspects of the project.
In addition to providing the biological evidence to support scalp cooling treatments, the success of this project will enable us to develop better products and more accurate protocols for their application.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/business/case-studies/astrazeneca:
AstraZeneca is a global, innovation-driven biopharmaceutical company that operates in over 100 countries.
It focuses on the discovery, development and commercialsation of prescription medicines for the treatment of cardiovascular, metabolic, respiratory, inflammation, autoimmune, oncology, infection and neuroscience diseases.
A number of challenges face the pharmaceutical industry, such as compound failure rates of over 90 per cent, patent expirations and increasingly stringent regulatory hurdles, and AstraZeneca has a long term strategy of partnering with academic institutions across all stages of development to combat these.
The five year collaboration with the University of Huddersfield has brought a more flexible, collaborative approach to the company.
It has enabled translational activities with a wider range of organisations and created a lasting output in the establishment of the Royal Society Industry Fellows College to support collaborative research and development within the industry as a whole.
A five year collaboration between the Department of Chemical and Biological Sciences and AstraZeneca is showing how the University of Huddersfield can bring new opportunities to industry and support development of both SMEs and global pharmaceutical businesses.
The programme was instigated by Professor Joe Sweeney, who was awarded a Royal Society Industry Fellowship in 2008 to develop a new networking model for more effective collaborations between academia and industry.
As an embedded science expert within the AstraZeneca project teams, Professor Sweeney encouraged a more open and cross-disciplinary approach to the challenges the company faced in maintaining its drugs pipeline.
“The pharmaceutical industry faces significant difficulties in developing a portfolio of compounds suitable for drug development,” explains Professor Sweeney.
“It was extremely unusual for an academic institution to become involved in fundamental chemical research in this way, but the fresh perspective we brought could have an impact on developing a more robust pipeline for the company and reducing the failure rate of its candidate compounds.”
Dr David Hollinshead, who was AstraZeneca’s Director of Science Policy and Science Relations at the time, credits the involvement of Huddersfield as having opened the company’s eyes to new technologies, approaches and ideas.
“Huddersfield approached us at a time of considerable change both in the company and in the industry,” he says.
“AstraZeneca was very good at finding the right people but was not making best use of them in isolated, project focused work.
Joe Sweeney’s involvement, as an expert in catalysed synthesis and on a pastoral level, encouraged greater interaction between disciplines which has enabled a more collaborative model to emerge.”
Since then the project has grown beyond a single collaboration to bring together scientists and professional associations on both sides of the industrial/academic divide to focus of cross-disciplinary translational chemistry.
In recognition of the success of the programme the Royal Society Fellowship was extended in 2010 and Professor Sweeney now chairs the recently launched Royal Society Industry Fellows College.
“The College has grown out of our work with AstraZeneca to provide a forum for sharing good practice in how to be an effective collaborator and to provide mentorship to early career scientists to enable them to frame interactions with industry partners,” Professor Sweeney explains.
“At present there is little communication between groups except through academic papers and conferences.
If only a small number of academics spend physical time in industry, working with scientists on their day to day challenges, we could gain a better understanding of their environment and reshape our own research to meet industry needs.”
Early stage biotech and academic alliances are now part of AstraZeneca’s strategy to strengthen its pipeline, but Dr Hollinshead recognises the wider impact the collaboration with Huddersfield has had.
“We now have a sustainable model for enhanced knowledge transfer that will enable the next generation of academics to shape their research agenda to industry needs and put more chemistry back in to the life science industry.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/business/case-studies/borgwarner:
BorgWarner is a global technology leader in automotive powertrain and turbo systems.
For over twenty years the School for Computing and Engineering has been providing the Bradford based, UK site with placement students from all engineering disciplines.
Many of these students have subsequently returned to the company as graduates and now make a valuable contribution to it growing success.
Placements are a required part of all MEng courses at the school and are strongly encouraged and supported for BEng students.
As a result, the School has an excellent graduate employability record and an award winning Placement Unit.
As one of the UK’s top 10 providers of sandwich courses, the University of Huddersfield has a strong focus on working with businesses and a reputation for consistently providing enthusiastic, highly qualified graduates with appropriate skills and experience.
The School of Computing and Engineering at the University of Huddersfield is recognised as being one of foremost providers of sandwich course degrees in the UK.
Its award winning Placement Unit has a strong focus on working with industry to ensure graduates have the right skills and experience.
Companies are rewarded with enthusiastic, knowledgeable individuals keen to learn and develop their skills.
This commitment to providing a professional learning experience is exemplified in the twenty year relationship between the School and the automotive systems specialist, BorgWarner.
The Bradford based company has been taking engineering students on placement since the early 1990s, with many returning to the company as graduates, bringing fresh insight and helping the business grow.
The current Heads of Logistics and Manufacture Engineering at BorgWarner both came through the Huddersfield placement system.
Steve Birnie, Head of Engineering at BorgWarner, describes the placement scheme as a resounding success.
“The students from Huddersfield are essentially undergoing a one year interview process,” he says.
”Most students also return to us after graduation, so it is a great way to recruit as we know they have ability and they also have a sense of loyalty to the company.” Nurturing these links to industry is vitally important to the University’s overall mission.
Each year, the School of Computing and Engineering places up to 225 students with companies such as Microsoft, Nestle, Cameron Engineering and Mercedes Benz as well as a large number of smaller regional businesses.
“Many young students think they should be working in Formula 1 engineering so manufacturing companies can be overlooked,” says Dr Simon Barrans, Subject Area Leader at the School.
“But we find that organisations like BorgWarner equip our students with a good balance of knowledge, skills and experience and make an enormous difference to the quality of their education and their ultimate employability.” Dr Barrans makes particular mention of the team effort at BorgWarner.
“Students are involved in every department, from research to design and manufacturing.
All the team leaders are extremely enthusiastic about engineering education and totally committed to making the placement work.
They know how to challenge our students without overwhelming them.”
Recognising and nurturing the next generation of engineers is part of BorgWarner’s ethos.
In addition to its relationship with the University, the company runs an apprenticeship scheme with Kirklees College and sponsors the engineering education scheme at Greenhead College in Huddersfield.
“It makes sense to us,” says Mr Birnie.”We are running a business and want the best staff.
Through our relationship with Huddersfield we get to work with some of the brightest students in the country who then return to become some of our highest calibre employees.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/business/case-studies/fired-up:
Fired Up Corporation Ltd is an award winning manufacturer of appliances for the home improvement, hotel supply and healthcare industries.
Following significant recent expansion, the business now encompasses several household brands (including Corby of Windsor, Adam Fires and Abel Mobility) and employs 350 staff at sites in China, the US and the UK.
Since 2006, Fired Up has welcomed sandwich year students from the School of Art, Design and Architecture.
The success of this scheme has led to many of those students returning to join the company full-time, designing and developing a diverse range of products at its head office in Huddersfield.
The excellent teaching quality, research facilities and strong links with industry at the University of Huddersfield consistently enable it to produce the calibre of graduates that industry needs and to provide the placement opportunities that are key to student employability.
There is no substitute for hands-on experience, which is why work placements are such a vital part of the Huddersfield experience.
The university is in the top ten in England for sandwich course placements and businesses return year on year to take its students.
For some companies, this system is so rewarding that Huddersfield graduates now form the core of their business team.
Fired Up Corporation Limited is a local manufacturer of hotel and domestic products that has welcomed Huddersfield design students on placement for the past eight years.
Five of the complement at the company’s UK base, less than two miles from the University’s School of Art, Design and Architecture, are Huddersfield graduates including the company’s Design Manager, Lee Isherwood.
“I came to Fired Up as part of my degree placement in 2006,” recalls Mr Isherwood.
”It was a great advantage for me to work with the experienced team here and I was able to stay with the company on a part time basis while I finished my degree.” After graduating with a first in Product Design, Mr Isherwood returned to a full time role and has been responsible for strengthening ties with the University since then.
“My placement was such a success that we immediately took on another student who has since followed me into the company,” Mr Isherwood continues.
“We now have a top notch team of product designers that have come from Huddersfield on placement, gone on to achieve first class degrees and then returned to work for us full-time.” Nearly all courses at Huddersfield include an element of work placement and the School of Art, Design and Architecture supplies students to leading design companies in the UK and overseas.
“Major manufacturers such as Dyson and Lego regularly take our graduate students,” says Chris Howard, Course Leader in Product Design.
“But we also have a remit to work with local industry, and creative, forward looking businesses like Fired Up understand the advantages an industry placement gives them.” Fired Up is a popular choice with the Product Design students and the company, in turn, knows that applicants are well equipped for the job.
For Chris Howard this real-world experience is an integral part of the students’ education.
“We involve industry partners throughout the course,” he explains.
”In addition to providing placements, manufacturers set and assess some project work.
Many of these projects are successful enough to end up in the marketplace, which is a great vote of confidence for the students.” Students on the course thrive under the real-world pressure and experience they get from this interaction.
“We focus heavily on providing a professional learning experience and the students really buy in to this,” says Mr Howard.
“We also get the feedback to ensure the coursework stays relevant and I am proud to see former students progress to positions of responsibility with many of these businesses.” For Fired Up, this resource has supported significant growth over recent years.
“Our people are our greatest asset,” explains Mr Isherwood.
“It is always good to be able to give an ambitious student their first job but the Huddersfield method works particularly well for us and consistently produces the experienced and intelligent graduates that we need.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/business/case-studies/flexseal:
Established in 1988, Flexseal designs, manufactures and supplies a comprehensive range of fully-approved components for drainage and plumbing systems.
Together with its sister company, Fernco Environmental, it is part of the global Fernco Group with sites in Germany, France, Brazil, Mexico, Australia and the US, as well as at Barnsley in the UK.
In 2012, the company worked with students from The Business School at Huddersfield to identify and evaluate the marketing opportunities available to it and provide recommendations on the best allocation of its marketing resources.
Following the successful completion of the project, Flexseal has refined its marketing strategy and already implemented several of the student team’s recommendations.
Collaborations with Huddersfield’s long-established marketing course showcase the University’s innovative approach to integrating coursework with live projects for local organisations.
Through this kind of structured engagement, students are thoroughly prepared for their future careers and provide participating businesses with valuable, in-depth research and creative communications strategies.
For many businesses, keeping up to date with the latest marketing methods and opportunities can be a challenge.
In the face of a proliferation of digital and traditional media outlets it can be difficult to know how best to engage with different clients and what resources are needed.
To address this challenge, Barnsley based Flexseal decided that the University of Huddersfield could help.
The drainage and plumbing systems manufacturer employed students from the Business School to run a market research project and now has the information it needs to develop a robust and effective digital marketing strategy.
Ed Fairfield, Flexseal’s Marketing Manager, recalls his first meeting with the student team.
“I was very impressed at how professional, well presented and commercially focused they were,” he says.
”The students had obviously done their research, understood what we wanted and were full of enthusiasm for the project.” The project was run as a selective module taken by students from diverse disciplines within the Business School.
“There is a dynamic mix of skills in the project teams, with students from marketing, business studies, sports marketing and hospitality,” says Vince Rohde, Design and Marketing Consultant and part-time lecturer, who shares the module with Dr Fiona Cheetham, Senior Lecturer in the Department of Marketing and Strategy.
“Every year we run about 15 similar projects with a range of local companies.
The students take it very seriously and respond well to working as a team with the opportunity to address practical, real-world issues.”
Businesses engaging with this resource take it just as seriously and are keen to take the student teams’ recommendations further.
“It’s great to see the students’ work developing into an implemented marketing plan,” says Mr Rohde.
“There is a wealth of industry experience among the academic staff here but we try not to get too involved.
Though we offer guidance and advice, the primary relationship is between the student team and their client.”
The Flexseal team worked closely with Mr Fairfield, to undertake extensive qualitative and quantitative research of Flexseal’s target market.
Its final report provided a comprehensive assessment of the effectiveness of different marketing methodologies and recommendations on where resources should be allocated to generate the best return.
Flexseal already had a large market share but, with technologies changing so fast, knew that there was room to improve communication with its customers.
“We had an idea which platforms our customers might use but lacked the evidence to determine the most viable combination of traditional, social and internet marketing channels,” explains Mr Fairfield.
”The team at Huddersfield understood the need to balance budget against timeframe and their results provided valuable insight for us, as well as recommending some new methodologies and opportunities to add to the mix.”
Since completion of the project, in March 2013, Flexseal has made several changes to its marketing activities and, based on the sector preferences identified by the team, is now planning further improvements.
Reflecting on the value of this module for industry clients, Dr Cheetham and Mr Rohde share the view that: “This kind of collaborative project can make a significant difference to raising customer awareness in any sector.
We’re certain that the intelligence and enthusiasm our students brought to this project provided a better result than employing a commercial organisation, and with a far lower financial risk.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/business/case-studies/royal-mail:
In 2008, following a competitive bidding process, the University of Huddersfield Business School was selected to develop a bespoke Foundation Degree in Business Skills for HR to provide the Royal Mail Group’s HR teams with the enhanced skills required to support major business changes.
The Leadership and Management team in the Business School worked closely with RMG to conduct a thorough Training Needs Analysis and design a course focused on work-based learning relevant to the needs of the organisation.
Most assignments have a work-related element, with some sponsored by senior RMG managers, and modules are delivered both at the University and at RMG’s own training centre.
The first graduates qualified in 2010 and the course, now seen by RMG staff as an essential qualification, has made an important contribution to the successful implementation of Royal Mail Group’s strategic organisational change programme.
For an organisation facing the unprecedented challenges of deregulation and dwindling consumer demand recently experienced by the Royal Mail Group (RMG), investments in training must be absolutely aligned to the strategic direction of the business and to supporting its commercial resilience.
In 2008, following a competitive bidding process against 14 other institutions, RMG chose the University of Huddersfield Business School to develop a bespoke Foundation Degree for its HR business unit that would support the specific operating environment within the company.
Working in close collaboration with RMG managers, the Leadership and Management team at the Business School conducted a thorough Training Needs Analysis and, from this, developed tailored modules, relevant to the business and vital to helping RMG manage organisational change.
“Our proposal was based on a collaborative approach,” says Jan Carmichael, Head of Division of HR Management at the Business School.
“Every business is different and understanding theirs was vital so we spent time listening to RMG staff and raising the profile of the course with potential students.” The Foundation Degree in Business Skills for HR is now perceived as an essential qualification for staff at RMG’s HR Services, providing them with the skills and confidence to drive the culture of efficiency and leadership now at the heart of the organisation.
We had already introduced NVQ qualifications but the professional exams available to develop our employees further were not wholly appropriate to our needs.
The Foundation Degree consolidates skills, enabling staff not just to do their job, but also to think it through with greater business vision and resources.
Dermot Toberty, Director of HR Services at RMG
From the outset, the University saw the value of embedding programme learning and assessment within the RMG working environment.
Study modules are delivered at the University and at RMG’s training centre in Rugby and most assignments include a work-related element.
The final work-based project, which is agreed with a senior RMG manager, requires students to demonstrate the value of their learning and its potential impact on the business.
“It is essential that what we do remains current,” says Mrs Carmichael.
“Working closely with RMG managers, we conducted a 5 year review of the programme to make certain the course stays relevant to RMG’s changing operating environment and provides graduates with appropriate and applicable skills.”
“The course has been colossally successful and has given staff new-found energy and business confidence.” says Mr Toberty.
“Many of the original cohort have progressed to senior positions and now provide measurable benefits to our business.
We certainly plan to continue promoting it.”
In 2008, an independent Government review gave a stark warning for RMG to ‘modernise or decline’ and, as a university for business, Huddersfield is proud to have helped implement a successful response to this.
The first RMG students graduated in 2010 and the programme continues to grow and add real value to RMG’s managerial strength.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/business/case-studies/south-west-yorkshire-partnership:
The South West Yorkshire Partnership is a specialist NHS Foundation Trust that provides community, mental health and learning disability services to the people of Barnsley, Calderdale, Kirklees and Wakefield.
The Trust employs around 4600 staff, in both clinical and non-clinical support services.
The Magnificent Seven development programme provides the Trust’s clinicians with practical training in leadership; effective partnerships; human resources; project management; innovation; marketing strategies; and managing cultural change.
Feedback from NHS staff attending the course praises its relevance to their professional practice and the benefits it will bring to leadership development and talent management within the Trust.
In addition to designing and running this programme, University of Huddersfield Business School has worked with the Trust on research projects to support innovation within the NHS and to improve operational performance through strategic Lean thinking.
In providing a bespoke training programme for South West Yorkshire Partnership NHS Foundation Trust (SWYPFT), the University of Huddersfield Business School is helping to ensure that the Trust’s junior and aspiring leaders and managers will have the skills, knowledge and competencies to help achieve the Trust’s vision.
When SWYPFT approached the Business School in late 2012, it recognised the importance of effective leadership at all levels of the organisation as a critical part of ensuring the highest quality of service.
Though the Trust already had a strong internal leadership development programme, this was targeted at senior staff (band 7 and above).
It wanted to improve leadership skills amongst more junior levels of staff and believed that a partnership with the Business School could help achieve this ambition.
Jeremy Robbins, SWYPFT’s Assistant Director HR (Learning & Development), explains why they were looking for outside help: “We are very strong on organisational values and how these make a difference to the attitude and behaviour of our staff.
We already have a good training offer but wanted to add more contemporary relevance and link theoretical learning to what is happening within SWYPFT.” After discussion with the Trust, it was decided to base the training on the Magnificent Seven Management Development Programme developed at the Business School, which already matched much of the Trust’s ambitions and can easily be customised to meet differing organisational needs.
Huddersfield academics adapted the programme to recognise the culture, challenges and partnerships intrinsic to the healthcare market, developing a bespoke version that would provide SWYPFT staff with high quality and relevant leadership training.
Additional elements were introduced to make explicit connection with SWYPFT’s values, behaviours, talent management and leadership competencies and a new workshop was included to pull together the learning and development from the programme as a whole and help evaluation before taking it forward.
“The modified programme provides an academic rigour and credibility far higher than we could achieve in-house” Mr Robbins adds.
“It has direct relevance to the workings of the NHS and we have been inundated with applications from our staff.” Following a successful pilot in 2013, a further 50 employees are now enrolled on the programme and, with over 4,000 staff employed across the Trust, there is a significant target market for future growth.
The staff attending these programmes are a critical group in representing the Trust’s vision and acting as exemplars for all SWYPFT employees, and the partnership with the Business School is proving essential to achieving that aim.
Immediate benefits have already been realised in changed practices and the long term expectations are that the programme’s focus on innovative and effective management will facilitate service changes that have a demonstrable impact on patient care.
David Bamford, Huddersfield’s Professor of Operations Management commented:  "From our perspective this has been an excellent experience.
Designing the bespoke programme allowed us to factor in the current needs of the NHS and the subsequent delivery to the highly engaged participants, by the mixed discipline academic team, really added value for all parties.
Challenging discussions and real world examples aided the transfer of knowledge; we gained through real life contextualisation of the theories we teach."

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/business/case-studies/thornton-and-ross:
Founded in 1922, Thornton & Ross develops and manufactures over-the-counter pharmacy brands including household names such as Covonia, Setlers, Zoflora and the award-winning head lice treatment, Hedrin.
The company is the largest independent pharmaceutical manufacturer in the UK and has been working, since 2007, in a partnership with IPOS that takes full advantage of the University’s wealth of expertise in analytical, process development and physical organic chemistry.
IPOS is one of a select few research centres in the UK to have been awarded ISO 9001 and is soon to be audited by the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency for its Good Laboratory Practice accreditation.
Both of these are internationally and industry recognised standards that guarantee that work carried out within IPOS is conducted to the highest levels of management and quality control.
IPOS provides a range of solutions from its purpose built research facility, fully equipped with state-of-the-art analytical and process development instrumentation.
Shortly after it was first set up in 2006, the Innovative Physical Organic Solutions (IPOS) group, within the Department of Chemical and Biological Sciences, was approached by a major pharmaceutical manufacturer, Thornton & Ross.
The company needed help with a specific analytical test that it was unable to manage in-house and the success of that research triggered a stream of analytical work, which now accounts for a significant proportion of the work carried out within the IPOS laboratories.
“Thornton & Ross has a long and solid history with the University of Huddersfield.
It’s our local university and we have a tradition of taking placement students from there and of using its expertise,” explains Dr Nigel Cooper, Director of Product Development at Thornton & Ross.
“When we wanted to outsource a particularly complex analytical test it was our first port of call and we were recommended to IPOS as it had both the technology and the expertise we needed.”
Thornton & Ross was one of IPOS’ first clients and the number of projects the group undertakes for the company has grown massively since then.
For specific projects, IPOS continues to run analytical tests on an ad hoc basis but much of the work is now done as part of a technical agreement established between the two organisations.
IPOS now works with Thornton & Ross across the full range of its medicinal products.
“Many of these projects are extremely complex and run for several years,” Dr Cooper continues.
“If we wanted to run them ourselves we would have to invest heavily in new equipment and highly skilled employees so we rely on having access to IPOS’ wealth of experience and state-of-the-art equipment right on our doorstep.”
As a commercial research group, IPOS works with a range of other industry partners but Thornton & Ross is its mainstay.
Dr Matthew Stirling, Research Fellow at IPOS, is clear about the benefits this has for both sides.
“Our work has helped Thornton & Ross expand its product range and meet their analytical regulatory requirements.” he says.
“They trust what we do and we have the security of consistent work that has enabled IPOS to grow from a staff of just two to the ten we have running commercial projects at present.”
At its new, purpose built lab, which is an Agilent Technologies Centre of Excellence, Dr Stirling explains how the relationship works.
“As their product range expands, new methods are required for analysing active ingredients and product degradation.
The in-house expertise we have developed here in working with complex sample matrices has enabled Thornton & Ross to meet the specifications required for the manufacture of products that are now sold in over 90 countries worldwide.”
Thornton & Ross has aggressive plans for growth, and widening the scope for collaboration with IPOS is an essential element to that.
“Working with IPOS has given us access to stringently high quality analytical work that it would not be cost effective to create in-house,” says Dr Cooper.” We have worked together for a long time now so they understand us pretty well and we are looking forward to strengthening this relationship over the coming years.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/schools/huddersfield-business-school/business-support-and-professional-development/student-engagement:
There are a variety of different ways in which you can work with students and graduates at Huddersfield Business School.
All our students are provided with the latest innovative, cutting-edge business solutions and have the knowledge to provide your business with ideas to help accelerate growth.
Maybe you’re considering a student placement or internship, or you’re interested in a student consultancy project and getting a fresh perspective from your future customers.
Or maybe you’d like to inspire the next generation of forward thinkers by taking part in a guest lecture and becoming a Huddersfield Business School mentor.
Students from Huddersfield Business School are studying degrees in all areas of business across both undergraduate and postgraduate teaching levels, allowing you to target specific courses and access the knowledge needed to support your business.
Provide valuable work experience, job opportunities and employability skills to the workforce of tomorrow.
Explore aspects of your business that you may not have the expertise, resource or time to undertake.
Support students in their final year at university with the transition from student to graduate.
Inspire the next generation of forward thinkers with your industry expertise.
Take students on a tour of your business and allow them to gain insights into current business case studies.
Support Law students with the opportunity to get hands-on legal experience within an environment that encourages and supports an ethical approach to legal practice.
Get in touch with our Stakeholder Engagement team to find out how you can get involved.
Take part in a guest lecture and share your industry expertise with our students.
Allow students to understand how the theory they are taught by our academics is put into practise in the business world.
There is nothing more rewarding than having the opportunity to pay it forward; to be given a chance to not only be reconnected to the institution that gave me so much but to also inspire the next generation of marketers, is honestly not only incredibly flattering and an honour, but also one of my highlights of 2022.
I cannot wait to do more in 2023 and beyond.
- Matt Cowling, Head of Marketing for North America and Hewlett Packard.
Take students on a behind-the-scenes tour of your business and show them the operations behind the success.
Allow them to gain insights into a current business case study to increase their commercial awareness.
Elena Dooley - Marketing Operations Manager at Cummins
"Placement students are such an important part of our talent mix because of the hard work and dedication they bring.
They are really driven to learn, grow and network with others to learn about other areas of the business as part of their development."
Ruby Gascoyne - Social Media Manager at  Hollywood Agency
"The students provided valuable insight into our business and offered a fantastic range of ideas for us to execute throughout our growth period.
As a developing SME in Huddersfield, it was a terrific chance to collaborate with the University."
Matt Cowling - Head of Marketing for North America at HP
"There is nothing more rewarding than having the opportunity to pay it forward; to be given a chance to inspire the next generation of marketers is honestly not only incredibly flattering and an honour, but also one of my personal highlights of 2022."
Are you an alumni of Huddersfield Business School?
We'd love to keep in touch.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/schools/huddersfield-business-school/business-support-and-professional-development/professional-development/lvl5-app:
Our Professional Manager Apprenticeship is aimed at anyone who is in a managerial role or developing into one that is looking for support and guidance on how to lead projects or teams.
The programme will provide you with practical knowledge and skills to become a better leader.
You will also be awarded a Certificate of Higher Education qualification at the end of the programme and granted chartered manager status by the CMI.
Fill in our Expression of Interest form and a member of our Apprenticeship team will be in touch with the next steps.
Attend an online briefing session to find out more about our apprenticeship programme.
Find out how our CMI-accredited management and leadership apprenticeships can benefit learners and their organisations.
Learn more about our Level 5 Course Leader.
Since joining Huddersfield Business School in 2014, Pete has taught on undergraduate and post graduate courses in the UK and Hong Kong.
His experience of apprenticeships is extensive: he has been Course Leader of the School's Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship since it was launched in 2018 and has successfully supported 21 learners to pass their End Point Assessment;  he is also an external examiner for degree apprenticeship programmes at two other institutes.
Pete is very interested in the transfer of training and learning from theory to practice and based his PhD on this.
He continues to publish work in this area in international journals.
Pete is also a Chartered Manager and Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.
Prior to joining Huddersfield Business School, Pete worked as a vocational assessor before becoming a Lead Internal Verifier and Area Manager for a training provider.
He then worked in learning and development for seven years, becoming a Chartered Member of the CIPD and gaining a Masters degree in Human Resource Development.
View Pete's LinkedIn

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/schools/huddersfield-business-school/business-support-and-professional-development/professional-development/lvl7-app:
Do you want to learn how to manage operations, strategy and people?
Our Senior Leader Level 7 Apprenticeship is aimed at anyone who has senior leadership responsibility and is looking to develop a business strategy and improve their managerial skills.
The programme will provide you with the knowledge and tools to contribute to your organisation’s strategy and direction and will give you the skills to inspire and guide a team within demanding fast-changing contexts.
The programme is accredited with Chartered Management Institute Level 7 .
At the end of the programme, you will also be awarded a Postgraduate Diploma in Management and granted chartered manager status by the CMI.
Due to upcoming changes in government policy, funding for Level 7 (Master’s level) apprenticeships for individuals aged 22 and over is being completely withdrawn from 1 January 2026.
As a result, we will be running one final cohort starting on the 4 November 2025.
After this cohort, we will no longer be running further programmes due to there being no funding for those at the appropriate Senior Leader age range.
Our apprenticeship provision was awarded an outstanding rating by Ofsted in a recent inspection.
We are only the second university to be awarded Ofsted’s outstanding rating for its apprenticeship provision in the last four years.
We are also the only University in the Yorkshire and Humber region and the north-west of England to have both an outstanding Ofsted rating for apprenticeships and to be a TEF Gold-rated university.
Our apprenticeship provision was praised by Ofsted for the positive experiences of the apprentices, the research-informed knowledge of teaching staff, and for the strong relationships between the University’s leaders and employers.
We have the highest Apprenticeship QAR among Higher Education Institutions in England.* Our 2023/24 QAR was 87.6% and coupled with our Ofsted ‘Outstanding’ rating displays the excellent learning experience for apprentices and their employers at the University of Huddersfield.
*Excludes providers with fewer than 100 apprentices.
Final Opportunity to Apply: Last Funded Cohort Starting 4 November 2025
Fill in our Expression of Interest Form and a member of our Apprenticeship team will be in touch with the next steps.
Olivia Sykes, Communications Manager at Kirklees Citizens Advice and Law Centre, shares the direct impact the Level 7 Senior Leader apprenticeship has had on her workplace and how it has provided her with the confidence and tools to tackle any challenge.
Sarah Durdin, Operational Manager at Kirklees Council, shares the impact the Level 7 Senior Leader apprenticeship has had on her confidence and leadership skills, enabling her to apply new knowledge directly to her role.
Find out find out how they work, what's involved, and the impact they can make.
In this video, Mark Davis, Operations Manager at Dalkia UK, shares his experience of working with the university to support the development of team member Nick through an apprenticeship.
Learn how this approach delivers real value - not only for the individual, but also for the wider organisation.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/about/schools/huddersfield-business-school/business-support-and-professional-development/professional-development:
This programme is designed to support senior managers of small and medium-sized businesses to boost their business performance, resilience, and long-term growth.
This course is aimed at business leaders, executives and entrepreneurs who are looking to become a more effective, responsible leader and gain the necessary skills for senior management and strategy implementation.
This course is aimed at management professionals in the private sector.
It is a professional doctorate designed to provide students with comprehensive training in research in the Business and Management fields.
Dr Nicola Stenberg is the Director of Professional Development at Huddersfield Business School.
Email - n.stenberg@hud.ac.uk
Katey Curtis is a Senior Practitioner of Executive Education and the facilitator for Help to Grow Management.
Email - k.curtis@hud.ac.uk
Stella Bowdell is the Programme Director for Help to Grow Management.
Dr Peter Greenan is the Course Leader for the Level 5 Professional Manager Apprenticeship and Senior Lecturer in Human Resource Management.
Email - p.greenan@hud.ac.uk
Dr Mark Horan is the Course Leader for the Level 7 Senior Leader Higher Apprenticeship and a Senior Lecturer in the Department of Management.
Frank Zagajewski is a Senior Practitioner, teaching on both the Level 5 Professional Manager and Level 7 Senior Leader apprenticeships.
Email - f.zagajewski@hud.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/registry/collaborativeprovision:
To find out more information about the Standing Committee for Collaborative Provision, please email reviewsandpartnerships@hud.ac.uk
The University of Huddersfield has a range of collaborative provisions both within the United Kingdom and Overseas.
These links provide information, guidance and advice on the quality assurance arrangements for these types of provision.
Schedule of the University's Collaborative Provision‌ for the current academic year
Find out more information about the Collaborative Provision Handbook
Find out more information about our Collaborative Provision Partner Guidebook.
We are constantly updating these web pages, please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any suggestions.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/hr/jobs/staffbenefits/salaryscales:
The 2025/26 annual pay award has been agreed for an increase of 1.4% to all points on the national pay scale.
This will take effect from 1 August 2025.
* This point is enhanced to the current Real Living Wage and National Minimum Wage value.
The Real Living Wage is paid from November 2024.
Real Living Wage
£69.90
Find out more about salary scales.
Find out more information about holiday entitlement.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/lorem/archive/annual-review:
I am very proud to say that in the face of so many professional and personal challenges, our University has gone from strength to strength.
A world-class academic institution.
Inspirational stories from staff and students.
Innovation reaching out from our teaching and research to our communities.
Annual Review 2020
Annual Review 2019
Annual Review 2018

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/news/research:
Our staff have expertise across an impressive range of disciplines and specialities.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/schools-and-colleges-liaison-service/progression-module:
‌The Progression Module is a structured off-the-shelf HE and employment preparation programme for all sixth form and college students.
As part of the Module students will participate in a range of practical activities in preparation for HE or employment.
Unit 1: Work experience preparation, career planning, CVs and letters of application
Unit 2: HE and employment finance budget planner
Unit 3: HE and employment decision making exercises
Unit 4: Mock interviews, presentation skills and writing personal statements
There are many benefits to the Module for students, tutors and schools and colleges.
The Module is delivered by school or college staff, supported by training, teaching resources and ongoing support from the University.
Successful completion of the scheme earns the participant 12 UCAS points that are recognised by the University of Huddersfield, Leeds Beckett University and Leeds Trinity University.
Find out more by downloading our Progression Module Flyer watching our video ‌‌ or emailing S.Craven@hud.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/fees-and-finance/scholarships-bursaries:
We offer a range of scholarships for those studying Music.
Find out more about the national Social Work bursary offered by the NHS Business Services Authority.
Students studying eligible courses may receive a non-repayable grant of at least £5,000 each year.
If you are competing at regional or international level, you could be eligible for one of our netball scholarships.
If you are competing at regional or international level you could be eligible for our basketball scholarship.
The DSA can fund some of the costs that may incur as a direct result of a disability during your studies.
If you are a care leaver in undergraduate study, you are eligible to access the £2,000 bursary that the University offers.
Student parents may qualify for extra financial help depending on personal circumstances.
This non-repayable grant supports students to succeed in their studies and boost their future career prospectus

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/student-profiles/joe-t:
Being born in Huddersfield, I'm very lucky to have such a great university on my doorstep.
I’d been in higher education before but left early during the Pandemic, so when I decided to return to it to pursue teaching, I was excited to see what a great range of education courses Huddersfield had to offer.
The facilities that the University provides are exceptional, and I was especially impressed with the disability and mental health support which I knew would be very important to me whilst completing my studies.
My previous university was very small, so I was overjoyed to see the amount of support that Huddersfield had to offer, as well as the size of the library.
“The modules on offer, especially those that delve into the theory and philosophical perspectives surrounding education, are brilliant, and help potential teachers to gain a critical consciousness of their practice, which is essential to becoming a well-rounded professional in the industry.”
I was looking for a shorter course that provided a full degree, so the Primary Education Accelerated Degree, being a two-year course, seemed like a practical solution, as it conformed to my financial needs and allowed me to gain a full undergraduate qualification in that time.
The course by no means sacrifices anything to fit into that timeframe – you get the full experience, simply compressed into two years rather than three.
I was very excited to have the chance to learn and write about SEND (special educational needs and disabilities) and SEMH (social, emotional and mental health) provision, as these are two subjects that are close to my heart and will be a career focus of mine in the future.
"The Academic Skills Team are very helpful with ironing out any qualms I may have with assignments or formatting, and being able to book meetings with my personal academic tutor is a great way to gain extra support, keep on track and make sure my studies are running smoothly."
The teaching is fantastic – I've never felt more supported in any stage of my education!
All my lecturers and my brilliant Course Leader have plenty of time for all students and drive us to do the best we can, as well as being great industry role models.
Everything is explained clearly, and if I've ever felt that there are concepts that aren't quite clicking for me, my lecturers are always on hand to clarify.
The lectures are always engaging and thought-provoking, and I really like the chance to discuss ideas and concepts that seminars offer.
I always leave with fresh thoughts that contribute to my practice and assignments, and the subject matter is consistently highly relevant to me.
The library, especially the online portion, is vast and absolutely essential to success on my course.
The University provides access to a plethora of online collections of books and journals from other libraries, which makes finding works needed for assignments a breeze.
The library team also offer great academic support, such as referencing workshops and meetings to help find specific information and sources, which I've made good use of.
“My favourite thing about my course has to be the freedom to discuss relevant matters that interest me - since I'm so passionate about SEND, I find myself writing about that field frequently during my assignments, which is an absolute joy!”
I've really enjoyed my school placement.
We have the chance to find and choose our own placements, so I was able to find a great local school to practise in.
The staff there were very welcoming and encouraging, and I learnt so much from them.
I'm very much looking forward to my placements in second year!
I am an Academic Representative for my course, a voluntary position through the Students' Union, involving assisting with raising any small issues that may arise on the course and helping to make some improvements and give student feedback, to make positive change for students.
I have also got involved in some of the many activities offered by the Students' Union and societies, including goat yoga (yes, that's exactly what you think it is) and various trips, such as to Christmas markets and Alton Towers.
“I love the community within the University –  the connections between students, staff and the support offered really come together to provide such a good experience, and I'd definitely struggle without it!”
I like the community feel at Huddersfield and how everything contributes to such a great support network to help with your studies, and it's such a great feeling knowing that everyone has your back.
It's really helped me to push through anything I'm struggling with and overcome any obstacles I may face.
I'm really proud of my successes and those of my peers, and very excited for the future.
After I graduate, I'm hoping to complete both a PGCE and a Master’s degree to support my teaching career.
Studying at the University of Huddersfield has helped me gain so much confidence in my abilities, both academically and as a practitioner, and I can't wait to develop those and turn them into a career I can be proud of.
The experiences I've already had at university in my first year are many and have helped me really focus in on my plans for the future and decide what direction I want to take, and I'm really excited to pursue them!

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/student-profiles/nathan-k:
At first, I wasn’t intending to go to university.
My plan was to find a job or possibly an apprenticeship.
However, after receiving my A Level results, my family encouraged me to at least consider higher education, so I agreed to look into a few courses.
Surprisingly, I found myself genuinely interested in both Computer Science and Engineering, and the more I researched, the more I saw the added value of a university environment, not just in terms of learning, but also in building connections, gaining teamwork experience and having recognised qualifications.
Eventually, I  chose the Computer Science with Games Programming course through Clearing, as it combined creativity, problem-solving, and a subject I already had a background in and passion for.
“Even my brief conversation with a staff member left a positive impression; they were helpful, clear and supportive during the Clearing process, which definitely played a role in my final decision to study at Huddersfield.”
I wanted to avoid unnecessary expenses, so applying to a university within walking distance from my home made a lot of sense.
More importantly, they offered the exact course I was interested in, and the overall environment seemed more student-focused than other options I looked into.
What really made Huddersfield stand out to me was its active student community and support networks.
I was impressed by how the societies were run by students, for students, which gave me confidence that they were genuinely aligned with the needs and interests of people like me.
I also liked that the course I was applying to could potentially be completed through coursework and team projects alone, without traditional exams, which suited my learning style.
“The presence of inclusive student networks within the Students’ Union also showed that the university makes a real effort to ensure everyone feels welcome, regardless of background.”
My experience of applying through Clearing was much more straightforward than I expected.
I contacted the University the day after I received my A Level results.
The call itself was quick and efficient.
I was asked a few direct questions about the course I was interested in, whether I had arranged student finance, and also provided my A Level results to confirm my eligibility.
I had already gathered all the necessary information, including my UCAS ID and course preferences, which helped keep the conversation focused.
The University then invited me to attend their Clearing Open Day, which gave me an opportunity to visit the campus, speak to staff in person, and gain a better understanding of the course structure and student support available.
Overall, the process was clear, well-organised, and reassuring; and what I had expected to be a stressful and uncertain experience turned out to be a smooth and informative first step towards starting university.
“My main advice to anyone applying through Clearing would be to prepare in advance and approach the process with an open mind.”
Even if university wasn’t your original plan, Clearing can be a valuable opportunity to reassess your options and find a course that genuinely suits your interests and goals.
Start by researching the universities and courses you're interested in.
Go beyond just the course title and look at the modules, the teaching style, the assessment methods, and what support is available.
This not only helps you make a more informed decision but also puts you in a stronger position when speaking to university staff.
When it comes to making the call, have everything ready: your UCAS ID, A Level results and a shortlist of courses you’re interested in.
It helps to write down a few notes or questions beforehand, so you feel more confident during the conversation.
Don’t be afraid to ask for clarification or additional information, the staff are there to help you, not to catch you out.
Finally, try to stay calm and remember that Clearing isn’t a last resort, it’s just another route into higher education.
Many students find the right course and university through Clearing and making that decision with a clear head and a bit of preparation can make all the difference.
“Overall, the Clearing Open Day played a key role in confirming that Huddersfield was the right place for me.”
Attending the Clearing Open Day at the University of Huddersfield was a genuinely useful and reassuring experience.
It’s one thing to read about a course or a university online, but being there in person allows you to ask meaningful questions, get honest answers, and make a more confident, informed decision.
Although I had already done quite a bit of research online, actually being on campus gave me a much clearer sense of what the university was like – not just in terms of facilities, but also the overall atmosphere.
During the day, I had the chance to speak directly with course tutors and ask questions about the course structure, the types of projects involved and how assessments were handled.
I also explored key areas of the campus, including the computing labs and student spaces, which helped me get a better feel for the learning environment.
My favourite aspect of the Computer Science with Games Programming course is the balance between creativity and technical problem-solving.
I enjoy how the course allows me to develop practical programming skills while also encouraging me to think imaginatively about game design and interactive experiences.
I also like the emphasis on teamwork and project-based learning.
Collaborating with other students on real-world projects not only helps me to improve my coding abilities but also build communication and organisational skills.
This hands-on approach makes the learning experience engaging and directly relevant to the kind of work I hope to pursue after graduation.
Commuting to campus has been a manageable and even positive part of my university experience.
Walking to the University has allowed me to avoid the stress and cost of long journeys and have better balance between my studies and personal life.
I have still been able to engage fully with student life.
I am an Academic Rep and a member of the Student Advisory Council.
These roles have given me opportunities to contribute to the University community and influence positive changes.
I've also attended several society events and regularly make use of the gym facilities on campus, both of which have helped me build connections with other students and maintain a healthy lifestyle.
“Commuting to campus has not hindered my participation in university life.
In fact, it has encouraged me to be more intentional about the activities I join, ensuring I make the most of the opportunities available.”
As an Academic Rep, I have had the opportunity to represent my fellow students’ interests and feedback, working closely with faculty members to help improve the course experience.
This role has strengthened my communication and leadership skills and allowed me to play a meaningful part in shaping university policies.
Also, I currently serve as the Outreach Officer for the British Sign Language (BSL) Society and as the President of the Academic Game Design Society.
Both roles allow me to develop my leadership abilities while engaging with communities that align closely with my interests.
Beyond these leadership roles, I regularly attend events organised by the Students’ Union, which have allowed me to meet a diverse group of people, expand my social networks and develop new interests outside of my academic field.
“From the helpfulness of staff during Clearing to the welcoming atmosphere on campus during the Open Day, I felt encouraged and valued every step of the way.”
I’m very glad that I chose the University of Huddersfield.
While I initially had reservations about university life, my experience so far has not only met but often surpassed my expectations.
The course’s focus on practical, project-based learning has proven to be exactly what I needed to stay engaged and motivated, so I know that my choice to study it was the right one.
What has impressed me most about the University is the supportive and inclusive environment that the University fosters.
The reality of university life at Huddersfield has massively exceeded my initial assumptions and given me confidence that I am on the right path both academically and personally.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/student-profiles/eloise-p:
I chose to study at the University of Huddersfield because of the short commute from where I live and how easy it is to navigate the campus.
The location of the campus means that it’s easy to walk into town on your dinner breaks or walk to and from the student halls, most of which are a five-to-ten minute walk away.
Also, compared to other unis, I was impressed by how many different societies and opportunities there were through the Students’ Union.
My sister studied at Huddersfield too, and I was impressed by how much support the University offered her in gaining some great opportunities whilst she was studying here.
The Open Day at Huddersfield was very informative and allowed me to see what facilities the University had to offer.
The subject sessions and talks were very useful too and helped me to solidify my course choice.
The day also gave me an opportunity look at the different accommodations on offer and explore the town that I would be living in.
After I applied to the University, I was invited to an Applicant Visit Day, and I would very much recommend these days to other applicants.
For me, this was a good opportunity to talk to the course tutors and meet some of the students already studying the course.
It also gave me a chance to take part in activities related to my course, giving me a taste of what studying here for the next three years would be like.
This helped me to decide whether committing to the course was the right decision for me.
“I preferred the layout and overall teaching style of the Filmmaking course at Huddersfield compared to other universities I looked at.
The course here gives you more opportunity to explore your options within filmmaking by providing the chance to trial all the main job roles on offer in the industry.”
I was attracted to the Filmmaking course at Huddersfield because of the industry standard facilities available here at the Uni.
When looking at the course, I liked how much creative freedom there was and that I would have the opportunity to create films.
I also liked how practical and hands-on the course is with it mainly involving coursework and creating physical films, with no exams.
Plus, we also have access to training with course technicians, which helps aid our understanding of camera, sound and lighting operations.
My course is based in the Stewart Film Studios building on campus.
This building houses a large studio area with three separate bays, each with its own light rig attached to the ceiling.
There is also a range of equipment here, such as lighting, cameras and sound equipment.
As film students, we have access to this building and equipment anytime and we can book the whole studio out when it’s available.
We also have access to the Barbara Hepworth building, where we have a computer lab called the CAD lab, which gives us access to industry standard software that we need for post-production editing.
There are also vending machines and a café, which is a great place to go for a bite to eat on your breaks.
“One of my favourite things about my course is that it gives me access to industry standard equipment which I really enjoy learning and using.
We get a weekly four hour session in the film studio that allows us to work hands-on with the equipment on offer.”
I applied to be a Student Ambassador because it gave me the opportunity to explore the campus more and know more about what's on offer to us on site.
My role as a Student Ambassador mainly sees me working the Uni Open Days.
I’ve been in charge of running campus tours and taking guests to the buildings they want to see.
I really enjoy this work as it allows me to share my own experiences with prospective students as well as giving them a tour of the campus I’ve grown to love.
“I really enjoy living in Huddersfield as compared to many other university locations, the accommodation and the cost of living is a lot cheaper.”
What’s great about Huddersfield is that there are many different accommodation options to chose from.
I chose Castings student halls mainly because it’s right next door to the film studios, which is very helpful for those early morning starts.
The accommodation here is very affordable and offers a good-sized space that gives you everything you need, such as a desk for studying, and a kitchen for cooking and socialising.
My flat houses six students and within the kitchen we have two fridges, and overall it’s a good size for the number of people who live there.
Plus, my accommodation is just a 10-minute walk from Lidl where I do my food shopping.
“The University is very welcoming and diverse, providing great opportunities for people from different backgrounds, whilst celebrating everyone’s unique differences through regular events.”
My favourite thing about studying at Huddersfield is the community feel and the variety of facilities on offer.
For example, in the Student Central building, there is a gym with student discounts available, the Library, a shop, cafeteria and a coffee shop.
The Students' Union and HudLets accommodation service are also based here too.
I would recommend the University of Huddersfield because it has everything you need, such as student accommodation within walking distance of the campus, which will save you money on using public transport.
Plus, the Uni is directly opposite the town centre, where there are a variety of shops and places to eat on your lunchbreak.
The University also offers a lot of support, such as the Wellbeing team.
I saw this as a huge positive when looking at Huddersfield, as I knew that there was a place for me to go if I ever needed help.
The University of Huddersfield is a tight knit community that makes you feel safe and secure when you’ve moved to a new town for your studies.
I was nervous about coming to uni but my experience here has been nothing but positive.
This University has made me feel so welcome and I am now happy to call it my home.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/student-profiles/shufan-j:
When I was choosing a university, I focused on finding a place that combined academic excellence with affordability and a supportive student community.
The University of Huddersfield stood out because of its TEF Gold award for teaching excellence, a recognition not held by many universities in the region.
Another major factor was affordability.
Huddersfield is known for being one of the most budget-friendly locations for students in the UK, with a range of affordable accommodation options available through HudLets, the University’s accommodation service.
The University’s reputation for strong industry links and high employability rates also reassured me that I would be investing in a future with real career prospects.
“The combination of high-quality education and cost-effectiveness made Huddersfield an ideal choice for me.”
When I started at the University, I was awarded a £2,000 International Undergraduate Scholarship based on my prior academic performance.
This scholarship is automatically awarded to international students who meet the eligibility criteria, without the need for a separate application.
This financial support helped reduce the burden of tuition fees and allowed me to focus more on my studies and extracurricular activities.
It also reinforced to me, the University’s commitment to supporting its international students, which made me feel welcomed and valued from the start.
What I love most about my course is its versatility.
Studying Information Technology at Huddersfield gives you the chance to explore different areas within the field, which has helped me identify my strengths and interests.
The modules cover a wide range of topics, from cybersecurity and data analysis to web programming and databases, giving me a solid foundation in both the technical and strategic aspects of IT.
The mix of theoretical knowledge and practical projects makes the learning process engaging and directly applicable to real-world scenarios.
I also appreciate the University’s close ties with industry, which ensures that the curriculum reflects current industry trends and prepares us for the job market.
The teaching quality at Huddersfield is outstanding.
The lecturers are not only experts in their fields but also approachable and supportive.
Many of them have industry backgrounds, which allows them to share practical insights alongside theoretical knowledge.
The small class sizes enable interactive learning and give students the opportunity to ask questions and engage in discussions.
The University also offers regular one-on-one sessions with PATs (Personal Academic Tutors) to provide additional guidance and support.
This creates a learning environment where students feel seen and supported, rather than just being part of a large group.
“The support for international students at Huddersfield is exceptional.”
The International Office is always available to help with any issues related to visas, academic adjustments, or personal concerns.
I attended an international orientation week at the start of my first year, which helped me settle in and connect with other students from similar backgrounds.
The university also provides language support through the English Language Support Programme and offers guidance on working part-time and managing finances as an international student.
This network of support has made it easier for me to adapt to life in the UK and succeed academically.
I would highly recommend the University of Huddersfield to other international students.
The University provides a strong academic foundation with excellent teaching quality and a high employability rate, which makes it an ideal place to pursue higher education.
But beyond academics, Huddersfield offers the perfect balance of calm and excitement.
Being located between Manchester and Leeds, you get the benefit of living in a peaceful, student-friendly town while still having easy access to the vibrant city life just a short train ride away.
This balance allows you to focus on your studies while also having opportunities to relax and enjoy life outside of university.
“University life isn’t just about studying.
Getting involved in societies and clubs has helped me get out of the routine of studying, meet amazing people and create lasting memories.
It’s truly enriched my university experience.”
I’ve been actively involved with the Pakistani Society, which has been a great way to stay connected with my culture and meet other Pakistani students.
We organise social events, cultural nights and community gatherings, which have helped me feel at home despite being far from Pakistan.
I’ve also joined several other societies and clubs, which have allowed me to meet new people, explore different interests and build a stronger network.
I also work as a retail assistant at the SU shop which has given me valuable work experience and insight into how the Students’ Union supports students.
This has helped me develop professional skills like communication and customer service, and made me feel more connected to the University community.
“The Global Professional Award (GPA) has been one of the most valuable aspects of my time at Huddersfield.”
The GPA programme involved workshops and training sessions focused on building professional skills such as communication, teamwork, leadership, and problem-solving.
It also covered important topics like cultural awareness and global citizenship, which have helped me become more confident in working with diverse teams.
The mock interviews and career guidance sessions prepared me for real-world job applications, and the feedback I received helped me improve my approach.
The GPA also introduced me to networking opportunities and gave me a better understanding of the job market, which will definitely give me an edge when applying for future roles.
The Careers and Employability service has been incredibly supportive throughout my time at Huddersfield, especially as I’m currently in my second year and preparing for my placement year.
They’ve provided valuable guidance on improving my CV and cover letters and have helped me develop key skills to perform well in interviews.
I also had the opportunity to attend a mock interview, which gave me practical experience and boosted my confidence.
What’s even more reassuring is that the support doesn’t end after graduation, I can still access the Careers and Employability service after completing my degree.
This level of support makes me feel confident about my future career prospects.
Finding student accommodation at Huddersfield was relatively easy thanks to HudLets, run by the Students’ Union.
They helped me explore my options and find a place that suited my budget and preferences.
I chose to stay in university-managed halls, which are close to campus and offer great facilities like study rooms, laundry and communal areas.
The rent is quite affordable compared to other UK towns and cities, and the location makes it easy to get to lectures and University events.
The social aspect has been rewarding too, I’ve made close friends at my accommodation, which made settling in much smoother.
One of my best experiences at Huddersfield has been representing students as a Student Ambassador and working with the International Office.
Meeting new students, guiding them through their university journey and helping them settle in has been incredibly rewarding.
Another memorable experience was campaigning for the Students’ Union Education Officer position, even though I didn’t win.
It was a valuable learning experience that strengthened my public speaking and leadership skills.
These experiences have shaped my confidence, leadership, and ability to adapt to new challenges.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/student-profiles/jonathan-d:
I chose to study at Huddersfield because it was located in the Yorkshire region and it wasn’t too far from my family home.
Also, my college tutors Woody and Shaun graduated from here and told me that the University had a good reputation, as well as high-quality music studios, equipment and facilities – some of the best in the UK.
I found the experience of returning to study after a break as a mature student a little challenging, but I successfully passed an adult Access to HE course, where we spent a lot of time in class talking about higher education and what to expect.
I would definitely recommend the University of Huddersfield to other mature students, simply because on campus we have a mixture of students of various different age ranges, cultures and ethnicities.
This means that there are a good mix of students to interact and collaborate with, and that you’ll find students who share similar characteristics to you, such as being a similar age or having a shared interest.
"The resources, facilities and learning spaces have provided me with space for growth and networking with other music production professionals and students from all around the world."
I believe that the University of Huddersfield is a really good university.
I came here only knowing the basics of desktop production, rather than the creative and professional music production skills.
Throughout my time at Huddersfield I have been able to develop the creative and technical skills needed for a career in music production.
The Hardship Fund has helped me pay for my necessities such as technology for my studies and general living costs, at times where I have been struggling with my finances.
I have got involved in student life at Huddersfield by always attending free and paid events that are run by the various student societies that I am in such as creative writing society, musical theatre, movies and TV societies.
I really enjoy going to the events that they run.
I also joined the wrestling society for a while, which was really good.
I’m looking forward to trying out more societies like this.
There’s so much going on, on campus, that it really feels like High School Musical on campus sometimes.
"I would say come to Huddersfield if you’re serious about education, innovation and having fun!"
I find living in student accommodation very calm.
It’s affordable, there’s additional facilities to help me relax after a long day sitting through lectures and talks.
Every accommodation has its own unique theme and original architectural designs, so it was fun when searching for accommodation as a lot of them were really nice and quirky.
The free gym access for students is an added bonus too.
On top of that, the staff team are very helpfully and polite.
I have created an independent record label Gawthorpe Ting Music, Content & Entertainment, and I am working on expanding our services, with the help of other artists in the local area.
Through the University’s Enterprise Team, I have received a broader understanding of what I need to do in terms of my record label ideas.
For example, they gave me advice on my business plan.
Through working with the team, I now know what I must focus on, which is narrowing my brainstorming ideas down and spending more time on the idea until completion and/or success.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/student-profiles/syed-g:
I ended up in Clearing because I got much higher grades than I thought I would get, so I decided to change course and pursue my passion for science.
And I saw that Huddersfield had so many opportunities in applied science.
One of the courses I was interested in at Huddersfield was Biochemistry.
This was due to Biochemistry’s large real-world applications and huge job opportunities due to its modules covering so many bases for a vast number of career paths.
I chose University of Huddersfield for its homely feel and the fact that it isn't as busy and noisy as many city centres can be, meaning you aren't stuck in traffic all morning, as well as not being overwhelmed by crowded streets.
This, however, doesn't make it a boring place in any way; the University offers hundreds of societies to join and mingle in, as well as there being plenty of activities available in the town, such as bowling, laser tag, escape rooms, night clubs, the list just goes on.
Plus, Huddersfield is very close to big UK cities such as Leeds and Manchester, for those people who enjoy more crowded areas with plenty to do.
“My experience with Clearing was super supportive and reassuring.”
I never thought I'd have the opportunity to choose from almost any university in England, so I was pretty underprepared for Clearing when I saw all my options in front of me.
However, I was able to call the University of Huddersfield Clearing helpline and ask to speak an actual professor who taught some of the biology modules.
We had a long chat about the courses I was interested in and the specifics of the modules, so I knew exactly what I would be studying during my time here.
This academic ended up being one of my lab instructors when I started studying here and he was just as friendly and helpful in the Lab as he was over the phone.
I found clearing to be very positive and much simpler than I thought.
When I called the University of Huddersfield Clearing helpline, everything moved at a pace where I could calmly assess everything and at no point was I rushed to make a decision.
In fact, they even allowed me to call back multiple times throughout the week and they were helpful right until the end.
When applying for University, make sure your course aligns with you future career aspirations, and even if you do not know what you'd like to do in the future, studying something you enjoy will help guarantee that you maintain interest in that field.
Plus, you’ll meet loads of other people with the same interest in that field, who may have an idea for what they would like to use their degree for, so sooner or later you will figure out all of the different career paths your passion can take you down.
I am enjoying my course very much as it covers biology and chemistry, both of which I really enjoy.
It’s interesting to see how they link together with the human body, and I feel like I can further understand all the different little bodily reactions which occur to keep us alive.
I have also met many people on this course who I have become good friends with, as well as talking to my lecturers and lab instructors who are such friendly and talkative people.
We have many labs for both biology and chemistry, as well as more general labs for other subjects such as forensic science, geography and optometry.
Our microbiology labs are equipped with more apparatuses and machines than I can count, ranging from PCR machines all the way to light microscopes.
The University have also implemented something called lecture capture which records all our lectures, which means that if for any reason you were not able to attend your lecture, you are able to watch it from home.
This is especially helpful when not all of the content is explained on the lecture slides and instead done verbally by the lecturer.
So, whether it is to catch up, to go back and revise or even to make new notes, lecture capture is incredibly useful for it all.
I have been as involved as possible by taking every opportunity I could and joining as many societies as I could fit in my schedule, which has allowed me to continue all the hobbies I enjoy such as Maui Thai, as well as letting me find new passions I never thought I would such as dance.
I am now I am involved in the annual dance showcase at the end of the year where we perform for the rest of the University!
I have also founded my own society, the “ Anime Society ” to allow students with shared interests to find one another and be able to converse and bond over their interests.
I understand coming to a new place to study can get lonely without friends, which makes being able to find people who share your interests a priceless thing.
Working as a Student Ambassador has provided me with the opportunity to work different jobs for the University and earn a very decent wage, as it pays much better than many common retail jobs.
What’s great about the Student Ambassador scheme is that there are no minimum number of hours in the year that you have to work, so if you suddenly find that you are overwhelmed with coursework and revision, you don't have to work any hours.
The jobs are also fairly simple such as leading campus tours, taking potential students to some of the accommodations, providing assistance on course related taster days and talking about your time at the University.
I am extremely happy I chose the University of Huddersfield as it has been so welcoming.
There is so much to do that I barely have time to play video games with my friends anymore as I am always going on social nights out, sorting out events for my society, attending Maui Thai and dance lessons, going mountaineering and hanging out with Uni friends; and shopping and exploring the endless food spots in the town centre.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/student-profiles/emma-b:
So my Clearing journey began when I gave birth to my daughter and was then thinking about my future career and goals that I wanted to achieve.
This originally led to me applying for a forensics course at Barnsley College University.
However, after applying, I had second thoughts and realised I was doing it for the wrong reasons – I had chosen the University because it was local to me.
I began researching other options and this is when I found out that Huddersfield offered blended learning courses, which are mainly based at home, which for me, was a huge benefit with me having a young infant.
The user friendly Course Finder tool on the website allowed me to look at multiple different courses I was interested in and gave me all the information I needed to then make a decision and apply to study Mental Health Nursing, which I never expected to be able to do, as I didn’t expect it to have the flexibility for me to do a lot of the study from home.
My experience of applying through Clearing was really positive and easy.
I submitted all my details on the Clearing form and was contacted within two days with an update.
After this, I received an online interview and some pre-interview scenarios to look at.
The interview was well structured and afterwards, the lecturer told me that it had gone well and I had been successful.
I then received an email later that day to confirm I had a place; it also explained my next steps for enrolling.
“It does seem daunting to go through Clearing, especially if you already have a place confirmed on a course, as nothing is set in stone, but I highly recommend it if you are wanting to change course or university, as in the future you will only regret it.”
Definitely!
I was hesitant and was just going to stick with my confirmed course as that seemed easier; however, this most likely would have just led to me doing a course I didn’t want to do and having a less flexible style of learning, which wouldn’t have fit in with my personal life.
My favourite thing about my course is the equal balance of practical and theory work.
I have just finished my first placement and feel I have learnt so much which I wouldn’t have learnt in a classroom.
Actually being in practice brings it to reality.
However, I do also understand the importance of building base knowledge, using lecture style learning and this is mainly completed online for blended learning students, which really helps me to maintain a good learning and life balance.
“I’m very happy that I switched to the University of Huddersfield through Clearing.
It has allowed me to study something I really want to do and that I am passionate about, and provided me with a flexible way of learning that fits in with my home life and other responsibilities as a parent.”
The new Daphne Steele facilities are amazing!
It truly is a state-of-the-art building for Health students.
It has all the modern equipment for clinical practice and is well designed with spacious rooms and stunning environments for working outside of the classrooms.
The quality of the teaching on my course is excellent.
There were a few bumps at the start of the road and it was a bit chaotic with technology issues for learning online but the lecturers sorted these promptly.
The support from lecturers is amazing and they are always quick to reply to any questions or emails you have.
In terms of the learning quality, it’s of an exceptionally high standard; all of the lecturers are knowledgeable about their specific subject areas, which means an optimum learning environment for us students.
Studying whilst caring for my daughter has been so easy.
This is the area in which I expected to struggle most, but due to the flexibility of blended learning, managing childcare has been much easier.
Due to being on a nursing course, we have to complete placements, which has also been extremely easy as we are given placement details beforehand, so I’ve been able to contact them in advance to go and look around and get to know my shift pattern.
In fact, the placement assessor asked if I had parental responsibilities and was very understanding of this and stated that if I needed to change any days, I could.
The support I have received from the University has been great.
Because I struggle with autism and especially the anxiety part of this, I have a specialist mentor who I have weekly sessions with.
We talk about all sorts, from how I’m managing my personal life to how I’m managing my workload at uni.
It helps substantially, especially when you just need that person to talk to for reassurance and guidance.
Go for it!
If I knew where I would be now and what I’m doing, I wouldn’t have thought twice about applying to Huddersfield.
You can overthink a lot and talk yourself out of doing something because it may not be in your comfort zone; however, sometimes you just have to overcome that and doing so has made me a more confident and determined individual, and a future nurse!

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/student-profiles/abdul-f:
I chose to study at the University of Huddersfield as it was a university that appealed to me greatly when I looked at the course I wanted to do and the structure of teaching that would take place.
When I attended an Applicant Visit Day at the University, the facilities available were all really state-of-the-art and the vast amount of equipment available to be used really appealed to me!
The location of the University wasn’t too far from where I live either, which has definitely made commuting back home easier at the end of the working week.
I chose to study Occupational Therapy as I have always wanted to work in healthcare and make a real difference in people’s lives, and I felt that the Occupational Therapy course would help me achieve this in the best way.
There are range of areas you can work in upon graduating, from helping victims of a car crash to walk again, to bettering someone’s mental health for years to come, through your care and input, it definitely is rewarding!
I really enjoy the practical side of the teaching on the course.
I’ve taken part in basic life support sessions which taught me how to properly perform CPR.
I’ve also had the chance to use specialist equipment such as hoists and Zimmer-frames, which has helped me to appreciate how occupational therapy can help improve a person’s quality of life.
"One of my favourite things about studying Occupational Therapy has got to be the support you receive whilst studying on the course.
There are Personal Academic Tutor sessions and academic skills sessions that you can book, which have been really beneficial to my studies."
Most of my lessons take place in the new Daphne Steele Building.
There are loads of study spaces such as the Student Lounge and group study areas dotted around on each of the floors.
There’s also an outdoor garden space with a wonderful view and lots of greenery and plantation around it.
The range of study areas gives me freedom to choose where I want to work, and I find them to be very uplifting environments.
As part of my course, we’ve got to use the Community House, which is essentially a replica of the inside of a house.
In this facility, we’ve been able to conduct a wide range of assessments and tasks that an occupational therapist would whilst out in the community.
This really helps you to practise your skills and apply these learned techniques on placements and in work.
"The Daphne Steele building and its facilities are honestly state-of-the-art in every way and the teaching spaces within the building are very spacious."
My work placements have been very informative and provided good opportunities for me to pursue my career goals.
During my first year, I had a four week placement at Pinderfields Hospital, where I was based on the A&E and Acute Care wards.
I gained a lot of experience and knowledge of the true role of an occupational therapist working in a multi-disciplinary team within a busy hospital setting.
During my second year, I’ve had a placement with the community mental health team under South-West Yorkshire NHS trust.
This placement sa w me conducting patient visits alongside my educator and taking on patient cases independently, which really helped enhance my career progression in a new setting.
I’ve also taken part in extra-curricular activities outside my course to help improve my employability, such as the Global Professional Award (GPA).
The GPA sessions have been very informative and engaging.
The sessions have involved collaborative group tasks where we simulated work-based scenarios.
I’ve also had the opportunity to construct an electives profile to help showcase how I spend my time productively in the working environment and highlight key employability skills that I have.
As a result, I’ve gained a lot of knowledge into the types of work I can go into when I graduate and how I can enhance my personal wellbeing whilst maintaining a proper work-life balance.
"My favourite thing about being a student at Huddersfield is the lovely campus we have, with a canal running through it.
The campus is very easy to get around and has a lot of natural greenery and study spaces dotted around it."
I live in student accommodation during the week, and I really like it.
The rooms are very good quality and feature modern facilities that make student life much easier, all while being very affordable.
My accommodation is only a five-minute walk from campus, which definitely makes accessing the University facilities very easy and makes getting to those 9am classes much easier!
The University of Huddersfield is a great place to be a student.
The lectures and seminars are structured very well and aren’t too overwhelming for the students on my specific course, and the facilities available are state-of-the-art.
I feel that the environment that students are surrounded by whilst learning can really impact their work ethic and how well they retain information, and Huddersfield provides the perfect environment to support this.
The University of Huddersfield is only getting better as the years go by and you can really feel that as a student.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/student-profiles/erin-w:
The thing that stood out most to me about the University was that it was close to my home so I could commute there, rather than having to get a train every day.
The facilities for photography students stood out to me as well, when I came on a tour.
These include seven photography bays, a dark room to develop film and a photography store that has a wide range of cameras, lights, lenses and much more.
All of this equipment is free to take out of the University and use, so this helps me develop myself as a photographer, which is amazing.
I applied to Huddersfield through UCAS extra because initially I wasn't going to go to university, I was going to do an internship, but my plans changed.
And I'm glad that I decided to come to university and especially Huddersfield because I've made a good friendship group and had a great experience so far.
I definitely feel like this is the best option for me as I have always loved photography from a young age, so I'm glad I have chosen to pursue my passion.
My college tutor supported me with applying through UCAS Extra.
I thought I had had little to no chance of getting accepted because I was applying after the January deadline, but I did get accepted, and I got an unconditional offer which I was thrilled about.
And my family were too as I’m the first in our family to go to university.
This just shows that even if you think something will not go through, do not lose hope!
“My experience of applying through UCAS Extra was good and the online application system was remarkably simple to use.”
I found applying through UCAS quite simple and easy to do.
There was a step-by-step list of things to do on the website and it tells you  whether you need to add more detail and when a section is complete.
Due to me applying after the January deadline I had to make sure I had everything in order and my portfolio was ready, just in case the University wanted to have a meeting or interview with me, but fortunately I was very lucky and I was given an unconditional offer.
I found attending the Open Day at Huddersfield very informative.
On the day, I visited the Barbara Hepworth Building, where Photography is based.
Here, my parents and I had a meeting with one of the course tutors in the photography studios, where he told us about the course and roughly what would happen on each year of the course.
On the main University plaza, there were lots of things happening, talks, tours, food trucks and entertainment.
We attended a tour of the University where we saw the whole of Student Central, which consisted of the SU shop, the cafeteria, the sports hall, the gym, squash courts, the Students’ Union and the library.
Our guide was very polite and took the time to go slow and talk through every place in detail.
We attended a talk where I found out that you can get jobs at the University, which I was really glad to hear.
And when I started at the Uni, I was lucky enough to be able to find work with the Students' Union.
“I would say that the facilities on my course are some of the best I have seen.”
I choose to study Photography because I have always loved the thought of being able to capture something in a photograph, and I have always had some type of camera to be able to practice with.
The main thing for me is that I am studying something that I really do like.
Plus, photography can offer quite a few career opportunities such as being able to work for yourself, working for businesses, and even hire companies.
The facilities on the Photography course at Huddersfield are very good and there is a wide range of equipment available in the photography store such as lights and cameras.
You can either use these in the studios or you can take them home.
There’s also a broad selection of paper and printing stock –  you can do any kind of printing here, and the price ranges for students are decent.
We have a very knowledgeable technician Jamie too, who is always happy to help you in whatever you may need.
He has also produced loads of online videos to provide guidance on setting up lighting, cameras and other equipment.
The tutors on the photography course bring in as many guests as possible to come and talk to us and show us some of their tricks, which is good for us to learn and make contacts for the future.
I would say that the teaching on the photography course is quite freeing.
The tutors on my course usually teach from presentation slides which are recorded, so you can look back if you need help while doing your practical tasks.
After we have had a lesson, we usually get let out to go and create our own work for the lesson that day.
The tutors tend to stay in the room, so we can come and see them for advice on our work, or even just a general chat.
That's what I love about our tutors, they are always on hand to talk.
On campus I have been involved in quite a lot of stuff.
I have a job in the Students’ Union as a representative for the School of Computing and Engineering, which is nice as I am learning new things and talking to different students.
I work as a photographer for the Students’ Union as well and take photos when they have events on.
I have also taken photography for members of staff such as headshots for their professional profiles.
I am also a Student Ambassador and I have been for the past two years.
This is a paid role and gives me a wide range of things to do, such as taking part in photoshoots, giving campus tours to college students and writing blogs for the University’s marketing team.
“As a commuter student, I still feel involved in campus and student life and I try to do as much as I can to take part in activities at the University.”
I decided to commute to University because I live in Huddersfield, so it made more sense for me to commute from home to campus, rather than paying to live in student accommodation.
I drive to uni and it's not that long of a journey for me and there are quite a few car parks close to campus.
Even though I commute to campus, I get as involved in student life as I can.
I have a job in the Students' Union and I'm a photographer for them too.
I'm also a Student Ambassador and use the campus ActiveHud gym which I go to around three to four times a week.
I am also part of two societies and three student networks, so you could say that I am quite a busy student!
I have also been doing photography collaborations with fashion students during my time here.
This has helped me to build my portfolio and made me feel very much a part of student life, as these fashion students have seen my work and then asked me to help them.
My advice to anyone thinking of studying at Huddersfield is to make sure you choose a subject you want to study for three to four years.
As they say, 'if you do a job you love, you never work a day in your life'.
So if you choose a subject you love, you won’t feel like you are studying and you will sail through.
So do your research, speak to people who have done the course and come to an Open Day at Huddersfield, so you can look around and get a feel for the place.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/student-profiles/sophie-r:
The University of Huddersfield just felt so incredibly friendly and welcoming to me, and being a smaller uni, it really felt like a close-knit community.
The teaching staff got to know students rather than students being just another face in the crowd and the level of support offered seemed far better than some of the other unis I had seen.
I also love the location – the Uni is situated over a canal and it’s beautiful.
The location is also convenient, you aren’t far away from many major cities, including Leeds and Manchester, but you’re situated in a slightly quieter, less overwhelming area, and still one with plenty to do!
The Psychology staff here at Huddersfield are genuinely some of the friendliest, funniest, most down to earth, approachable people you will meet.
They are just so lovely to talk to; helpful and enthusiastic not only about their subject, but discussing it with students also.
They massively stood out to me in that aspect on the Open Day I attended, more so than the other universities I saw.
I also love that my course uses a variety of different assignment methods, rather than just written essays or exams.
About half of our assignments are multiple choice tests, and then we have a few written pieces, a couple of exams, and usually a poster, presentation or other kind of assignment.
It’s really mixed, and I really appreciate that: it plays to different people’s strengths and doesn’t overload you with too much of one assignment type.
The Open Day is what sold Huddersfield to me.
I mean, without attending an Open Day, it’s very hard to get a good idea of what the Uni feels like, what the teaching staff are like, what the location is like, so on and so forth.
When I went to the Open Day, I got to attend a Psychology course talk, a campus tour and an accommodation tour and every one of those things just sold Huddersfield for me.
The accommodation was brilliant, really lovely and really well priced compared to other places.
Seriously, the selection and pricing of student accommodation in Huddersfield is the best I’ve seen anywhere in the UK.
The campus is lovely, it’s built by and over the Huddersfield narrow canal, which is beautiful, and the overall campus just has such a nice community feel to it.
“At the Open Day, the teaching staff were just so funny and friendly; they made me feel so comfortable at the subject talk, and I knew I’d be happy at this university.
I am a part of the climbing society, which involves rope climbing and bouldering.
I had never done much of either prior to joining and had never been able to get to the top of a rock climbing wall as a child.
I’ve done so much and come so far since joining, and found a huge passion for climbing.
The society itself is very friendly, and being in the society allows me discounts to local climbing centres, which gives me loads of opportunities to climb both alone and with others.
It has been very worthwhile!
There are loads of other activities that take place on campus, including relatively frequent record and fashion sales, board game afternoons and all sorts of different festivities for celebrations across cultures, which I really appreciate.
There really is something on each week at the Uni.
“The campus is really aesthetic and in a decent location, where there’s plenty to do in Huddersfield itself, without the chaos of a large city, but plenty of easy options for travel to various big cities when you want to.”
The Student Ambassador scheme has been really great as a small part-time role where I can earn some extra money and take part in more of the Uni’s activities.
I can get paid to help out on open and applicant days, which I’ve really enjoyed, as it gives me an opportunity to work with different people and meet potential students.
It's been a great way to make friends and make new connections with people at the University and provides an individual with really valuable CV experience.
It’s a zero hours contract too, so you can apply to work as many or as little jobs as you want and choose what you feel most comfortable with and when you want to work, meaning if you have a really busy period with assignments, you can take on less roles.
It’s very flexible, which is great as a student.
I really would!
It has a really nice supportive community feel, owing partially to it being a smaller uni than some larger institutions.
Lecturers can get to know you personally and there is a feel of much more emphasis on personalised student support than other places.
There are also plenty of activities and festivals at the Uni throughout the year, often multiple times a week, and a huge range of society options.
If you are considering Huddersfield, I would really recommend coming for an Open Day and seeing it for yourself in person!

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/student-profiles/edwin-a:
"What made Huddersfield different compared to many other universities was that there were less written exams to sit and more focus on a ‘learn by doing’ approach through practical sessions."
I had a passion for learning Games Programming and I was amazed by games programmers around the world; plus I loved playing console and retro games when I was younger.
Before starting the course, I had started learning with Pygame to understand how the game loop works.
With Pygame, I worked on retro-based games such as Pong and Aim Trainer, which was interesting, and I also practiced concepts such as collisions.
Studying Computer Science with Games Programming was my chance to delve further into Games Programming and advance my skills.
"I made Huddersfield my firm choice since it was one of the universities which offers a broad range of specialisms within Computer Science, compared to many other universities that are more restrictive and focused on studying Computer Science at its core ."
Before I enrolled at the University, I attended an Applicant Visit Day.
The day began with a talk conducted by the Head of the Department, who spoke about what Computer Science is.
This was followed by a talk from one of the Course Leaders about the course itself and its specialisms, such as games programming, artificial intelligence, software engineering and cyber security.
There was also a talk on the placement programme, which was interesting as I was potentially interested in doing a placement.
We were also taken into a practical robotic session, which was written with Microbit and the McQueen Robot, which was fun and interesting.
"When I attended an Applicant Visit Day, I was surrounded by a diverse range of students of different age groups."
There are lots of great facilities within the School of Computing and Engineering.
This includes computer labs which have specific IDEs and game engines installed.
Most of the labs on the fifth floor of the Spark Jones building are like this, with most Computers set up with gaming PCs with RGB keyboard formats.
This is useful for programming games and working with game engines and advanced programming.
There are various facilities and areas around the University Campus too, where I can study and relax, such as the Library, Spark Jones and the Haslett Building, which I find great for eating and working in.
Before enrolling at the University, it was recommended to me to apply for support from the Disability Services team.
As part of this, I had a phone call appointment with one of the Disability Advisors about the support available at the University, as well as the opportunity to attend an autism induction event, where I met the other advisors and students; one of them was on the same course as me too.
Within the first three weeks of starting my course, I had different support workers who I interacted well with, and they helped guide me to my classes and supported with my practical class sessions too.
Other support in place for me is the use of extra time for exams and attending a social Autism Lunch Club.
The Autism Lunch Club is a fun place to go to interact with students who are also diagnosed with autism.
There are also two societies for disabled students, which have been interesting to attend.
"There is tremendous support for students with disabilities, based on their needs."
I’d recommend the Disability Services to students with disabilities as I think it’s beneficial for students to interact with one another, not only as network, but as friends too.
As well as providing support for students with disabilities, there are also societies that students are able to attend to mingle and interact with other students with disabilities.
There are various activities that I have taken part in outside of my studies at the University.
I’ve joined societies such as badminton, BSL, darts, frag gaming and chess, where I’ve been able to interact with students based on common interests.
I’ve also attended on-campus events such as a Hackathon, organised by the Computer Science department, and social events organised by the Students' Union.
Some of the most interesting events I’ve been involved with are jam night sessions, where I’ve been able to play the drums with other musicians.
It was fun to interact and improvise with other students who have a passion for music and entertain others through our performances.
I also work as a Student Ambassador.
This is a paid role, which has allowed me to work on jobs such as providing campus tours to prospective students, taking part in marketing photoshoots and blogging for the University website.
The campus is beautiful and clean, which makes it a good place to walk around with friends or by myself.
In my spare time, I have taken various photos of the campus.
One of my favourite places on campus is the canal, it’s a beautiful spot with excellent views for sight-seeing and taking photos.
I’d definitely recommend the University of Huddersfield to prospective students.
The University is located in a good town for sightseeing and attractions, and has some great societies for students to join to have fun and make friends.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/student-profiles/phoebe-b:
“I spoke to quite a few different people that attended Huddersfield and received positive reviews from everyone about how much they loved studying here.”
Huddersfield was one of only a small number of universities that offered a Professional Policing course, so I did some research online and from that I felt that I would love it here.
The website showed off the University in such a positive light and I loved the opportunities that it showed that I could have.
I looked at lots of universities when deciding where to study but I was drawn to Huddersfield for a number of different reasons.
I loved the modern look and feel of the campus, as well as all the buildings being close together.
Also, I spoke to other students who studied here and what stood out to me was how they felt they were treated by the staff.
Often at university, students can feel distanced from their lecturers but everyone I spoke to at Huddersfield told me how personable the lecturers are.
Since I was a child, I have been interested in the work that police officers do and was fascinated watching Police Interceptors as a child!
And I’ve always wanted a job which allows me to be constantly active and challenges my mind on a daily basis.
I had the option to complete a degree apprenticeship with the police, but this would have required a lot of learning on the job, which I didn’t feel ready for.
Coming to University instead has allowed me to gain a lot more life experience and confidence, whilst learning about the theory of policing before actually going into the role.
My favourite thing about my course is that because we are quite a small group, it allows our lecturers to get to know us on a more personal level.
This helps as it feels like you can talk to them about anything and they know you by name rather than as just another student.
Also, being in a small group allows our lecturers to give us lots of feedback on any assignments and essays, which is super helpful for future improvement on our work.
I found out about the Headstart Huddersfield scheme when I attended an Open Day and spoke to Student Ambassadors, who told me about how it could help me gain more experience before attending university.
I enjoyed completing Headstart it as it helped me to reflect on my experience of attending an Open Day and by doing this, I realised how much I wanted to come to this university.
I also got a better idea as to what University work would be like, so I was able to bridge the gap between college and university level skills.
I would definitely recommend Headstart because it gives you the opportunity to gain 8 extra UCAS points, which is really helpful.
It also helps you to develop skills which are useful for university such as writing and research.
It doesn’t take long to do but can be very beneficial for your future.
“Attending an Open Day helped me to gain more information about the University, and as a result I was confident in choosing it for one of my UCAS options.”
I found the Open Day useful as there were lots of different stands to give me information about different services and areas of the university.
I went to a talk on my course which was highly informative and allowed me to meet my Course Leader and ask them questions.
I also took an accommodation tour, which was helpful to give me an idea of the quality of the student halls I would be living in if I chose Huddersfield.
Once I received an offer from Huddersfield, I was invited to an Applicant Visit Day.
This day works quite similarly to an Open Day but provides more practical sessions for your course.
For example, I attended a session where I was able to see the facilities that we would be using on my course.
We also had a short lecture, similar to how our classes would be as students at the University.
“The Applicant Visit Day helped me to gain a clearer insight into what my course would look like if I attended this university, and this day helped me to decide that I wanted to attend Huddersfield.”
During my time at Huddersfield I have been involved in women’s football.
As part of this, we get access to training facilities and play matches most Wednesdays.
We also have a weekly fitness session in the University gym where we do different activities such as spin classes.
We go out most Wednesday nights too with a different theme each week but also hold sober socials where everyone can get involved, such as going out for meals or bowling.
I really enjoy being part of this team as it has allowed me to make new friends and socialise with people outside of my course.
This is a paid role and has been so useful to me as it allows me to get involved with many different opportunities such as helping with Open Days, leading campus tours and taking part in student panels.
It’s a completely flexible role, where I'm able to pick when I want to work, which allows me to fit my jobs around studies.
Through being part of the Student Ambassador scheme, I feel that I have become more confident, particularly when talking to people and I can confidently lead groups of students in activities, which I think I would have struggled with before joining the University.
“I am so glad that I chose to study at Huddersfield and have thoroughly enjoyed it in the time that I have been here so far.”
In my opinion, the student accommodation in Huddersfield is some of the most affordable across the country and there are lots of different options.
I certainly feel that I get value for money with my room and the facilities that I have access to.
For example, I have my own bathroom, which was very important to me when booking a room.
I also have free access to a gym, cinema room, study area and games room which has helped with making new friends and socialising.
Plus, my room and the kitchen are both quite big and have lots of places for me to store my things; and my accommodation is about a five minute walk from campus so that makes it really easy to get to lectures.
My favourite thing about being a student at Huddersfield is that I have access to so many different services and departments across the University.
For example, there is a dedicated Academic Skills Team who I have worked with purely to enhance my writing skills when completing assignments, which has been really useful and helped to improve my grades.
Another department that has been helpful to me is the Wellbeing Team, who work to ensure that students are coping with the pressures of university and make sure to assist them with any personal issues that they may be struggling with.
Having so many different people to speak to at the University has helped me massively during my time here.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/after-you-apply/applicant-visit-day:
Our Applicant Visit Days are now closed, however you can still visit us at one of our Open Days .
Our Applicant Visit Days typically start between 9.00 and 10.30am and run through to 1.30pm depending on what activities you choose to take part in.
Our Applicant Visit Days are designed to give you a taste of what studying with us will be like.
We’ll provide a detailed programme for the day when you arrive on campus.
You are welcome to attend with your parent/guardian.
Parking is available on a first come first served basis in our Firth Street Car Park (postcode HD1 3BN) and Queen Street South Car Park (postcode HD1 3DU).
Parking is available on campus for Blue Badge Holders (please use the postcode HD1 3DH in your Sat Nav).
Firth Street - HD1 3BN (167 bays)
See more about how to find us
Please use the Campus map to help you navigate around our campus.
Find out more about the Daphne Steele building which is part of our new campus which is now open!

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/schools-and-colleges-liaison-service/meet-the-team:
The Schools and Colleges Liaison Service:
All members of the Schools and Colleges Liaison team at Huddersfield have passed the relevant safeguarding checks (DBS) and have undertaken child safeguarding training.
Head of Schools and Colleges Liaison Service
tel:+441484957191
j.m.pink@hud.ac.uk
Deputy Head of Schools and Colleges Liaison Service
tel:+441484957166
A.l.kenningley@hud.ac.uk
+441484957191
After graduating from the University of Leeds with a BA in Management Studies and Philosophy, I joined Sainsbury’s on their Graduate Management Training Programme.
After a few years at Sainsbury’s working in and around North London, I moved back to West Yorkshire in 1992 to join the University of Huddersfield.
From 1994 onwards I have headed up the Schools and Colleges Liaison Service seeing it grow from a team of one and a half to a team of seventeen over the years.
Whilst at the University, I have gained an MA in Education Marketing from the University of Central England and have gained fellowship of the Chartered Management Institute.
I am a member of the West Yorkshire’s Uni Connect steering group, Go Higher West Yorkshire, I chair the Kirklees Community Learning Trust and I am the Chair of the Board of Directors for C+K Careers.
I have two grown up children and I love travelling, reading, and going to the gym (in that order!)
+441484957166
I have worked in the Schools & Colleges Liaison team at the University of Huddersfield since 2006 and I’ve been Deputy Head of the Service since 2017.
My job is varied and I enjoy working with young people, especially when you can see how the work done may change their perceptions of Higher Education!
Having left college at 18 and entering the world of work, I decided a few years down the line to go to university and was so glad I did.
Encouraging young people to enter into Higher Education through the work I do gives me a great sense of achievement.
In addition to the work I do at the university with schools and colleges, I have held several voluntary roles within HELOA (the professional association of staff in Higher Education who work in student recruitment, outreach, marketing and admissions), most recently being the UK Vice Chair for Group Development, which allowed me to liaise and collaborate with staff from various universities across the UK.
I have also held voluntary positions within schools, including parent governor at a local secondary school and trustee on the Board of the Valley Learning Partnership (a Strategic Learning Partnership which formalises collaboration between groups of schools in Calderdale and neighbouring areas).
I recently completed CMI Level 5 Certificate in Management & Leadership and CMI Level 7 Strategic Management & Leadership.
Prior to working at the university, I worked in marketing roles at De Montfort University, Bradford College, Impact Theatre Training and Wakefield Council, so I have an insight into a variety of institutions.
Outside work I like walking challenges, having undertaken the Yorkshire 3 Peaks a couple of times, the Ullswater Way the Northumberland Coast Mighty Hike.
I have two boys who keep me very busy, particularly with their various sporting activities, in my spare time.
Schools and Colleges Liaison Officer (West Yorkshire)
tel:+441484957207
g.j.stead@hud.ac.uk
Schools and Colleges Liaison Officer (North and West Yorkshire)
tel:+441484957093
h.alipoor@hud.ac.uk
Recruitment Events Coordinator (Arts and Humanities)
tel:+441484471192
H.Brumby@hud.ac.uk
Recruitment Events Coordinator
tel:+441484258337
K.S.Walker@hud.ac.uk
Schools and Colleges Liaison Officer (North West)
tel:+441484957138
k.filimon@hud.ac.uk
Recruitment Events Coordinator (Computing and Engineering)
tel:+441484 258557
K.Firth2@hud.ac.uk
Schools and Colleges Liaison Officer (South Yorkshire)
tel:+441484957201
M.T.Shelbourne@hud.ac.uk
n.parkerwood@hud.ac.uk
tel:+441484471044
R.Mountford@hud.ac.uk
Schools and Colleges Liaison Officer (Widening Participation)
tel:+441484957124
r.cohen@hud.ac.uk
Schools & Colleges Liason Officer (Progression Module & Headstart)
tel:+441484957129
s.craven@hud.ac.uk
Internal Events Manager
tel:+441484256667
S.Daley@hud.ac.uk
Recruitment Events Coordinator (Business, Education and Law)
tel:+441484257520
T.Kuwengwa2@hud.ac.uk
+441484957129
I coordinate the University’s schemes that attract UCAS points: primarily the Progression Module and Headstart Huddersfield.
My role involves working with key individuals in schools and colleges to publicise and recruit students onto the schemes.
I work with partner institutions, including Leeds Beckett University, to develop existing and new teaching and assessment resources for the Progression Module.
In addition I am responsible for developing and coordinating training for teachers and providing ongoing support for the schemes.
I also work with schools and colleges to organise and deliver a range of campus visits, presentations and workshops.
I have worked in Schools Liaison, Student Recruitment and Widening Participation roles for over 15 years and prior to that I worked for an Education Business Partnership on enterprise and mentoring projects.
I am a qualified teacher of History with an MA in History and PGCert Technology Enhanced Learning.
I am also a published education author and contributor to a number of UK school subscription publications.
In my spare time I enjoy reading and walking the Calder Valley where I live with my husband and two children.
+441484957124
The main function of my role is to provide awareness of Higher Education for young people from a vulnerable background.
Within my role I am dedicated to ensuring that young people continue to be inspired about the possibility of Higher Education and the opportunities that education can unlock.
I am responsible for the management of our looked after young person program working in conjunction with our student’s services team.
I am the regional rep for Yorkshire and Humber on the National Network for Care Leavers and I sit on the Northclass group.
I also work with the Go Higher West Yorkshire Partnership and sit on 3 of their vulnerable students groups.
I also run an exciting project with local primary and secondary schools looking at raising aspirations with students who come from more challenged and disadvantaged backgrounds.
This is called the Aspire project and it is being run over 10 years.
I have worked within the HE sector for over 19 years, and I believe passionately about Education for all.
My life outside of work is taken up with my family and all that entails!
+441484957138
After studying English Literature at the University of Sheffield and then working in Market Research in Leeds, I began working in Higher Education in the South West in 2014 – and now I’m delighted to have returned to the north to continue my career in this area.
I am passionate about promoting fair access to university and ensuring that all young people have access to equal educational opportunities.
My role involves delivering aspiration-raising talks and workshops and attending careers fairs to provide information and guidance to students and their families about the variety of Higher Education options available to them.
I’ve recently taken over responsibility for building relationships with schools and colleges in the North West in particular; I’m based in the region and spend the majority of my time paying visits to institutions throughout the area, from Cheshire to Cumbria!
When I’m not at work, I’m particularly interested in live music, theatre and literature and you can often find me at festivals of all shapes, sizes and genres.
+441484957207
My role primarily involves giving information, advice and guidance to prospective students and their families.
This involves delivering talks and workshops and attending careers fairs to provide information and guidance.
I also specifically work to build links between the University and schools and colleges in the West Yorkshire region and host campus visits.
I enjoy working in a variety of different settings and meeting new people every day.
I have been working in Higher Education since 2011 both in the UK and Canada, working in a variety of different roles in marketing, admissions, student recruitment and outreach.
I have a degree in History and International Relations and I am very passionate about the wealth of opportunities Higher Education can bring.
I also hold a CIM Professional Diploma in Marketing and have Postgraduate Certificate in Counselling Psychotherapy.
Outside of work, I have a busy family life with two young children.
I also enjoy practising yoga and going on retreat weekends for some well earned peace and quiet!
+441484957093
I moved to Huddersfield from Bradford in 2013 when I came to study BA English Language and Linguistics, then continuing on to MA Intercultural Communication.
Throughout my four years as a student I worked as a Senior Student Ambassador, a job that I really enjoyed and inspired me to continue working in HE, specifically Schools and Colleges Liaison.
Working as a Schools and Colleges Officer my job involves promoting the University and/or HE in schools and colleges across the UK, with a particular focus on North and West Yorkshire.
This involves going into schools to deliver presentations and workshops, hosting and delivering activities on campus, as well as building and maintaining relationships with staff members within schools and colleges.
In my spare time I love going to new places, whether that be in the UK or abroad.
Outside of work you will find me scrolling various search engines for the latest cheap flight!
+441484957201
I have been working at the University of Huddersfield since 2018 as a Schools and Colleges Officer.
University of Huddersfield was where I studied my degree in Youth and Community Work, and since graduating I’d always hoped to get a job working with students and progressing them into Higher Education and the opportunities it can provide them with.
My job is very varied, some days I’ll be delivering an assembly to a whole year group or a small classroom and on others I could be at large scale careers events in a football stadium!
In addition to my role as an Officer, I am a Vice Chair (Communications) for HELOA (North East, Yorkshire and the Humber) – this helps me to see what’s happening in the world of Higher Education, build closer links with other Universities and share best practice.
+44 (0) 1484 258337
In 2020 I graduated from the University of Leeds with a degree in BSc Geography.
As part of my studies, I had the opportunity to travel to Costa Rica where I was able to conduct my own research project, observing ant communities to determine the impact of different land uses on biodiversity.
Following my graduation, I joined the NHS Test and Trace programme, initially as a call agent before being promoted to the service helpdesk.
In my spare time I have volunteered with the National Trust, Colne Valley Tree Society, and West Yorkshire Dog Rescue.
I joined the University of Huddersfield in March 2022 in the role of Schools and Colleges Liaison administrator, where my responsibilities include the coordination of the Student Ambassador Scheme, assisting in the organisation of promotional events for both Higher Education and for the University, and managing the SCLS social media channels – along with much more!
When I’m not working you can usually find me relaxing at the cinema or going to see live music.
I enjoy spending time outdoors in the beautiful countryside surrounding where I live, where I get to walk my two naughty whippets.
+441484258337
I have worked in the Education sector since 2016, in a variety of primary & secondary schools, colleges and universities; my main interest is encouraging students to achieve more than they thought was possible and opening their eyes to opportunities they may not have considered.
My career experience covers a wide range of areas such as assisting teaching, SEN support, attendance, employability, wellbeing, accommodation and assisting international students in their transition to UK institutions.
Alongside this, I hold a BSc (Hons) in Psychology and recently achieved a MA in Education from the University of Huddersfield.
My role in the Schools & Colleges Liaison service focuses on building relationships within the West Yorkshire region – including providing guidance and information at careers fairs, delivering participation-widening and aspiration-raising workshops, and hosting campus visits.
In my personal time, I enjoy oil painting, swimming and am a big cat lover.
I am always pushing myself to beat my personal best in the pool and completing distance challenges – my most recent ones are swimming the length of the Amalfi Coast and The Channel!
+441484 258557
I have worked with the University since 2022, spanning across different recruitment activities such as admissions, events and marketing.
Before starting at the University, I worked as Admissions Officer in a South Yorkshire college, where I completed my apprenticeship in Business Administration and began my journey within Student Recruitment.
I have always enjoyed working with colleagues to enhance the experience for prospective students, as it can be a daunting process working out whether University is for you, so anything to make that process easier and more enjoyable.
I currently work as Recruitment Events Coordinator, and my role is to support in delivering recruitment events and activities that take place on behalf of the University, in particular for the School of Computing and Engineering.
In my spare time I love to sing and perform at local gigs, spend time with my beautiful Labrador Bonnie and see my friends & family.
In 2016, I graduated from the University of Hull with a BA in English and Drama, and the following year I relocated to Stratford-Upon-Avon to undertake an MA in Shakespeare Studies at the University of Birmingham’s Shakespeare Institute.
Following the completion of my MA in 2018, I completed a Venue Management apprenticeship with the Royal Shakespeare Company, which resulted in my employment as a Duty Manager at the theatre, a varied and rewarding role in which I was lucky enough to work with a wide range of creatives when managing a number of performances, workshops and events.
When the theatres closed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, I took the opportunity to begin an interdisciplinary health/humanities PhD, combining my interest in the histories of medicine and emotion to explore the impact of melancholy on the male body in a range of Early Modern texts and treatises.
I worked hard to accrue a range of public engagement and teaching experience over the course of my PhD, curating an exhibition for the Royal Society of Medicine, organising a number of Research Symposiums and working closely with a range of GCSE and A-Level English students in mainstream and SEND provisions.
I joined the University of Huddersfield in May 2025 as a Recruitment Events Coordinator, a role which combines my passion for working to better the outcomes of young people with my experience of events management in the Arts sector.
Outside of work, I enjoy long walks, yoga, live music/theatre, an overpriced coffee and croissant, and spending time in North Yorkshire with my family (and our lurchers!).
I have been working at the University of Huddersfield since 2014 as the Internal Events Manager.
I hold a BA from Nottingham Trent University and a Master’s in International Events Management from Leeds Metropolitan University.
I have worked within the Events Industry for over 20 years and specialise in the planning and delivery of high-profile events.
I’ve worked across a diverse range of sectors including Nightlife, Agencies, the Arts, Government, and Education.
At the University I collaborate closely with the Vice- Chancellors office, academic schools, and professional services to deliver strategic internal events.
I also support external clients with venue hire and event planning.
Outside of work, I’m a fan of musical theatre, stand-up comedy, and TV crime dramas.
I’m lucky to have an amazing family and circle of friends—and I absolutely love my holidays!
+441484257520
+441484471044

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/schools-and-colleges-liaison-service/activities-for-students:
All of our sessions are designed to increase awareness of Higher Education and raise aspirations.
The following table outlines the sessions we offer, the Gatsby benchmarks met and who they are suitable for.
Discover more about what is included in each session by clicking on each one.
We want to be as flexible as possible to meet the needs of each school and college we work with, so have devised variations of our sessions with different lengths and levels of interactivity.
If you would like to book any of the sessions below, contact us on 01484 472282 or schools.liaison@hud.ac.uk
Our Higher Education preparation sessions also fit within the requirements to meet many of the Gatsby Benchmarks.
The Gatsby Benchmarks that are most closely aligned with our activities are:
Every school and college should have an embedded programme of career education and guidance that is known and understood by pupils, parents, teachers and employers.
Every pupil, and their parent, should have access to good quality information about future study options and labour market opportunities.
Opportunities for advice and support to be tailored to the needs of each pupil.
All teachers should link curriculum learning with careers.
For example, STEM subject teachers should highlight the relevance of STEM subjects for a wide range of future career paths.
Every pupil should have multiple opportunities to learn from employers about work, employment and the skills that are valued in the workplace.
This can be through a range of enrichment activities including visiting speakers, mentoring and enterprise schemes.
All pupils should understand the full range of learning opportunities that are available to them.
This includes both academic and vocational routes and learning in schools, colleges, universities and in the workplace.
Covering all areas relevant to those considering higher education, students will be able to gain an understanding of how to make appropriate choices and apply them effectively.
Email: schools.liaison@hud.ac.uk
Reflecting on the various routes to employment and the potential career benefits of choosing Higher Education, students will be able to develop an understanding of how to make appropriate choices.
An introduction to life at the University of Huddersfield including courses and facilities on offer and careers beyond graduation.
Taking the students through key information and how they can start to prepare for entering Higher Education alongside their current studies.
Students will be able to understand the difference between a degree apprenticeship and a traditional degree and decide if this is a viable option for them.
Preparing those who are interested in or have been accepted into university by providing information and tips about preparing for the first few months.
This session can be adapted to include information relevant to each year group.
Covers the key components of a successful presentation such as content, delivery styles and different tools to utilise.
Covering the process of preparing for interviews, students will be able to examine skills, knowledge and competencies needed.
Giving students a good insight into how study skills can be developed to improve performance and how revision techniques can help in the run up to exams.
Students will learn the importance of a CV, how they are used and what employers look for when going through the recruitment process.
Useful for students currently looking for employment or applying to university.
Helps identify the steps and skills learnt within the EPQ including what it is and the benefits and expectations associated with the qualification.
This is a more comprehensive session so get in touch to learn more.
Mock interviews can be conducted by our staff to support the application process and will act as practice to improve performance and confidence.
Critical feedback will allow students to adapt their approach when in a real interview situation.
Takes students through what UCAS is and options when applying to university.
An introductory session for students at the beginning of their journey, whether interested in university or apprenticeships.
Explaining the process of UCAS applications, students will be able to identify key skills, and experiences to include and produce a suitable personal statement supporting their course choice.
Covering all aspects of the UCAS Extra and Clearing process
Students will be able to understand the financial terminology, what the costs associated with university are and what financial support is available.
This session provides students with an honest perspective of university as a whole.
An opportunity to quiz current university students about like in Higher Education which can be a stand alone session or added to another talk.
Subject to Ambassador availability.
Visit Huddersfield to experience a university campus first hand and meet current students, Students will develop knowledge of a range of HE courses and gain an awareness of the physical, cultural and educational environment of a HEI in order to make appropriate decisions about their future.
We can only accommodate 1 group with a maximum of 50 students.
This session will take approximately 4 hours.
Designed as a mini HE day, it offers students the opportunity to learn more about Higher Education and see the facilities available at the University.
We can only accommodate 1 group with a maximum of 100 students.
This session will take approximately 2 hours.
Delivered at your school or college by subject specialists, the discover programme allows your students to explore a wide range of topics, offering insights into a new subject area and developing career awareness.
Further information can be found at hud.ac/discover-programme
Our taster days allow students to gain first-hand experience of what it's like to study a subject at university.
We regularly attend careers and HE Fairs held by schools and colleges to provide impartial advice on applying to Higher Education, supported by information about courses at the University of Huddersfield.
Please contact us if you would like us to attend a fair at your school.
This session outlines the programme, eligibility criteria and application process to help students understand what is expected of them to successfully complete the scheme.
Find out more at hud.ac/headstart or contact Sophie Craven at s.craven@hud.ac.uk
Headstart Huddersfield is a scheme that offers eligible students, interested in applying to the University of Huddersfield, the opportunity to gain an extra 8 UCAS points.
The benefits of Headstart Huddersfield:
This session meets the following Gatsby Benchmark/s: GB2, GB7
Contact: Sophie Craven
Tel: 01484 957129
Email: S.Craven@hud.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/schools-and-colleges-liaison-service/activities-for-teachers-advisers-and-parents:
We know how important the support students receive from teachers, advisers and parents is.
We offer a number of events, talks and workshops to help keep you up to date with everything HE.
These sessions can be delivered in school or college or at the University depending on the activity type.
The programme enables teachers and advisers to update their knowledge on subject areas, industry developments, progression to HE, careers and employability, as well as education leadership and management themes.
This workshop includes:
Teachers and Advisers will be able to appreciate the importance of references, understand what information admissions tutors are looking for, follow a guide on what to/not to include in references and learn how to produce effective references.
Organised in conjunction with Calderdale and Kirklees Careers, for Calderdale and Kirklees parents.
Information stands on careers and courses as well as a programme of presentations covering why go to university, a parent’s guide to Higher Education and student fees and financial support.
This presentation covers all aspects of student finance including tuition fees, loans and grants.
Content includes:
Parents, teachers and advisers will be able to understand financial terminology, understand what the costs are and what financial support is available.‌
A comprehensive and structured off-the-shelf HE preparation programme for sixth form and college students.
The module comprises four units:
-       You and Your Career
-       Exploring Your Future
-       Managing Your Money
-       Marketing Yourself
E-mail: s.craven@hud.ac.uk‌

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/subject-specific-activities:
If you're attending a Taster Day you may be able to gain an extra 8 UCAS points.
See what Accounting, Finance and Economics activities we have available.
See what activities we have available for Arts and Humanities.
See what Business and Management activities we have available.
From cyber security, artificial intelligence and games development, we have a whole range of in-person and online workshops for you and your students.
See what Childhood, Education and Teaching activities we have available.
Find out more about our Taster Days, Engineering Grand Challenge and exciting Discover Lectures.
See what Health Professions and Social Care activities we have available.
See what Law activities we have available.
See what Marketing activities we have available.
Competitions, teacher CPD event, brand new interactive workshops and taster days.
Find out what Music Technology have to offer.
See what Optometry and Pharmacy activities we have available.
See what Science activities we have available.
See what Psychology, Criminology and Policing activities we have available.
See what Sports, Exercise and Nutrition Sciences activities we have available.
See what Social Work, Health and Social Care activities we have available.

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/undergraduate/placements/meet-our-students:
Find out something new about the industry you are interested or simply find a new industry that interests you!
Software Engineering BSc(Hons) student John-Calvin Mafura told us about his year’s placement with Sony Electronics.
He believes the skills, experience and professional qualifications he has acquired so far at University will help him to achieve his career goals.
We talked to Zubin, one of our Transport and Logistics Management students about his work placement at GTA (Govia Thameslink Railway).
John-Calvin Mafura, one of our Software Engineering BSc(Hons) students talked to us about his year’s placement with Sony Electronics.
“The Artificial Intelligence (AI) module on my course was great preparation for my year in industry.
At uni, the computers also have software that’s used in the real world, like PyCharm, so I was already familiar with it when I started my placement.
“I worked on an AI project at Sony which was to track the performance of the new Sony Bravia TV.
The project gave me experience of exciting new concepts like neural networks, object detection and multithreading/processing.
My placement year has inspired me to pursue a career in software engineering especially within the artificial intelligence/machine learning field.
“I’ve also gained professional qualifications alongside my degree and digital skills accreditations.
And I’ve entered coding competitions and challenges such as Google Kick Start and Hacktoberfest.
“All this, combined with the teaching on my course, has made me a much more confident software engineer than when I started and will really help me to transition into life after uni.”
Placements are a key part of the courses at Huddersfield.
We know how much employers value graduates who have real-world experience on their CV and that’s why we encourage our students to make the most of the opportunities available.
One of our Transport and Logistics Management students, Zubin Motashaw talked to us about his placement at GTA (Govia Thameslink Railway).
“From a young age, I knew I’d always wanted to work in the transport industry and I was proud to play a part in helping two major rail projects take place successfully during my placement at GTR”.
I worked on the East Coast Upgrade Project and the construction of Brent Cross West Station.
For both projects, I was responsible for planning the rail replacement operation and updating the train service specification”.
“My course has helped me prepare for my long-term career.
All of my tutors have experience of working in the transport or logistics industries and my work placement has given me a great taste of life in the working world.”

New sentences found on https://hud.ac.uk/postgraduate/how-to-apply:
For those looking to study a postgraduate taught course, whether part-time or full-time, we recommend following the steps below to help guide you through the application process.
If you are applying for a postgraduate research degree, please visit our application tips for research degrees webpage.
Our course listings page showcases our postgraduate taught degrees for you to choose from.
If you’re struggling with what to choose, why not come along to our next Postgraduate Open day and explore your options?
Check you are eligible for the course and meet the entry requirements – these are outlined on all our course pages .
For most postgraduate courses you can apply throughout the year, although we recommend that you apply as early as possible to secure your place, as courses will close to new applications once capacity has been reached.
Deadline dates for postgraduate taught applications are normally one week before the start date of the course.
Deadline dates for international applicants will be earlier due to immigration requirements.
Please note, you are expected to enrol within three weeks of the start date of your course.
If you are unable to enrol by the enrolment deadline, it may be possible to defer your place to the next available start date of the course.
You will be required to write a Personal Statement as part of the application.
You will also be required to upload supporting documents.
To save time, make sure you have the following scanned and ready to upload with your online application:
Depending on the course you apply for, you may be asked to provide a portfolio.
If your course does not require some or any of the additional documents, there will not be an option to provide them in the application form and there is no need to submit them separately.
You can see a full list of postgraduate course fees on our Fees and Finance webpage, and on each individual course listing .
Many students fund their own postgraduate study, however you may be eligible for a Master’s loan or other financial support.
Our funding pages contain all the information you need on finance options, including our 10% alumni discount for home students (terms and conditions apply) .
Application methods vary depending on the course, this will be stated on the course page .
Please use the following guide to understand the best way to apply for your chosen degree:
Postgraduate  taught degrees
International Student applications
To apply for a distance learning course please complete our online application form .
To apply for an on campus course please complete our international application form .
MSc Social Work course
For our MSc Social Work course , please apply through the 'UCAS Undergraduate: Apply and Track' webpage .
PGCE Teacher Training
To apply for a PGCE Teacher Training course you can apply using the GOV.UK service called Apply for teacher training.
All other postgraduate taught courses
To apply for all other postgraduate full-time and part-time programmes not listed above, please complete our online application form .
Postgraduate research degrees
For more information on how to apply for our research degrees, including tips on how to write your research proposal, please click here: How to apply for a research degree .
We’ll send you an acknowledgement via email so that you know we’ve received your application.
You may be asked for additional documents to complete the application process or undertake an interview for certain courses.
We’ll let you know what you need to do next in this case.
We’ll give your application careful consideration, and you will be notified of the outcome.
If you are accepted to study here, you will receive a conditional or unconditional offer by email.
Secure your place: You need to review your offer letter and confirm whether you wish to accept this by emailing study@hud.ac.uk as soon as possible to secure your place.
Visit our after you apply page for further details.
If you wish to start your studies the year after you apply you can request a deferred start date for your preferred course by emailing us at study@hud.ac.uk .
If you are an international student applying for a postgraduate degree read more about our international entry requirements .
To find out if you require a visa, please read through our visa requirements page for further information.
Please note that the University has formal entry requirements for applicants whose first language of instruction is not English.
These are normally English Language qualifications, which we recognise as meeting our entry criteria.
Requirements may vary between programmes and subjects, so you are advised to check these carefully when going through the specific course information.
More information about the next steps in your application journey including accepting your offer and some key dates for your diary.
Find out more information about postgraduate interviews, auditions and portfolios for your chosen course.
The information below provides details of how to apply for all our postgraduate courses, including full-time and part-time taught courses, Workforce Development courses and research programmes.
Postgraduate Taught
The majority of our full-time Postgraduate Taught courses
To apply for the majority of our postgraduate full-time programmes please complete and submit our online full-time application form .
If you are an international student please complete our international application form .
To apply for our PGCE Teacher Training course, which after successful completion you could teach in schools or Further/Higher Education, you can apply using a new GOV.UK service called Apply for teacher training .
Part-time
Part-time postgraduate taught  courses
To apply for our postgraduate part-time taught programmes please complete and submit our online application form.
Postgraduate Research courses
All postgraduate research courses.
To apply for one of our research programmes, including Master's by Research (MRes) and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) please complete and submit our online research degree application form .
For more information about our research degrees application process including how to write your research proposal, visit our Applying for a research degree webpages.