# Site: https://www.imperial.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 499
# --------

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk:
2nd in the world, 1st in the UK and Europe
Imperial news
A medical school launched by Imperial and the University of Cumbria to train doctors in North West England has welcomed its first students.
Science
Health
Imperial's Schools of Convergence Science facilitate mission-led, transdisciplinary work and unique combinations of knowledge in order to further our Science for Humanity strategy.
Find out more about each School:
How we shape the future – for our students, our community, our planet and everyone who calls it home.
Read our Strategy .
Collaboration and partnerships to tackle global issues across four global hubs in Ghana, India, Singapore and the USA.
An institution-wide strategy addressing the challenges of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution.
Fuelling innovation and driving global impact
A gift to Imperial can provide vital bursaries, scholarships and a lifeline to a student in financial difficulty.
Imperial College London South Kensington Campus London SW7 2AZ , UK tel: +44 (0)20 7589 5111
© 2025 Imperial College London

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about-the-site/accessibility:
In this section
This accessibility statement applies to content published on the Imperial domain www.imperial.ac.uk/.
It does not apply to content accessed via another domain/subdomain e.g., https://asset-library.imperial.ac.uk or http://icis.imperial.ac.uk etc.
For other web addresses, you should refer to the accessibility statement for that domain or subdomain.
This website is run by Imperial College London.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We have also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
There are over 400 staff at Imperial who have access to publish content on the website.
We share accessibility reminders regularly with all, and offer an accessibility training module to all new and existing members of the content creators' community, however, due to sheer size of the whole website (Over 50,000 pages) and the number of contributors, some of this content still may not be fully accessible, for example:
You can find the details of inaccessible content below under the “non-compliance with the accessibility regulations” section.
We are constantly working on improving our website’s digital accessibility.
Please contact us at accessibility@imperial.ac.uk should you need any support at any part of your journey on our website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, please contact accessibility@imperial.ac.uk
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille please contact accessibility@imperial.ac.uk
We will consider your request and get back to you in seven working days.
If you cannot view the map on our ‘contact us’ page, call us at +44 (0) 207589 5111 or email us accessibility@imperial.ac.uk for directions.
We have installed DeafWatch transmitters across twenty-nine buildings at our campuses.
The DeafWatch system works across multiple buildings, providing seamless but discreet day and nighttime fire alarm warnings for staff and students with a hearing impairment.
Pagers are available via the College Fire Office and the College's Disability Advisory Service .
Please contact us on 020 7594 8000 before your planned visit to arrange suitable support for your needs.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
Imperial College London is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 .
The website has been tested against the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines WCAG 2.2 AA standard.
This website is partially compliant with the  Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 AA standard, due to the non-compliances and exemptions listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
https://www.imperial.ac.uk/jobs/ and sub URLS (pages such as .../jobs/search-jobs and .../jobs/apply etc) non-compliances:
Should you have any difficulty during your job application either due to PDF accessibility issues or any other reason please contact recruitmenthub@imperial.ac.uk
N/A
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they are not essential to providing our services.
Any new PDFs or Word documents we publish will meet accessibility standards.
We do try our best to add captions to live videos as much as possible, even though live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations.
We are working on the findings of our latest accessibility testing and are aiming to resolve all issues listed under Non-compliance section above.
We are aiming to meet the WCAG 2.2 AA standards as best as we can.
This statement was prepared on 10 June 2020.
Reviewed on following dates:
This website was last tested on 16 June and 22 August 2024.
These audits were carried out by Zoonou Ltd.
Previously, an audit of the website was carried out by our internal teams on 20 May 2024, using automated testing tools (Google Chrome Accessibility Insights for Web) as well as manual testing against WCAG 2.2 AA.
Last audit before that was carried out by the same accessibility quality assurance consultancy company named Zoonou on 8 April 2022 against WCAG 2.1 AA criteria.
As we have over 50,000 pages on our website, we had to select a limited number of pages to be tested.
We wanted to include as many pages as possible within our budget in this audit, the criteria on choosing the pages to be tested was the level of traffic, or the pages that would have a potential to be visited by a wider audience.
Outside of the Level A and AA test execution, user journeys have been conducted to test the website's usability against various assistive technology combinations.
If you need information on this website in a different format like an accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille or you find any accessibility issues not listed on these pages please contact the Accessibility team in ICT.
Accessible content guidance
Meeting our accessibility standards
Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study:
2nd in the world - QS World University Rankings 2026
We are Imperial, London’s world-leading university for science, technology, engineering, mathematics and business.
We’re a home for everyone who believes in the power of science to build, to heal, to lead.
Top study links:
Join our mailing list to get application tips, event invites and an insight into Imperial student life straight to your inbox.
Explore over 110 degree courses in science, engineering, medicine and business.
Options include study abroad, industry and research placements, plus joint degrees with languages and management.
Choose from 200+ Master's courses across our range of campuses.
Study full-time, part-time, or online, gaining advanced skills for your career.
Options include postgraduate certificates and diplomas to build towards an MSc.
Explore the different paths to doctoral study including PhDs based on your own research idea, studentships, and integrated PhDs within our multidisciplinary training centres and institutes.
From insightful talks to exciting experiments, register now for a great opportunity to get a feel for life at Imperial.
Discover lifelong learning opportunities, from executive education in business, tech and leadership to continuing professional development courses for professionals in science, tech and medicine.
Join visiting students from around the world for a challenging academic programme, led by world-leading Faculty – set in the world’s number one student city (QS 2025).
Join our global science community as a visiting student.
Learn from world leading staff and students from over 140 countries, either as part of a study abroad exchange arrangement with your home institution or on an independent basis.
Campus
Take a self-guided virtual tour through our South Kensington, White City and Silwood Park Campuses, dropping in on many of our academic and social facilities.
Find answers to frequently asked questions relating to admissions, tuition fees, funding and scholarships.
We’re here to help with any questions you have about studying at Imperial.
Visit our contact help page to discover all our application, fees and funding, visit and international contacts.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation:
Imperial has a greater proportion of world-leading research than any other UK university, according to the REF.
From climate change to disease prevention, Imperial researchers and global partners ask bigger questions to solve real world challenges.
Professor Guy Nason appointed next Royal Statistical Society President
27 August 2025
Prestigious Royal Society medals awarded to three Imperial scientists
Signs of recent life on Mars could be detected using new simple test
13 August 2025
£1 million grant from the Wolfson Foundation to support Sustainable Futures Lab
23 July 2025
Attribution science is enabling climate victims to sue the world’s top polluters for damages and the first successful case may not be very far away.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/faculties-and-departments:
Browse this page to explore Imperial's faculties, departments, research and professional services and research areas.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/latest-news-events:
The latest news and events at Imperial College London
Read about the latest breakthroughs at Imperial.
Browse upcoming Imperial events.
Inspirational and immersive storytelling from Imperial College London.
Imperial is the magazine for the Imperial community.
The Great Exhibition Road Festival is a free annual celebration of science and the arts in South Kensington.
Fun and social post-work events where visitors can interact with the latest scientific developments at Imperial, centred around a new theme for each evening.
Imperial typically holds two graduation days each year.
Graduation day is held in summer, and commemoration day is held in autumn.
Resources to help reporters cover Imperial College London's stories

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about:
Welcome to Imperial.
We are a world-leading university for science, technology, engineering, medicine and business (STEMB), where scientific imagination leads to world-changing impact.
We were founded in 1907 with a mission ‘To be useful’, but we know that before anyone can usefully change something, they first need to understand it.
That’s what we do.
We use science to try to understand more of the universe, and improve the lives of more people in it.
Across our London campuses, and throughout our international network, we ask bigger questions and so we shape the future.
Explore our courses and find out what it’s like to study at one of the world’s most international universities.
Look at our four faculties and discover the world-changing work that is taking place in their departments.
Founded in South Kensington in 1907, Imperial now includes nine campuses across London and the South East.
Search the latest career opportunities across all faculties and departments at Imperial and join a world-leading university.
We are ranked top in the UK overall for research.
Find out more about how we’re tackling the world’s challenges.
Our values of respect, integrity, innovation, collaboration and excellence shape everything we do.
Learn about the nine strategic goals we are working towards as part of our Science for Humanity strategy.
Meet the people who are in charge of overseeing Imperial’s strategic objectives and management.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/get-involved:
Whether you'd like to volunteer, take part in family workshops, or donate to help our students achieve their dreams, there are many ways to get involved at Imperial.
This transformational amount will support groundbreaking research initiatives, state-of-the-art facilities, and a range of scholarships, fellowships and academic posts.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/giving:
Your generosity inspires talented students at Imperial to pursue their dreams and reach their full potential.
Thank you for giving back and making a lasting impact on their future.
Inspire Imperial students and equip them for success.
Your gift can break down financial barriers and enable Imperial students to realise their full potential.
Give to the Imperial College Foundation to make your gift tax deductible.
A gift in your will is an investment in the future of science and education.
giving@imperial.ac.uk +44 (0)20 7594 9330
Choose a cause that is close to your heart—whether that's lifting financial barriers for students in need or creating scholarships to support exceptional individuals.
Find out what you can give to
Meet some of our talented students and see how your support changes lives.
Hear from Imperial students
The annual reception thanks donors for their support and brings to life stories illustrated in Imperial’s annual fundraising report.
A generous £375,000 donation will fund a new scholarship programme, supporting Master’s students in epidemiology and computational ecology.
This generous award towards the establishment of Imperial’s new research lab will accelerate the transition to a net zero future.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/courses:
Showing 242 results
Work with the latest industry-standard software in a world-leading research department.
Undertake advanced study in chemical engineering and enhance your knowledge of basic sciences, mathematics and computing.
Build an interdisciplinary background in chemical engineering and biological sciences for a career in biotech.
Develop specialist computational knowledge for a career in aerospace or engineering.
Study a range of advanced computing concepts and technologies alongside experts in the field.
Learn about the behaviour and characteristics of civil engineering materials in depth.
Specialise in materials for energy transition and develop your passion for exploring and creating innovative materials.
Broaden your knowledge of key areas of mechanical engineering and explore recent developments in the field.
Develop skills in synthetic chemistry with a focus on approaches to automate, analyse and understand synthetic processes.
Learn how vehicles and structures interact with air in this professionally accredited, integrated Master's degree.
Which option would you like to add to compare?
(Select up to 3)
Specialise in the design of space technologies in this professionally accredited, integrated Master's degree.
Develop the advanced knowledge and practical skills to optimally diagnose and manage allergic diseases.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply:
Ready to apply to Imperial?
We’re here to help.
You can find all the information you need about how to apply to our undergraduate and postgraduate courses, what to expect and the key dates and deadlines you need to know.
Top links:
We're here to help you successfully navigate the application process for undergraduate and postgraduate study.
Learn about what you need to prepare and how to make your application stand out.
Navigate the application process.
Understand how to apply and the key deadlines you need to know.
Booking is now open for our next 2025 Undergraduate Open Day at our South Kensington Campus.
We hope you can be part of the day.
Get ready to apply to Imperial.
Find all the essential guidance to prepare and submit your Master’s application.
Streamline the Master’s application process with our comprehensive admissions guidance.
Embark on your doctoral studies with confidence.
Discover the key information for starting your application.
Understand the doctoral application process.
Get all the details for a thorough and impressive application.
Learn more about the visa process, including who needs a visa for UK study and how and when to apply.
Imperial welcomes students from all over the world.
Discover tailored advice for international students.
Join a global community.
Understand the requirements to apply from anywhere in the world.
Explore advanced STEMB training for individuals, businesses and governments.
Explore opportunities to experience world-class teaching in the heart of London.
Explore further resources for successfully applying for undergraduate, Master's, or doctoral study at Imperial.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding:
Learn about how much studying at Imperial can cost and explore the different options for financial support.
Home undergraduate students can receive up to £5,000/year, on top of any government funding they may also be eligible for.
Use our course search to find fees for your course.
Get detailed information on costs and payment options.
Explore financial support for undergraduates.
Discover scholarships, bursaries, and funding opportunities.
Use our course search to find fees for your Master's course.
Access detailed information on costs and payment options.
Explore financial support for Master’s students, including loans and scholarships.
We are offering one undergraduate and one Master’s (MSc and MRes) Presidential Scholarship in each Faculty (Business, Engineering, Medicine and Natural Sciences) for Black heritage students with Home fee status.
Get a clear understanding of fees for your studies.
Find detailed information on costs and payment options.
Discover financial support for doctoral students.
Learn about scholarships and funding opportunities.
Living expenses at university will vary considerably according to your personal circumstances and lifestyle.
Discover fees and funding information for international students.
Find resources to support your studies.
Explore additional funding opportunities and financial support options available to Imperial students.
Browse frequently asked fees and funding questions in our help centre.
Get in touch if you have a question about Imperial costs and what help is available.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/student-life:
What’s life at Imperial really like?
Let us show you!
Explore our halls and campus on our virtual tour, chat to our students and learn more about our student community.
Everyone belongs here.
We're a community where you can be yourself, find your people and pursue your passions.
Discover your home away from home with our range of accommodation options.
From morning to night, student life at Imperial College London is always full of discovery.
Follow us on a day in the life journey our modern yet historic campuses, our world leading study facilities and our unforgettable student experiences.
Explore our rankings and league table results, entrepreneurship opportunities and career support.
Find out about our diverse Imperial community in the heart of Central London.
With world-famous museums, music, sights, parks and entertainment, you will never be short of options.
Experience top-notch facilities, Imperial's quality education and discover study abroad options.
At Imperial you have the chance to engage in ground breaking research that drives innovation and discovery.
Imperial offers a world-leading and inclusive evidence-based education, embedded in a vibrant research environment.
Explore frequently asked questions and further resources to help you get a real picture of life at Imperial.
Get in touch if you have a question about life at Imperial and what support is available.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit:
Learn more about Imperial through our Open Days, virtual and in-person events, self- and student-guided campus tours and our on-demand virtual tour.
Get a feel for life at Imperial through an in-person visit or event.
Discover virtual events and on-demand content to learn more about studying at Imperial.
Find an event that works for you – whether that’s in person, in country, or online.
Get a taster of life at a world-class university in the heart of London.
Discover our visit opportunities for teachers and advisors guiding students' futures.
Learn more about what life is like at Imperial and explore our South Kensington Campus on one of our guided tours.
Browse details and maps of Imperial's campuses, all of which are in London and the South East.
Find out what our students say about studying at Imperial.
Explore further resources to support your visit to Imperial, we're waiting to meet you at our place or yours!
Visit our contact help page to discover all our contact information.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/request-info:
Join our mailing list to download our study guide and get regular updates about our latest news and events, as well as helpful information about studying with us.
Complete the form to join our mailing list.
We'll send you information based on your choice of level of study and the topics that are most important to you.
When you sign up, you'll also receive a link to download our latest study guide for undergraduate or postgraduate entry.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/international-students:
Imperial is a place for everyone, where you can be yourself, find your people and pursue your passion.
We’re a community of more than 150 nationalities at home in London – ranked top by QS Best Student Cities 2025.
Expand your knowledge with our non-degree programmes.
Discover courses to enhance your skills and broaden your horizons.
Experience life at Imperial as a visiting student.
Learn more about visiting student and exchange opportunities.
Explore further resources tailored to support International applicants to Imperial.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/business-school/executive-education:
Executive Education at Imperial drives global business and social transformation through the fusion of business, technology, and an entrepreneurial mindset.
Business courses with Imperial Executive Education allow you access to our transformative community which provides an outstanding participant experience.
We are pioneers for innovative learning experiences.
AI for Business Transformation is designed to equip you with the knowledge and skills needed to effectively integrate AI and genAI into your business strategies.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/summer-schools:
Join us for a summer school experience in one of the world's most exciting cities.
Balance a challenging academic programme with leading experts in their field, with the opportunity to immerse yourself in student life at Imperial.
We offer a range of summer schools for students in the UK and across the world.
Summer schools for under 18s
Taking summer school classes at Imperial gives you the chance to explore life here and the opportunities for postgraduate study.
Summer schools for current undergraduates

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/engineering:
﻿We are Imperial’s world-changing engineering faculty, where scientific imagination solves real-world problems.
Our leadership, committees, departments, institutes and centres
Find out how we're targetting global challenges including future manufacturing, biomedical engineering, energy, security and urban energy systems
How we help Imperial staff with research, education, finance, safety and collaborating with industry
Fun and frolics at bring your child to work day 2025
21 August 2025
New Imperial spinout developing breakthrough drugs for world diseases
Imperial researchers take leading role in major IPCC climate report
20 August 2025
Faculty Building, Imperial College London, Exhibition Road, London SW7 2AZ

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/medicine:
The Faculty of Medicine at Imperial is a world-class teaching, learning and research environment
Partnership is key to ensuring the talent within our community reaches and delivers benefits to people’s lives
Our organisation comprises eight world-class departments spread over seven West London campuses
Information, advice and support for Faculty of Medicine staff
New study finds hidden body fat is linked to faster heart ageing
22 August 2025
AI-enhanced ECG can spot patients at risk of dangerous ‘heart block’ condition
28 August 2025, 16.00 – 18.00
Early Academic Talks (EAT)
03 September 2025, 11.00 – 12.00
BHF Centre of Research Excellence Seminar Series
Level 2, Faculty Building South Kensington Campus London SW7 2AZ, UK Contact us

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/natural-sciences:
Dedicated to delivering the highest possible quality teaching and research in natural sciences.
Discover the Faculty of Natural Sciences (FoNS) departments, our impactful work, and our commitment to strengthening our Imperial community.
Find out more about FoNS, our research impact and education offering, and the work of our departments, institutes, and centres.
Conservation must focus on ecological processes, not just saving species
23 August 2025
We strive to produce the very best science and deploy it for the wider benefit of society.
Explore undergraduate courses across our five departments.
Information about postgraduate courses, research and doctoral opportunities across natural sciences.
Find links to departmental contacts, wellbeing support and other guidance to help you through your studies.
Innovation in research, teaching and application of chemistry
Visit Chemistry
Embracing the full breadth of modern life sciences activity
Visit Life Sciences
A thriving department conducting research in fundamental and applied mathematics
Visit Mathematics
Excellence in research, undergraduate education and postgraduate training
Visit Physics
A unique and interdisciplinary research interface between science and technology
Visit CEP
Imperial ranks top in the UK overall with a greater proportion of 4* 'world-leading' research than any other UK university.
The College also ranks first in the UK for research outputs, first in the UK for research environment, and first for research impact among Russell Group universities.
28–29 August 2025, 09.00 – 17.00
AI Meets Mathematics Workshop
04 September 2025, 09.00 – 17.00
MRes in Chemical Biology Symposium
04 September 2025, 17.00 – 19.00
ICB CDT Summer Party
09 September 2025, 14.00 – 15.00
SPC seminar: Moving on from Ignition: The Inertial Confinement Fusion Program in the United States
Level 3, Faculty Building London SW7 2AZ, UK
Leadership team
Faculty Office contacts
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7594 7260 ns.admissions@imperial.ac.uk
Chemistry
Life Sciences
Mathematics
Physics
Centre for Environmental Policy

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/business-school:
Study at a global top-10 ranked university.
Discover our suite of four Imperial MBAs, Masters' in finance, management, and specialised areas, PhD programme, and undergraduate courses.
From artificial intelligence to blockchain, how technology is radically transforming business and society
Understanding how to thrive in dynamic and uncertain entrepreneurial environments
Helping to build more resilient businesses and a stronger global economy
Research-led health policy and practice that can combat disease and improve wellbeing
Promoting inclusive and responsible business models for sustainable growth
Even the brightest business students can face barriers to completing their degree.
Help us lift those barriers and open up life-changing opportunities.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/news:
0 Comments Shares Tweets
A medical school launched by Imperial and the University of Cumbria to train doctors in North West England has opened to students for the first time.
0
Researchers have developed an AI tool that can help doctors predict who might develop a potentially fatal heart condition, just from an ECG.
The inaugural Year 13 cohort at the Imperial Maths School has received their first set of A-level results, with great success.
1 Comments Shares Tweets
Visitors flocked to South Kensington for the increasingly popular Great Exhibition Road Festival earlier this summer.
A new scale-up space for science and technology ventures, One Portal Way, Old Oak, will help to alleviate London's shortage of affordable lab space.
Main campus address: Imperial College London , South Kensington Campus , London SW7 2AZ , tel: +44 (0)20 7589 5111 Campus maps and information | About this site | This site uses cookies | Log in

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/whats-on:
Tue 9 September 2025, 16.00 – 20.00 BST
Summer is here and White City Campus is bringing you events and activities to help you get outside and enjoy the season.
South Kensington Campus, Exhibition Road, London
Thu 11 September 2025, 10.00 – 18.00 BST
Join a full day of presentations and stimulating discussions with the academics and prize-winning PhD students in FoNS
Sir Alexander Fleming Building, South Kensington Campus
Thu 11 September 2025, 12.00 – 14.00 BST
Sir Michael Uren Hub, White City Campus
Mon 15 September 2025 – Sun 21 September 2025, 12.00 – 18.00 BST
Main Entrance, South Kensington Campus
Wed 25 June 2025 – Mon 1 September 2025, 10.00 – 17.00 BST
Tue 1 July 2025 – Sun 31 August 2025, 11.30 – 23.30 BST
Wed 27 August 2025, 12.00 – 14.30 BST
Wed 27 August 2025, 13.00 – 16.00 BST
Wed 27 August 2025, 16.00 – 17.00 BST
Thu 28 August 2025 – Fri 29 August 2025, 9.00 – 17.00 BST
Fri 29 August 2025, 13.00 – 16.00 BST
Tue 2 September 2025 – Wed 3 September 2025, 9.00 – 17.00 BST
Tue 2 September 2025, 12.30 – 13.30 BST
Wed 3 September 2025, 11.00 – 12.00 BST
Wed 3 September 2025, 12.00 – 14.30 BST
Wed 3 September 2025, 13.00 – 16.00 BST
Wed 3 September 2025, 15.00 – 16.00 BST
Wed 3 September 2025, 15.30 – 20.00 BST
Wed 3 September 2025, 16.00 – 17.00 BST
Thu 4 September 2025, 9.00 – 17.00 BST
Thu 4 September 2025, 14.00 – 16.00 BST
Thu 4 September 2025, 14.30 – 15.30 BST
Fri 5 September 2025, 13.00 – 16.00 BST
Tue 9 September 2025, 12.30 – 13.30 BST

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/be-inspired/stories:
Polluters on trial: How climate science is rocking the courtroom
The very best features and opinion from the Imperial community, from world-leading experts in science, medicine, education, enterprise and more.
An exhibition of creativity, partnerships, and research from the Research Impact Management Office.
Read the story
Exploring how West London Children's Healthcare is addressing the health needs of young people
Scientists have linked extreme weather to climate change.
Now they can quantify its impact on the damage, writes Chloé Farand.
Professor Wendy Barclay appointed Regius Professor of Infectious Disease
How our research, entrepreneurialism and teaching aim to benefit the world
Browse the stories
How we, as a hub of discovery and innovation, seek to find answers to questions big and small.
Inspirational stories from Imperial people, in the lab, on campus, and beyond
Explore stories from our community
A handy list of all our Stories in one place
View all our Stories
If you would like to share your thoughts on Imperial Stories, whether individual articles or the platform itself, please email Andrew Youngson .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/be-inspired/festival:
The Great Exhibition Road Festival is a free annual celebration of science and the arts in South Kensington, returning 6-7 June 2026!
Find out more about the Festival which is led by Imperial College London with partners, including the Natural History Museum, Science Museum, V&A and Royal Albert Hall.
Find out more about being part of the 2026 Great Exhibition Road Festival this autumn.
The 2025 Great Exhibition Road Festival celebrated science and the arts with a weekend of free events for all ages in South Kensington on 7-8 June.
Tens of thousands of visitors joined us for an incredible weekend of creative workshops, fascinating talks, interactive exhibits and lively performances.
Festival continues to attract and inspire audiences
05 August 2025
Science inspired art on display at White City
15 July 2025
EU Deputy Ambassador joins the Great Exhibition Road Festival
19 June 2025
07 June 2025
29 May 2025
23 May 2025
15 May 2025

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/be-inspired/magazine:
It delivers expert comment, insight and context from – and on – the university's engineers, mathematicians, scientists, medics, coders and leaders, as well as stories about student life and alumni experiences.
Published twice a year, the print edition of Imperial is distributed to over 120,000 alumni, supporters and friends and is available to pick up across campus.
The digital version of Imperial is available to read online and to download as a pdf.
In our summer issue of Imperial Magazine, we hear from university leaders on our international hubs and how they are opening up worlds of opportunity.
We meet some of the innovators starting out at Imperial as the Faculty of Natural Sciences Make-A-Difference competition turns ten, and dive into gaming at the university.
Elsewhere in this issue, we go wicket to wicket with ICU Cricket, learn about a pioneering study into childhood and head into the Chemical Kitchen, where first-year chemists are introduced to lab work… via professional cooking.
Read on to find out what’s next in Imperial’s fields of expertise and meet members of our community.
What does childhood really look like in the 21st century?
An ongoing study is taking a new approach to finding out – by hearing from children themselves.
Bright ideas?
Imperial students are full of them.
But what does it take to get that concept from Mac to market?
Imperial’s four new international hubs bring great minds together to tackle the world’s most complex problems.
Gaming has always been at the heart of the Imperial experience, and here’s why.
From London to Bengaluru – Imperial’s global impact.
Universities have confidence baked in, says spinout investor and entrepreneur Alastair Kilgour.
Prepare to be bowled over by Imperial’s inclusive and award-winning cricket society.
Proteins, glorious proteins.
The Chemical Kitchen explores the crossover between the kitchen and the lab.
Master's student Punnapa ‘Rose’ Yoswaris on finding a taste of Thailand in Hammersmith.
Dr Wareed Alenaini wants to transform the way we use imaging data – and save lives in the process.
The ultimate puzzle challenge.
From the ground up: meet the amazing Imperial alumni working on down-to-earth solutions to improve our soil – and our planet.
Visit the Imperial/58 homepage to read more from the latest issue of Imperial magazine.
Keep up with the latest from Imperial and share your thoughts and news.
For letters, please email us and mark your message 'For publication'.
Messages may be edited for length.
If you receive Imperial by post and would like to change your address, you can update your contact details on our Alumni website.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/be-inspired/lates:
Join our email mailing list to receive the latest updates on public events at Imperial College London.
Imperial Lates are fun and social post-work events where visitors can interact with the latest scientific developments at Imperial College London, centred around a new theme for each evening.
The themes for the 2025/26 season of Imperial Lates are:
October, Light: Join our researchers in welcoming the autumn and celebrating Diwali, the Festival of Light.
Learn all about how light works, as well as it’s uses in health research and even in space!
November, Time: Explore the nature of time at November’s Imperial Lates.
Deep dive into the very first second of the universe, catch up with the fastest object ever built, or dance inside a quantum clock.
January, Wellbeing: New year, new you!
Start 2026 afresh by learning the scientific secrets to hacking your health and wellbeing from Imperial researchers in our January Lates.
To find out when Lates registration opens, and to hear about other public events at Imperial, please sign up to receive our event update emails , or follow us on @ImperialSpark .
Learn more about the 2024/25 season and what scientific topics were explored by reading our season closing story.
Check out some photos from our past evenings of discovery!
Socialise with friends © Brendan Foster Photography
Dance at an atomic silent disco © Brendan Foster Photography
Engage with interactive exhibits © Brendan Foster Photography
Experience artistic collaborations © Brendan Foster Photography
Imperial researchers are invited to submit ideas for taking part in the 2025/26 Lates series.
Click here to fill out our open call form.
If you have any queries about the ideas submission process, please get in touch via email ( lates@imperial.ac.uk )
You can submit fully developed activities or initial ideas.
The Imperial Lates programming team can help you develop an idea further, discuss opportunities to host a talk or take part in a panel discussion, or connect you with a creative practitioner to explore your research through an artistic workshop.
If you are an artist or facilitator interested in working with the Imperial Lates team,  please get in touch via email ( lates@imperial.ac.uk )
If you are an Imperial staff member or student interested in volunteering at Imperial Lates, you can sign up to the volunteer portal to be the first notified when shifts open.
Learn more about volunteering with the public engagement team.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/students/graduation:
Graduations are the highlight of the Imperial year, where we can all come together to celebrate the achievements of our graduating students.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about/leadership-and-strategy/president:
Professor Hugh Brady was appointed President of Imperial College London in August 2022
Prior to his appointment at Imperial, he served as Vice-Chancellor and President of the University of Bristol from 2015 to 2022, and President of University College Dublin (UCD) from 2004 to 2013.
A graduate of UCD, Professor Brady trained in general medicine and nephrology, and was awarded PhD and MD degrees for research in renal physiology and molecular medicine, respectively.
His academic career as a physician-scientist included positions at Harvard Medical School, the University of Toronto and UCD.
He is an international authority on the pathogenesis of renal inflammation and diabetic kidney disease.
Professor Brady is a recipient of an Honorary Doctorate of Science from the Queen’s University Belfast, Honorary Fellowships from the Royal College of Anaesthetists in Ireland and Royal College of Physicians London, and the Robert Menzies Medal from the University of Melbourne.
Professor Brady is a member of the Royal College of Art’s Council, and the League of European Research Universities (LERU) Rectors' Assembly.
He was non-executive director of Kerry Group plc from 2014 to 2024 and non-executive director of ICON plc from 2014 to 2022.
He chaired Ireland’s Public Health Reform Expert Advisory Group, and served as a member of Ireland’s Higher Education Authority.
Messages from Professor Hugh Brady to the Imperial staff and student community
Find out more about the initiatives the President's Funds support
Find out more about the senior team that supports the President
New medical school launched by Imperial and Cumbria opens to students
26 August 2025
Chancellor and Energy Secretary visit Imperial
Imperial to be part of search for world’s best scientific talent
18 July 2025
17 July 2025
09 July 2025
24 June 2025
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7594 5001
Email: president@imperial.ac.uk
Office of the President Level 4 Faculty Building Imperial College London Exhibition Road London, SW7 2AZ

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about/leadership-and-strategy/provost:
Professor Ian Walmsley CBE FRS, Provost.
Professor Ian Walmsley CBE FRS is the second Provost of Imperial College London.
A world-renowned expert in ultrafast and quantum optics with deep experience in academic and scientific leadership, Professor Walmsley joined the College in September 2018 from the University of Oxford where he was Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research and Innovation) and Hooke Professor of Experimental Physics.
Imperial’s Provost is the College’s chief academic officer, upholding Imperial’s very high academic standards and its core academic mission.
He has direct responsibility for Imperial’s major academic units, via the Faculty Deans, and the College’s teaching and research mission, via the Vice Provosts for Education and Research and Enterprise .
The Provost oversees human and intellectual resources and is responsible for promoting an inclusive and excellent staff and student community.
Alongside the President, the Provost shares responsibility for maintaining and promoting excellence throughout the College, with support from the Deans.
Under the College’s President and Provost leadership model, Professor Walmsley advances Imperial’s core academic mission of education, research and translation.
He works with the President, the College’s top executive, who has ultimate responsibility for the institution’s performance, reputation and success.
Our Academic Strategy will help us realise our ambition to deliver transformative impact for societal benefit on a global scale.
It draws on our ground-breaking fundamental research and ability to develop new insights to enable sustainable change and improve our world.
It sets out our vision for an improved student experience that will prepare our students to be leaders, to innovate and drive change.
Find out more about the Academic Strategy.
We are committed to creating a positive and inclusive culture for all members of our community.
Through our Imperial Together initiatives, we have brought together all of our important cultural change projects and activities to help build a community where everyone feels supported to thrive and give their best.
Find out more about Imperial Together.
Sustainability will shape Imperial’s plans and activities at all levels and across all campuses.
The Strategy has been created to ensure that we turn this notion into reality and set a credible delivery roadmap to address these environmental challenges to create a sustainable university for the future and become a carbon net-zero institution by 2040.
Discover more about the Sustainability Strategy.
See more of the Provost’s engagement with the Imperial Community, including regular messages to our staff and students, Imperial Community Events, and the termly Staff Forum.
View previous events and messages.
Professor Ian Walmsley with attendees at the Alumni Awards
Professor Ian Walmsley at the launch event for the Deep Tech Institute
Professor Ian Walmsley with Teresa May on her visit to Imperial in 2019
Professor Ian Walmsley and Professor Michele Dougherty with Nobel Laureate Professor Donna Strickland during her visit to Imperial in 2019
Professor Ian Walmsley in the laboratory
Professor Ian Walmsley meets US President Joe Biden at the Imperial Cancer Research UK Centre inaugural lecture
Professor Ian Walmsley with Sir Dyson at an event for the Malaysian Prime Minister

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about/leadership-and-strategy/strategy:
Since our founding in 1907, Imperial has sought to be not only a world-leading university, but a world-changing one.
We have combined our tremendous strength in science, engineering, medicine and business (STEMB) with scientific discovery, innovation and entrepreneurship, to create real-world impact.
Every day our students, staff and partners come together to interrogate the forces that shape our world.
We do it so we can use that understanding to tackle the biggest challenges facing humanity and shape a better future.
Sometimes, and this is one of those times, this means interrogating the forces that shape the future of our own university.
That is why, one year ago, we came together to ask ourselves a question: “How do we maximise our potential as a force for good in the world?” This document addresses that question; an actionable plan that unlocks more of the power of science to serve humanity.
This is how we shape the future – for our students, our community, our planet and everyone who calls it home.
The strategy reflects the purpose and priorities of our staff, students and global Imperial community.
It is the result of an engaging and inspiring consultation both within and outside Imperial.
We thank everyone who contributed their big ideas and bold ambition to this process.
I hope you will be as inspired as I am by what we have achieved so far and all we will achieve together.
Our strategy will develop the people and skills the world needs now and into the future.
We will work to attract, nurture and champion the best local, national and global talent wherever they are, and to empower them with everything they need to make a meaningful difference.
Sparking the spirit of discovery early
Advanced skills for a tech-enabled future
From those with great expertise, to those with great potential.
Our strategy is a plan to strengthen Imperial’s enabling environment for discovery, innovation and impact.
We will create an even more deeply connected knowledge community and interdisciplinary research powerhouse that will meet the scale and urgency of the moment and respond with intelligence, responsibility and agility to everything that comes next.
Attracting and nurturing the next generation of leaders
Convergence science of unprecedented scale for unprecedented 21st century challenges
Deep tech entrepreneurship for next generation businesses
Our strategy will help to accelerate Imperial towards, and scale the impact of, new discoveries, inventions and ideas, and position us as a trusted convenor and partner for knowledge and tech organisations across the globe.
We will look beyond our London campuses to our wider network and wider responsibility, honouring our social and civic purpose, in London for the world.
Become a catalyst for investment, jobs and inclusive growth
Greater global collaboration to meet global grand challenges
Toward net zero and further

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about/leadership-and-strategy/provost/academic-strategy:
Introducing Imperial's Academic Strategy
Imperial College London continues to push the frontiers in world leading research, life changing education and transformative innovation.
The Academic Strategy has been developed to set out immediate areas which are fruitful for new discovery.
It is based on themes that support the vision of society that we share and reflect the strength of our research in these areas, and on the capabilities that frame Imperial’s distinctive approach to all that we do.
Find out more about our strategic approach.
The Academic Strategy process has identified five College level, cross-disciplinary strategic initiatives working across research, education and innovation.
Discover more about the Academic Strategy projects.
Twice a year  the Provost’s Board considers Academic Strategy project proposals for seed funding through a ‘3 Gateway’ prioritisation process.
Discover more about the prioritisation process.
Watch our video Introducing Imperial's Academic Strategy.
Participatory and live research success at The Great Exhibition Road Festival
15 August 2025
Imperial College London continues to push the frontiers of world-leading research, life-changing education and transformative innovation.
Our community works together to solve the big scientific questions and challenges of our time.
Our mission is to discover new knowledge and to make use of it.
We use our deep understanding of the world to address some of its most pressing challenges and identify new opportunities to improve it.
We want to create a world in which society is healthy, sustainable, smart and resilient.
Our Academic Strategy provides us with that focus and will help us realise that ambition.
It draws on our ground-breaking fundamental research, our creativity, imagination and ability to develop new insights and knowledge to help make sustainable change and improve our world.
It sets out our vision for an improved student experience that will prepare our students to lead, innovate and drive change.
It reflects how we want to be as a community.
The Academic Strategy builds on the aspirations of the College Strategy and department and faculty strategies, and connects up with other strategies including Learning and Teaching, Advancement and Estates .
By working together, we can increase our capacity and capability, enabling the kind of reach that can only be attained by working at scale across the College.
This will help us to increase our reach and deliver outcomes that both make a difference in the world and raise Imperial’s profile.
Professor Ian Walmsley FRS
Provost
The College Strategy sets out a vision for Imperial as a place for authoritative thinking, world-leading teaching, and creative research ideas.
The Academic Strategy articulates the specific ways that we will fulfil that vision .
It provides a cohesive direction for the College to focus its activity, build partnerships and uncover new opportunities.
It will act as a guide for where to focus our attention and effort, to help us seize opportunities and leverage external resources to support our mission.
And it will help us prioritise our internal investment of people, time, space and money.
The Academic Strategy will also be used externally, to raise Imperial’s profile around the world as a world-leading research-intensive university, helping us to continue to attract the best students and staff, opening new opportunities both nationally and internationally, and inviting new partnerships.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about/global:
Collaboration and partnerships to tackle global issues
We are proud to be one of the world’s most international universities, with a global community that collaborates to solve the world’s most complex problems.
Through international outreach and collaboration, we will bring more of our work to the world through a network of hubs in strategic cities.
This Imperial Global network will build long-term collaborations with partners, governments and knowledge organisations.
Read more about how Imperial will shape the future – for our students, our community, our planet and everyone who calls it home – in our strategy ‘Science for humanity’.
We are bringing more of our work to the world, and more of the world to our work, amplifying our impact through a network of hubs in strategic global cities.
This network demonstrates our commitment to building long-term collaborations with a diverse range of partners and stakeholders, foster new high-impact partnerships with industry, government and knowledge organisations, and give us the opportunity to develop deeper links with our alumni.
We will collaborate with university, industry, government and third-sector partners in Singapore to deliver ground-breaking research and innovation projects.
We will strengthen our research with academic and industrial partners, while also supporting our US alumni network and student recruitment opportunities.
We will build on established partnerships in medical diagnostics, sustainable cities and entrepreneurship training to develop STEMB partnerships across West Africa.
Collaborating with partners in India to deliver ground-breaking research and innovation for a more resilient world.
Launched in 2024, our hub in San Francisco will strengthen our academic and industry partnerships in areas of mutual interest like AI and health, advanced materials, and biotech.
It will also support our growing US alumni network and student recruitment efforts.
We are proud to be one of the world's most international universities, with a global community that collaborates to solve the world's most complex problems.
Launched in 2024, our Ghana hub builds on established partnerships in medical diagnostics, sustainable cities and entrepreneurship training.
It will develop major programmes across West Africa to increase the number, quality and impact of equitable STEMB partnerships with African stakeholders.
Imperial Global India* will drive high-impact science and technology research with academic, industrial and innovation partners to address shared global challenges, nurture a two-way flow of STEMB talent between our two countries and support our growing Indian alumni network.
Opened in 2024, Imperial Global Singapore is our first overseas hub, based at Singapore's CREATE campus.
Building on existing partnerships, it undertakes research and innovation projects in collaboration with universities, industry, government, and third-sector partners from across the Singapore ecosystem.
Imperial and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) have been working together for more than eight decades.
This partnership has been strengthened in recent years by a student exchange, enterprise programme and a joint seed fund for early stage research.
Imperial and the University of São Paulo (USP) have been working together for more than eight decades.
The AIMS institutes focus on both basic and applied mathematics, Imperial became an AIMS partner in 2020, enabling our academics to undertake research visits and networking activities at the five AIMS institutes in Cameroon, Ghana, Rwanda, Senegal and South Africa.
In 2024 Imperial and the University of Ghana signed a five-year partnership, focused on digital diagnostics, innovation and entrepreneurship, public health, environmental sustainability, and vaccine manufacturing.
This will see increased mobility of scientists and students between the two universities.
Imperial has a flagship International Research Centre – the only one in the UK and Europe - with France’s CNRS, to expand collaborations focused on transformational science and technology for sustainable development.
Collaborations include joint labs in Mathematics and Engineering.
As two of Europe’s leading technical universities with thriving innovation ecosystems, Imperial and TUM collaborate across education, research and innovation on key challenges such as sustainable energy transition, and trustworthy AI.
A core focus is on training future scientific leaders.
Imperial College London and the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) launched a partnership in research and education in 2022.
This includes a joint seed fund, greater collaboration on research projects, and increased mobility of academics and students.
Imperial and Tsinghua University have a shared ambition to support ground-breaking research and create successful partnerships.
Both universities recognise the importance of bringing people together to exchange ideas and collaborate.
The two universities signed a strategic partnership in 2017.
Imperial and Nanyang Technology University (NTU) share a close collaboration across research and education, including joint research programmes on the cybersecurity of medical devices and marine decarbonisation under the Singapore CREATE programme.
Imperial and National University of Singapore collaborate across research and education, including joint research in public health, computer software security, AI and chemistry, and student exchange at undergraduate and postgraduate level.
Imperial and the University of Tokyo announced a major new strategic relationship for cleantech and energy research in 2023.
The partnership builds on major industry-research centres in climate repair and energy systems that both partners have with Hitachi, Ltd.
Imperial aims to develop a close relationship with the new Institute of Science Tokyo, building on the long-standing research and education partnerships with Tokyo Tech and Tokyo Medical and Dental University which combined to become a comprehensive STEMB institution.
Pending the completion of regulatory formalities to be able to set up our own liaison office, Imperial Global India will initially be managed by a service provider duly appointed by Imperial College London.
Imperial is one of the world's most international universities .
Our global reach is spreading further than ever with collaborations or projects in 192 countries and a new network of global hubs (featured on the above map).
The partnerships featured in the map represent examples of how the international office supports the academic community to build research, education and innovation capacity.
Imperial works with international partners in many ways, such as through joint laboratories and centres, seed funds and projects, and student and staff exchanges.
We are open to new innovative global relationships with universities, governments and international organisations, throughout the world.
Imperial is consistently ranked among the world’s top ten universities.
Imperial is a global academic community where people from different cultures contribute diverse perspectives, new ideas and fresh approaches to solving complex problems.
Our global collaborations, discoveries and networks are transforming lives and creating opportunity in the UK and around the world.
This fund aims to support the development of our global hubs through seeding high-impact research, education, innovation, and student experience opportunities.
From joint laboratories and centres to seed funds and projects, we work with international partners and institutions around the world.
A flagship project bringing together the Imperial community to support research and education in countries and regions where global challenges are concentrated.
As the UK university with the most international outlook, we support overseas students with scholarships, summer schools, language skills and accommodation advice.
The Financial Times has once again recognised Imperial’s Global Online MBA programme as second in the world and first in the UK in its annual ranking.
Imperial co-hosts UN roundtable on capital markets and sustainability at FFD4
25 July 2025
Mayor of London visits Imperial Global Ghana to meet inspiring innovators
08 July 2025

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about/sustainability:
Have your say on our new Sustainable Imperial strategy
Sustainable Imperial is an institution-wide strategy addressing the challenges of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution.
We will nurture graduates who understand and advocate for climate science, support our researchers to investigate this global crisis, and lead by example on our campuses.
We are committed to becoming sustainable, net-zero campuses by 2040 and minimising all kinds of pollution from our campuses.
We educate future scientists, engineers, clinicians and economists, and empower them to work towards a more sustainable world.
We are vocal and visible in our support for sustainable technology and policy, and we provide sustainable solutions to businesses.
We are a world leader in climate change research with the ability to find solutions to achieve our zero-pollution vision.
Explore highlights from our recent events and check out our new calendar to see how you can get involved in upcoming activities.
We are committed to creating sustainable environments for learning, teaching, researching and working.
We will achieve this by becoming net-zero campuses by 2040.
Find out more about sustainable networks and programmes for staff and students at Imperial.
We are committed to becoming sustainable, net-zero campuses by 2040, and we are committed to minimizing all kinds of pollution from our campuses.
Read our Sustainability Strategy 2021-26
We are excited to share the Imperial Transition Pathways Explorer which is helping us understand how Imperial can best reduce our carbon footprint over the years ahead, grounded in hard data and expert input.
Discover more about the Imperial Transition Pathways Explorer
Read our latest milestones that will help Imperial to drive progress towards our sustainability goals in practice over the months and years to come.
Discover more about our plans, policies and reports
You can help us to achieve our goal of becoming net-zero campuses by 2040.
From travel and energy to taking part in initiatives, here are ways you can become more sustainable.
Now they can quantify its impact on the damage.
We reached out to world leading scientists and experts here at Imperial and beyond for advice on how we can protect the natural world.
Here are key 9 things they shared.
Here are 9 things you can do that will have a positive impact on both your health and the planet
With so many experts on climate change here at Imperial, many people ask us what they personally can do about it?
And how does this fit into the bigger picture?
Keep up to date with sustainability news, strategy development and volunteering opportunities by signing up to our Sustainable Imperial newsletter.
27 August 2025, 12.00 – 14.30
Planting session at White City
02 September 2025, 12.30 – 13.30
Secret Garden Drop-in volunteer session
03 September 2025, 12.00 – 14.30
09 September 2025, 12.30 – 13.30

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about/schools-of-convergence-science:
Imperial's Schools of Convergence Science facilitate transdisciplinary work and unique combinations of knowledge to further our Science for Humanity strategy.
Each School is designed to spark discovery and accelerate progress in targeted areas.
The schools will be mission-led, shaped by society’s most complex challenges in Health and Technology ; Sustainability ; Space, Security and Telecoms ; and Human and Artificial Intelligence .
Rather than aligning to any one field, the School creates space for deep collaboration at scale, focused on societal impact, scientific rigour and intellectual freedom to thrive.
Convergence Science unites disciplines, sectors and methods to tackle society’s most complex challenges.
It moves beyond collaboration to deep integration, combining knowledge in novel ways to develop and demonstrate barrier-breaking tools, models and solutions.
Each School is a place of adventurous thinking, entrepreneurial disruption and independent inquiry.
Cross-sectoral partnerships and new research cultures lay the groundwork for emerging breakthroughs that benefit all involved.
Convergence science in health and technology brings together business and social sciences, engineering, physical sciences, life sciences and medicine.
Through this combination, we will develop innovative ways to address pressing and emerging health and healthcare challenges globally in order to enable healthy futures.
In a world of accelerating change and growing uncertainty, the convergence of space, security, and telecommunications is redefining how we live, connect, and respond.
Imperial’s convergence in these areas will create advances for a safer, connected world.
Answering intractable challenges, such as climate change, the delivery of clean energy and flourishing natural spaces, requires equitable interdisciplinary innovation from discovery science through to policy translation.
Our school will work to achieve this.
AI will reshape every part of our life, and the future will lead to an increasing convergence of AI and Human Intelligence.
Cooperation is crucial for complementing and augmenting human intelligence.
Convergence science in health and healthcare, brings together business, engineering, physical sciences, life sciences and medicine to develop innovative ways to address clinical challenges.
We believe this combination has incredible potential.
We aim to develop enabling technologies to enhance healthcare, AI, sustainability, and humanitarian activities through collaboration within and beyond Imperial.
Answering big intractable challenges, such as climate change, energy and sustainability, requires equitable interdisciplinary innovation from discovery science through to policy translation.
This school will work to achieve this.
Contact the Co-Directors of each School of Convergence Science

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about/governance:
Imperial is committed to exhibiting best practice in all aspects of corporate governance.
We have established robust governance and procedures to ensure independent decision-making throughout our framework.
This includes a clear separation in the roles of the Council and executive management, both empowered to advance our strategic mission.
The university assures the quality of the education it delivers and supports the achievement of its educational strategic intents.
Find out about the standards and rules by which our degrees are assessed and awarded.
We are committed to best practice in all aspects of corporate governance.
See how university governance is managed and consult our library of charters, statutes, ordinances and regulations.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/visit/campuses:
Imperial has several campuses in London and the South East.
All have excellent travel links and are easily accessible through the use of public transport.
These pages provide maps, travel directions and campus details including retail facilities for each campus, and are designed to make travelling to and from Imperial as simple as possible.
WestTech London will become a global powerhouse for innovation and entrepreneurship, creating jobs, attracting investment and cementing the UK’s position as a leader in science and technology.
Find out more about WestTech London

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/jobs:
Imperial is a world-leading university with a diverse community of more than 8,000 talented academic, research and support staff.
We’re an inclusive workplace that is open to all.
Will you find your future at Imperial?
Learn more about our values, policies and benefits, and what it’s like to work here.
Need some help navigating our jobs system?
We can answer your queries.
From apprenticeships to graduate schemes, explore different ways to start your Imperial career.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/be-inspired/schools-outreach:
We support the brightest young minds from backgrounds currently underrepresented at Imperial to access futures in science, technology, engineering and maths at university and beyond.
Top Links
We work with schools, colleges and community organisations, from primary through to A-Level education.
This forms part of Imperial's widening participation and outreach agenda.
We deliver activities in schools and on campus, where we have two dedicated spaces for school outreach - the Wohl Reach Out Lab on our South Kensington campus and the Dangoor Reach Out Makerspace in White City.
As part of our commitment to the Office for Students, we have a targeted portfolio of activities which form part of the College’s Access and Participation plan.
This ensures that every academically talented pupil has the opportunity for support, regardless of their background or situation.
Explore the engaging events and activities we offer for children.
Discover the exciting events and programmes available for young people.
Find out more about Imperial College and the innovative research we do.
Students Race Through Supermarket Sweep Escape Room at STEM Futures
14 August 2025
Imperial celebrates achievements of successful applicants
Mohn Centre blog: Welcoming Yusuf Ibrahim
14 July 2025
11 June 2025
Main address
Imperial College London Level 3 Sherfield Building London SW7 2AZ
outreach@imperial.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/be-inspired/global-summer-school:
Elevate your passion for STEM and make friends from around the world at our pre-university programme for students aged 16 and 17.
About | How to apply | Summer programme | Global Summer School Brochure | Student experience | Fees | Latest News | Contact us | FAQs
Applications for Global Summer School 2026 will open in January 2026 and prospective applicants are invited to register their interest below.
Register your interest
• Students must be 16-or 17-years-old; • demonstrate excellent academic ability; • and possess strong English language skills.
View the entry requirements
Programme dates: 29 June – 10 July or 3 August – 14 August Programme fee: TBC Applications open January 2026
Prepare for your application
During the programme you will stay in our on-campus student accommodation, Prince’s Gardens in South Kensington.
This will allow you to experience what it is like to live away from home during your first year at university!
As this is a residential programme, staying on campus for the entire duration is compulsory.
Find out where you'll stay
Enjoy our packed programme of social activities and events that will show you why London deserves the title of World’s Best Student City.
Find out about the social programme
This fascinating subject, led by world leading academics at Imperial's Data Science Institute, will immerse you in the dynamic world of data analysis and artificial intelligence.
Gain real-world experience by tackling AI applications through engaging lectures, hands-on tutorials and collaborative group projects.
Find out more
Unleash your creativity and problem-solving skills in this interactive exploration of engineering and design.
Dive into a variety of disciplines, from building innovations to tackling modern challenges work in dynamic teams, brainstorm solutions and discover how engineers change the world.
Embark on an exciting journey into the world of cutting-edge medical science and research.
Explore innovative techniques, gain hands-on clinical skills and learn from health professionals in practical workshops at an Imperial affiliated institution St Mary's Hopsital.
This intensive subject blends mathematics and science to unlock central concepts in the physical world.
Develop problem-solving skills, master essential tools, and discover how physics explains the phenomena that shape our everyday lives.
In week two of the programme, you will be placed into a group with students from different academic subjects.
Together you will share expertise and help solve a real-world challenge.
The Innovation Challenge is led by the Imperial Enterprise Lab, a group of industry experts, and is a chance for you to develop vital skills you will need at university such as presentation, communication and group work.
Find out more about the innovation challenge .
Our Mentor Information Session was delivered by the Global Summer School team and ran through information on the application process, the roles and responsibilities of being a mentor, and key information about the Global Summer School programme.
The Mentor Information Session gives an overview of the key responsibilities for the mentor role.
The Student and Parent Information Session gives an academic overview of the 2025 programme.
Our Student and Parent Information Session was delivered by the Global Summer School team and ran through information on how to apply, including assessment criteria to help students through the application process.
Topics also discussed include an overview of the academic sessions and the exciting calendar of social activities.
The Teacher and Counsellor Information Session runs through the application process for 2025.
Our Teacher and Counsellor Information Session was delivered by the Global Summer School team and ran through information on how to apply, including assessment criteria to help students through the application process.
TeenLife's Virtual Fair provides an overview of our 2025 academic programme
TeenLife's Virtual Fair provides an overview of our 2025 academic programme including, a course outline, support available, eligibility and assessment criteria and most importantly, what you can gain from Global Summer School!
Want to find out more about Global Summer School?
What is the Innovation Challenge all about?
Join us for an unforgettable experience at Global Summer School.
Hear about the student experience at Global Summer School.
Global Summer School is an incredible opportunity to experience life as a university student.
Learn from Imperial academics, live in on-campus…
The Global Summer School team ran a Teacher and Counsellor Information Session, providing an overview of the application process, including key…
Our Student and Parent Information Session was delivered by the Global Summer School team and ran through information on how to apply, including…
The post The student experience appeared…

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/be-inspired/societal-engagement:
Empowering people through engagement with our research
Read our strategy
We are delighted to introduce the Centre for Societal Engagement at Imperial.
Launching in 2024/25, the Centre will ignite curiosity for STEMB in society, driving transformative inclusion on a local, national, and global scale.
Sign up to the Societal Engagement newsletter to be the first to know about engagement opportunities as well as funding and training and engagement news from across the College.
Discover our engagement toolkit full of guides on all things engagement: from engaging family audiences to evaluating your engagement work, our toolkit has everything you need for high-quality engagement activity.
We have a range of societal engagement-related training opportunities, which are designed to support staff and students in developing high quality engagement work.
Take a look at what we have available for you.
Need money for an engagement project you want to run?
We've got you covered.
Take a look at the funding opportunities for staff and students undertaking engagement activities with the public, or are looking to do so.
15–21 September 2025, 12.00 – 18.00
Step Inside Quantum
Find out how we engage with the public – including schools, patients and local communities – to ensure that our education and research benefits society.
Learn about Imperial's Societal Engagement Framework, goals and achievements so far.
Hear what our researchers as well as members of the public, schools, patients and community audiences have to say about their engagement experiences.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/be-inspired/volunteering:
Find fun and rewarding ways to use your spare time and inspire the next generation of scientists, medics, engineers and business leaders.
Paid opportunities for inspiring the next generation of scientists, engineers and doctors.
Find your role.
Further your professional development while helping your local community.
Explore this opportunity.
Help inspire the public by volunteering at events like the Great Exhibition Road Festival!
Learn more.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/get-involved/women-at-imperial:
Women at Imperial celebrates the achievements of our staff, students and alumni, and raises awareness of support and initiatives across the university.
Women at Imperial Week takes place in March every year with a series of events and workshops.
Discover women in STEM who have helped shape Imperial’s history.
Feature
Five former students share Imperial stories from the past 50 years
PhD student who wants young people, especially girls, to feel like they belong in science
Read more
Research Postgraduate student who is pushing the discourse on empowering women in STEM
Co-Presidents of the Society for Women and Non-Binary Individuals in Physics share their work
Department of Computing lecturer who takes a human-centred approach to AI
Supported by STEM Potential, Kiranpreet Motizada is now an Imperial Physics graduate.
Her story features in our Outreach at 50 series.
Imperial builds UK’s first university network for women entrepreneurs
Dame Maggie Aderin-Pocock is reaching for the stars
Three researchers driving change in Materials Science and Engineering
Women in Natural Sciences reflect on their journeys
Dr A.K.
Ola Hekselman’s Purple Plaque is unveiled
Gina Cuomo-Dannenburg elected Schmidt Science Fellow
Words of wisdom from the Faculty of Medicine
Celebrating Wendy Barclay’s prestigious appointment
01 October 2025, 17.30 – 18.30
To eat or not to eat?
Navigating risk for eating disorders for young people
15 October 2025, 17.30 – 18.30
Problem solving: from the clinic to the classroom
05 November 2025, 17.30 – 18.30
The Bioengineering Caro Alumni Lecture with Ingeborg Oie
Feeling like a scientist with Professor Faith Osier
Dr Jess Wade: Imperial physicist and Wikipedia maven
Tune in to the Women at Imperial Spotify playlist
Use the Report and Support tool to disclose unwanted behaviours
Groups and networks for women across Imperial
The Imperial Women’s Alumni Network information and events
Information
20 years of supporting gender equality in higher education

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/staff:
Support, services and information for Imperial's community of over 8,000 staff.
Opportunities to further your development
Your one stop shop on how to live well and work well
Building a supportive, diverse, inclusive and highly motivated staff community
Imperial’s benefit scheme offers great discounts and other deals on popular retailers and other organisations
Find fun and rewarding ways to use your spare time and inspire the next generation of scientists, medics, engineers and business leaders
If you have recently started at Imperial or are joining soon, then these pages will guide you on your first few weeks in your new role
The People Function and Finance division provide a range of services and information to staff at Imperial.
View more on the People Function section of the website.
View more on the Finance section of the website
Support and information for teaching and research staff at Imperial.
Find out more on the Communications section of the website
View more on the Information and Communication Technologies section of the website
Services and information for staff working on campus
View more on the Estates Operations and Campus Services sections of the website.
View the full A-Z list of administration and support services
View full term dates and Imperial closure dates
Imperial People shines a light on our talented community of staff and students, to showcase the variety of people that make up Imperial College London.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/students:
At Imperial, you are part of an international community of more than 20,000 students.
From places to eat and meet, and clubs and societies you can join, to advice about finances and wellbeing, find out how to make the most of your Imperial journey.
The Imperial College Union (ICU) are the students’ union for Imperial College London – a democratic, student-led organisation that empowers students to shape their university experience.
We support over 340 clubs and societies, offer independent advice, run key student services, events and venues, and work to amplify student voices across the university.
You can access the ICU social media and other key links on the ICU link tree.
This is your one-stop shop for advice and information about every aspect of university life.
Whether it’s advice on student records, fees or finances, the Student Hub team is here to answer your questions in person, by phone or email.
Imperial offers a range of accommodation in different locations to suit different budgets.
If you need help finding the perfect place to live, talk to our Student Accommodation Office.
They can help with university accommodation and private housing options.
With almost 30 cafes, restaurants and shops across Imperial, you’re never far from a hot meal or a quick snack.
From pizza to sushi and plenty of plant-based options, there’s something for every taste and dietary requirement.
Life at Imperial isn’t all labs and lectures.
From baking to biking and drones to dance, our students lead more than 350 clubs, societies and projects.
If you can’t find a club that matches your interests, it’s easy to start your own.
Imperial is full of opportunities to develop and showcase your artistic talents, with dedicated support and facilities available in The Blythe Centre for Music and Visual Arts.
You can also catch a lunchtime concert which take place weekly during term time.
Move Imperial is home to more than 90 sports clubs, with everything from American football to windsurfing on offer.
You can practice and play for pleasure or join one of the many leagues.
There are also gyms, classes and wellbeing programmes to discover.
From modules to timetabling and Inclusive technology, My studies is your central point for services to support you with your studies.
Have a query regarding your student finances?
The Fees and funding pages for current students are your first port of call.
Your ultimate guide to wellbeing at Imperial.
From personalised advice and job-hunting resources to workshops and events, Careers service offers everything you need to explore your options, develop your skills, and connect with employers.
My Imperial is the home for applications that support you with your work or study at Imperial, accessed using your Imperial login.
The Disability Advisory Service is committed to providing the best possible support for students at Imperial with impairments and disabilities.
More term dates
Contact the Student Hub

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/for-business:
Join the world-leading companies working with Imperial to reshape their industries
Hire Imperial’s experts for one-off or repeat projects, from advice and analysis to capacity building
Discover a range of ready-to-use technology invented by Imperial’s specialists
Join Imperial’s flagship corporate membership programme Imperial Business Partners
From funding PhDs through to revolutionary new industry applications, establish a research partnership with Imperial
Learn how to invest in our extensive ecosystem of promising startups and spinouts
Imperial’s labs and skilled technicians are here for regular sample analysis, product testing, or to ramp up your R&D
See how your small company can join our community of startups, spinouts and scaleups at White City
Access all the expertise and training at Imperial through our wide offer of learning and development provisions
Our team is always ready to help – simply complete this form and we’ll respond to your request
Opportunity
Event
IAQM's Routes to Clean Air 2025 is the UK’s premier air-quality conference, featuring thought-provoking talks, high-value CPD, networking opportunities, and a showcase of the latest technologies and solutions for professionals addressing air pollution.
At Imperial College London, we have enterprise in our DNA.
We were founded in 1907 with a mission to offer the most advanced education and research, collaborate with other organisations, and apply our work to industry.
Today, we have a thriving innovation ecosystem: a home for businesses, researchers and the next generation of entrepreneurs.
We offer opportunities to access the expertise of our academics, the talent of our students, our high-tech resources and spaces on our campuses.
Together, we can achieve great things in a rapidly changing world.
Get in touch with Enterprise to learn how to work with Imperial.
Get in touch with Enterprise to learn how to work with Imperial

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/alumni:
As an Imperial alum, you’re part of a lifelong global network of more than 260,000 incredible people.
Discover alumni stories, make connections and find out how you can stay in touch after graduation.
Connect, collaborate and access your online benefits in this free online community.
Explore a range of perks, discounts and benefits for alumni based anywhere in the world.
Work, relax and network on the South Kensington Campus, in a centre exclusively for alumni.
Attend on-campus lectures and receptions, or social events around world, when you sign up.
Join one of our regional or affinity groups and meet up with alumni around the world.
Give back to the Imperial community, support students and gain valuable experience.
Discover alumni game-changers, disruptors and problem-solvers – and submit your nomination.
Celebrate your graduation anniversary and reconnect with Imperial friends and classmates.
Make a difference for Imperial students
Imperial alumni are leading the charge in creating and utilising digital technology to tackle the biggest challenges in healthcare.
From research to industry, clever new tech and innovative solutions, alumni are taking on the global challenge of climate change.
From tiny startups to multi-million-pound turnovers, entrepreneurial spirit runs throughout our alumni community.
Space explorers, medical innovators, science communications, deep-tech developers.
Browse our inspiring alumni stories.
Meet the Imperial minds shaping the future of responsible AI innovation
AI for good: Imperial graduates explore path to sustainable tech innovation
23 June 2025
AI startup Deep.Meta shortlisted for £1 million Manchester Prize
21 June 2025
Outreach at 50: Celebrating five decades of inspiring young minds
Imperial founders, innovators and alumni shine in Forbes 30 Under 30
13 June 2025
General enquiries
Alumni helpdesk

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about/introducing-imperial/league-tables:
Imperial College London is rated as one of the world’s best universities.
Rankings do not drive us – people do.
Imperial is focused on offering the best possible education, conducting high-quality research and innovating to make the world a better place.
While we are always pleased when our performance is reflected in league tables, we recognise that rankings have their flaws and do not fully reflect the richness of what we do.
Our placing in the rankings is a by-product of our work to nurture an environment where our staff and students are valued and can thrive.
Interested in studying at our world-leading university?
Explore Imperial's courses .
This page shows a selection of recent rankings from the UK and worldwide.
For more detailed subject-based information, visit our full listing of League Tables .
QS World University Rankings 2026
Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2025
Academic Ranking of Top 500 World Universities 2024
US News Best Global Universities 2024-2025
QS Sustainability University Rankings 2026
Learn more about our league table rankings
The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
The Guardian University Guide 2025
The Complete University Guide 2026
Daily Mail University Guide 2025
Learn more about our UK league table rankings
The Guardian University Guide 2025 (UK)
Learn more about our subject rankings
QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025
Times Higher Education World University Rankings by Subject 2025 (world)
Imperial Business School programmes are regularly ranked within the top ten in Europe and the world.
Rankings for the Imperial Business School

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about/introducing-imperial/our-people/award-winners/nobel-winners:
Professor of Physics 1930-1952 Fellow of Imperial College, 1955 Awarded the Nobel Prize (joint award) in 1937 for his contribution to experimental discovery of the diffraction of electrons by crystals.
Professor of Physics 1953-65 Fellow of Imperial College, 1967 Awarded the Nobel Prize in 1948 for his development of the Wilson cloud chamber method, and his discoveries therewith in the fields of nuclear physics and cosmic radiation.
Professor of Electron Physics 1958-67 Fellow of Imperial College, 1970 Awarded the Nobel Prize in 1971for his invention and development of the holographic method.
Professor of Theoretical Physics 1957-1996 (Emeritus Professor 1993) Fellow of Imperial College, 1994 Awarded the Nobel Prize (joint award) in 1979 for his contribution to the theory of the unified weak and electromagnetic interaction between elementary particles, including interalia the prediction of the weak neutral current.
View more about Abdus Salam.
Senior Demonstrator in Chemistry 1956 Awarded the Nobel Prize in 1937 for his research into the constitution of carbohydrates and vitamin C.
(The award for 1937 was shared 1911-12 with Paul Karrer).
Senior Research Fellow Imperial College, 1964-1967 Awarded the Nobel Prize (joint award) in1956 for his contribution to research into the mechanisms of chemical reactions.
Visiting Professor, Department of Biology 1978-2002 Fellow of Imperial College, 1987 Awarded the Nobel Prize (joint award) in1967 for his contribution to studies of extremely fast chemical reactions, effected by disturbing the equilibrium by means of very short pulses of energy.
Professor of Organic Chemistry 1957-1978 Fellow of Imperial College, 1980 (Emeritus Professor 1978) Awarded the Nobel Prize (joint award) in 1969 for his contribution to the development of the concept of conformation and its applications in chemistry.
BSc Chemistry 1939 - 1941 PhD in Chemistry 1941 - 1943 Professor of Inorganic Chemistry 1956-1996 (Emeritus Professor 1988) Fellow of Imperial College, 1993 Awarded the Nobel Prize (joint award) in 1973 for pioneering work, performed independently on the chemistry of the organometallic so called sandwich compounds.
Student RSM c.1881-1883 Awarded the Nobel Prize (joint award) in 1929 for his discovery of the growth stimulating vitamins.
Professor of Bacteriology 1928-1948 St Mary's Hospital Medical School Awarded the Nobel Prize jointly with Sir Ernst Chain and Sir Howard Florey in 1945 for discovering Penicillin.
Professor of Biochemistry 1961-73 Fellow of Imperial College, 1978 Awarded the Nobel Prize (joint award) in 1945 for the discovery of Penicillin and its curative effect in various infection diseases.
Fellow of Imperial College, 1980 Awarded the Nobel Prize (joint award) in 1963 for discoveries concerning the ionic mechanisms involved in excitations and inhibition in the peripheral and central portions of the nerve cell membrane.
Pfizer Professor of Immunology, St Mary's Hospital Medical School 1960-1967 Awarded the Nobel Prize in 1972 for his research on the chemical structure of antibodies.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about/introducing-imperial/our-people/award-winners/fields-medallists:
Professor of Pure Mathematics 1966-1988 Visiting Professor 1988-1996 Fellow of Imperial College, 1999
Professor of Pure Mathematics 1998 (Currently at Imperial College) See Simon Donaldson's professional webpage
Chair in Probability and Stochastic Analysis See Martin Hairer's professional webpage

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/news/267753/new-medical-school-launched-imperial-cumbria:
by Conrad Duncan 26 August 2025
The Pears Cumbria School of Medicine (PCSM) is the first graduate-entry medical school in Cumbria and is opening to 58 students in its first cohort, including many students from the North of England and Cumbria, and graduates from the University of Cumbria .
The School, which has been set up with philanthropic support from the Pears Foundation , has a unique focus on tackling the chronic shortage of doctors in Cumbria and aims to improve the recruitment, training and retention of doctors in the region.
For years, Cumbria has faced critical health inequalities, with staffing levels across the care pathway significantly below national averages.
Life expectancy varies by almost 20 years between the poorest and wealthiest wards in the county and 68% of adults are overweight or obese.
PCSM has been designed to address these issues through a bespoke curriculum, focused on prevention and the delivery of high-quality care.
As the School develops, it will use large data models and AI to prepare students for practice using digital technology.
“The figures show just how Cumbria needs doctors who are trained with an understanding of the unique challenges our communities face,” said Professor Mary Morrell , Head of the Pears Cumbria School of Medicine.
“PCSM is taking a bold new approach; it has a regional focus and a bespoke curriculum, focused on prevention and innovation.
As the School develops, it will target the use large data models and AI to prepare students for practice using digital technology.
We are proud to be working alongside our clinical colleagues to bring meaningful change to the people of Cumbria.”
The School’s opening was made possible by a £5m gift from the Pears Foundation – a charitable foundation known for its long-term philanthropic investments in education and health, supporting initiatives that deliver deep community impact and systemic change.
Sir Trevor Pears, Executive Chair at the Pears Foundation, said: “It is one of the great advantages of being a family foundation that we can take the long view and make long-term investments in initiatives that we believe will have meaningful impact.
The Pears Cumbria School of Medicine is a great example of this.
We believe it will put Cumbria in the vanguard of the way that this country thinks about the training and recruitment of doctors, whilst ensuring they are placed where they are most needed.
I feel incredibly strongly that this is nothing less than Cumbria deserves."
The strategic partnership for PCSM unites Imperial’s world-class research and medical education expertise and the University of Cumbria’s longstanding history of training healthcare professionals.
Working with the Pears Foundation, the School reflects a shared commitment to supporting long-term investment in the future of the NHS and improving access to medicine in Cumbria.
Professor Hugh Brady , President of Imperial College London, said: "Imperial is proud to be partnering with the University of Cumbria to train the next generation of doctors who will deliver outstanding care to communities across the region.
“The Pears Cumbria School of Medicine is not only an important milestone in our shared vision to widen access to medical education, but also a powerful example of how world-leading research, innovative teaching, and strong community partnerships can come together to transform lives.
“By drawing on Imperial’s medical expertise and Cumbria’s deep local knowledge, we can equip future doctors with the skills, compassion and resilience needed to meet the evolving challenges of healthcare."
Professor Brian Webster Henderson OBE , Deputy Vice Chancellor at the University of Cumbria, said: “The creation of the Pears Cumbria School of Medicine represents a transformative moment for Cumbria.
It exemplifies our commitment to place-based education and to addressing the real-world challenges faced by our communities.
We are proud to be working with Imperial College London, the Pears Foundation and our partners to deliver a medical school that will change lives and improve health outcomes across the region.”
It is hoped that PCSM can also act as a potential blueprint for other regions of the UK which face similar challenges with the recruitment and retention of doctors.
In 2023, the NHS Long Term Workforce Plan cited PCSM as a project which will play a key role in the UK Government's ambition to double medical school places by 2031/32.
The Plan recommended focusing on new medical schools and additional training places in geographical areas with the greatest staff shortfalls and unmet healthcare need.
It also encouraged the promotion of applications from local populations as a measure to bring employment opportunities to more socially deprived locations.
Professor Martin Lupton , Vice Dean (Education) for the Faculty of Medicine at Imperial College London, added: "Our unique partnership reinforces Imperial’s commitment to our Science for Humanity strategy which emphasises enabling talent, interdisciplinary collaboration and addressing societal challenges.
It is bringing world-class education in Medicine to where it can make the greatest difference.
We are proud to support a new model that not only trains excellent doctors but also strengthens the communities they serve."
PCSM students will receive a bespoke curriculum that is tailored for the region and to aligned with the NHS 10 Year Plan .
Students will also benefit from exposure to clinical practice early within their training, complemented by a community-based research project, focused on prevention and healthcare delivery.
The School’s focus on public health and prevention, health inequalities and mental health will train skilled clinicians to deliver high-quality care, foster a research-informed culture and advance medical education in Cumbria.
Professor Deborah Ashby , Dean of Imperial’s Faculty of Medicine, said: “The arrival of the first ever Pears Cumbria School of Medicine students this week is the fruition of years of dedicated work from our colleagues at Imperial, the University of Cumbria, our partners – and of course the Pears Foundation, whose philanthropic support has made it possible.
I want to congratulate all those incoming students and wish them the very best as they embark on their journeys to become the future of Cumbria’s NHS workforce.”
The Pears Cumbria School of Medicine will be based at the University of Cumbria’s historic Fusehill Street campus in Carlisle – a site with a long-standing legacy of service to its community.
During the First World War, the buildings were repurposed as a hospital for wounded personnel, marking the beginning of its role in medical care.
From 1968 to 2000, it served as the City Maternity Hospital, meaning many local residents and staff members were born on the very grounds where future doctors will now be trained.
Read more on the Pears Cumbria School of Medicine here .
Main image credit: University of Cumbria.
Article text (excluding photos or graphics) © Imperial College London.
Photos and graphics subject to third party copyright used with permission or © Imperial College London.
Conrad Duncan Communications Division
President , Health-policy , Postgraduate , Healthcare See more tags
Your comment may be published, displaying your name as you provide it, unless you request otherwise.
Your contact details will never be published.
Main campus address: Imperial College London , South Kensington Campus , London SW7 2AZ , tel: +44 (0)20 7589 5111 Campus maps and information | About this site | This site uses cookies | Report incorrect content | Log in

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/news/267695/imperial-researchers-take-leading-role-major:
by Sam Ezra Fraser-Baxter 20 August 2025
Professor Fredi Otto is one of Imperial's eleven researchers contributing to the IPCC Assessment Report 7.
Imperial has more authors contributing to a crucial report on climate change than any other organisation in the world.
On Friday, the author list was released for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC) Assessment Report 7 (AR7).
Over the next five years, 664 leading experts will compile the latest and most important evidence on climate change for AR7.
Once finished, the report will help shape policies to tackle climate change throughout the 2030s.
Imperial will have 11 researchers working on AR7, the highest number for any institution: Paulo Ceppi, Friederike Otto, Robin Lamboll, Emily Theokritoff, Raffaele Della Croce, Estefania Quenta Herrera, Jarmo Kikstra, Joeri Rogelj, Evangelia Katsou, Diego Armando Moya-Pinta and Alaa Al Khourdajie.
The most recent of these, Assessment Report 6 , was published in March 2023 and described by the UN Secretary General as a “ survival guide for humanity .”
The reports set out the science of climate change, how humans are being affected, and the actions needed to cut planet-heating emissions and adapt.
Imperial’s 11 researchers contributing to AR7 reflects the College’s range of expertise on climate change, says Dr Caterina Brandmayr, Director of Policy and Translation at the Grantham Institute - Climate Change and the Environment.
“From climate science to finance and public health to engineering, Imperial hosts a wealth of experts studying the climate system, the impacts of a warming climate and solutions to promote a decarbonised, resilient future," says Dr Brandmayr.
"It is great to see this diverse expertise reflected in the Imperial contributors involved in AR7.”
Dr Robin Lamboll, a Research Fellow at the Centre for Environmental Policy, is a lead author of a chapter that will explore future changes in global temperatures.
They contributed to previous IPCC reports, but AR7 will be their first time working on a report from start to finish.
“It's an honour to be included in the process of describing the scientific consensus on climate change.
I'm excited to get to work synthesising so much fresh knowledge and codifying the basis for this most challenging decade of climate action,” says Dr Lamboll.
AR7 will be the third IPCC assessment report for Professor Friederike Otto, a Professor in Climate Science at the Centre for Environmental Policy and the co-founder of World Weather Attribution .
Professor Otto describes her work on AR5 and AR6, together spanning more than a decade, as “extremely rewarding.”
She points to the International Court of Justice’s advisory opinion on climate change as an example of the significance of the IPCC’s work.
Published last month, the opinion cites the IPCC dozens of times and has been described as a “ turning point in international climate law ” that could shape major legal decisions on climate change.
Professor Otto says the IPCC’s work “continues to be of utmost importance,” particularly with increasing attacks on climate science.
Since taking office, the Trump administration has left the Paris Agreement , defunded climate research programmes , fired hundreds of experts , taken important datasets offline and recently published a climate report with more than 100 false or misleading claims .
Professor Otto will oversee a chapter exploring changes in extreme weather around the world.
“I’m a coordinating lead author.
This means leading the chapter, and ultimately being responsible for making it happen.
It’ll be a lot of work, but it also gives a lot of opportunity to shape the structure and focus of the chapter,” says Professor Otto.
A priority of the chapter is including more studies focusing on the Global South, which was a key gap in AR6, says Professor Otto.
Developing nations in the Global South are the most vulnerable to climate change, but limited budgets to fund climate research makes it harder for them to investigate changes in weather extremes and prepare for the future.
Professor Otto says this also makes it more difficult for the Global South to participate in the IPCC assessment reports.
“Most scientists in the global South are paid to deliver services and teaching with very little time for research, making it incredibly hard for them to put aside the time required for IPCC.”
The IPCC has not yet confirmed a timeline for AR7, but the three Working Group reports and the final Synthesis Report are expected to be published by the end of 2029 .
In May this year, the Grantham Institute brought together UK climate experts to explore research priorities to strengthen AR7.
Read the report on the event here .
Working Group 1 - The Physical Science Basis
Working Group 2 - Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability
Working Group 3 - Mitigation of Climate Change
Sam Ezra Fraser-Baxter The Grantham Institute for Climate Change
Attribution-science , Climate-change See more tags

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/news/267673/new-imperial-spinout-developing-breakthrough-drugs:
by Navta Hussain 21 August 2025
Members of the Orthogonal Peptides team
Biotechnology spinout, Orthogonal Peptides, will transform the discovery, development, and sustainable manufacturing of peptide-based medicines.
Founded in July 2025, Orthogonal Peptides leverages proprietary technology developed at Imperial to synthesise and scale complex peptide structures — including cyclic peptides — that are critical to the next generation of therapeutics.
The platform will focus on areas of high unmet medical need such as oncology, metabolic diseases including diabetes and obesity, and antimicrobial resistance.
Orthogonal Peptides is currently operating under the leadership of the Department of Chemical Engineering's Professor Daryl Williams , co-founder, research lead and Interim CEO, Dr Othman Almusaimi, Chief Technology Officer (CTO) and Dr Oscar Mercado-Valenzo, Chief Scientific Officer (CSO) — both also co-founders.
The company is actively engaging in demonstrating its technologies to leading pharma companies.
They can reduce the environmental impact of peptide manufacturing by reducing waste to 50% with higher manufacturing throughput.
They have been able to make an extra-small cyclic dipeptide for target recognition and are currently developing a novel, first-in-class multifunctional peptide structure featuring cross-linking for enhanced stability and activity.
“Orthogonal Peptides is an exciting new technology platform company specialising in peptide discovery, development and manufacture.
Our technology for making unique cyclic peptides combined with our new sustainable manufacturing technologies, will allow us to further develop our current partnerships with leading global pharmaceutical companies”, said Professor Williams.
The company plans to raise seed funding in late 2025 and is actively recruiting a permanent Chief Executive Officer (CEO) to lead its commercialisation efforts.
The appointed CEO will be responsible for driving growth, securing investment, and building strategic partnerships across the pharmaceutical and biotech sectors.
Orthogonal Peptides exemplifies Imperial’s commitment to translating world-class research into real-world impact through commercial innovation.
This is the latest spinout supported by ChemEng Enterprise , the highly successful decentralised Enterprise programme launched by the Department of Chemical Engineering and unique within Imperial.
The scheme, led by Professor Sandro Macchietto, Director of Enterprise, Department of Chemical Engineering, includes scouting of viable opportunities, a pre-seed funding scheme, extensive advice and mentoring, support of interactions with Imperial and funders, and a yearly ChemEng Enterprise Day bringing together founders, early investors, mentors (alumni and professional) to network at the earliest possible stage.
Professor Sandro Macchietto said: ”Most people associate chemical engineering with energy, materials and processes, and indeed we have thriving research and excellent spinouts in all these sectors.
The same skills base is also successfully deployed in important biotech and biomedical areas, as Professor Williams and his team demonstrates.
Orthogonal Peptides has all the potential to deliver immense health benefits and great commercial impact in a very hot therapeutic area.
We are very proud to have supported them through the formation and launch phase and look forward to continuing to do so.
Ideally, they will lead the way to a few similar hot biotech spinouts we have in the pipeline." Interested in applying for the CEO position at Orthogonal Peptides?
Get in touch with Professor Daryl Williams .
Find out more about ChemEng Enterprise .
Find out more about the Imperial Enterprise Lab .
Navta Hussain Department of Chemical Engineering
Enterprise See more tags

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/news/267593/ai-enhanced-ecg-spot-patients-risk-dangerous:
by Samantha Rey 20 August 2025
The tool, developed by UK researchers, uses artificial intelligence to detect the earliest signs of a serious condition called ‘complete heart block’ – which can be fatal if left untreated.
Heart block is caused by problems with the electrical signals moving from the upper to lower chambers of the heart as it beats.
The signal can only get through sometimes or not at all.
(This makes the heart beat more slowly or skip beats.
People with heart block may experience fainting, fatigue, injuries from falls, or even sudden death.
At present, doctors use clues from an ECG - which records the electrical activity of the heart and is one of the most common medical tests in the world – along with international guidelines to identify people who have or are likely to develop complete heart block.
But these findings are non-specific and can miss patients who might benefit from earlier treatment – particularly as the abnormal heartbeat in the early stages of the condition can be intermittent.
In a study, published today in JAMA Cardiology, researchers at Imperial College London and Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust show how they have trained their AI tool to read an ECG and identify patients who will have future heart block problems.
The AI tool, known as AIRE-CHB, performed much better than existing methods for predicting heart block.
It was able to correctly identify the risk of the patient developing complete heart block, (from high to low), in 89% of cases.
That compares to the existing standard of 59% correct identification.
Dr Arunashis Sau, Academic Clinical Lecturer at Imperial College London’s National Heart and Lung Institute, and cardiology registrar at Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, said: “When complete heart block occurs it can initially be intermittent and therefore difficult to identify; yet by the time it becomes permanent it is far more dangerous for the patient.
If we doctors can better identify patients early on with this condition, we’ll be able to monitor them more closely or progress to treating them with a pacemaker - avoiding their serious injury, emergency hospital admission, or even their death.”
The researchers believe their tool could be especially valuable for evaluating patients who have unexplained fainting episodes, which sometimes may be due to heart block.
The cause of these episodes could be diagnosed earlier, using AIRE-CHB.
To develop their tool, the researchers analyzed over 1.1 million ECG heart recordings from nearly 190,000 patients at a Boston hospital.
They used this data to train an AI system to recognize patterns that predict future complete heart block.
They then tested their tool on a separate group of over 50,000 people from the UK Biobank.
People identified as high-risk by AIRE-CHB were about 7-12 times more likely to develop complete heart block compared to the individuals identified as low-risk.
Overall, AIRE-CHB was 84%-94% (averaged at 89%) accurate in its predictions, depending on the population tested.
Dr Fu Siong Ng, the senior author, Reader in Cardiac Electrophysiology at the National Heart & Lung Institute at Imperial College London and a consultant cardiologist at Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust and Chelsea and Westminster Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, said "Complete heart block is a very serious condition affecting around 24,000 patients a year in the UK.
Our tool could provide reassurance for patients and their doctors that their condition could be diagnosed earlier and that we can tailor the frequency of monitoring and timing of pacemaker implants for those at high risk of developing this condition.”
The research follows on from the team’s development of the related AI-ECG risk estimation model, known as AIRE, which can predict patients’ risk of developing and worsening disease from an ECG.
Other AI models from this project have been trained to analyse ECGs to predict problems such as female heart disease risk , health risks including early death, high blood pressure , type 2 diabetes and most recently, heart valve disease .
Trials of AIRE in the NHS are planned for late 2025.
These will evaluate the benefits of implementing the model with real patients from hospitals across Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust and Chelsea and Westminster Hospital NHS Foundation Trust.
This research was funded by the British Heart Foundation via a BHF Clinical Research Training Fellowship to Dr Sau, a BHF Programme Grant to Dr Fu Siong Ng, and the BHF Centre of Research Excellence at Imperial College London.
It was also supported by the NIHR Imperial Biomedical Research Centre , a translational research partnership between Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust and Imperial College London.
-
'Artificial intelligence–enhanced electrocardiography for complete heart block risk stratification' by Arunashis Sau, Fu Siong Ng et al, is published in JAMA Cardiology.
DOI: 10.1001/jamacardio.2025.2522
Samantha Rey Communications Division
Tel: +44 (0)20 7594 1507 Email: s.rey@imperial.ac.uk Show all stories by this author
Healthcare , Artificial-intelligence , Cardiovascular See more tags

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about/schools-of-convergence-science/school-of-health-and-technology:
Health has always been one of humanity’s greatest challenges, and one of its greatest triumphs.
The School of Health & Technology exists to drive convergence between disciplines, technologies and mindsets to shift the global conversation from treating illness to sustaining lifelong health – across diverse populations, geographies and systems.
Our approach is bold, integrative and impact-led.
Working across Imperial and beyond, we are redefining how health research is done, who it serves, and what it can achieve – creating a fairer, healthier and more resilient future for all.
The Schools of Convergence Science will be mission-led – shaped by society’s most complex challenges.
Below are some exemplar missions the School is developing to shape a healthier world by 2050:
Diagnostics in the wild: What if real-time sensing and AI-powered interpretation can be embedded into everyday environments – to detect chronic diseases before symptoms emerge and to detect acute illnesses rapidly?
Frugal healthtech: What if the next generation of health innovation emerged from the Global South – designed locally, scaled globally, and unconstrained by the assumptions of legacy health systems?
Programmable public health: What if health interventions were dynamically generated for each individual, using real-time behavioural data, AI-powered narrative generation, and deep mechanistic understanding?
Preventative therapies: What if we could prevent disease, infections, cancers, and drug resistance, before they emerge?
These aren’t slogans.
They are blueprints.
Science guided by humanity.
Professor Anthony Bull School of Health and Technology Convenor and Co-Director
Professor Iain McNeish School of Health and Technology Co-Director
Professor Marisa Miraldo School of Health and Technology Co-Director
Professor Faith Osier School of Health and Technology Co-Director
Contact the School at: health_tech.convergence@imperial.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about/schools-of-convergence-science/school-of-human-and-artificial-intelligence:
AI promises to augment human capabilities, automate complex tasks, and spark unprecedented progress in almost every field.
Through our convergence approach and mindset, the School of Human and Artificial Intelligence will drive impact by augmenting the intelligence of humans and machines to support and help humanity thrive.
We are at a turning point in history – where the challenges of the present are outweighed only by the boundless potential and possibilities of the future.
By embracing a collaborative spirit, the School is ready to actively shape a future where AI's transformative power can advance humanity for the better.
Below are some exemplar missions the School is exploring:
Professor Payam Barnaghi School of Human and Artificial Intelligence Co-Director
Professor Will Branford School of Human and Artificial Intelligence Co-Director
Professor Aldo Faisal School of Human and Artificial Intelligence Co-Director
Professor Alessandra Russo School of Human and Artificial Intelligence Convenor and Co-Director
Contact the School at: hai@imperial.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about/schools-of-convergence-science/school-of-space-security-and-telecoms:
Humanity has always been a force of change.
Today, we live in a world where the pace of scientific advancement is unprecedented.
A world where communication is instantaneous and safety concerns extend to the digital sphere.
These are truly remarkable times and call for truly extraordinary thinking.
The School of Space, Security & Telecoms exists at the very frontier of this new society – exploring three distinct themes: to protect, connect and know our worlds.
We will set the global agenda at the intersection of these disciplines, delivering the academic leadership this moment demands.
Professor Jonathan Eastwood School of Space, Security and Telecoms Convenor and Co-Director
Professor Kin Leung School of Space, Security and Telecoms Co-Director
Professor Julie McCann School of Space, Security and Telecoms Co-Director
Professor Matthew Santer School of Space, Security and Telecoms Co-Director
Contact the School at: space-security-telecoms.convergence@imperial.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about/schools-of-convergence-science/school-of-sustainability:
Human prosperity and planetary health are interdependent imperatives.
The School of Sustainability exists to accelerate solutions that make both possible.
We envision a world where people can live prosperous, meaningful lives in harmony with the planet, and we are building the evidence, coalitions and capabilities to get there.
We are a new kind of team: impact-oriented, intellectually agile and driven by a deep commitment to people and planet.
Our work spans research, policy, innovation and implementation, and moves beyond the boundaries of traditional academic projects or partnerships.
This is where world-class research meets real-world urgency, and where bold ideas become systems-changing action.
The Schools of Convergence Science are mission-led – shaped by society’s most complex challenges.
Below are some exemplar missions the School of Sustainability is exploring:
Nurturing: An Earth that supports prosperous, healthy people and flourishing nature
What if we can provide irrefutable evidence and tested solutions showing that our land can sustain both people and nature – not by trading one off against the other, but by optimising what we take and, importantly, what we as humans give back to nature?
Re-engineering: A step change in the stewardship of limited materials
What if we could fundamentally redefine our relationship with materials, launching convergent systems that share stewardship of critical resources, doing more with less, delivering utility without pollution and demonstrating the benefits of a revitalised planet on the health of its people?
Powering: Systems that can provide 10 billion people with equitable access to clean, healthy energy by 2050
What if we knew how the new energy age will deliver modern society’s hunger for energy?
From smart grids, efficiency solutions and evidenced and robust implementation strategies, we will seek to overcome the barriers that are stifling innovative solutions to drive a future that meets our need for equitable, clean energy.
Thriving: Resilient global societies that can withstand increasingly frequent and large-scale environmental shocks
What if everyone had access to the information and proven solutions needed to be fully prepared and insulated against an increasingly harsh planet?
What if our interconnected world helped strengthen our collective health and prosperity in a changing world?
Professor Benjamin Barratt School of Sustainability Co-Director
Alyssa Gilbert School of Sustainability Co-Director
Dr Mirabelle Muûls School of Sustainability Convenor and Co-Director
Professor Nilay Shah School of Sustainability Co-Director
Contact the School at: sustainable-convergence@imperial.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about/leadership-and-strategy/strategy/amplifying-impact/westtech-london:
WestTech London will become a global powerhouse for innovation and
entrepreneurship, creating jobs, attracting investment and cementing the UK’s position
as a leader in science and technology.
WestTech London is anchored by Imperial’s major science and innovation locations across West London in South Kensington-Albertopolis, Paddington Life Sciences, White City Innovation District and Old Oak and Park Royal.
West London is built for innovation.
With world-class research institutions, a diverse talent pool, access to investment capital, a rich industrial heritage and major transport links, it has all the characteristics to deliver a thriving, globally competitive innovation ecosystem.
Download the WestTech London investment brochure (PDF)
Our strategy, Science for Humanity , set out how Imperial will accelerate towards, and scale the impact of, new discoveries, inventions and ideas, positioning us as a trusted convenor and partner for knowledge and tech organisations across the globe.
Imperial’s Bezos Centre for Sustainable Protein , based at White City, will develop innovative and evidence-based solutions through the design, delivery, and commercialisation of alternative food products that are economically and environmentally friendly, nutritious, affordable, and tasty.
Imperial’s £150m investment to purchase and repurpose the 9.6-acre site known as Victoria Industrial Estate in Old Oak will allow for the expansion of flexible and affordable follow on space to stay and scale in West London.
These spaces will enable prototyping, pilot manufacturing, Good Manufacturing Practice and advanced manufacturing for innovators in areas such as CleanTech, BioTech and MedTech.
Imperial’s partnership with Bruntwood will deliver a new commercial innovation facility of at least 200,000 sq ft, marking a major milestone leap forward in the creation of an internationally significant innovation ecosystem in London’s White City and a huge boost to the UK’s science and technology sector.
Along with Imperial’s research and translation expertise, it will give access to Bruntwood SciTech’s specialist support including its network of academic, clinical, and innovation partners, highly skilled talent, investment support, and growth programmes.
Stanton Williams has been chosen to design the Fleming Initiatives landmark centre, a research and public engagement facility due to open in 2028 on the canal-side at St Mary’s Hospital in Paddington, London.
Centre for London’s report , produced in partnership with Imperial, Ealing Council and West London Alliance, explores the opportunities to boost economic growth in West London, demonstrating the region's extraordinary growth potential.
Imperial hosted the launch of the London Growth Plan, where the Mayor of London set out his vision for London's economy over the next 10 years.
Produced by the Mayor of London, London Councils and London & Partners , the Plan sets a target to restore London’s productivity growth to an average of 2% per year over the next decade, which would make London’s economy £107 billion larger by 2035.
WestTech London features in the London Growth Plan as a major growth initiative and a key industrial innovation corridor.
Imperial has joined forces with ARC West London to launch ‘ Leap: Powered by Imperial Incubator ’ a new a coworking incubator lab.
The co-working space will provide single lab benches so that scientists with early-stage concepts can access cutting-edge facilities, shared equipment, support, and scaleup programmes to help them refine their ideas surrounded by a collaborative and curated ecosystem at ARC’s West London campus.
With over 150 years of innovation in education, culture and science, Albertopolis is a hub of creativity and discovery.
At South Kensington Campus, Imperial is nurturing the next generation of leaders, developing the people and skills the world needs now and into the future.
Explore more
In Paddington, Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust is collaborating with researchers, industry, and the local community to accelerate health innovation.
The landmark Fleming Centre, will be a state-of-the-art research and public engagement facility tackling antimicrobial resistance on a global scale.
White City is emerging as Europe’s leading deep tech cluster in AI, cleantech, medtech, spacetech and security science.
Anchored by Imperial’s White City Deep Tech Campus and Hammersmith Hospital Campus, it is a hotspot for innovation, translation and commercialisation.
Old Oak and Park Royal – London’s largest regeneration zone and the future home of the Old Oak Common station, the UK’s best-connected rail interchange – will play a crucial role in WestTech London.
Imperial’s investment in Old Oak will provide vital prototyping and advanced manufacturing spaces for cutting edge science and innovation, and supports the long-term transformation of the area.
Find out more about Old Oak
In both scenarios, WestTech London's frontier innovation sector will be larger than the rest of London’s combined by 2030.*
*WPI Economics
Old Oak and Park Royal London’s largest regeneration zone and the future home of the Old Oak Common station, the UK’s best-connected rail interchange - will play a crucial role in WestTech London.
Download the brochure (PDF)

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/giving/ways-to-give:
Thank you for considering a gift to support students at Imperial.
There are various ways you can give: a donation online, setting up a direct debit, or by leaving a gift in your will.
You can also find out more about giving from outside the UK and volunteering your time.
With just a single gift, you can create life-changing opportunities for students at Imperial to realise their full potential.
Donate now
Regular gifts, whether monthly, quarterly or annually, help Imperial students with the most profound needs in the months and years to come.
Set up a direct debit
Give to the US-based Imperial College Foundation to make your gift tax deductible.
Find out how you can make a donation outside of the UK.
As a volunteer, you can give back and contribute your time, skills and expertise to support our students, graduates, alumni and the wider Imperial community.
Find out about volunteering
A gift in your will costs nothing in your lifetime.
However, from the moment you pledge, you are enabling future generation of students and scientists to tackle some of the world’s biggest challenges.
Find out about legacy giving
If you wish to donate by post, please download and fill the donation form and return it to the following address:
Marta Bel, Head of Gift Accounting
Imperial College London
Advancement Division
SALC Mezzanine
Level 5 Sherfield Building
London SW7 2AZ, UK
If you wish to amend or increase an existing direct debit to the university, please contact us by email at giving@imperial.ac.uk or phone by +44 (0)20 7594 9330.
There are a number of ways to give tax efficiently: through shares, through your will, or by claiming Gift Aid.
Please note that tax regulations can change.
It is advisable to consult with a tax professional or refer to the latest HMRC guidelines to ensure compliance and maximise tax benefits.
Giving stocks and shares
If you make a give through shares to Imperial, you can claim full tax relief on their market value and any costs involved in making the gift, such as brokers’ fees.
If the shares you donate have increased in value since you originally bought them, you don’t need to pay capital gains tax on the difference.
If the shares you donate are worth less than when you bought them, you cannot use this loss to offset any other capital gains tax liability.
Please email Semiha Alma at s.alma@imperial.ac.uk or call on +44 (0)20 7594 6149 for help making the arrangements.
Gift Aid for higher rate taxpayers
When you make a donation under Gift Aid, we claim back the basic rate of tax paid on the donation – increasing the value to us of your gift by 25%.
If you are a higher rate taxpayer, it is possible for you to claim back the remaining tax paid on the donation (that is, the difference between the basic rate and higher rate at 40% or 45%) through your tax return.
Visit the HMRC website to learn more about the Gift Aid scheme, or please get in touch with Semiha Alma on s.alma@imperial.ac.uk or +44 (0)20 7594 6149 if you have any questions.
Giving in your will
A few changes to your will could reduce the amount of inheritance that needs to be paid on your estate – and leave a lasting legacy for the future of science and education.
For more information about making a gift in your will, please contact Anna Wall at a.wall@imperial.ac.uk or on +44 (0)20 7594 3801.
There are special tax breaks or benefits available for donors living in the US, Canada and Europe.
US taxpayers can give in a tax-efficient way by making a gift to the Imperial College Foundation to make their gift tax deductible.
Find out more about tax efficient giving from the US .
Find out more about giving from overseas.
We are grateful to all donors who choose to make a gift in their will to support Imperial students and researchers.
If you are considering leaving a gift in your will, please get in touch with the Legacy Giving Team at +44 (0)20 7594 6159 or giving@imperial.ac.uk .
Find out more about making a legacy gift to Imperial.
When donating to the College using a CAF charity voucher please add include ‘Imperial College London’ as the charity name and send it to the Gift Accounting Team by post:
Marta Bel Head of Gift Accounting Imperial College London Advancement Division SALC Mezzanine Level 5 Sherfield Building London SW7 2AZ
Imperial accepts matched-giving donations from many major companies.
To find out whether your company runs a matched giving scheme and what the details of the scheme are, contact your HR department.
If you have any questions about matched giving, please contact Semiha Alma on +44 (0)20 7594 6149 or email s.alma@imperial.ac.uk.
You can choose to register as a body donor, or tissue donor in order to advance research and understanding of health and disease in the human body.
To find out more about body donation, contact the London Anatomy Office .
If you are interested in tissue donation, find out more about registering as a donor to the MS Society Tissue Bank or Parkinson’s UK Brain Bank.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/admin-services/ict/self-service/digital-education-services/digital-education-platforms/blackboard:
Blackboard Learn by anthology
Blackboard Learn is the Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) used at Imperial.
Staff and students automatically have access.
You can use Blackboard to:
Teaching materials are delivered to students in Blackboard through courses.
To participate in a course you will need to be enrolled; this is administered by your Faculty or Department.
If you are not enrolled on a course that you believe you should be, then contact your Departmental Office or Course Leader and they will be able to help.
If there is a technical issue, then they can raise this with ICT on your behalf.
If there is incorrect or missing information on a course, then this should also be reported to either your Course Leader or Departmental Office .
Courses that you are enrolled upon will be displayed in the Courses tab on the left hand side of the home page.
This is the first page that you see once you have logged in to Blackboard.
Courses that you are enrolled upon will appear in your course list, divided by term.
You can filter, search for and favourite courses in your list.
You have the choice of a plain text list or "Course Cards" that will display your courses in a "tiled" view.
Some courses require you to self-enrol in order to participate and your Course Leader will be able to advise you further on joining instructions for these courses.
Please follow the steps below to enrol on a self-enrolment course:
If you have submitted the wrong file to your assignment, contact your Course Leader for assistance.
Any technical issues with Blackboard Learn should be reported to the ICT Service Desk.
Contact the ICT Service Desk
More help on how to use Blackboard Learn is also available from the Blackboard Help Center.
Visit the Blackboard Help Center
ICT Service Desk Abdus Salam Library South Kensington Campus SW7 2AZ
In-person : ICT Service Desk 08:30-18:00 Monday-Friday (exc.
university closure days) Out-of-hours support
By phone : +44 (0)20 7594 9000 or 49000 from an Imperial telephone
My Imperial Portal
Log in to ICIS
Lecture recordings (Panopto)
Download software
Printing on campus

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/admin-services/ict/contact-ict-service-desk:
Our ICT Service Desk team can help staff, students and visitors with a wide range of issues from; connecting to Wi-Fi , resetting passwords , software installation and much more.
Contact us online via ASK or call us on +44 (0)20 7594 9000.
If you don't have an Imperial email and password, e.g.
you are alumni, a prospective student or external supplier, you can contact the ICT Service Desk using our ASK customer facing service portal .
First time using ASK?
Please register online to use ASK our customer facing portal .
Our ICT Service Desk team can help staff, students and visitors with a wide range of IT issues.
You can contact us in person, online via ASK or call us on +44 (0)20 7594 9000 .
Find out more about getting in touch below.
Get in-person support by visiting us Monday-Friday at:
South Kensington - Level 1, Abdus Salam Library, 08.30-17.30
White City - Room G20, Molecular Sciences Research Hub, 09.00-16.30
White City Hub - Level 1, The MediaWorks, 09.00-17.00 (for colleagues working there)
Silwood Park - Hamilton Building, Main Entrance, 12.30-13.30
Hammersmith - Library, Commonwealth Building, 09.00-16.30 (Mondays and Thursdays)
We are closed on university closure days.
If you have an Imperial username and password, you can access ASK Imperial, our online services portal where you can: - Report an IT issue - Submit a request for IT support and track it's progress - Check the status of Imperial systems using our service portal - Browse our knowledge articles
Log a ticket or ASK the chatbot
+44 (0)20 7594 9000 or x49000 from a campus phone Call from 08.30 to 18.00, or out of hours from 18.00 until 08.30
Out of hours support
We have dedicated Product Owners for every application and service supported by ICT.
Our Product Owners will work directly with you to understand your requirements and plan development work.
Out ICT communities work with us on behalf of your department to facilitate requests and collaborate on IT related activities.
Find your DepRep.
Speak to the ICT Leadership Team at any time about our strategy, Customer Service Business Operations, Technology, Research Support, Infrastructure and Shared Services.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/admin-services/library:
Library Services are here to support you throughout your time at Imperial.
We provide print and online resources, research support and a variety of study spaces to suit your needs.
Library staff are online Monday to Friday 09.30 –19.00.
You can also search our frequently asked questions.
library@imperial.ac.uk +44 (0)20 7594 8810
Text an Attendant at Abdus Salam Library: 07725 159853
Send us your feedback and comments
Search frequently asked questions

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/multidisciplinary-research:
Our Global Challenge Institutes were created to address some of the most important issues facing the world today.
These issues are too big to be tackled by individual academics or teams, so the Institutes serve to harness and drive multi-disciplinary approaches, bringing together experts with a wide range of specialisms.
The Institutes enable and support cross-faculty collaboration across College, while engaging externally with policymakers, businesses, end-users, and international partners to bring rapid, innovative progress to these critical issues.
The impacts of the Global Challenge Institutes can be seen through their outputs, including their education and training programmes, in-depth policy papers and reports, seminars, workshops, and research grants.
Together, these enhance and promote Imperial’s world-leading research strengths in these areas.​
The Imperial Centres of Excellence aim to galvanise a critical mass of researchers, transcending Faculty boundaries to support a multidisciplinary theme.
The Imperial Networks of Excellence aim to establish and grow connections around an important multidisciplinary area that is being explored at an earlier stage than the centres.
Find out more about how the College recognises multi-faculty networks and centres .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/admin-services/finance/purchasing/related-policy-statements/modern-slavery:
Modern slavery is a crime and a violation of fundamental human rights.
It takes various forms, such as slavery, servitude, forced and compulsory labour and human trafficking, all of which have in common the deprivation of a person's liberty by another in order to exploit them for personal or commercial gain.
We are committed to improving our practices to combat slavery and human trafficking.
This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes Imperial College London’s slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending July 2024.
Imperial College London (“ Imperial ”) is an independent corporation whose legal status is derived from a Royal Charter granted under Letters Paten in 1907 and is also an exempt charity under the Charities Act 2011.
Imperial is renowned for its teaching and research in the areas of science, technology, engineering, medicine and business.
Imperial has three academic Faculties and a Business School, various support services departments and a number of wholly-owned subsidiaries.
In total Imperial has six main campuses within central London – South Kensington, White City, Hammersmith, St Mary’s, Charing Cross, Royal Brompton and Chelsea & Westminster, as well as a campus at Northwick Park (Middlesex), and Silwood Park (Ascot, Berkshire).
This statement includes Imperial’s wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Imperial is committed to combatting slavery and human trafficking and to acting with integrity in all its relationships.
This statement is designed to satisfy the requirements of Part 6 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (the “Act”), by informing our students, staff and the public about Imperial and its policy with respect to modern slavery, human trafficking, forced and bonded labour and labour rights violations in its supply chains.
Imperial’s supply chains mainly fall under one of the following five categories:
The principal areas which carry material risks are operational goods, laboratory consumables, ICT and AV equipment, and some estates services, such as cleaning and construction.
The supply chain of Imperial includes a large number of diverse suppliers, including suppliers of goods and services that directly support research and teaching activity, and suppliers of indirect goods and services not directly related to these activities.
In order to identify and mitigate risk in the supply chain, there are systems in place to identify and assess potential risk areas and mitigate the risk of slavery and human trafficking occurring in the supply chain.
More specifically:
In addition, as a member of the Southern Universities Purchasing Consortium (SUPC), Imperial works closely with the Consortium to ensure nationally negotiated agreements used by Imperial comply with the Act.
SUPC recommends that organisations ask suppliers in higher-risk areas to commit to the Base Code of the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) which is founded on the conventions of the International Labour Organisation and is an internationally recognised code of labour practice one of whose key pillars is “there is no forced, bonded or involuntary prison labour”.
Imperial supports this initiative.
Further, SUPC is an affiliate of Electronics Watch, an independent monitoring organisation working to achieve respect for labour rights in the global electronics industry through socially responsible public purchasing in Europe.
Electronics Watch has included the appropriate contract monitoring clauses in all relevant national agreements awarded which Imperial may utilize from time to time.
In 2023, Electronics Watch produced Monitoring Status Reports for 20 sites linked to 129 affiliates such as Imperial and SUPC.
These reports provide actionable, worker-driven evidence that help us to assess compliance and mitigate risks.
No breaches of the Act have been reported by Imperial suppliers during the current period.
Training on this policy, and on the risk our business faces from modern slavery in its supply chains, will be provided as necessary.
Our zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery will continue to be communicated to all suppliers, contractors and business partners at the outset of our business relationship with them and reinforced as appropriate thereafter.
As part of our Sustainable Procurement Strategy, our top 200 suppliers have been issued with a questionnaire covering both their sustainability policies and their Modern Slavery one.
This will be issued annually to ensure our key suppliers meet their obligations under the Act, and action taken as appropriate should any supplier report a breach of the Act.
We will review the effectiveness of the steps we have taken annually to ensure that there is no slavery or human trafficking in our supply chains.
Richard Martin Registrar and University Secretary Imperial College London Date: 3 December 2024

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about-the-site/privacy:
In accordance with Data Protection Legislation and the Privacy Electronic Communications Regulations, this privacy notice will:
This is a general web privacy policy which applies to the many Imperial websites we manage.
Some sites are managed by parts of the College individually and will carry their own privacy notices or provide additional information relating to their activities, which will supersede or supplement this privacy notice.
Whilst you do not require an account to access the University websites, there may be occasions where data is requested / collected as part of an action / activity, for example;
Personal data, or personal information, means any information about an individual from which that person can be identified.
It does not include data where the identity has been removed (anonymous data).
We may collect, use, store and transfer different kinds of personal data about you which we have grouped together as follows:
This data can be viewed by authorised people at Imperial, and trusted partners to:
We will only use your personal data when the law allows us to.
Most commonly, we will use your personal data in the following circumstances:
We store your data primarily on secure servers in the UK and European Economic Area (EEA).
Although we make every effort to keep your data in the UK / EEA, we occasionally work with third parties in the United States.
In these cases, we ensure they will abide by the same level of assurances as the UK / EEA respectively
We have put in place appropriate security measures to prevent your personal data from being accidentally lost, used or accessed in an unauthorised way, altered or disclosed.
In addition, we limit access to your personal data to those employees, agents, contractors and other third parties who have a business need to know.
They will only process your personal data on our instructions and they are subject to a duty of confidentiality.
We will only retain your personal data for as long as necessary to fulfil the purposes we collected it for, including for the purposes of satisfying any legal, accounting, or reporting requirements.
To determine the appropriate retention period for personal data, we consider the amount, nature, and sensitivity of the personal data, the potential risk of harm from unauthorised use or disclosure of your personal data, the purposes for which we process your personal data and whether we can achieve those purposes through other means, and the applicable legal requirements.
Read more about data retention and please refer to our Use of cookies page to find out about the different types of cookies we set and the retention periods.
We may pass on your personal information if we have a legal obligation to do so, or if we have to enforce or apply our terms of use and other agreements.
We may also share your information with other organisations who carry out marketing, market research for Imperial College London.
We do not pass on your details to other websites for their own marketing or commercial purposes.
You can find out what information we hold about you by submitting a subject access request and ask us not to use the information we collect.
You also have the right to have data erased if it is no longer necessary for the purpose for which it was originally collected/processed, or if there are no overriding legitimate grounds for the processing.
This is sometimes known as ‘the right to be forgotten’.
To find out more, please see - Guide 12 - Individual Rights | Administration and support services | Imperial College London
Direct marketing
You can ask us or third parties to stop sending you marketing messages at any time.
If you’ve signed up for email alerts, you can unsubscribe or change your settings at any time by selecting the ‘unsubscribe’ link that appears in every email.
Links to other websites
The Imperial College London websites contain links to other websites.
This privacy policy only applies to imperial.ac.uk (including any sub-domain and other Imperial owned websites) and doesn’t cover other websites that we link to.
These services, have their own terms and conditions and privacy policies.
If you do go to another website from this one, read the privacy policy on that website to find out what it does with your information.
Following a link to Imperial College London from another website
If you come to Imperial College London websites from another website, we may receive information from the other website.
You should read the privacy policy of the website you came from to find out more about this.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about-the-site/use-of-cookies:
The Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) defines a cookie as “a small file of letters and numbers that is downloaded on to your computer when you visit a website.
Cookies are used by many websites and can do a number of things e.g.
remembering your preferences, recording what you have put in your shopping basket, and counting the number of people looking at a website.”
On 26 May 2012, new European law relating to use of web cookies came into force in the UK that will affect most web sites.
The rules on cookies are covered by The Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003 and The Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) (Amendment) Regulations 2011 and ICO is responsible for enforcing these new rules.
The regulations also cover similar technologies for storing information, e.g.
Flash cookies.
The ICO and International Chamber of Commerce both provided guidance and advice on EU cookie directive and its implementation.
Please refer to their detailed guides for more information:
General use of information collected, used and stored by Imperial College London is governed by Imperial College policies .
These will generally be used to store a unique identifier to manage and identify the user as unique to other users currently viewing the website, in order to provide a consistent and accurate service to the user.
Will typically be the result of a user action, but might also be implemented in the delivery of a service not explicitly requested but offered to the user.
They can also be used to prevent the user being offered a service again that had previously been offered to that user and rejected.
These are limited to performance and website improvement.
These contain a unique key that is able to distinguish individual users’ browsing habits or store a code that can be translated into a set of browsing habits or preferences using information stored elsewhere.
Imperial websites and applications may have links embedded into pages to popular social networks like twitter.com, bbc.co.uk, flickr.com, facebook.com, delicious.com, stumbleupon.com, digg.com, youtube.com etc.
Cookies generated by those sites are outside of the College’s control and may change without notice.
When you share a page or link those sites may set cookies on your device or browser and can also make information about you publicly available or stored elsewhere.
If you would like more information about privacy and the cookies used by these services, as well as information on how to opt-out, please visit their websites.
If you like keeping your browsing private, you may wish to clear history and cookies after the session.
You can do so by using the browser, device settings or 3 rd party tools.
You may also wish to check and set any devices or browsers to restrict or block cookies by default for all or selected web sites only.
You can manage cookie usage through your browser settings:
Mobile devices may have their own settings and you may need to refer to vendor manuals.
Please note that disabling or restricting cookies may impact some parts of the College web site and they will stop working.
For queries regarding privacy, use of cookies or other information please contact us at privacy@imperial.ac.uk or write to the address below:
Privacy ICT, Level 4, Sherfield Building Imperial College London Exhibition Road SW7 2AZ London United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about-the-site/incorrect-content:
If you have spotted anything incorrect on an Imperial web page, then you can report this to us by completing a request via the ASK Imperial portal.
We will then send your request to the owner of the content.
When submitting your request please ensure that you include the URL (web address) of the page and details of any changes needed or errors encountered.
Please note that you must be a member of Imperial to submit via this form.
Submit an incorrect content request
If you are external to Imperial please log a ticket via the ASK portal .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about-the-site:
This main College website was launched on 8 December 2014 following an 18-month project involving user research and close working with the design agency, Domain 7, who were contracted to redesign Imperial's website.
We are currently working on a project to redesign the website in 2024, to reflect Imperial's proposed new brand and strategy.
We are committed to designing our sites, zones, components and applications in accordance with accessibility regulations.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about-the-site/use-of-cookies/updating-cookie-settings:
This page explains the different types of cookies used on the Imperial College website and how to change your settings.
The Imperial website uses four different types of cookies - strictly necessary, performance, functional and targeting.
There is more information on what these types of cookies do and a list of all the cookies on the Use of cookies page.
When you first visit the Imperial website the cookie banner will display.
This gives you the option to accept or reject all cookies or to customise which types of cookies are set.
Once you do this, you will no longer see this banner, unless you use a private browser window or a different device to access the Imperial website.
You can change your settings at any time by clicking on the Cookie settings logo in the bottom right of your screen.
You can again set it to accept or reject all cookies or you can set which types of cookies you want to enable by clicking on the corresponding toggle switch.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about-the-site/accessibility/feature-guidance:
There is a hidden ‘skip to main content’ link for screen reader users.
This will be read out by your screen reader as the first link on the page and allow you to skip the default navigation that is included at the top of every page and go directly to the page content or local menu.
To use this functionality, you will need to enable keyboard navigation within your browser and/or operating system as applicable.
Our site conforms to WAI-ARIA 1.0 by using arrow keys when a tab area is in focus.
Details can be found on W3C’s site .
The same is true for accordion items on a page.
To open the accordion item, press ‘enter’ and use arrow keys to move through the items.
Details can be found on W3C’s site.
The Imperial website is designed to resize to the size of your window and display a readable text size whichever device you are using.
If you find the font sizes that have been used too small you can increase the text size using your browser to zoom or alter the font size.
These changes will have some layout implications for the page.
View a comprehensive site map

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/about-the-site/browser-support:
Imperial’s website has been developed to work optimally with the following browsers and devices.
Please note that IE compatibility mode is not supported.
For older devices or operating systems, a basic template of our site is served, so that users are still able to access content.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/disability-advisory-service:
Supporting you to succeed
The Disability Advisory Service is committed to providing the best possible support for all students at Imperial.
We understand that each person's learning difficulty, health problem or disability can affect them in different ways, and therefore, the support offered is flexible and tailored.
Get a head start on preparing yourself for your time at Imperial.
Find out what steps you must take to ensure your transition to university goes as smoothly as possible.
Get prepared
We offer a range of different types of adjustments and support.
We can also support you if you are seeking a diagnosis of autism or a specific learning difficulty
Get informed
Make an appointment to receive adjustments and support for your time at Imperial.
If you are seeking a diagnosis of autism or a specific learning difficulty, arrange an initial screening appointment.
Find out who can help if you have any wellbeing concerns about yourself or a friend.
Get support
Meet students who have accessed our service and read about their experience of studying at Imperial.
Check out our case studies
The Disability Advisory Service is here to support students who are disabled, have specific learning difficulties or have other short or long-term conditions.
Our team has a wealth of experience and we look forward to meeting you.
Learn about DAS

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/subjects:
Imperial offers undergraduate, postgraduate taught and doctoral courses and programmes across many science, technology, engineering, medicine and business (STEMB) subjects.
Explore these subjects in the list below.
Push boundaries – from aeroplanes to drones, space to hot air balloons
Take a deep dive into the cutting edge world of machine learning and artificial intelligence
Understand and utilise the processes and pathways found inside living organisms
Use engineering principles to solve problems in healthcare, medicine and the world we live in
The science of life, from individual cells to whole organisms and the ecosystems they make up
Finding solutions to human healthcare problems through the diagnosis and treatment of diseases
Understand how businesses work to improve how they’re run, how they function, and their productivity
Turn raw materials into useful solutions essential to the way we live
Study the properties of substances, with far-reaching possibilities
Design, build and maintain the structures of our modern world
Communicate messages, reflect viewpoints and influence decisions
Understand computing – the foundation of the modern world
Discover hidden patterns in data and apply your knowledge to real-world problems
Fuse design thinking with engineering practices
Tackle some of the biggest environmental challenges facing the planet
Design the systems and technology that helps us live, work, and communicate
Power the world in a more sustainable way
Understand the power of money - with value across the world
Expand knowledge of earth, its resources and other planets
Discovering and designing materials with widespread applications
Apply the diverse field of mathematics to impact science, the economy, and society
Create, manufacture and maintain the building blocks of the modern world
Helping people live longer, healthier lives
Explore fundamental forces and the origins of the universe
Protect, promote and improve the health of individuals and wider communities

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/admin-services/operational-improvement:
Our mission is to facilitate change and champion a culture of continuous improvement across the university
Aiming to deliver improvements across HR, Procurement, Finance and Research Administration.
There are two components to this: replacing our current system, ICIS, with a new cloud-based system, and improving our processes and ways of working.
Working overseas can carry significant financial, legal, regulatory and safety risks for individuals as well as the College and we must ensure our International Mobility (overseas working) function keeps in step with the global reach of our research.
The Strategic Programmes and Change team is currently supporting a key part of Imperial’s Enabling Strategy, which is to develop and operate great workplaces to deliver world-class professional services.
Some of Japan’s most innovative companies visited White City to share collaboration opportunities and explore Imperial’s enterprising ecosystem.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/redesign-content/white-city-deep-tech-campus:
White City Campus: where ideas grow
Learn more about our platform for innovation, entrepreneurship and multidisciplinary research
Across Imperial’s DeepTech campus, scientists and researchers are addressing the biggest challenges facing humanity.
Imperial’s presence includes Molecular Sciences Research Hub, Sir Michael Uren Hub and The School of Public Health.
Our innovation ecosystem brings together spin-outs, start-ups, scale-ups and corporates, with the resources, facilities and support to help great ideas grow.
We are proud to have created and support a network of innovators across White City Campus and to be part of the local community.
Our activities bring together students, staff and businesses, as well as inspiring the next generation of innovators.
We are a growing community of world-leading researchers and ground-breaking enterprises that are shaping tomorrow’s world.
Ours is a community that supports growth and is ready for the future.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/staff/tools-and-reference/web-guide/training-and-events/materials/accessibility:
Your guide to making your digital content more accessible.
If you publish content on any of Imperial's online platforms or applications then you have an important role in ensuring we provide accessible content, meaning it can be used and interpreted by everyone that accesses it including those using assistive and inclusive technology.
In this section of the web guide you will find everything that you need to create accessible and effective content including guidance on headings, links, images, documents, videos and more.
Some of the most important aspects of accessibility are to do with the way people create and edit content.
We have put together guidance for the key areas elements where you can improve accessibility.
We have also created an Accessible content checklist so you can test your content.
How to write clear and effective headings.
How to ensure images you use are accessible.
How to add clear and descriptive links.
How to make sure that the documents you upload are accessible e.g.
PDFs.
How to use tabular content in an accessible way.
Guidance on creating accessible video and audio content.
How to create accessible surveys.
We provide an online accessibility training course aimed at content editors.
Following our guidance will help you create accessible content, but we would also recommend testing this using a accessibility tools.
Screen reader simulators and testing tools:
ICT work with a supplier who can provide comprehensive accessibility testing for website and applications as a costed service.
Accessibility is not just about disability, it is about universality!
At Imperial our main website has been designed and built with accessibility as a consideration from the start.
For example, the website works with different devices and screen sizes and is navigable using a keyboard.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/staff/tools-and-reference/web-guide/policies-and-guidance/accessibility-standards:
Accessibility is not just about disability; it is about universality and inclusivity.
Everyone who uses the web should get the same information be that from a webpage, a document, online course or a video - that is why we aim to meet WCAG 2.2 AA compliance as we are obliged to complly with the Accessibility Regulations 2018.
We are not doing this to just meet these legal requirements, but because we would like to.
These standards will ensure that you are providing the best experience for all your students, staff and visitors and will help you with creating accessible digital content for all.
The College’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy commits us to providing an inclusive environment for work and study; to do that effectively we need to identify and remove barriers to information.
Follow these standards to ensure your websites and content are accessible:
You must provide an accessible alternative way of presenting the information in a video .
Videos published before 23 September 2020 are exempt from the accessibility regulations.
However, it is advisable that any videos created before this date that are viewed heavily, promoted in marketing campaigns or popular on social media sites should have a text alternative provided, even if this means post-editing.
Captions are a great alternative way of presenting the information in a video .
Most captions are automatically generated by the video player (e.g.
YouTube) or supporting software during or after the video has broadcast so you should check them after the video has been recorded and correct any mistakes with the subject matter expert.
Auto captions are not 100% accurate so there is no guarantee that the same information is being relayed back to your audience.
It is very important as content creators to check and edit the captions or provide transcripts to ensure accuracy, especially for course materials.
It is advisable, when the systems allow, that live video or audio have text alternatives provided.
(Although live videos are exempt from the Accessibility Regulations.)
Read this page on the Imperial digital accessibility standards for online teaching and learning videos , like online lectures.
Any new published documents and documents that users need to download or fill in to access services that Imperial provides should be fully accessible.
It is best practice and an Imperial standard that any old documents on websites or intranets that are still heavily used should be made accessible even if they are exempt from the Accessibility Regulations .
Website documents which were published before 23 September 2018 are exempt unless such documents are needed for active administrative processes relating to the tasks performed by Imperial (such as a form for students to fill out for Imperial to provide a service).
Find out about making accessible documents .
If you manage intranet content that was published before 23 September 2018 it does not need to comply with the Accessibility Regulations unless any major revisions are made to the intranet page after that date.
If the content is still heavily used by your audiences, audiences or if you do make any substantial revisions to the intranet content you manage, Imperial expects content owners to ensure accessibility compliance.
Password protected pages on the College’s Content Management System - t4 are expected to comply with the Accessibility Regulations.
Read the glossary page for a definition of intranet and extranet.
All Digital platforms, including (websites and apps) that are hosted or supported by the College must comply.
Digital platforms, including (websites and apps) that are not hosted or supported by the College, but that meet all the affiliation criteria must also comply:
If you work with a team that has a digital platform/solution where the Imperial logo or name is use, please contact the site owner to highlight our Imperial standards for digital accessibility.
Affiliated sites also include any personal web pages that are not hosted on the College PWP platform.
If you own a personal webpage outside of College PWP please ensure you do an accessibility review and add an accessibility statement to your site.
You must also update the content in line with Imperial’s accessibility guidance .
The legislation applies to all public-sector body websites/apps/digital solutions regardless of where they’re hosted, therefore it is an Imperial standard for any website that is co-managed by Imperial and external partners, for the Imperial content owner to conduct an accessibility review of the website and make best efforts to ensure content is inclusive and accessible for the widest possible audience.
As a general rule, Imperial will be legally responsible for websites meeting accessibility requirements, even if the management is outsourced to a third party supplier or external partner.
If you are responsible for any website/app/digital solution that is outsourced to a supplier, you’ll need to work together to make sure your website meets the Accessibility Regulations (to the extent that these changes would not be a disproportionate burden ).
The only exception to this would be if the third-party content is neither funded by nor developed or under the control of anyone from Imperial.
If you publish content on any of the College's websites or other online platforms then you have an important role in ensuring you provide accessible content, meaning it can be used and interpreted by everyone that accesses it.
It is very easy to make some small changes that will really help your audiences, and it will mean they come back to your website again and again.
Here are some great ‘how to guides’ on meeting the standards expected for making your digital content accessible:
If you, your team, or your suppliers manage an Imperial website or mobile app you have legal duty and organisational responsibility to ensure these meet certain standards.
This page has some information and resources that you can use to get started in meeting our accessibility standards and improving the digital experience for all our users.
The Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 means that we also have a legal duty to meet certain accessibility standards.
The best way of doing this is to check how far your website or app currently meets the WCAG 2.2 AA standard.
Then, make a plan to fix the problems you’ve found.
The Government Digital Service have published further information on Understanding new accessibility requirements for public sector bodies and a sample accessibility statement you can use.
One of the requirements for the public sector accessibility regulations is that you must add a web accessibility statement to your site, detailing how accessible the site is, any areas that are not, and what you are doing to improve it.
The statement should include a contact for anyone who wants to lodge a complaint or request an accessible version of any content and/or request an alternative way to access the service.
Please contact accessibility@imperial.ac.uk for an up to date compliant statement template
The College’s ICT Division provides an accessibility review service which commissions a specialist accessibility testing agency to carry out full in person assessments of websites and apps.
This is an essential service to use for in-depth assessments of websites and apps, as well as new suppliers and products.
There is a charge for this service.
Expert accessibility testing is available on request through the Ask website .
There are many free tools that can help you assess how accessible your website is.
These are great for quickly and cheaply assessing your sites
Automated testing cannot replace the in-depth testing carried out by an expert.
We recommend using these tools for initial assessments and using the expert testing provided by ICT when you are sure your website meets the required standards, when you are launching new sites, or for assessing new suppliers and products.
The WAVE Chrome and Firefox extensions allows you to evaluate web content for accessibility issues directly within Chrome and Firefox browsers.
For a quick check of your site Lighthouse is a tool for identifying problems with your site and is built into the Chrome browser.
This is a more detailed checker which runs as an extension for Chrome or standalone Windows app.
This is a nice overview of the kinds of accessibility tests available , and why they are important.
Imperial’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy
College website accessibility statement
Creating accessible content guidance
Government Digital Service accessibility blog
Microsoft’s inclusive design website

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate:
Learn more about our entry requirements and admissions tests, get top tips on writing your personal statement and find what happens after you submit your application to UCAS.
We're here to help you successfully navigate the application process for undergraduate study.
Booking opens for test sitting 1 (October 2025) of the ESAT and TMUA admissions tests.
UCAS applications deadline for MBBS Medicine and MBBS Medicine (Graduate Entry) for 2026 entry.
UCAS equal consideration deadline for our 2026 entry undergraduate courses, except MBBS Medicine and Graduate Entry Medicine.
Prepare for your journey at Imperial.
Find essential information and tips for starting a strong application.
Find out how and when to apply.
Plus get information on admissions test requirements and how to register.
Understand our selection process.
Learn about the steps involved in our thorough and fair process.
Know what to expect after applying, from tracking your application to next steps if you get an offer.
Your personal statement is an important part of your UCAS application.
It shows us who you are and helps us understand if you'd be a good fit for the course you're applying to.
To get started, check out our guide and top tips on preparing a strong personal statement that really stands out.
Explore further resources for successfully applying for undergraduate study at Imperial.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/process:
Apply online through UCAS Hub .
You only need to submit one application to be considered for admission up to five different courses in the same year of entry:
If you apply for multiple courses at Imperial, each counts as a separate choice on your application.
If you want to apply to multiple courses within the same Imperial department, we recommend that you speak to the department first for advice.
We use admissions tests for many of our undergraduate courses.
The test you could need to take depends on which course you’re applying for.
You can find out if you need to take an admissions test on the course page you are applying for.
For more information about the admissions test we use and registration deadlines, visit the Admissions test page .
If you've already applied to Imperial and are holding an offer of a place then please see our offer holders section .
Get advice on choosing a course at Imperial.
How to choose a course
Learn more about our academic and English language requirements.
General entry requirements
Get tips on writing a stand-out personal statement.
Writing a personal statement
Only one reference is required for your UCAS application from someone who knows you academically.
About application references
Imperial doesn't have a university-wide test but some departments use a test in their selection process.
Admissions tests
If you're applying for a course with a interview learn how you can make the most of it with these top tips.
Interview tips
Our admissions schemes are designed to support applicants from a disadvantaged or underrepresented background.
Contextual admissions schemes
Grades are important but they're just one part of our process to identify students who are a good match for Imperial.
Our selection process
See the important deadline dates to make sure your application is given equal consideration.
Key dates
Figure out your next steps with information on key issues, including Clearing, offer conditions, results, and Firm/Insurance Choices.
Exams results next steps
Choose a course
Deadlines
Personal statement
Application reference
Contextual admissions
Interviews
Exam results: What next?

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/process/choose-course:
When you apply for undergraduate study at Imperial, you apply to a particular course in an academic department rather than to the university as a whole.
We offer:
Many of our courses require maths at A-level (or equivalent) and often (though not always) one or two science subjects on top.
If you're studying this combination of subjects at high school or have already achieved qualifications in these areas then we encourage you to keep an open mind when considering your options.
Your skills and experiences can open the door to a range of subjects that play a critical role in our shared mission of creating healthier, smarter, more sustainable and more resilient societies.
There may be subjects you have never heard of and courses that lead to careers which may not even exist yet.
That's one of the great things about studying at Imperial – a place where the work we do is actively shaping the future.
We offer a range of undergraduate qualifications.
It's usually possible to achieve the following qualifications in three years:
Sometimes courses that lead to these qualifications last longer if they incorporate an additional management year or year in industry (or sometimes both).
The following qualifications are normally achieved in four years, though they may last longer if they incorporate a year abroad/research/industry:
These degrees are known as integrated Master’s degrees.
This means the Bachelor’s degree with Honours (BEng or BSc) is combined with a final year at Master's (postgraduate) level in a single, continuous course.
They are still regarded as undergraduate courses so if you are eligible for a Tuition fee loan and Maintenance loan from the UK government, and an Imperial Bursary , this funding will still apply in the final postgraduate year.
Graduates of our six-year Medicine course achieve two qualifications:
This is because they complete a one-year intercalated BSc degree in the fourth year in a subject related to medicine.
You can amend your UCAS application choice in UCAS Hub without letting Imperial know within 14 days of submitting your application.
This is referred to as a ‘substitution’.
After this point, you can request a course change by emailing the relevant Imperial Admissions team to let them know.
We will only approve this if you have not received a decision on your original application choice.
Graduates of our science and engineering undergraduate degrees usually receive an additional benefit in the award of an Associateship.
These additional awards are a result of the way that Imperial was formed in 1907 when the Royal College of Science, the Royal School of Mines and the City and Guilds College merged to form the Imperial College of Science and Technology:
Graduates of our Medicine course are awarded:
Read more about the history of Imperial .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/process/deadlines:
Jump to:
2026 entry
2025 entry
Undergraduate courses will be available to search in UCAS’ search tool .
You can start preparing your application in your UCAS Hub account – though you won’t be able to submit it to UCAS until 2 September 2025.
Once you've completed your application, including your reference, you can submit it to UCAS.
Submit your application by this date to ensure equal consideration for all undergraduate courses (except MBBS Medicine and Graduate Entry Medicine).
We aim to make all application decisions by late March 2026.
You’ll be able to track the status of your application in your UCAS Hub .
Exam results are released.
We use admissions tests as part of the application process for many of our courses.
The test you could need to take for your application depends on which course you’re applying for.
You can find out if your course requires an admissions test as part of the application process on relevant course pages.
There will be two test sittings for the ESAT for 2026 entry:
Candidates can book a time slot on any of these test days though please note that tests in China will be available on only one day per test sitting.
They will take place on the second day listed above for each test.
Find below key dates and deadlines you need to be aware of.
June 2025
July 2025
September 2025
October 2025
November 2025
December 2025
January 2026
More information
Learn about the ESAT, including test format, how to book and prepare for this test on the Engineering and Science Admissions Test (ESAT) web page or head to the UAT-UK website for more information.
There will be two test sittings for the TMUA for 2026 entry:
Learn about the TMUA, including test format, how to book and prepare for this test on the Test of Mathematics for University Admissions (TMUA) web page or head to the UAT-UK website for more information.
You need to take either the UCAT or GAMSAT if you are applying to our Medicine (Graduate Entry) course.
May 2025
Learn about the GAMSAT on the Graduate Medical School Admissions test official website .
You need to take the UCAT if you are applying to our 6-year MBBS Medicine (Standard course A100).
Learn about the UCAT, including how to register and prepare for this test on the University Clinical Aptitude Test (UCAT) web page or head to the UCAT website for more information.
You can start preparing your application in your UCAS Hub account – though you won’t be able to submit it to UCAS until 1 September 2025.
Find out what to do when you get your exam results .
If we make you an offer, you will need to have fulfilled all conditions before the relevant deadline.
For more information, see submitting your offer conditions .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/process/personal-statement:
Your personal statement is a really important part of your UCAS application.
It helps our admissions tutors get an insight into who you are and whether you'd be a good fit for the course you're applying to.
You can only submit one personal statement for the five courses and universities you apply for.
For 2026 entry, personal statements will be structured into three distinct sections, each addressing a specific question:
Each section must be at least 350 characters , with an overall character limit of 4,000 characters .
A built-in character counter will help you stay on track.
We want to see a genuine passion for the subject(s) you’re applying for.
Be specific about the experiences, skills, and insights that have shaped your decision to pursue this course.
Since your academic achievements are covered elsewhere in your application, focus this space on:
We want to see a genuine passion for the subject and your understanding of the course you are applying for.
It's useful to highlight things that inspired your interest, including:
This means avoid saying you want to study something just because it is interesting.
Instead, explain what you find interesting about it, for example, a particular topic you know you’ll be able to carry on studying at university or something related to it.
Don’t be afraid to use language which shows your enthusiasm for the course or life in general.
Be positive and focus on things you thoroughly enjoy.
At Imperial, you'll have the freedom to take control of your learning, with options within many courses to customise what you learn and the experiences that you have.
As a research-led university, we'll encourage you to get hands-on in the process of discovery, innovation and learning through and from your own mistakes.
You will also learn to communicate your research findings and have the opportunity to work in teams, as well as on your own.
Think about the sort of skills that you have gained that are relevant to your chosen subject – you'll be able to find more detail about the style of learning for your chosen subject on our course pages .
Don't forget to provide evidence for the skills and knowledge that you have.
And remember to choose quality over quantity – we'd rather read about a smaller number of skills with evidence than a long list which doesn't explain how you've acquired each skill/quality and how it will help you be successful in your chosen course of study.
Work experience isn’t essential for most Imperial courses, but if it is a course requirement, make sure you get some and then tell us how it's helped to confirm your choice of subject.
You may also wish to use your personal statement to outline your career aspirations and motivation for the future.
Imperial is not all work and no play.
Our students have a huge range of interests – evidenced in our 350+ student-run clubs and societies.
Tell us about your passions and your hobbies, particularly how they have helped you develop skills and qualities that make you a strong candidate.
Made you a better leader, for example.
Made you more resilient.
Or improved your teamwork and communication skills.
Also tell us about something you do simply for the fun of it.
You don't need to go into too much detail as you don’t have the space, but it helps us to get to know you and may be something we ask you more about if you're invited for an interview at a later stage.
Your personal statement should be about you so don't focus on what your friends are writing.
Be clear about your own motivations and what you can bring to Imperial.
Use it to create a unique picture for our admissions tutors of who you are and why you'll be successful in your chosen course of study.
Also avoid the temptation to copy anyone else's.
UCAS runs all personal statements through its similarity detection system, Copycatch, to compare them with previous statements.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/process/reference:
You only need one reference for your UCAS application.
It’s usually written for you by a teacher or tutor who knows you – if you’re applying through a school, college or centre registered with UCAS, they’ll do this before they send your completed application to UCAS; you won’t need to do anything for it.
See below for more information about choosing a reference if you’re applying independently.
We really value the information provided by your referee as it helps us to gain additional context around your application, in particular about:
For example, the reference is an opportunity for your referee to tell us about things, such as:
The reference has three different sections, which your referee can use to provide more information to support your application:
Section 1 is compulsory; sections 2 and 3 are optional.
We strongly encourage referees to make best use of all available sections to support your application.
Our Academic Tutors will consider your reference as part of their review of your application, as it helps build further understanding of you as an applicant in the context of your individual educational journey to date.
It may also help inform discussion points for interview where applicable.
You won’t have access to your reference, it will also be treated in confidence during the process.
How to select a referee will depend on whether you are applying via a registered UCAS centre/school or independently.
You can find more guidance on choosing a referee on the UCAS website .
If you been asked to be a referee, see our guidance for referees for advice on how to provide a reference and what to include.
You can also refer to the guidance from UCAS .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/process/reference/teachers:
This guidance is designed to support you in writing an academic reference for students who are applying to Imperial.
We use the reference as part of our holistic selection process to help us identify applicants with the potential to succeed here.
Your reference is an important part of this process.
It helps our Admissions tutors to better understand whether there is a really good match between your student and the course(s) they have applied for.
It also helps them to make a better assessment of your student within the context of the overall applicant pool by learning more about their learning environment, as well as any personal achievements or mitigating factors.
As well as the general guidance from UCAS on what to include in your reference, we’ve provided more guidance below on information that our Admissions tutors would find particularly helpful in each section.
Enter a general statement about your school, college/centre
If you are writing the reference for a student in a UK, state school, please tell us more about:
For all other schools, please use this section to tell us more about:
If applicable, enter any information about extenuating circumstances which may have impacted the applicant’s education and achievement.
This is an optional section.
If relevant, please include information that contextualises your student’s educational journey.
For example:
For applicants with a particularly difficult educational or personal background, which may require information over and above the 4,000 character limit for references, we are happy to accept additional information via email.
To do this, please send the information to the relevant Admissions Team .
If you are providing additional information via email, please state this in section 2 of the reference.
Outline any other supportive information specific to the applicant and relevant to the course(s) applied for that you think universities/colleges should be aware of.
This section is available for you to provide a supporting statement for your student and showcase any additional information about their successes and achievements.
We will take this section into consideration when making admissions decisions.
We encourage you to use whichever format best suits the information you wish to provide, for example prose or short, clear, factual statements in bullet point format.
Examples of information to tell us here include:
You have a maximum of 4,000 characters to use across the three reference questions.
You can choose how many characters you use in each section as the character count is for the total submission.
We appreciate that the amount of content you provide in each section may vary depending on the individual applicant, but as a guide, we would typically expect you to use around or up to:
If you have any queries regarding the application process, please contact the relevant Admissions Team .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/process/admissions-schemes:
Use our tool to see if you’re eligible for our contextual admissions route.
Last updated: August 2025
The information on this page is for students applying for undergraduate study in 2025–26.
We review our use of contextual data each year – we will publish any changes for future years on this page.
We understand that some students face extra challenges that can affect their grades.
Our contextual admissions approach takes these barriers into account.
Benefits for applicants who are eligible for contextual admissions consideration:
If you are a student with Home fee status or an appropriate UK residential status, you may be considered through our contextual admissions route if one of the following also applies to you:
*Your home address is your place of permanent residence and not your school or boarding school.
If you are eligible for our contextual admissions route, then you’ll have access to extra support through our admissions process.
If you're applying to a department that interviews applicants, you'll get a guaranteed invite if:
Check our course pages for details.
You’ll get a guaranteed offer at the department's minimum entry level* if you:
*For our BSc Medical Biosciences courses within the School of Medicine, you'll get a guaranteed offer if:
We know that students who apply without their final exam results might not show their full potential yet.
That's why we have an August reconsideration pool .
If you get exceptional results, your application might be reconsidered, even if you don't have an Imperial offer.
If you applied to an Imperial undergraduate course and:
You have another chance to secure a place at Imperial later in the process.
We informed eligible applicants that you may be eligible for reconsideration in August in your application decision.
We won't contact you again after exam results are published, even if you get the required grades.
You must meet at least the minimum entry standard for the original course you applied for.
You can check the entry requirements on our course pages – make sure you’re checking the course page for your year of entry.
Instead, follow these steps on A-level results day in August to let us know you want to be reconsidered.
Make sure you've achieved at least the minimum entry standard for the Imperial course you originally applied for.
Check the entry requirements on our course pages – make sure you’re checking the course page for your year of entry.
You can only apply for reconsideration for the same course and department you originally applied to.
If you've met the minimum entry standard for the Imperial course you originally applied for, fill out our online reconsideration form.
The reconsideration form will be available on this page on Thursday 14 August 2025 during the following time window:
You must complete the form before the deadline to be reconsidered.
You can't register your interest before A-level results day, so wait for the process to open and note the deadline.
We'll need to match you to our list of applicants, so have your UCAS Personal ID number ready when completing the form.
Make sure we can reach you easily.
We'll contact you by email to confirm your details and let you know what happens next.
An Admissions Officer might need to call you, so keep your phone handy.
If you apply for reconsideration, we'll contact you directly.
Your UCAS nominated representative won't receive this communication, so make sure we can contact you.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/process/admissions-tests:
Read more about the tests we use, why we use them, what they involve and how you can register and take a test.
Most departments at Imperial use an admissions test to help them in the selection process.
The tests are computer-based assessments that are designed to assess some of the core skills you’ll need to succeed at Imperial.
The tests we use are:
You can also check the list of our departments and the tests they use at the bottom of this page .
We use admissions tests to help us fairly assess the skills of our applicants.
We take test scores into consideration alongside other parts of your UCAS application, like your personal statement, when we decide whether to invite you to an interview or to make you an offer.
The admissions test gives you the chance to show us your skills, your subject knowledge and your understanding of topics related to the course you’re applying to.
You need to register directly with the test provider.
If your course requires an admission test, make sure you check the registration dates and deadlines carefully, as your application can’t be considered if you don’t complete the test.
You can find out more about the registration and test dates for the ESAT, the TMUA, the UCAT and the GAMSAT on our website:
If your course requires an admissions test, you can also find information about how to register, along with useful links, in the how to apply section on our course pages .
Admissions test providers offer resources that can help you familiarise yourself with the test format and the style of questions.
You can also read more about how to prepare for the TMUA, the ESAT and the UCAT on our website:
Find out if your department uses an admissions test as part of the application process.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/process/admissions-tests/esat:
Booking for the October test sitting is now open.
The Engineering and Science Admissions Test (ESAT) is a computer-based test, which is delivered by UAT-UK .
You need to take the ESAT if you are applying for 2026 entry study in the following Imperial departments:
Candidates can book a time slot on any of the test days though please note that tests in China will be available on only one day per test sitting.
They will take place on the second day listed above.
For more details, please visit the UAT-UK website .
You should take the test just once for courses starting in 2026 entry as only your first test score will be used by selectors.
The ESAT is a computer-based test, which is made up of a number of modules.
Each module lasts 40 minutes and has 27 multiple choice questions.
You will sit the modules back-to-back on the day of the test.
Imperial courses using the ESAT require all candidates to sit the following modules:
If you're only applying to Imperial's Dyson School of Design Engineering, these are the only two ESAT modules you need to sit.
If you're applying to another department, you will also need to sit a third ESAT module – either Chemistry or Physics.
Find out which modules are required for your department of interest in the table below.
You will need this information when you book.
You will not be able to change the modules you have registered for on the day of the test.
Your final scores are based on the number of correct answers you give.
There is no pass or fail so you should aim to do the best you can.
You do not lose marks for wrong answers, so it’s worth attempting all questions.
They will take place on the second day listed below.
If you will be sitting the test for the first time this year then you will first need to create a UAT-UK account with Pearson VUE.
You'll be able to do that using a link that will be available on this page within the UAT-UK website at the start of June.
Access arrangements, such as rest breaks or extra time, are available if you have:
Applications for access arrangements open and close earlier than standard test bookings.
If you require access arrangements, be sure to apply within the specified dates below.
You should wait for your access arrangements to be confirmed before booking the test in your chosen Pearson VUE test centre.
Find out more about applying for access arrangements .
Universities using the ESAT for entry to selected courses in Engineering, Science, Natural Sciences, and Veterinary Medicine – check the relevant course pages of each institution for details:
Take the ESAT only once per application cycle : You can choose to sit the test in either October or January.
Only your first test score will be considered.
Applying to the University of Cambridge?
: You must take the test in October.
There is an entry fee for the ESAT:
Test fees are determined by the test centre location, not on your place of residence or nationality.
Applications for the UAT-UK bursary are now open.
UK candidates in financial need can apply for a bursary to book the ESAT free of charge.
Important: You must apply for a bursary and wait for confirmation that your application has been approved before booking your ESAT test.
Learn about eligibility criteria and apply for a bursary on the UAT-UK website .
To prepare, we recommend that you revise relevant topics and familiarise yourself with the format of the test.
You can find more information about what to expect on your test day, including materials to help you prepare for the test, on the UAT-UK website .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/process/admissions-tests/tmua:
The Test of Mathematics for University Admission (TMUA) is a computer-based test which is delivered by UAT-UK.
It assesses your mathematical thinking and reasoning skills.
You need to take the TMUA if you are applying for entry to 2026 Imperial undergraduate courses in:
There will be two test sitting for the TMUA for 2026 entry:
For more details, please visit the UAT-UK website.
The TMUA lasts 2 hours 30 minutes in total.
It is divided into two parts, each lasting 75 minutes and with 20 multiple choice questions:
If you will be sitting the test for the first time this year then you will first need to create a UAT-UK account.
It is your responsibility to book and sit your test within the testing window.
Universities using the TMUA for selection to selected courses in Mathematics, Economics and Computer Science – check the relevant course pages of each institution for details:
Take the TMUA only once per application cycle : You can choose to sit the test in either October or January.
UK candidates in financial need can apply for a bursary to book the TMUA free of charge.
Important: You must apply for a bursary and wait for confirmation that your application has been approved before booking your TMUA test.
There is an entry fee for the TMUA:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/process/admissions-tests/ucat:
Booking is now open for the UCAT .
The University Clinical Aptitude Test (UCAT) assesses a range of abilities including:
You need to take the UCAT if you are applying to:
You need to take either the UCAT or GAMSAT if you are applying to:
You will need to create a UCAT account to register for the test on the UCAT website .
Account registration opens on Tuesday 13 May 2025.
Testing starts Monday 7 July and ends Friday 26 September.
You can take the UCAT at a Pearson VUE test centre.
Test centres are located worldwide in more than 5,500 locations in over 180 countries.
You can find your nearest one on the Pearson VUE website .
There is an entry fee for the UCAT.
If you are a UK student and are concerned about the cost, financial support may be available.
Check the UCAT website for details of costs.
Familiarise yourself with the format of the test.
You can find details on the UCAT website .
There's also a range of preparation advice and resources available on the UCAT website, alongside question banks and practice tests.
Have a go at some past papers, restricting yourself to the time that you would have during a real test.
This will help you to understand what is expected and prepare you to approach questions in an exam environment.
Access question banks and practice tests on the UCAT website .
We don't expect you to get every question right – more information about how your tests results will be used alongside the rest of your UCAS application will be available on our course pages from February 2025.
Your results will automatically be shared with Imperial by Pearson VUE.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/process/admissions-tests/gamsat:
The Graduate Medical School Admissions Test (GAMSAT) assesses a range of abilities including:
You need to take either the GAMSAT or UCAT if you are applying to:
To register for the GAMSAT you will need to follow the following steps:
You can take the test at a GAMSAT test centre and these are located in Australia, Ireland, the UK, New Zealand and Singapore.
You can find your nearest one on the GAMSAT website .
We recommend registering early as test centre spaces fill up quickly and you may have to travel should the one nearest you become fully booked.
When all spaces at a location are filled, the option will be removed from the list.
The next sitting will take place over 2 sessions.
For up to date information about the test dates, please visit the GAMSAT website .
You are required to only bring essential items, as neither the test centre nor the GAMSAT Office can be held responsible for the security of your belongings.
Essential items needed:
Optional items:
There is a registration fee for the GASMAT.
The registration fee you pay varies depending on the country where you are taking the test.
Check the GAMSAT website for more information about costs.
You can find more information about what to expect on your test day, including materials to help you prepare for the test, on the GAMSAT website .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/process/interviews:
The majority of our departments interview applicants who demonstrate potential in their UCAS application and in an admissions test (where this applies).
These usually take place between November and February.
If you are shortlisted, you may be offered a virtual interview or an in-person interview, depending on your circumstances and the course you're applying for.
The department you have applied to will contact you directly about the interview with more information, including whether you can attend online.
We will use the email address you provided on your UCAS application to invite you, so please monitor your inbox and respond promptly.
Our interviews range in format, depending on which department you have applied to.
You may be invited to a panel interview which will typically be with one or two people from the department.
Alternatively, you may have the chance to take part in a recruitment day, which could also involve other activities such as a group task, discussion or a written test.
The interview for our MBBS/BSc Medicine course is a little different.
You can read more about our Multiple Mini Interviews approach on the Faculty of Medicine website .
If you are invited to an interview, there are a number of things you can do to help prepare:
You can find more information about interviews for courses of interest on our course pages .
Your guide to preparing for your undergraduate interview at Imperial College London.
Students Crystal from Hong Kong and Jinal from the United Kingdom share information, advice, and their top tips.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/process/selection:
Once we receive your application from UCAS, here's what happens next:
We'll let UCAS know the decision on your application and you will receive an email to say there's an update, which you can view by signing into your UCAS Hub account .
The department you applied to may also contact you separately to let you know their decision.
We aim to make all decisions by the end of March for the next academic year of entry.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/process/results:
Whether you’ve received the results you were hoping for or things didn’t go quite as planned, we want to make sure that you feel informed and reassured about what comes next.
On this page, you can find guidance for different circumstances that can help you navigate Results Day and your next steps.
Important : Imperial does not take part in UCAS clearing.
If you're looking for a Clearing place, we recommend you visit the UCAS website to find universities that are open for applications through Clearing.
Congratulations!
If your results meet the conditions of your offer, your place at Imperial will be confirmed through UCAS.
You can check if Imperial has confirmed your place on UCAS Hub .
If your status shows as 'Unconditional firm (UF)' this means that your place at Imperial has been confirmed.
You don’t need to do anything – just keep an eye on your UCAS Hub and emails for updates.
We’ll be in touch soon with everything you need to know about starting your course, including registration, accommodation and welcome events.
If your grades have changed as a result of a formal appeal process and you now meet your offer conditions, you should send official confirmation of your new grades to the relevant Admissions team .
Adjusted grades through appeals will be accepted up to 31 August 2025 .
Adjusted grades received after this date will only be accepted if there are spaces available at the department you have applied to.
If your grades are adjusted but you still do not fulfil all of your offer conditions our original decision will still stand.
We check all exam results extremely carefully.
If you believe we have made a mistake, please contact the relevant Admissions team team as soon as possible.
Please note, you must meet the exact terms of your offer and all specified deadlines in order for us to confirm your place.
If you have not met the exact grades/subject specifications, but have achieved an equivalent tariff score across your grades, this is not the same as meeting the exact terms we specify, as our offers are not tariff-based.
If your status has been changed to unconditional on UCAS, your place is confirmed - congratulations!
If you need a student visa to study at Imperial, we will contact you with further information about your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) and how to send us details of your passport.
We use Enroly CAS Shield , a trusted partner platform, to assist us in collecting and verifying your personal details before we issue your CAS.
We will send you more information about this process to the email address you used when you applied.
You can also apply for a place in our halls of residence.
Learn more about our accommodation and how to apply on our Accommodation pages .
These will then be passed to the Admissions Tutor for consideration.
Documentary evidence must be submitted for any circumstances to be considered.
If you want to change to a different course in the same department where you already have an offer, please contact the Admissions team for that department.
They will let you know if this is possible.
Most courses in the same department usually cover the same topics in the first year.
This means you can usually change your course anytime during Year 1.
It is often easier to change your course after you start studying, rather than at this late stage before you join.
Changing late in the admissions process might delay your enrolment or the issuing of your CAS (if you need one for your visa).
Please speak to your department for advice.
If you want to change to a course in a different department, this is usually not possible because our courses are usually already full.
But you can still contact the Admissions team for that department to ask.
Sometimes results are not sent to us by UCAS.
If you have a copy of your results, please forward them to the relevant Admissions team so we can make a decision on your application.
If you don’t have your results, you will need to contact your school/college in the first instance to see if there is a problem, and then contact UCAS to find out if the results are available.
The deadline associated with your conditions will be specified in your offer details.
Results need to be sent by these deadlines.
If we are missing certain results and are holding your application under active consideration, we will contact you to request that you send these.
If you applied in this admissions cycle, but you now wish to defer, please send an email requesting this to the relevant Admissions Team.
Please remember:
We cannot guarantee that a deferral will be approved.
If we do allow you to defer, it is very unlikely that we can change this later.
So please be sure before you decide.
If your deferral is not approved, you will have two choices:
If your offer is still says "conditional", there may be a few explanations.
For example, we might still be waiting for your exam results.
If we asked you to send us a certain qualification or result, it is your responsibility to send it to us.
We cannot confirm your offer until we checked your results.
Please contact the relevant Admissions team to send any missing results.
Important: applications to our Reconsideration pool are now closed.
If you are a UK student who qualifies for contextual admissions and you applied to Imperial but did not get an offer, you might be able to join our reconsideration pool.
This means we may look at your application again if:
To apply:
Important : The reconsideration pool form will open at 9.00 (UK time) and close at 13.00 (UK time) on Thursday 14 August 2025.
We shared information about this process with eligible students in their application decisions.
Please note: We will not contact you directly on A-level Results Day.
If you wish to be reconsidered, you must submit the form during the time window specified above.
We understand this can be disappointing, but it’s not the end of the road.
In some cases, we may still be able to confirm your place depending on your overall profile and course availability.
If you have narrowly missed the conditions of our offer, we will carefully review your case.
In some circumstances it may be possible that your place is confirmed.
Either way, the final outcome after this careful reconsideration will be made available on your UCAS Hub .
If you are unsuccessful with Imperial, you will be considered by your Insurance Choice.
If you are unsuccessful at your Firm Choice and have narrowly missed the conditions of our offer, then we will review your case.
In some circumstances it may be possible for the offer to be confirmed.
UCAS Hub will let you know if we decide to confirm your offer.
If you have missed the conditions of both your Firm Choice and Insurance choice, you will be entered into Clearing.
It is not possible to appeal directly to the Admissions Tutors at this time of the year.
Due to competition for places we are only able to guarantee places to those who have met all the terms of their offer.
If spaces were available after we had allocated them to those who met the terms of their offer, then the Admissions Tutor we will have considered very carefully those who narrowly missed the terms of their offer.
If your status on UCAS is unsuccessful, then that is the final outcome on your application following reconsideration by the Admissions Tutor.
We cannot issue your exam results to you.
If you have not received your exam results, as a matter of urgency you should contact your school/college, as they will be able to provide you with your results.
If you previously declined your offer, this offer is no longer valid and cannot be reinstated at this stage of the admissions cycle.
We do not operate any waiting lists.
If you haven't applied to Imperial in this admissions cycle, you would need to apply to the Imperial in the next admissions cycle.
To update your contact details, please do this via UCAS Hub and your details will be updated on both UCAS and our systems.
It may take a couple of days for these changes to be reflected on all our systems.
If you think we have assessed your fee status incorrectly, please complete a Fee Status Questionnaire and send it to the relevant Admissions team.
Find out more about fee status and the Fee Status Questionnaire
If you secured an unconditional offer with your Firm Choice institution, it is unfortunately not possible to switch to Imperial at this stage.
If you have secured an unconditional place with Imperial and now wish to go to your Insurance Choice this may not be possible.
You should first approach your Insurance Choice institution to see if they would be willing to accept you via Clearing.
If they confirm that they will accept you, then you can release yourself into Clearing via UCAS Hub up to the 24 July 2025 .
After this date, you would need to write to the relevant Imperial Admissions team to request that they release you into Clearing.
You will then need to refer yourself in Clearing to your Insurance Choice.
To let us know, you can 'decline your place' using UCAS Hub up to 3 September 2025.
Please note that this is not reversible, and you will have given up your place to study at Imperial.
After you have done this, you will be eligible to use UCAS Clearing.
After this date, you would need to contact the Admissions team to request that they release you into Clearing.
If you need to apply for a student visa, you must upload your passport details on My Imperial as soon as possible.
Once we have received your passport, we will issue your CAS number for use in your visa application.
To learn more about applying for your visa, visit our International Student Support – CAS page and our Tuition fees – CAS and Visas page .
You can learn more about our halls of residence and how to apply for accommodation on our Accommodation website .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/offer-holders:
Congratulations on your offer to study at Imperial College London!
Just received your exam results?
Find out your next steps, discover more about what undergraduate student life is like and explore the opportunities you’ll have once you join Imperial.
We hope to welcome you to Imperial soon!
Remember – if your offer is conditional, you’ll need to show evidence of meeting the criteria before we can confirm your place.
If you want to talk to someone about your application or offer, you can reach us by phone or email.
Visit our contact page to find the details for the Admissions team for your course.
We've put together a step-by-step guide to your offer, including the key dates and deadlines you need to know.
Next steps
Learn how to apply for halls, check the deadlines and view our accommodation.
Learn more
Everything you need to know about the Imperial Bursary and how to apply for scholarships.
Spend the day with Charles as he goes from the lab to Imperial College Union's Battle of the Bands competition.
Catch up with our recordings and hear about students' union, accommodation, financial support, disability and mental health advice services, careers advice and much more.
Watch recordings of our offer holder webinars for your region, plus find out more about joining Imperial as an international student and the support on offer to help you settle in and feel at home.
You'll be in good company as an international student at Imperial.
To help you feel settled when you arrive, we can offer specialist immigration advice, webinars, trips and events.
If you don’t have a full British passport, settled or pre-settled status in the UK, or hold another visa that allows you to study in the UK for your entire course, you’ll need to apply for a student visa.
Read our visa guide to find out how
Explore your campus, department and facilities from wherever you are with our virtual tour.
Discover our campus highlights and use the ‘Explore map’ section to search locations and get top tips on our neighbourhoods from our students.
Join us at a location near you to hear more about what life is like as an Imperial student, ask us questions and learn more about the range of support and opportunities there for you.
Our specialist support teams can help, whenever you need it.
Visit our contact page to find details for the relevant Admissions team

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/offer-holders/next-steps:
Congratulations on your offer!
What's next?
We've put together key information to help you understand your offer, how to reply and all the key dates and deadlines you need to know.
You can also find information about accommodation, funding your studies and how to send us evidence of any additional qualifications you need to meet your offer conditions.
After receiving decisions on all your applications, it’s time to reply to your offers by the deadline.
If you receive all of your offers by Wednesday 14 May 2025 , you must reply to UCAS by Wednesday 4 June 2025 .
If you decide to accept your offer, you can choose to make Imperial either your firm or insurance choice.
This means we’re your first choice.
If your offer is unconditional, then congratulations – you’re in!
If it’s conditional, your place will be confirmed after you’ve met the conditions of your offer.
This means we’re your backup choice.
You’ll be offered a place here if you don’t meet the conditions of your firm choice offer but meet the conditions of your Imperial offer.
Find out how to reply to your offer on UCAS .
Imperial accommodation is well-maintained with round-the-clock support, and the rent includes all bills.
If you pick Imperial as your firm choice, we offer a guaranteed place in our accommodation if you want it.*
If Imperial is your firm choice, you can apply for accommodation in late May.
You’ll be invited to apply in late July if we're your insurance choice.
You can choose your preferences based on your preferred hall, room type, and price.
We aim to make our accommodation the best choice for as many students as possible, but we know it won’t be suitable for everyone.
Our Accommodation Office can also offer advice about renting privately and how to find the right place for you.
Visit the Accommodation Office website to learn more.
*You’re guaranteed a place in our accommodation if you make Imperial your firm choice, submit your accommodation application by 18 July 2025 , meet all conditions of your offer and hold an unconditional offer by (date to be confirmed; as a guide, the unconditional offer deadline for 2024-25 entry was 23 August 2024).
Learn more about tuition fees and funding options at Imperial, including our Imperial Bursary, student loans and scholarships.
Find out more on our Offer Holder fees and funding page .
UCAS will send us your A-level, International Baccalaureate (IB), Irish Leaving Certificates, Pre-U Certificate, Scottish Advanced Highers and STEP grades on your results day.
However, you may need to send us the results for other qualifications.
Find out if that includes your qualifications .
The first month of our new term is Welcome Season, which Welcome Week is packed with opportunities to engage with the Imperial community for the first time.
It’s organised by Imperial and our Students’ Union and gives you the chance to make friends, get involved in loads of events and activities, and get to know your new home at Imperial.
Late May 2025 - If you’ve made Imperial your firm choice on UCAS, you’ll be invited to apply for accommodation.
5 June 2025 - If you receive all of your offers by 14 May 2025, you must reply to UCAS by 5 June 2025.
5 July 2025 - International Baccalaureate results day
18 July 2025 - Accommodation guarantee deadline
18 July 2025 - English Language and completed qualifications deadline
Late July - If Imperial is your insurance choice on UCAS, you’ll be invited to apply for accommodation.
14 August 2025 - A-level results day
22 August 2025 - Deadline for receiving results that need additional, non-UCAS verification
31 August 2025 - Deadline to submit amended grades as a result of an appeal
Early September 2025 - Accommodation offers sent out
27 September 2025 - Term starts
Find out how to contact the Admissions team for your course.
How to contact us
You may need to send us details of your qualifications to meet your offer conditions.
You may apply to defer your admission to the next academic year, under exceptional circumstances.
Life on campus
Accommodation
Fees and funding
Support and FAQs
After you graduate
International students

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/offer-holders/next-steps/submit-offer-conditions:
UCAS should automatically send us the results for the following qualifications:
You don't need to send us these results yourself.
If we don't receive your results from UCAS, we will contact you.
For September 2025 entry , the deadline for submitting the above results and meeting all offer conditions is 22 August 2025 .
If you are studying a qualification not included in the list above, we will ask you to submit details of your qualifications, such as transcripts or result certificates, by email to our Admissions teams as soon as you receive them.
We will confirm the deadline for these results in your offer conditions.
If you do not send proof of your qualifications by the deadline, this will delay confirmation decisions.
Your offer could be rejected if you miss the deadline.
Do not send any certificates or documents by post.
We can only accept evidence of your qualifications by email.
You must send your results to the following Admissions team for your course by email.
Don’t forget to include your UCAS number in your email.
For all engineering courses, including Computing and Joint Maths and Computer Science courses engineering.admissions@imperial.ac.uk
For courses including Biochemistry and Biotechnology, Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics ns.admissions@imperial.ac.uk
For Medicine or Medical Biosciences courses medicine.ug.admissions@imperial.ac.uk
For BSc Economics, Finance and Data Science business.admissions@imperial.ac.uk
If you have already posted your documents to us, email the relevant Admissions team to let them know and attach any electronic copies of your results.
If you have already completed certain qualifications towards the entry requirements at the point at which you apply, if made an offer, you will be required to send us evidence of these qualifications.
For September 2025 entry , you must send evidence of these qualifications to the relevant Admissions team by 18 July 2025 .
For September 2025 entry , if you take one of the following tests to meet your English language offer condition, you must send your results to us by email by 18 July 2025 .
We verify your test results online.
When you submit your test results, you must send the following details for your test:
If you have completed any other accepted English language qualifications, you will need to email the results to the relevant Admissions team .
Certain courses at Imperial require students to obtain clearance from the UK government’s Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) as part of the entry requirements.
If this applies to you, it will be included in your offer conditions.
You will need to request an ATAS certificate before you apply for your student visa.
An ATAS certificate is valid for 6 months from the date it is issued, to give you time to apply for your visa.
If you have an ATAS condition as part of your offer, you should ideally submit your ATAS application as soon as possible from 1 April 2025.
Once your clearance has been obtained, ATAS will send a copy of your certificate directly to Imperial.
For September 2025 entry , ATAS clearance must be submitted to the relevant by 18 July 2025 .
Please visit the ATAS guidance webpage to make your ATAS application.
If you will be under 18 years of age at the start of your course, a Minor's Declaration will be included as a requirement in your offer conditions.
For September 2025 entry , Minor's declarations must be submitted to the relevant by 18 July 2025 .
Medical students are required to obtain a certificate of enhanced disclosure from the UK Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) on entry to Imperial's School of Medicine.
A DBS Certificate is a document containing information held by the police and government departments.
The DBS, an executive agency of the Home Office, provides these certificates.
For September 2025 entry , DBS clearance must be submitted to the by 30 June 2025 .
The completed DBS Certificate application is forwarded to the DBS for immediate processing and prior to fulfilment of any other offer conditions.
If you have never lived in the UK, you will not be required to complete a DBS application prior to entry but you are required to provide a Certificate of Good Conduct from your government or police force.
For full information, please refer to the School of Medicine Disclosure and Barring Service Certification Policy (May 2023) (PDF) .
For September 2025 entry , the deadline for submitting amended grades following an appeal is 31 August 2025 .
Official proof of the amended grades must be emailed to the relevant Admission team .
We will not normally consider mitigating circumstances unless you submit evidence to Imperial before you sit your exams.
For September 2025 entry , mitigating circumstances must be submitted to your relevant Admissions team by 18 July 2025 .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/offer-holders/next-steps/deferred-entry:
Under exceptional circumstances, you may apply to defer your admission to the next academic year.
Requests to defer admission are considered at the discretion of our academic departments.
Deferral requests are based on a change of circumstance that is outside your control and could not have been foreseen, and that will prevent you from taking up your place at the original course start date.
You should contact the academic department you have applied to if you wish to request a deferral.
The department will send you the criteria they will use to consider your request.
You can find the contact details for your department on the course page of the course you are holding an offer for.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/offer-holders/life-on-campus:
You may come to Imperial for a degree but you'll leave with so much more
Whether it's joining one of our student-run clubs, representing Imperial in one of a wide range of sport teams or bringing a new idea to market with the support of Imperial's enterprise ecosystem, there’s so much that you can do at Imperial.
We’re a global hub in a global city – the world’s best student city in fact (QS Best Student Cities 2025) – where industry, culture, policy, science and tech converge.
You’ll have everything you need on your doorstep – from beautiful parks and green spaces and restaurants, clubs and venues to free museums, amazing markets and fashion hotspots.
What’s more, it’s all connected by London’s 24/7 transport network of buses, tubes and bikes.
At Imperial, we have over 370 student-run clubs, societies and projects.
With cultural, faith-led, academic, arts, charitable, sports and more, you’ll find something to be part of.
There’s also the Union’s top-spec Media Centre, where you can find the Sci-Fi Library, Imperial Cinema, ICRadio and our student paper, Felix.
Learn more on the
Imperial College Union website
Take a 360-degree tour of our campuses with our virtual tour.
From studying in the Abdus Salam library to working out in the Ethos gym, see the facilities we have on offer at Imperial.
Take a virtual tour
There are plenty of opportunities to follow your interests beyond your studies and expand your learning experience.
Our I-Explore and Imperial Horizons programmes give you the opportunity to study something different like business or another science, languages, humanities or social sciences as part of your degree.
From idea exploration to venture incubation and start-up investment, Imperial has everything you need to turn an idea into tangible, real-world impact.
Visit our entrepreneurship page for more information.
Supporting over 2,000 students annually with mentoring and skills development workshops.
Outstanding women-led startups compete for a prize fund of £30,000 (subject to sponsorship).
Pitch ideas to a panel of industry leaders for a chance to win a share of a £100,000 prize fund (subject to sponsorship).
Go behind the scenes of Imperial College London in our monthly podcast, featuring exclusive access to interview with world leaders and thinkers in the fields of science, engineering, health and business.
Listen to the podcast
The magazine for the Imperial community delivering expert comment, insight and context from – and on – our engineers, mathematicians, scientists, medics, coders and leaders, as well as stories about student life and alumni experiences.
Read the magazine

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/offer-holders/accommodation:
Our accommodation caters to all tastes and budgets
We’re here to help you find your new home in London.
Our Student Accommodation Office is on hand to support you with applying for our accommodation or finding a place to rent in private housing .
Watch our guide to Imperial accommodation.
Not everyone lives in halls.
Lots of Imperial students live at home during their studies.
We’re here to support you too and to make you feel part of the Imperial community from day one.
Our New Students website has loads of information about our welcome events, what to expect and how you can prepare for life at Imperial.
Visit the New Students website
Our accommodation across London caters for different tastes and budgets.
Explore our halls
Visit rooms and check travel times to campus on our virtual tour.
Visit the tour
Choosing where to live in your first year of university is a big deal.
Our FAQs can help answer your questions.
Find our FAQs

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/offer-holders/fees-and-funding:
Everything you need to know about fees, funding and how to manage your money at uni
The fee you pay depends on whether you qualify for Home or Overseas fee status.
The UK government sets the maximum Home fee that universities can charge each year.
In 2024–25 the maximum fee was £9,250 per year.
We applied this fee to all of our undergraduate courses.
In November 2024, the UK government announced that, starting in April 2025, the maximum tuition fee for Home undergraduate students in England will be increased from £9,250 per year to £9,535, subject to UK law and regulation.
For full details, see the Department for Education’s press release.
The tuition fee for Overseas students is set by Imperial and is available on our course pages.
Learn more about undergraduate tuition fees
There are different options to fund your studies, depending on your fee status.
Tuition Fee and Maintenance Loans
Home students can apply for Tuition Fee and Maintenance Loans from the UK government to cover costs during university.
Learn more about the different options and how to apply
Home undergraduate students can get up to £5,000 each year of their course with the Imperial Bursary.
You’ll need to meet income criteria and be eligible for UK government funding to qualify.
Unlike a loan, the money you get through the Imperial Bursary doesn’t need to be paid back.
There’s no separate application process for the Imperial Bursary.
You have to apply for a means-tested government loan like a Maintenance Loan to be considered, but you don't have to take out the government loan.
Learn more about the Imperial Bursary
We offer a range of scholarships for UK and international students.
The type and amount of funding varies across departments, and you don’t have to pay them back.
Use our scholarships search tool to see all the scholarships currently available at Imperial.
Search our scholarships
It’s really important to consider what your living costs could be while you’re at uni to help you to budget and manage your money.
You can use our guide to living costs to understand what you could spend on food, leisure and transport.
Don’t forget, you’ll also need to think about costs for travel to London and visas (if you need one), accommodation deposits and household essentials.
You should also check if there are any additional costs for study materials, field trips or visits for your course.
Learn more about living costs
From travel discounts to menu planning, there are loads of easy ways to save money.
Check our tips
Get money smarter with the free financial education platform Blackbullion.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/offer-holders/support:
Our specialist teams are ready to help whenever you need it.
At our Student Support Zone , you can find details of all the services and teams here for you at Imperial, including:
Visit the Student Support Zone
The Disability Advisory Service provides support for all students at Imperial.
The Disability Advisory Service has guidance for prospective students and offer holders about disclosing and how to request support and adjustments, advice about accommodation and the teams and networks there for you at Imperial and in your department.
There’s also information for parents and carers, including how to contact the Service.
Learn more about the Disability Advice Service
Student Counselling and Mental Health Advice Service offers individual and group counselling, workshops and courses, as well as access to SilverCloud, an online platform for self-help programmes.
The Service can also provide advice for coping with feelings of anxiety, stress, loneliness, low mood, depression, grief and loss, or problems at home.
The Student Support Zone has advice on mental health , including tips about how you can support your mental wellbeing.
The Student Support Zone provides information on how to access a doctor, dentist or urgent healthcare at Imperial.
How to access healthcare services

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/offer-holders/after-you-graduate:
See where an Imperial degree can take you
Imperial students are always in high demand (so high that you might even get headhunted before you graduate).
That’s because many of the world’s top employers know our graduates have a reputation for being exceptionally bright, entrepreneurial and hard-working.
From your first day here, you’ll have access to a huge range of support services to help you prepare for - and secure - the next step in your academic or professional life.
BSc Biotechnology student Aim used the Careers Service to find an internship in her home country of Thailand.
Hear about the support you could get and how we can help you to achieve your career goals.
Imperial sets you up for a rewarding career in innovative fields.
We’re here to help you get the most from your future with our Careers Service*.
You’ll benefit from:
Studying at Imperial Business School?
You can also access tailored career support from the Business School’s Careers team.
Learn more about our Careers Service
The Imperial experience doesn't end when you graduate.
You join a global network of support, shared memories and new opportunities.
Read about our graduates

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/offer-holders/international-students:
We’re one of the UK’s most international universities
At Imperial you’ll be in good company as an international student.
We’re a global academic community where people from different backgrounds and cultures contribute new ideas and fresh approaches to solve complex problems.
To help you feel settled when you arrive in London, our International Student Support team offers specialist immigration advice, webinars, trips plus online and in-person welcome events.
If you don’t have a full British passport, settled or pre-settled status in the UK, or hold another visa that allows you to study in the UK for your entire course, you’ll need a student visa.
Learn about student visas
Applying for your student visa?
You’ll need a CAS – a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies.
We’ll issue your CAS when you meet all your offer conditions.
More about CAS
We work with our partner Enroly CAS Shield to collect and verify your personal details before we issue your CAS.
When you’re eligible to receive a CAS, you’ll get an email to set up an account with Enroly CAS Shield.
More about CAS Shield
For some courses, an ATAS (Academic Technology Approval Scheme) certificate is a condition of an offer.
You'll need this before you apply for a visa.
Read more about ATAS
The International Student Support team runs discounted events throughout the year, including walking tours, theatre trips and visits to places like the Houses of Parliament, Windsor Castle and Harry Potter World.
You can also use HOST UK to book a short stay with host families across the UK and join the International Students House Travel Club to book trips and events around the world.
Day trips
HOST scheme
International Students House

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/advisers:
We understand the important role that international teachers and counsellors play in your students' university application journey and we can support you during each stage of the UCAS cycle - from advising on courses and the UCAS application process to answering questions from offer-holders.
An excellent opportunity to meet us and ask any questions you may have about Imperial.
Find out more about future events
Explore more about the Imperial admissions process and how to manage expectations.
Learn about our admissions process
Find out how to request a visit to our campus or invite us to your events.
Request a visit
Take a look through our FAQs of common enquiries and find the answers and advice to your questions.
Search our FAQs
We have an array of resources across all our subject areas available.
Take a look through and discover more.
Student resources
Stay in touch with the most up-to-date information by joining our mailing list.
Register your details
You can contact a member of the UK Recruitment Team with any queries you may have.
You can contact a member of the International Recruitment Team with any queries you may have.
Upcoming events
Application advice
Visits
Counsellor FAQs
Academic resources
We bring together representatives from across Imperial to share information about student life, our education and opportunities available.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/advisers/upcoming-events:
Join us at our next event
Please see below for upcoming events that we will be attending.
To be notified about upcoming events, please join our mailing list .
Sun 31 August 2025, 16.00 – 19.00 AST
Mon 1 September 2025 – Fri 5 September 2025, 9.00 – 19.30 UTC+03
Tue 2 September 2025, 9.30 – 15.00 BST
Tue 9 September 2025, 9.30 – 15.00 BST
Wed 10 September 2025, 18.00 – 19.00 PKT
Sun 14 September 2025, 17.00 – 18.30 EDT
Wed 17 September 2025 – Fri 19 September 2025, 9.00 – 13.30 BST
Wed 17 September 2025, 9.30 – 15.00 BST
Thu 18 September 2025, 9.30 – 15.00 BST
Thu 18 September 2025 – Sat 20 September 2025, 13.00 – 16.00 EDT
Sat 20 September 2025, 9.00 – 16.00 CEST
Sun 21 September 2025, 17.00 – 18.30 EDT
Wed 24 September 2025, 19.00 – 20.00 EDT
Sat 27 September 2025, 10.00 – 15.00 BST
Sun 28 September 2025, 13.30 – 16.30 CEST

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/advisers/application-advice:
Demystifying Imperial's Admissions
Applicants to many Imperial departments need to sit an admissions test as part of their application.
We will take an applicants test performance into account alongside other elements from their UCAS application, such as their personal statement.
The required test to take will depend on which Imperial department they are applying to.
The admissions test is a chance for applicants to show us:
Please note: new admissions tests were introduced for 2025 entry .
To find out which admissions test a course requires, please visit our admissions test page for more information.
Personal statements are an important part of a student's UCAS application and helps admissions tutors gain an insight into the individual and whether they are a good fit for the course they are applying for.
Important information:
Learn more about what we look for in a personal statement .
Interviews are an important part of the Imperial admissions process and are given to applicants who demonstrate potential in their UCAS application and admissions tests (where possible).
Discover more about our interview process and learn some helpful tips.
You can find all our college statistics about attainment and admissions such as:
Further information is available to view and download on our transparency page.
UCAS has made changes to its undergraduate reference requirements from 2024 entry.
There is lots of guidance designed to support advisers in writing academic references for applications to Imperial College London.
You can find more information and guidance about this with our teacher and reference guidance page.
We have contextual admissions schemes available for those who come from disadvantaged or underrepresented backgrounds that help to look beyond purely academic achievements - taking into account factors such as your economic, social and educational background.
To find more information and guidance about this, you can visit our contextual admissions schemes page.
Take a look through our application help centre to find more information and FAQs about the admissions process.
Gain a better understanding of how the selection process works here at Imperial and help put your students in the best position.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/advisers/visits:
Register for a campus visit
South Kensington is a cultural hub, home to three world-famous museums and our main university campus.
Find out more about our campus and what life is like at the College by attending one of our campus tours or head out on a self-guided tour .
Explore the South Kensington Campus at your leisure with our ' Welcome to Imperial ' app that is available to download for free from either the Apple or Google Play Store.
We offer one-to-one information appointments for counsellors with a member of our Student Recruitment team if you would prefer a more personal visit.
This is a great opportunity to ask any questions you may have to support you in advising your students – from the application process and what our courses are like to how to apply for accommodation.
Contact the UK Recruitment team or International Recruitment team to book an appointment.
Contact the UK Recruitment team
Contact the International Recruitment team
Discover more about what it's like to study at Imperial with a school visit and tour around our South Kensington Campus.
School visits are welcome to students both in the UK and internationally, however these will be conducted in English and we are unable to provide translators.
For more information and how to book, please take a look at our school groups page.
You are more than welcome to get in touch with our UK and International Recruitment teams to:
Our teams are more than happy to support you and will respond to your enquiry as soon as they can.
Unfortunately, we have limited capacity to travel so please bear this in mind when enquiring.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/advisers/counsellor-faqs:
Find the answers to those common questions!
Find answers to the most frequently asked questions by counsellors below to support your students.
If you can't find an answer to your query here, please contact the relevant recruitment team.
You can find all related information about the new admissions tests for 2025 undergraduate entry on our admissions test page .
There is an entry fee for ESAT and TMUA.
UK candidates in financial need can apply for a bursary to book either ESAT or TMUA free of charge.
Learn about eligibility criteria and apply for a bursary on the University Admissions Tests UK website .
More information can be found on our ESAT and TMUA pages.
UK candidates may be available for financial support.
There will be an entry fee for those wishing to take the GAMSAT, however support may be available if you are a UK student.
Please visit the GAMSAT website for further details of costs.
Candidates will be able to choose from centres in more than 5,500 locations in over 180 countries to take your admissions test from.
A list of all available test centres can be found on the Pearson VUE website.
For any further information, please contact our admissions team.
In the department, applications will be evaluated by experienced admissions tutors who will consider applications in a holistic manner.
Departmental admissions tutors will not just look at grades; they will also consider others aspects – including their reference and personal statement .
If a student has been asked to sit an admissions test as part of the process, they will also consider these scores.
If a student has been invited for an interview or admissions day, this will form part of their entire application which the department will consider.
If you come from a disadvantaged or underrepresented background, we believe you should have the opportunity to demonstrate the academic potential to succeed in your studies and benefit from studying at Imperial.
We want to ensure that you will not be disadvantaged in the application or selection process when you apply.
Our contextual admissions schemes may include:
Find out more about the contextual admissions scheme that applies in the department you are interested in at Imperial.
If your school does not offer Further Mathematics A-level, we can make a special case for admission – we would expect the school to confirm that Further Mathematics is not offered as a separate subject by your school in the reference section of the UCAS application.
When making these special cases we are often guided by performance in MAT.
Candidates who opt to spend a year out taking Further Mathematics A-level may be considered.
If your student has narrowly missed the conditions of our offer, Imperial will carefully review their case.
In some circumstances it may be possible that their place is confirmed.
Either way, the final outcome after this careful reconsideration will be made available on their UCAS Hub .
If they are unsuccessful with Imperial, they will be considered by their insurance choice.
If they are unsuccessful at their firm choice and have narrowly missed the conditions of our offer, then Imperial will review their case.
UCAS Hub will let them know if we decide to confirm your offer.
If your student has missed the conditions of both their firm choice and insurance choice, they will be entered into Clearing.
It is not possible to appeal the decision on your UCAS application.
Due to competition for places, we are only able to guarantee places to those how have met all the terms of their offer.
If the status on UCAS is unsuccessful, then that is the final outcome on your application following reconsideration by the Admissions Tutor.
With the exception of our MBBS/BSc Medicine programme, candidates who have retaken exams may still be considered for entry.
Please check with your relevant Admissions Team to see if your Department will consider re-sits.
However, submitting grades based on resits may be noted by our Admissions tutors.
Where there are extenuating circumstances, these should be outlined in the reference which is supplied as part of their application by a teacher, adviser or professional who knows the students academically.
The Faculty of Medicine does not accept resit qualifications unless the student has applied for mitigating circumstances.
Please see the resits, deferred entry and transfers section on the Medicine course page for more information.
When assessing academic potential, our Admissions team will review all the material information available to us from their UCAS application.
However, our entry requirements are based on A-level or equivalent level qualifications.
The only GCSE grade that we may consider with respect to entry requirements is their English language grade if they are using it to show that they meet our required English language standard for entry, or a relevant modern foreign language for courses with a year abroad option.
If you need to complete National Service and you apply to Imperial two years before you are due to complete this, you should initially apply for deferred entry at the point of applying through UCAS.
If your place is confirmed within the UCAS cycle in which you apply, you can then contact the relevant Admissions team the next September to request another deferment of your place to the following year (i.e.
the year you are due to complete your National Service).
We try to accommodate all deferment requests but these are subject to approval.
All students who apply by the application deadline in October (Medicine) or in January (all other undergraduate courses) are guaranteed to receive the same level of consideration.
We will aim to give a decision by 31 March on the majority of undergraduate applications received by equal consideration deadline.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/advisers/academic-resources:
Explore our hub of resources!
Imperial College London invites students to experience a summer like no other on our intensive two-week residential programme - students will learn from academic experts, surrounded by state of the art environments for Medicine and Life Sciences, Physics and Engineering.
Take your subject knowledge to the next level through a challenging academic programme that includes classroom-based lectures, laboratory sessions and practical workshops.
Discover more about our Summer School and how to register.
Our free online Maths programmes on the EDX platform includes maths courses aimed at students in their final two years of high school.
Students can register at any time and study the material at their own pace.
The programmes are based on the A-level curriculum but can complement other maths qualifications as they aim to prepare students for undergraduate STEM degrees.
For more course information
One of the best ways to get a feel for life at Imperial is to attend an Open Day or by joining us at one of our future events.
From information sessions to taster days, there are lots of ways to get involved in.
Open Day information
Join us at an upcoming event

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/advisers/advisers-newsletter:
Join our mailing list to stay informed about latest advice and information for you and your students on applying to Imperial.
We'll also send you event invites and other useful updates on recent developments at Imperial.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/entry-requirements:
Undergraduate study at Imperial is for students who hold an accepted qualification equivalent to an A-level and who wish to study at the university full time.
We don't currently offer any part-time undergraduate courses or undergraduate degree courses that are wholly online.
All applicants need to demonstrate that they meet the minimum entry requirements for course(s) of interest.
This includes:
The majority of students apply in their final year of high school, on the basis of grades they are predicted by their teachers to achieve.
Only applicants who receive and accept an offer are required to send us their final grades .
Students who are already enrolled at another university – either in the UK or overseas – should either apply as a visiting student or should contact our Admissions team about opportunities to transfer.
Transfers are not common and are subject to availability:
See which qualifications we accept for undergraduate study and the minimum entry standards for each.
Qualifications we accept
You need to meet our English language requirements – even if it is your native language.
English requirements

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/undergraduate/entry-requirements/accepted-qualifications:
Important information about our international qualifications
We are currently updating the information we provide about international qualifications for 2026 entry.
If you are planning to apply for 2026 entry please check this page again before submitting your UCAS application from September 2025.
We accept a wide range of qualifications for entry to undergraduate study at Imperial.
The standards listed below for each accepted qualification are the minimum admission requirements for entry to Imperial.
Many of our courses have higher entry requirements than the minimum standard stated here.
Please visit our course pages to see course-specific entry requirements for all accepted UK and international qualifications.
If we make you an offer, it may also be at a higher level than the minimum entry level stated for your department.
We use guidance from UK ENIC, as well as data published by qualification councils and governments from various countries.
We also look at how well students with different entry qualifications have done on our courses in the past.
All of this helps us decide if an international qualification is equivalent to GCE A levels.
Country
Qualification
Requirement
Australia
Admissions Tertiary Rank
Percentile ranking of 98.5 or better in the Admissions Tertiary Rank, accompanied by the relevant school leaving certificate with appropriate subjects and grades.
Austria
Matura/Reifeprufungzeugnis
Scores of 1 (sehr gut) in  the majority of subjects and in specified relevant subjects
Belgium
Diploma van Hoger Secundair Onderwijs/Certificat d'Enseignement Secondaire Supérieur/Abschlusszeugnis der Oberstufe des Sekundarunterrichts
Overall score of 8 out of 10 (80%) or better, and scores of 9 out of 10 (90%) where required in relevant subjects
Bosnia & Herzegovina
Matura
Grades of 5 in relevant subjects
Bulgaria
Diploma za Sredno Obrazvanie
Overall score of 5.75, with 6 in required relevant subjects
Canada
Provincial School Leaving Qualification e.g.
High School Graduation Diploma/Completion Certificate
Scores of 85%-90% overall across all grade 12 subjects, including 85%-90% in at least five grade 12 subjects including required subjects.
Caribbean
Caribbean Advanced Proficiency Examination (CAPE)
Six units, with at least two double-unit courses with Grade 1 (AAA) in all units.
Croatia
Svjedodžba o Maturi/Matura
Scores of 5 in relevant Higher Level subjects and, where required, in the majority of subjects
Cyprus
Apolytirion of Lykeio           *accepted by some departments
Scores of 19/20 overall, with 19/20 in relevant subjects *additional A levels or STEP papers may be required.
Czech Republic
Maturitni Zkouška / Maturita
Scores of 1 (výborný) in relevant subjects including the Mathematics (Common part) and grade 1 in the majority of subjects
Denmark
Studentereksamen
Overall score of 10-12, and similar scores in relevant subjects
Estonia
Gümnaasiumi Lõputunnistus with Riigieksamitunnistus
Overall scores 5, with 5 in relevant subjects in the Gümnaasiumi Lõputunnistus and confirmation of the award of the Riigieksamitunnistus (which you will need 91% in Mathematics Extensive in this exam).
Europe
European Baccalaureate
Scores of 80%-85% overall, with scores of 8.5-9 in relevant subjects
Finland
Ylioppilastutkinto / Studentexamen
At least two subjects above the grade of 6 (Eximia cum laude approbatur, Exceptionally good), and at least 2 subjects with a grade of 7 (Laudatur, excellent)
France
French Baccalaureate
Overall score of 15 to 17, with 15-17 in required in relevant subjects
Germany
Abitur
Overall score of 1.6 or better, with 13 to 14 in individual subjects taken as abiturprufung examinations
Greece
Apolytirion of Geniko Lykeio *accepted by some departments
Overall score of 19/20, with 19/20 in relevant subjects *additional A levels or STEP papers may be required
Hong Kong
Hong Kong Advanced Level Examinations (HKALE)
Comparable to GCE A level requirements.
Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education (HKDSE)
Grade 5 - 5* in relevant subjects.
Where Mathematics is required applicants should achieve the required grade in both the Mathematics compulsory and Mathematics Extended 1 or 2 components.
Hungary
Érettségi
Overall score of 5, and scores of 5 in relevant subjects at higher level
Iceland
Studentspróf
Overall score of 8.3 or better, and scores of 8 or above in relevant subjects
India
CISCE - ISC (Council for Indian School Certificate Examination - Indian School Certificate) Class XII CBSE – AISSE (Central Board of Secondary Education – All India Senior School Examination) Class XII
90-92% overall across five subjects with a score of 90 to 95% in relevant subjects
Ireland
Irish Leaving Certificate
Grades of H1 and H2 in six subjects
Israel
Bagrut
Overall score of 90% with high scores in at least three relevant subjects taken at the 5 unit level
Italy
Diploma Di Esame Di Stato
Overall score of 96+/100 with scores of 9 to 10 in relevant subjects
Latvia
Atestāts par vispārējo vidējo izglītību
Grades of 9+ in three state exams including relevant subjects
Liechtenstein
Scores of 6 in relevant subjects
Luxembourg
Diplôme de Fin d'Etudes Secondaires
Scores of 50-55 overall and in specific subjects
Malaysia
Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (Malaysian Higher School Certificate)
Minimum of AAA including required subjects (see A-level requirements for required subjects)
Malta
Matriculation Certificate
A grades in the two Advanced Level subjects, and at least two relevant intermediate subjects.
Montenegro
Overall score of 5 with 5 in relevant subjects
Netherlands
VWO (Voorbereidend wetenschappelijk onderwijs)
Overall score of 8-8.6 with scores of 8-9 in relevant subjects
New Zealand
National Certificate in Educational Achievement (NCEA) Level 3
Excellent overall with high grades in specific relevant subjects
Norway
Vitnemål fra dan videregående opplæring
Overall score of 5+ and in relevant subjects
Poland
2-3 subjects taken as advanced written examinations with grades in the 8th - 9th Stanine
Portugal
Diploma de Ensino Secundário
Overall score of 18+/20, with scores of 18+/20 in relevant subjects
Romania
Diploma de Bacalaureat
Overall score of 9+/10, with scores of 9+/10 in relevant subjects
Serbia
Overall score of 4.5+/5, with 5 in relevant subjects
Singapore
Singapore A Level
A minimum of three subjects at H2 level with grade A.
Slovakia
Vysvedcenie o Maturitńa Skúška/Maturita
Grades of výborný (1) in relevant subjects, and where relevant the majority of subjects
Slovenia
Maturitetno Spricevalo
Spain
Titulo de Bachiller
Overall grades of 8.5-9+/10, with 8.5-9+/10 in relevant subjects
Sweden
Avgångsbetyg /Fullständigt Slutbetyg från Gymnasieskolan
Grades of A in the majority of subjects and relevant subjects
Switzerland
Maturitätszeugnis/ Eidgenössisch Anerkanntes Kantonales Maturitätszeugnis, Baccalauréat/Certificat De Maturité/Certificat De Maturité Cantonal Reconnu Par La Confédérati on, Attestato Di Maturità/Attestato Di Maturità Cantonale Riconosciuto Dalla Confederazione
Overall grades of 5.0, with 5.0 in relevant subject
Tanzania
Advanced Certificate of Secondary Education
Grades AAA including relevant subjects
Uganda
Advanced Certificate of Education
United Kingdom
A-Levels
Standard offers between AAA and A*A*A: please see individual programmes for specific requirements.
For information regarding the upcoming changes to A-levels please read our Statement on A-level Reform ‌.‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌ Please note A-level Use of Mathematics cannot take the place of A-level Mathematics, where Mathematics is specified as a required subject.
Cambridge Pre-U
D2 will replace A* in the standard A-Level offer, D3 will replace A: please see individual programmes for specific requirements
Scottish Advanced Highers
Standard offers between AAA and A1,A1,A: please see individual programmes for specific requirements.
USA
Advanced Placement
Minimum of 3-4 AP tests with Grades of 5 (see course pages for required subjects).
Expected to be taken alongside a relevant high school diploma.
Where sat independently, departments will seek additional AP tests 4-6.
Where taken in conjunction with other qualifications, departments will seek the required standards in all qualifications presented.
Worldwide
International Baccalaureate
Overall scores of 38-42, with scores of 6-7 in relevant subjects at higher level.
Please note Mathematical Studies cannot take the place of Mathematics, where Mathematics is specified as a required subject.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-taught:
Find out how to prepare your Master's application, when to apply and what happens next.
Register for your My Imperial account to start your application today.
We're here to help you successfully navigate the application process for Master's study.
Prepare for your application to Imperial.
Find essential information for starting your postgraduate application.
Discover detailed information and key requirements on how to apply for postgraduate courses at Imperial.
Hear from Alexandra, MSc Environmental Technology to answer some of the most commonly asked questions about studying a Master's degree at Imperial.
Use our scholarships search tool to discover the financial support options available to you and how you can apply for them.
Explore further resources for successfully applying for Master’s study at Imperial.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-taught/entry-requirements:
The entry requirements for postgraduate study vary depending on which department, centre or research institute you're applying to.
It is normal practice for applicants to apply on the basis of final grades they expect to achieve.
Students who are already enrolled at another university – either in the UK or overseas – should either apply as a visiting student.
See which qualifications we accept for postgraduate study and the minimum entry standards for each.
All home, EU and overseas applicants must demonstrate their English language proficiency.
Find out whether you are exempt from proving your proficiency in English.
English exemption

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-taught/entry-requirements/accepted-qualifications:
We accept a wide range of international qualifications for postgraduate study at Imperial.
We've provided general guidance in the country and region index below on how qualifications awarded by public institutions overseas may satisfy our minimum academic admission requirements.
But you should always refer to our course pages , or to the relevant Admissions team , for specific guidance on requirements for courses of interest.
Requirements or acceptability may also differ for other types of institution.
The demanding and competitive nature of our courses means that individual departments, centres and institutes may set higher admissions standards than the minimum requirements listed in our index.
Specific grade averages may also be required in addition to the degree classification stated.
This may not be detailed in the index below.
While academic grades are important, it's not the only factor that we take into account during selection, so even if you meet all of our academic requirements that does not automatically guarantee admission.
We also consider other factors such as suitability for the course and your proficiency in English .
Your academic references are also important and some courses may require relevant work experience.
We review our requirements annually.
Updates usually happen in September each year before the next academic year of entry.
If your country or region is not listed below, please contact the relevant Admissions team for further information.
Applicants may be considered for admission to a Master's e.g.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, on a case by case basis provided that they have graduated with an overall mark of at least 8.5/10.
To be considered for a Master's e.g.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should have completed a Diplome d'Etat, Diplome d'Ingenieur or Ingenieur d'Etat with a final overall mark of at least 16/20.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should also hold a Magister degree, normally with at least 16/20.
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA, etc, on a case by case basis provided that they have graduated with a Bàtxelor with a minimum grade of 7/10.
Usually, a grade of 8/10 is preferred.
Applicants may be considered for admission to a postgraduate doctoral course if they hold:
To be considered for admission to a Master's e.g.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a Grau de Mestre with a minimum grade of 15/20 or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should seek advice from the relevant Admissions team .
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have:
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should also hold a Magister degree with at least 7.5/10 from a mainstream university.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a Master's degree with a grade of 4/5 or better, although a grade of 4.5/5 is normally preferred.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree, to Honours level, with a minimum of a Lower Second Class Honours.
A minimum of an Upper Second Class honours is however normally required for most of our courses.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold:
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants who graduated before the Bologna reforms should hold a Diploma with a grade of 2 or better.
Applicants who graduated after the Bologna reforms should hold a 1st cycle Bachelor's degree of at least 3 years' duration with a grade of 2 or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a 2nd cycle Master's degree normally with an overall grade of 2 or better.
For both qualifications the requirement is an overall average grade of 4.5/5 or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree from the University of Bahrain with a cumulative GPA of 3.5 or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should also hold a Master's degree with a cumulative GPA of 3.5 or better.
Applicants from the Arabian Gulf University should hold a Bachelor’s degree awarded with 75% or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a Master’s degree with Very Good or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants from the Bangladesh University of Engineering Technology should have completed a minimum of 4 years of study and have been awarded a Bachelor's degree with 75%.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should also hold a Master's degree with First Class or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree with a minimum of a Lower Second Class Honours from one of the campuses of the University of the West Indies.
A minimum of an Upper Second Class Honours is however normally required for most of our courses.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a first degree with a First or Upper Second Class Honours and should also be in possession of a Master's degree.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a minimum of 5 years of study and been awarded a specialist degree or a Bachelor's degree with an overall average grade of 4.5/5 or better.
Where a 10-point grading scheme is used, 9/10 or better is required.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a Master's degree with a grade of 4/5 or better, although a grade of 4.5/5 is normally preferred.
Where a 10-point grading scheme is used, a grade of 8/10 is required, though 9/10 is normally preferred.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants who graduated before the Bologna reforms should have completed at least four years of study and hold a Licence/Licenciaat or Ingenieur degree with a minimum grade of distinction [or onderscheiding or cum laude].
Applicants who graduated since the Bologna reforms should hold a 3 year 1st cycle Bachelor's degree with a minimum grade of distinction [or onderscheiding or cum laude].
Applicants fora postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a Master's degree with distinction or better [or onderscheiding or cum laude].
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree from the University of West Indies awarded with a 2:2 classification.
Usually, a 2:1 classification.
Applicants may be considered for admission to a postgraduate doctoral course if they are in possession of a Master's degree with 65% overall, in addition to Bachelor degree with the grades specified above.
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA etc, applicants should hold a Licence and Master degree both awarded with grades of 17/20 or above.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a minimum of 4 or more years of study and been awarded the Licenciado with an overall mark of 75% or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should also be in possession of a Maestria degree with 75% or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a minimum of 4 years of study and been awarded the Visoko Obrazovanja with a course average mark of 3.75/5 or better and an examination/diploma mark of 3.75/5 or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should also be in possession of a Magister degree with a course average mark of 3.75/5 or better and an examination/diploma mark of 3.75/5 or better.
Post Bologna candidates may also be considered if they hold a 1st Cycle Bachelor's degree with a minimum of 180 ECTS and a final overall grade of 7.5/10 or better, a minimum of 8/10 is however normally required for most of our courses.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should also be in possession of a 2 nd cycle Master's degree with 7.5/10 or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree with a minimum of a Lower Second Class Honours and a Master's with 65% from a mainstream university.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a minimum of 4 or more years of study and been awarded a Bachelor's degree from a mainstream university with a minimum overall mark of 7.5, although most departments generally ask for a higher grade.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should also be in possession of a Mestrado degree with 7.5 or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree with a minimum of a Lower Second Class Honours from a mainstream university.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a first degree with a First or Upper Second Class Honours and should also be in possession of a Master's degree with 65% or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a 4 year Bachelor's degree with a minimum of 4 (dobur) or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a Master's degree with a minimum of 4 (dobur) or better.
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA etc, applicants should hold:
Qualifications should be awarded with a grade of 16/20 or better.
Applicants with a Docteur en Médecine awarded with a grade of 16/20 or better will also be considered.
Qualifications should be awarded with a grade of 16/20 (80%) or better.
Applicants with a Doctorat d'État en Médecine awarded with a grade of 16/20 or better will also be considered.
Departments may exceptionally consider applicants for admission to a Master's e.g.
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA etc, where applicants hold a 4 year Bachelor and 2 year Master's degree, both awarded with 16/20 or 80%.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should hold a Diplome d'Ingénieur (des Travaux or de Conception) or a Licence and Maîtrise with an overall grade of 16/20 (très bien), or a cumulative GPA of 3.5 (B+ or 70%) or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should also be in possession of a Master-2 or Master avec thèse passed at the levels specified above.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc,applicants should have completed a first degree with a minimum cumulative GPA score of 78% or 3.1+/4 from a mainstream university.
A higher overall GPA is however normally required for most of our courses.
Applicants fora postgraduate doctoral course should also be in possession of a Master's degree.
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA etc, where applicants hold a Grau de Licenciado/a awarded with grade 16/20 or higher.
Applicants may be considered for admission to a postgraduate doctoral course if they are in possession of a Grau de Licenciado/a and a Grau de Mestre degee with grades specified above.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have been awarded both the Licence and Maîtrise degrees both at 14/20 (bien) or better.
Preference is given to candidates with 16/20 (très bien) or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should seek advice from the relevant Admissions team .
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a minimum of 4 or more years of study and been awarded the Licenciatura or Grado do Licenciado from a mainstream university with a minimum overall mark of 5.5/7 or better, or an overall grade of 78.5% or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should also be in possession of a Magister degree, with a minimum overall mark of 5.5/7 or better, or an overall grade of 78.5% or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have been awarded a Bachelor's degree from a Project 211 university with a final overall mark of 80% or better.
Preference is given to candidates with 85% or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course must also be in possession of a Master's degree with 80% or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree with a minimum of a Lower Second Class Honours.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a first degree and should also be in possession of a Master's degree.
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA etc, applicants should have been awarded a 4 year Bachelor's degree from the University of Macau awarded with a CGPA of 3.5 / 4.0 or better.
Applicants may be considered for admission to a postgraduate doctoral course if they are in possession of a 4 year Bachelor and Master's degree from the University of Macau awarded with a CGPA of 3.5 / 4.0 or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should have been awarded the Licenciado from a mainstream university and have achieved a cumulative GPA score of 3.75/5 or better.
Preference is given to candidates with 4/5 or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should also be in possession of a Magister degree from a mainstream university with a cumulative GPA score of 3.75/5 or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should present either the Diplôme d’Études Supérieures (DESS) or Diplôme d'Études Approfondies (DEA) with an overall mark of 16/20 or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should hold a Licenciado degree from a mainstream university with a final overall grade of 8.5/10 or better.
Applicants fora postgraduate doctoral course should also be in possession of a Maestria degree with a final overall grade of 8.5/10 or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have hold a Visoko Obrazovanja degree obtained after a programme of at least 4 years with an average mark of 3.75/5 and an examination/diploma mark of 3.75/5 or better.
Preference will be given to candidates with an average mark of 4/5 or better and an examination/diploma mark of 4/5 or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a Magistar degree with an average mark of 3.75/5 and an examination/diploma mark of 3.75/5 or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc.
applicants should be awarded a first degree, Ptychion, from the University of Cyprus with a minimum overall mark of 7.2+/10.
An overall mark of 7.5/10 is however normally required for most of our courses.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a Master's degree a with a minimum overall mark of 7.2+/10 in addition to a first degree.
Applicants who have graduated from private higher education institutions in Cyprus may be considered for admission to a Master's degree programme only, provided they have attained a 4 year Bachelor's degree with a minimum overall GPA score 3.5/4 or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants who graduated before 2004 should hold a Magistr or Inzenyr degree of at least 5 years' duration with an average grade of velmi dobre (good) or better.
Applicants studying courses after 2004, which are Bologna compliant, should hold 1st cycle Bachelor's degree with an overall mark of velmi dobre (very good) or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a Master's or integrated Magistr degree (after 2004) with velmi dobre or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should hold a three year Bachelor's or Diplomingeniǿr degree, awarded with an overall mark of 9+/13 or 7+/12, if graduating after 2008.
Applicants fora postgraduate doctoral course should hold a Master's, Candidatus degree, awarded with grades as specified above.
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA, etc, where applicants have been awarded a Licence and Maîtrise from the Universite de Djibouti, with both qualifications obtained with grade 17/20 or better.
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA, etc, applicants should have been awarded a Bachelor degree from the University of West Indies, achieving a 2:2 classification or better.
Usually, a 2: 1 classification will be required.
Applicants fora postgraduate doctoral course should also be in possession of a Master's degree awarded by the University of West Indies achieved with grade 65% or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should have been awarded the Licenciado degree with 3.5/4 or better or have achieved an overall mark of 85% or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should also be in possession of the Maestria degree with 3.5/4 or better or have achieved an overall mark of 85% or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a minimum of four years study and been awarded a Bachelor's degree with ‘Very Good' or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a Master's degree with ‘Very Good' or better in addition to a Bachelor's degree passed at the prescribed level.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed at least four years of study and have been awarded a Licenciado or Professional degree with an average mark of 80% or better.
Preference will be given to candidates with an average mark of 85% or better.
Applicants fora postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a Masterado with an average mark of 80% or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should have completed a minimum of 4 or more years of study and been awarded a Bachelor's degree with a minimum overall mark of Very Good or better, or a Cumulative GPA of 3.5/4.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should also be in possession of a Master's degree with Very Good or better.
Departments may exceptionally consider applicants for admission to a Master's e.g.
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA etc, where applicants have been awarded a 5 year Grado de Licenciado/Ingeniero achieved with 85% or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should also be in possession of a Maestro/Maestría achieved with 85% or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have been awarded a Bachelor's degree and Master's with an average GPA score of 3.4/4 or better.
Preference will be given to candidates with an overall GPA score of 3.6/4 or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed at least four years of study and been awarded a Bakalaureusekraad degree with an overall mark of 4.2/5 or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of the Magistrikraad degree with a minimum mark of 4/5 (vaga hea).
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a 4-year Bachelor's degree and Master's from a mainstream university with a CGPA of 3.75+ / 4.0.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have a Bachelor's degree from the University of the South Pacific with an overall grade of A (80%).
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants who graduated before the Bologna reforms should have completed at least four years of study and hold a Kandidaatti/Kandidat degree with a minimum overall mark of 2.5/5 or better.
Preference is given to candidates with an overall score of 3/5 or better.
Applicants who graduated since the Bologna reforms should hold a 3 year 1st cycle Bachelor's degree with a minimum overall mark of 2/3 on a three point scale or 2.5/5 on a five point scale or better.
Preference is given to candidates with an overall score of 2.3/5 or 3/5 or better.
Applicants fora postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a Maisteri/Magister degree with 2/3 or 2.5/5 or better.
To be considered for admission to a Master's degree e.g.
MSc MRes MBA etc applicants must have:
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course must hold a Licence degree and Master's degree at Assez Bien or better, from a university or a Diplome d'Ingenieur degree from a Grande École.
Departments may exceptionally consider applicants for admission to a Master's e.g.
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA etc, where applicants have completed five years of study and been awarded the Diplôme d’Ingenieur or Doctor en Médicine achieved with grade 16 / 20 or better.
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA etc, applicants should have been awarded a 4-year Bachelor degree with 2:2 and a Master's with 3.5 / 4.3.
A 7-year MBBS will also be considered for admission to a Master's or a postgraduate doctoral course where awarded with 65% or above.
To be considered for admission to a Master’s e.g.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor’s degree from a mainstream university, normally with a minimum of 3.0.
Preference is given to those with 2 or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a Diploma or Master's from a mainstream university, normally with an overall grade of 2 or better.
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd,  MBA, etc, applicants should be awarded a first degree, Ptychion.
Our minimum requirement is based on the university's ranking; from the most competitive we look for a minimum overall mark of 6.8/10 to 6.9/10.
An overall mark of 7.2/10 is however normally required for most of our courses.
From other mainstream universities we look for a minimum overall mark of at least 7+/10 or better, although most courses will ask for 7.5+/10.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a Master's degree with the grades specified above in addition to a first degree.
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA etc, applicants should have been awarded a Bachelor degree from the University of West Indies with a 2:2 classification.
Usually a 2:1 will be required.
Applicants in possession of a MPH or MBBS awarded by St George’s University after 2009 may be considered for admission to a Master's or a postgraduate doctoral course when achieved with 65% or above.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a Master's degree awarded by the University of West Indies with 65% or above.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should be awarded the Licenciatura or Professional degree with a minimum grade of 85%.
Preference will be given to those who have been awarded high marks in the Maestria.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a Maestria degree with 85%, in addition to the Licenciatura with 85%.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should be awarded a Bachelor's and Master's degree from the University of Guyana passed with credit.
Preference will be given to those awarded the degree with distinction.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should also be in possession of a Maestria degree with 80% or better
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should be awarded the Egyetemi Oklevel or Egyetemi Doktor with an overall grade of 75% or better or an overall mark of cum laude.
Post-Bologna applicants should hold a Alapfokazat degree with 180 ECTS credits and an overall grade of 3.5 (75%).
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a Egyetemi Oklevel, Egyetemi Doktor or Mesterfokozat degree with a minimum of 3.5 (75%)
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should hold the Bachelor's degree, Candidatus or Professional qualification from a mainstream university with an average overall mark of 7.5 or better.
Applicants fora postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a Meistaraprof degree with an average overall mark of 7.5 in addition to a first degree.
Graduates from Indian institutes of national importance and full degree students of the below institutions* will be subject to the Tier 1 requirements:
*Applicants studying at affiliated or autonomous colleges of the above institutions will be subject to the Tier 2 requirements.
A 3-year Bachelor degree with requisite grades may be accepted for entry to Masters but not research.
A 4-year Bachelor or Master’s with requisite grades may be accepted for entry to Masters or Research.
A 3-4 year Bachelor degree with requisite grades may be accepted to Masters but not research.
A Master’s degree with requisite grades is a prerequisite for entry to Research.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a Sarjana Satu (SI) degree from a mainstream university with an overall score of 3/4 or better.
Departments may look for a higher minimum score from particular universities.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a first degree with a final score of 3/4 or better and also be in possession of a Sarjana SII (Magister) degree passed 3/4 or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold Bachelor's degree on completion of 4 years of study with an overall grade of 14/20 or better.
P reference will be given to those awarded the degree with 16/20 or better.
Departments may look for higher minimum grades from particular universities.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a first degree and also be in possession of a Master's degree with an average score of 14/20 or better, although departments may look for higher minimum grades from particular universities.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold Bachelor's degree from a mainstream university with an overall grade of 85% or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a first degree with a final grade of Very Good or Excellent and also be in possession of a Master's degree with an overall grade of 85% or better.
Applicants fora postgraduate doctoral course should hold a first degree with a First or Upper Second Class Honours and should also be in possession of a Master's degree.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree from a mainstream university with a minimum overall mark of 80% or better.
Some departments may wish to select applicants with a higher overall mark of 85% or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a Master's degree with a minimum overall mark of 80% or better in addition to a Bachelor's degree passed at the prescribed level.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a 1st cycle Diploma di Laurea from a mainstream university with a minimum of 106/110.
We encourage applicants to also present the 2nd cycle Corsi di Laurea Specialistica at 106+/110.
Departments prefer applicants to hold the Laurea degrees with a final mark of Con Lode (110/110).
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold:
Departments prefer research applicants to have graduated with a final mark of Con Lode (110/110).
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a Master passed with 16/20 or better.
Fora postgraduate doctoral course, we require a Master’s with an average of 65% in addition to a First or Upper Second Class Honours for research.
An undergraduate medical degree with an average of 65% from a mainstream university can be accepted for MSc or postgraduate doctoral course registration.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree with an overall average grade of B or better.
Applicants fora postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a Master's degree at the same level.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree with an overall GPA of 3.25/4 or better, though 3.5/4 is preferred.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should also be in possession of a Master's degree with an overall GPA of 3/4 or better.
For both qualifications the requirement is an overall average grade of 4.5/5 or better, or 3.6/4 on a 4 point grading scheme.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree with a minimum of an Upper Second Class Honours from a mainstream university.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a first degree with a First or Upper Second Class Honours and should also be in possession of a Master's degree with 65% or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree from the University of Kuwait with an overall score of 3/4 Very Good or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should also be in possession of a Master's degree passed at the same level.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a Master's degree or Candidate of Science with a grade of 4/5 or better, although a grade of 4.5/5 is normally preferred.
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA etc, where applicants have completed a 4-5 year Bachelor degree and 2-year Master's degree achieved with a CGPA of 3.75 / 4.0.
Departments may demand a higher grade from particular universities.
Applicants fora postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a Magistr degree with 7.5/10 or better in addition to the Bakalaurs.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, normally applicants should have completed a Bachelor's degree from a mainstream university with a minimum overall grade of 80% (GPA 3/4) or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a Master's degree, normally with at least 80% or better in addition to a Bachelor's degree.
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA etc, where applicants should have completed a 4-5 year Bachelor degree and 2-year Master's degree, both achieved with 80% or above.
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA etc, where applicants have completed a 4 year Bachelor and 2 year Master's degree, both achieved with 90% or above.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a four to five year Technical Bachelor's degree from a mainstream university with a minimum overall grade of Very Good, normally represented by a mark of 80+%.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a Master's degree with Very Good or better in addition to a Bachelor's degree at the prescribed level.
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA etc, applicants should have been awarded one of the following degrees with a minimum grade of 5 / 6 or better:
Awards are accepted from:
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should also be in possession of a Master's with requisite grades.
Departments may require a higher grade from particular universities.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a Magistras degree with 7.5/10 in addition to the Bakalauras.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a Bachelor's degree from the University of Luxembourg with a 180 ECTS credits and an overall grade of Assez Bien.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a Master's degree with Assez Bien or better as well as a Bachelor's degree.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have obtained the Visoko Obrazovanja after a minimum of four years of study with an overall examination/diploma mark of 7.5/10 or better.
Post-Bologna applicants should hold a first cycle Bachelor’s degree with 7.5/10 or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of a Magister degree with 7.5/10 or better in addition to a Visoko Obrazovanja or Bachelor's degree.
To be considered for admission to postgraduate study, applicants should have completed a four-year Bachelor's degree with Honours and Master's degree achieved with 75%.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree, to Honours level, with a minimum of a Lower Second Class Honours or better from a public university.
Applicants graduating from private institutions should hold a Bachelor's degree to Honours level with a minimum classification of Upper Second or a minimum cumulative GPA score of 3.5/4 or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold an honours degree at the requisite level and should also be in possession of a Master's degree
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA etc, where applicants have been awarded a 4-year Bachelor's degree from the Maldives National University achieved with CGPA 3.75 / 4.0 or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should also be in possession of a Master's from the Maldives National University with requisite grades.
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA etc, where applicants have been awarded one of the following degrees from the Universite de Bamako achieved with 16 / 20 or better:
Grades of 16 / 20 or better may also be sought from preceding qualifications, e.g.
Maîtrise and Diplôme de Master, where relevant.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree with a minimum of Lower Second Class Honours.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a first degree and should also be in possession of a Master's degree with 65% or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree with a minimum of Lower Second Class Honours from a mainstream university.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a first degree with a First or Upper Second Class Honours and a Master's degree.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a minimum of four years study and been awarded a Licenciado, Licenciatura or professional degree from a mainstream university with a minimum overall grade of 8.5/10 or better.
From some universities, we may ask for a higher minimum grade.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a Maestria degree with the marks specified above as well as a first degree at the prescribed level.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed five years of study and been awarded the Specialist Diploma with an overall average grade of 4.5/5 or better.
Applicants with the Diploma de Licenta should have been awarded the degree with a minimum overall grade of 8.75/10, though 9.5/10 is preferred.
Applicants fora postgraduate doctoral course should hold a Diploma de Magistru degree with a minimum overall grade of 8.75/10, though 9.5/10 is preferred.
To be considered for admission to postgraduate study, applicants should have completed either a 5-6 year Specialist Diploma or Master's degree.
Grades of 4.5/5 or 3.75/4 are usually required.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a Bachelor's degree from the University of Montenegro with a minimum grade of 7.5/10
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a Master's degree with 7.5/10 and a Bachelor's degree.
MSc MRes MBA etc applicants must have either:
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course must hold a Master, Diplome d'Etudes Superieures (DES) or Diplôme d'Études Supérieures Approfondies (DEA) with Bien or better.
To be considered for admission to postgraduate study, applicants should have been awarded a Licenciatura and Mestre from the Universidade Eduardo Mondlane with a minimum overall grade of 15+/20; preference will be given to applicants with higher grades.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree with a minimum of Lower Second Class Honours from a mainstream university.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a first degree with a First or Upper Second Class Honours and should also be in possession of a Master's degree with 65% or better.
To be considered for admission to postgraduate study, applicants should have been awarded a three year (minimum) Bachelor's degree and Master's, passed with 80%.
Applicants wishing to be considered for entry to a postgraduate doctoral course should have completed a four year minimum Bachelor degree.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed:
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should be in possession of Master's degree passed with an overall grade of 7/10 or better in addition to a first degree.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree, to Honours level, with a minimum of Lower Second Class Honours.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a first degree, ideally with Honours, and a Master's degree.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a minimum of four years study and been awarded a Licenciado or professional degree from a mainstream university with a minimum overall mark of 90% or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold:
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA,etc, where applicants have been awarded a Maîtrise or Master's and one of the following:
Both degrees should be achieved with a grade of 16/20 or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA,etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree with a minimum of Lower Second Class Honours from a mainstream university.
A minimum of Upper Second Class honours is however normally required for most of our courses.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold:
To be considered for admission to a taught Master's course applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree with an overall average of C or better.
For admission to a postgraduate doctoral course, applicants should hold a Master's degree with the grades specified above.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a minimum of four years study and been awarded a Bachelor's degree from Sultan Qaboos University with a minimum overall GPA score of 3.3/4 (Distinction).
To be considered for admission to postgraduate study, applicants should have completed a four year Bachelor's degree awarded from 2016 onwards from one of the prestigious universities funded by the Higher Education Commission (HEC).
Degrees should have been awarded with a final overall mark of 75% or better.
Selectors may demand a higher mark from some institutions.
Where Bachelor degrees were awarded before or up to 2015, a Master's degree is also normally required, on top of a Bachelor's degree.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a Bachelor's degree awarded with an overall mark of ‘Very Good' or Excellent
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree with a minimum of Lower Second Class Honours.
A minimum of Upper Second Class honours is however normally required for most of our courses.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a minimum of four years study and been awarded a Licenciado or professional degree from a mainstream university with a minimum overall mark of 3.9/5 or better.
Applicants fora postgraduate doctoral course should hold:
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a minimum of five years study and been awarded a Licenciado or professional degree from a mainstream university with a minimum overall grade of 14/20 or better; most of our courses will require higher marks.
Applicants fora postgraduate doctoral course should hold:
To be considered for admission to postgraduate study, applicants should have completed a four year Bachelor degree and Master's degree.
Departments seek applicants achieving 3.5/4 (ascending scale) or 1.5 (descending scale) or better overall.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a minimum of four years study and been awarded the Magister, with an overall grade of dobry or better.
Post-Bologna applicants should have completed a three year 1st Cycle Bachelor's degree with a minimum of 180 ECTS points and a final grade of dobry or better.
Licencjat or Inzynier degrees taken since 2002 as a post-Bologna degree are also acceptable with a final grade of dobry or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have studied at a mainstream university and obtained the Licenciatura/Licenciado or a 1st Cycle Bachelor's degree with a minimum of 180 ECTS points and a final overall grade of 13/20 or better.
A minimum of 15/20 is however normally required for most of our courses.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a Bachelor's degree awarded with an overall mark of Very Good or Excellent.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a Magistr degree with a grade of 4/5 or better, although a grade of 4.5/5 is normally preferred.
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA etc, where applicants have been awarded a 4 year Bachelor (Hons) degree with 16 / 20 or better.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a Master's degree awarded with 16/20 or better.
The following may be accepted for entry to a Master’s or postgraduate doctoral course:
Departments may consider applicants for admission to a Master's e.g.
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA etc, who have completed a Licence and Maîtrise, both awarded with grade 16 / 20 or better.
Departments may also consider applicants with one fo the following qualifications obtained with 16 / 20 or better:
Diplôme d'État de Docteur en Médecine (may also be considered for entry to Research)
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a Maîtrise and one of the following with requisite grades:
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a Bachelor's degree with a minimum grade of 7.5/10.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a four year Bachelor's degree with a minimum of Lower Second Class Honours from a mainstream university.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a four year Bachelor's degree with a minimum of a Lower Second Class Honours.
A Bakalár awarded from 2005 would also be considered if achieved with (very good) or better overall.
Applicants with a post-Bologna 1 st cycle Bachelor’s degree should be awarded the degree with 7.5.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree with Honours from a mainstream university awarded with a minimum of Lower Second Class; a minimum of Upper Second Class Honours is however required for most of our courses.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a four year Bachelor's degree, at a mainstream university, normally awarded with a minimum GPA of 3.75/4.5 or better; preference will be given to applicants with a higher mark.
Departments may demand a different score from particular universities.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should hold a Licenciado, Licenciatura, Titulo de Ingenieria or Ingeniero Superior from a mainstream university awarded with an overall mark of 6+/10 or better, though 7/10 is preferred.
Post-Bologna candidates may be considered if they hold a 1st Cycle Bachelor's degree (180 ECTS credits) from a mainstream university with an overall mark of 6+/10 or better, though 7/10 is preferred.
Applicants may also be considered if they hold:
Applicants for research should hold a first degree with a First or Upper Second Class Honours and should also be in possession of a Master's degree with 65% or better.
MSc, MRes, MPH, MEd, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a five year Bachelor's (Hons) degree, at a mainstream university, awarded with a classification of 2:2 or better.
Usually, a 2:1 will be required.
Applicants for Research should hold a Master's degree passed at 65% or better in addition to a Bachelor's degree passed at the prescribed level.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have a post Bologna 1 st cycle Bachelor’s degree with an overall average grade of 4 or better, or an average grade of C or better, depending on the marking scheme used by the university.
Applicants for research should be in possession of a Master's degree with an overall average grade of 4 or better, or an average grade of C or better, depending on the marking scheme used by the university, in addition to a 1st Cycle Bachelor's degree.
Applicants should contact the relevant Admissions team for advice if their degree has not been awarded with the above marking scheme, or has been awarded with a combination of marking schemes.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should hold a first degree, Diploma/Diplóme; Lizentiat/Licence or Staatsdiplom/Diplóme d'Etat from a mainstream university, awarded with an overall mark of 4.5/6 or better or 7.5/10 or better.
Post Bologna applicants should present a 1st Cycle Bachelor's degree (180 ECTS credits) with an overall mark of 4.5/6 or better or 7.5/10 or better.
Applicants for research should hold a Diplome/Diplome or Master's degree awarded with an overall mark  specified above in addition to a 1st Cycle Bachelor's degree.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a four year Bachelor's degree, at a mainstream university, awarded with an overall minimum of 80% or better; preference will be given to applicants with a high percentile.
Applicants for research should hold a Master's degree passed at 80% or better in addition to a Bachelor's degree passed at the prescribed level.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a Bachelor's degree from a mainstream university awarded with an overall average mark of 75% or better; most course selectors will look for a higher overall percentage.
Departments seek applicants achieving 4.5+/5 or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should have completed a four year Bachelor's degree at a mainstream university awarded with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0/4.0 or better.
Departments may require a higher score from particular universities.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree with a minimum of Lower Second Class Honours from one of the campuses of the University of the West Indies.
For all qualifications, a grade of 16/20 is normally preferred.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course must hold:
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's (Lisans Diplomasi) degree from a mainstream university with a minimum overall mark of 3/4 or 7.5/10.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold a Master’s degree with a grade of 4/5 or better, although a grade of 4.5/5 is normally preferred .
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree with a minimum of Upper Second Class Honours from a mainstream university.
Applicants with a post-Bologna Bachelor’s degree should have been awarded with a minimum overall grade of 80%, though departments usually prefer a grade of 85% or better.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree.
Our minimum requirement is based on the university's selectivity ranking so minimum grade requirements will range from 3.0 / 4.0 to 3.6 / 4.0 depending on the institution.
Departments may require higher grades than those outlined.
Applicants with a four years Bachelor’s degree should have been awarded the degree with 85% or better, although 90% is normally preferred.
To be considered for admission to postgraduate study, applicants should hold:
Departments seek applicants achieving 7.5/10 or better, though 8/10 is preferred.
MSc, MRes, MBA, etc, applicants should hold a Bachelor's degree with a minimum of Lower Second Class Honours from one of the campuses of the University of the West Indies.
Applicants for a postgraduate doctoral course should hold:
To be considered for admission to postgraduate study, applicants should have completed a Bachelor's and Master's degree with ‘Very Good' or better.
Departments seek applicants achieving 80% or better overall.
To be considered for admission to postgraduate study, applicants should hold a Bachelor and Master's degree from a mainstream university, achieved with 65% or better.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-taught/application-process:
Apply online through My Imperial .
You can only apply for one Master's course per admissions cycle in Imperial Business School.
To be considered, this course must be submitted as your first choice in your application.
Applicants to the Finance Master's courses can indicate their areas of interest in finance when applying.
If you do not receive an offer for your your original course choice, they will use the interests you expressed when applying to consider your suitability for other areas of finance.
Get advice on choosing a Master's course at Imperial.
Learn about visa requirements, including who needs a visa, how to apply, and what documents you'll need.
Visa requirements
You will need to provide the details of two referees on your application.
An application fee applies for all MSc and MBA applications.
Application fee
For applicants who are facing financial hardship.
Application fee waiver
If you receive an offer, you may need to pay a deposit to secure your place.
Application deposit
We may invite you to an interview as part of our selection process.
See the important deadline dates for Master's study.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-taught/application-process/choose-course:
Master’s level study at Imperial is designed to be challenging.
It is a progression from undergraduate study and is usually more specialised, interdisciplinary, or orientated to a specific profession.
It often involves learning new technical skills, and requires you to think about concepts and methods more critically and more deeply than at undergraduate level.
Explore the different types of postgraduate taught courses we offer at Imperial.
Very flexible, providing the foundation for specialisation or diversification into a different sector/industry.
Also often the route onto a graduate programme or into a more specialised role.
Imperial MSc alumni include:
Further research either as a research assistant or PhD student.
Many of the courses offered at Imperial are science based and therefore lead to scientific positions.
Imperial MRes alumni include:
Public health practice and related fields.
Imperial MPH alumni include:
A globally recognised degree that equips professionals with leadership, strategic thinking, and management skills to accelerate their careers or transition into new industries.
Offered within Imperial Business School as a one year full-time programme , a weekend and an Executive MBA lasting 23 months, and a Global Online MBA lasting 21, 24 or 32 months.
A Postgraduate Certificate (PG Cert) and Postgraduate Diploma (PG Dip) are postgraduate qualifications at the same level as a Master’s degree, but they consist of fewer credits.
They offer a flexible way to gain advanced knowledge without the time commitment of a full Master's degree.
A PG Cert is a short postgraduate qualification that typically includes a selection of taught modules.
It allows you to gain specialist expertise in a focused area.
At Imperial, a PG Cert consists of at least 30 credits (ECTS).
This makes it a valuable option for professionals looking to upskill or explore a subject at an advanced level.
A PG Dip builds on the PG Cert, offering a more in-depth course of advanced study.
It typically includes additional taught modules and/or research modules and consists of at least 60 credits (ECTS).
This makes it an excellent choice for those seeking a deeper understanding of their subject area without undertaking a full Master’s degree.
Depending on your choice of course, you may be able to:
The availability of these options varies by course, so we recommend checking individual course pages for details on entry routes, progression opportunities, and exit awards.
Whichever path you choose, a PG Cert or PG Dip provides a recognised qualification that can enhance your career prospects and academic development.
We place great emphasis on the integration of our Master’s level courses with our world class research portfolio .
Your course will normally include a significant piece of research that will be submitted as a report or dissertation.
You may also undergo a viva (oral examination) on your work.
MRes students may undertake more than one project, with this component accounting for more than 50 per cent of the final degree award.
The quality of your own understanding, thinking and initiative are very important in the research project, demonstrated by posing questions and seeking answers, using and applying techniques and research skills, analysing data, and reviewing literature.
On most courses, there is a period of several months with little scheduled teaching when the bulk of the research project is carried out, requiring you to plan your time effectively.
Your project will normally be supervised by an academic member of staff.
However, they may delegate some of the day-to-day supervision to a member of their team, such as a PhD student, who can give you more practical advice.
All Master's students at Imperial have access to a free programme of professional development through the Early Career Researcher Institute (ECRI) .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-taught/application-process/personal-statement:
We know personal statements can sometimes be a bit tricky and you might have lots of questions about how to get started.
Don't worry, we're here to help.
On this page, we'll explain:
Your personal statement supports your application and gives you the opportunity to show us:
You can find a description of our courses and their key requirements, including the skills, experience and technical abilities we're looking for, on our course pages .
It's never too early to start working on your application for your Master's.
Here's why:
Starting early means that you can collect the information that you need before the deadline and have time to make the application the best it can be.
For Master's courses, some of our departments use application rounds , which have fixed application dates throughout the year.
We recommend applying as early as you can, as we cannot guarantee that places will be available, or that courses will remain open in later rounds.
You can check the application round dates for your chosen course on our course pages .
You must submit your course application before you can apply for one of our scholarships, which have deadlines of their own.
So don't delay – start working on your personal statement and get one step closer to joining Imperial.
We ask for a personal statement because we want to know about you.
Every aspect of your application is important, but many areas tend to only require factual information, like your grades.
The personal statement is your opportunity to tell us more about who you are and why you'd like to study at Imperial and join our community.
Applications to our courses can be competitive, so we often use a candidate's personal statement to understand them and their experience better.
You might find this structure helpful to plan your personal statement:
Doing this at the beginning of the process before you write helps you to make sure that you mention all the things that you want to and don't forget to include key points that will help you stand out.
We want to hear about you, not us!
It's good to talk about the course content, but make sure that you relate it back to your experience and your goals – focus on sharing what interests you the most about the course and how you plan to build on past study and work experiences while undertaking the course.
Write as you would normally.
Avoid using overused phrases, such as:
Be yourself and tell us about your unique experience and motivations for applying for this course.
While copying and pasting from past personal statements can save you time, there is a risk of errors.
Make sure you double check your personal statement for spelling and gramma, and that you're using the right university name and course title.
It's good to aim for your statement to be one or two pages of A4 – that's roughly around 500 to 1,000 words long at font size 12.
Make sure you are concise and that your points are clear and relevant.
Personal statements for courses in the Business School are slightly different than for other courses.
Your personal statement provides an opportunity for you tell us a bit more about yourself and your motivation for undertaking this programme.
In the personal statement section of the application, we ask you to answer the following questions:
Why do you want to study at Imperial Business School, and how will you contribute to our community?
Imperial's values are Respect, Collaboration, Integrity, Innovation, and Excellence.
Describe a time where you embodied one or more of these values, and explain the impact it had.
Each section of the personal statement has a 3,500 character limit (including spaces).
You can apply for up to two courses in an academic year, only one of which can be for Imperial Business School.
If you initially apply to two courses at Imperial, you can submit two personal statements.
You have two options when submitting your personal statements:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-taught/application-process/deadlines:
Many of our postgraduate courses remain open until they are full – see below for exceptions to this.
Popular courses tend to close early – typically from January onwards in the year that your course is due to start – so make sure you apply in good time.
Some departments have application rounds for their postgraduate taught courses, with fixed application dates throughout the year.
Apply by 23.59 (UK time) on the closing date of an application round, to ensure you receive a response on your application by the relevant decision date.
We recommend applying as early as you can – we cannot guarantee that places will be available, or that courses will remain open, in later rounds.
To see what application dates are relevant to your chosen course, visit our course pages .
If you apply for a course as a second choice, please note that your application will only be considered if your first choice application is unsuccessful or placed on the waitlist.
Should your first choice application be declined or waitlisted, you will be notified by Central Registry.
After this, your second choice application will then be forwarded to the relevant department for review, and you will be notified by Central Registry of this.
The date on which you receive Central Registry’s notification of sending your second choice application to the relevant department will be considered the application date for your second choice course.
Some courses will not consider a second choice application.
Please check your desired course page before selecting your second course choice.
If you have submitted your application to meet an application round, it is not necessary for us to receive your references by the closing date, although we would expect to receive them shortly afterwards.
Please note that the selection committee reserves the right to assess your application on the basis of the documents that have been received at the time of the assessment.
As a guide, students who require a student visa to study at Imperial should aim to apply by no later than 30 June in the year that their course is due to start.
This is to ensure we can process your application in time and issue your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) .
A CAS is an electronic record that is required for your visa application.
If you do not require a visa to study at Imperial we recommend you apply by 1 August in the year your course is due to start so we can process your application in good time.
If you require funding for postgraduate study, you need to be aware of the various closing dates for awards you may be eligible for.
Use our scholarships search tool to see what's currently available and what deadlines apply.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-taught/application-process/application-fee:
Please contact us: appfees@imperial.ac.uk
If you’re applying for a postgraduate course at Imperial, you may need to pay an application fee.
The fee helps to cover some of the administrative and staffing costs associated with processing the large volume of applications that we receive.
We don’t want the application fee to be a barrier to qualified students who can’t afford it.
So, we have put an application fee waiver in place.
If your application for a fee waiver is approved, you will be able to submit your application without paying the application fee.
The application fees for postgraduate courses are:
The application fee applies once per application and not per course (where you are permitted a second choice).
If you are applying for any of the following postgraduate courses at Imperial, you will not need to pay an application fee:
If you are eligible for an application fee waiver you will not have to pay the application fee.
If you pay the application fee, you have up to 14 days to change your mind and request a full refund.
You do not need to give a reason for cancelling if you send your request within the 14-day cancellation period.
If approved, this will also have the effect of cancelling your application to study at Imperial.
The cancellation period starts on the day after we send the payment confirmation email to you e.g.
if we send the payment confirmation email on 1 March, the cancellation period starts on 2 March and ends at midnight on 15 March.
Refunds are no longer available after the 14-day cancellation period has ended.
There are two ways to cancel your application processing fee payment and request a full refund:
We will aim to acknowledge your cancellation request within five working days.
We will refund the application processing fee back to the credit or debit card used to make the initial payment within 14 days after we received your cancellation request.
If you follow the process above, Imperial will treat your application (and any offer of a place, if made) as withdrawn.
You can read the terms and conditions by downloading the following document.
This document contains the cancellation form.
Download the application fee terms and conditions [DOCX]

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-taught/application-process/application-fee/application-fee-waiver:
If you’re applying for a MSc or MBA course at Imperial, you may need to pay an application fee .
Applicants who are facing financial hardship and cannot pay the fee can apply for an application fee waiver.
The fee waiver is open to all postgraduate applicants to Imperial courses where the application fee applies.
You may be able to submit your application free of charge if you:
If the reason you are facing financial hardship is not listed above, you can still apply for an application fee waiver.
Please describe the reason you're applying in the application fee waiver form and also send us the relevant evidence.
You must apply for an application fee waiver before submitting your application for a postgraduate course(s) at Imperial.
We cannot consider application fee waiver requests submitted after we have already started processing your course application.
To apply, please complete our Application Fee Waiver Form (Word document, 35.7KB).
You will also need to send evidence to support your application.
Please send your completed application form and supporting documents to appfees@imperial.ac.uk‌‌ .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-taught/application-process/reference:
On your application form, you will need to provide the contact details of two referees.
One must be an academic reference, the second referee may be another academic referee, or where appropriate/relevant, a professional referee.
All of our academic departments attach considerable importance to the report of the academic referee.
This can play a major part in deciding whether an applicant is called for interview and in determining whether an offer is made.
The assessment of previous academic performance is of particular value, as are indications of the strength of an applicant's motivation to study the chosen subject.
A professional reference can also be of use in establishing an applicant’s postgraduate career development and is a requirement for certain courses which stipulate relevant experience as an entry requirement.
You can view your reference details in My Imperial .
Reference requests are sent on the day you submit your application, or shortly afterwards.
Therefore please ask your referee to check the emails they received on that day, including in their spam folder.
The address the email is sent from is admissions.enquiries@imperial.ac.uk .
If they are still unable to locate the reference request, please ask them to send a reference by email to admissions.enquiries@imperial.ac.uk , quoting your Application ID.
This should be sent from an appropriate professional email address.
If you have been informed that your referee is unable to submit a reference for you, please contact an alternative referee directly and ask them to send a reference by email to admissions.enquiries@imperial.ac.uk quoting your Application ID.
If your referee has already submitted a reference via our system, but made an error in the document they uploaded, they will need to send a corrected version of the reference letter to admissions.enquiries@imperial.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-taught/application-process/interviews:
You may be invited for an interview as part of the selection process, particularly if you are applying for a course in Imperial Business School.
If you are shortlisted, you may be offered an in-person interview or a virtual interview, depending on your circumstances and the course you're applying for.
The department you have applied to will contact you directly with more information, including whether you can attend online.
We will use the email address you provided on your application to invite you, so please monitor your inbox and respond promptly.
We will also update your account in My Imperial.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-taught/offer-holders:
Learn about your next steps, including how to accept your offer and submit your offer conditions, discover more about postgraduate life at Imperial and explore the opportunities on offer.
We hope to see you at Imperial soon!
Remember – if your offer is conditional, you'll need to provide evidence to show that you meet the conditions of your offer before we can confirm your place.
We've put together key information to help you understand your offer, how to pay your deposit and all the key dates and deadlines you need to know.
Everything you need to know about how to apply for Imperial scholarships and find external funding.
Find out how we can help you find your new home in London.
From preparing for the big move to adjusting to life in the city, Victory shares her advice for starting your new chapter in London.
Discover our campus highlights, see more of London and use ‘Explore map’ to search locations and get top tips on our neighbourhoods from our students.
Our specialist support teams can help, whenever you need it

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-taught/offer-holders/next-steps:
We've put together the key information you need to understand your offer and what you need to do next.
You can also find information about accommodation, funding your studies and how to submit your offer conditions.
You can accept your offer on My Imperial.
You’ll need to reply to your offer by the deadline included in your offer letter:
Log in to My Imperial to accept your offer
If your offer is conditional, you need to show evidence that you meet the conditions before we can confirm your place.
Your offer letter will explain all the conditions you need to meet.
This may include evidence of your academic grades and your proficiency in English language.
You will need to satisfy all the conditions listed in your offer before you can register at Imperial.
Submit your offer conditions
To secure your place for a Master’s (MSc, MRes or MBA) course with us, you need to pay a deposit.
The deposit is 10% of the first-year course fee and will be deducted from your final balance.
You’ll get all the information on how and when to pay sent to you in an email after you’ve accepted the offer.
We will automatically send you an invoice for the deposit by email within five working days after you accept your offer.
You don't need to contact us to request an invoice.
You will need to pay the deposit within 30 days of the date of the invoice.
The details of the amount to pay and the payment due date will be clearly shown on the invoice and in the email we send you.
Departments may agree to extend the 30-day deposit payment term, however this is considered on a case-by-case basis.
How to pay your deposit
Our Student Accommodation Office can help you find a place to live and get settled in London.
They can also help with things like rent guarantees, contract checking and information about letting agents and other accommodation providers.
If you’re studying at our Silwood Park Campus, you can choose accommodation at one of our five on-site halls of residence.
Find postgraduate accommodation
Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS)
To apply for a student visa, you’ll need a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
Our Admissions team will send your CAS by email when you meet your offer conditions.
Learn more about CAS
Academic Technology Approval Scheme certificate (ATAS)
An ATAS certificate is included as offer condition for some of our courses.
You’ll need an ATAS certificate before you apply for your visa.
How to apply for ATAS
You’ll have lots of questions before you start your course.
On our webinars you can hear from students and staff and learn more about what to expect at Imperial.
You can also watch back recordings of our previous events.
Sign up to a webinar
If you have questions about your offer, contact our Admissions teams.
Contact us
Learn how to send us your qualifications and other evidence to meet your offer conditions.
Under exceptional circumstances, you could apply to defer your place to the next academic year.
Read more about deferrals

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-taught/offer-holders/next-steps/submit-offer-conditions:
If you have received a conditional offer, it will include the conditions you need to meet before we can confirm your place.
This may include providing evidence of your academic qualifications and proficiency in English language .
As part of your offer conditions, we may ask you to provide evidence of your academic qualifications, such as your degree transcript.
There are two ways to send us evidence of your academic qualifications:
You can find further instructions about how to send evidence of your academic qualifications in your offer letter and in your My Imperial account.
If you take one of the following tests to meet your English language offer condition, we need to verify your test results online.
When you submit your test results, you must send the following details for your test to the Admissions team for your course:
Other English language qualifications If you have completed any other accepted English language qualifications, email the results to your Admissions team.
If this applies to you, it will be included in your offer conditions.
An  ATAS certificate is valid for 6 months from the date it is issued, to give you time to apply for your visa.
Once your clearance is obtained, ATAS will send a copy of your certificate directly to Imperial.
You can find further guidance and how to apply for your certificate on the ATAS pages on the UK government website.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-taught/offer-holders/life-on-campus:
Whether it's joining one of our 370 student-run clubs, representing Imperial in one of a wide range of sport teams, or bringing a new idea to market with Imperial's enterprise ecosystem, discover what you can get involved with while studying with us.
Voted as the world’s best student city*, London offers everything you need on your doorstep.
Enjoy bars, restaurants, free museums, outside green spaces, and great shopping experiences.
Plus, London is a global hub for many industries, presenting plenty of opportunities to advance in your career.
*QS Best Student Cities 2024
It’s not all labs and lectures.
You can also enjoy the Sci-Fi Library, Imperial Cinema, Media Suite, and other areas as a student.
Learn more about Students' Union
Supports over 2,000 students annually with mentoring and skills development workshops
Awards a prize fund of £30,000* to outstanding women-led start-ups.
*subject to sponsorship
Welcomes students to pitch ideas to a panel of industry leaders for a chance to win a share of the £100,000* prize fund.
Invites new members to contribute ideas and skills to create sustainable and affordable technologies for rural communities in the Global South
Visiting London over the summer?
On 7-8 June 2025, join us at the Great Exhibition Road Festival.
It’s a free annual celebration of science and the arts each summer in South Kensington.
Enjoy hands-on workshops, fascinating talks, performances, and installations from iconic museums and research and culture organisations, including Imperial College London, the Natural History Museum, the Science Museum, V&A, and many more.
Visit the Great Exhibition Road Festival website for more information.
Go behind the scenes of Imperial College London in our monthly postcast, featuring exclusive access to interview with world leaders and thinkers in the fields of science, engineering, health and business.
Get to know our community in the latest Imperial magazine.
It delivers expert comment, insight and context from our engineers, mathematicians, scientists, medics, coders and leaders, as well as stories about student life and alumni experiences.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-taught/offer-holders/accommodation:
Finding your new home
To study at your best, it’s important you feel at home.
Our Student Accommodation Office is on hand to help you find a place to live and get settled in.
Whether you prefer accommodation that's been designed with postgraduates in mind or you're considering London's huge range of private rental options, we can help you find a home that's right for you.
GradPad provide private halls with all-inclusive rents exclusively for postgraduate students at Imperial and other London universities.
They’re available in two London locations: • Griffon Studios, Battersea • Wood Lane Studios, White City Find prices, facilities and how to book on the GradPad website.
Explore GradPad
You’ll have plenty of options for private accommodation in London, from flat shares and shared houses to studio apartments.
If your course starts in late September, the best time to start looking for a place to live is between late June and August.
Our Student Accommodation Office has lots of information about popular areas and guidance about average rent.
If your course is based at our Silwood Park Campus, you can choose from single and double accommodation in our five on-site halls.
Learn about Silwood Park
Join MSc Environmental Technology student Adrian on a tour of his studio at GradPad's Griffon Studios in Battersea.
You may consider living at home and travelling into university.
Many local Imperial students already do this to cut down on living costs.
Rest assured, there are plenty of opportunities to make sure that you feel part of the Imperial community from day one:
The Students’ Union is a community of all our students working to achieve the best experience for every student.
Every one of the Union’s members is able to lead, create and influence change in every one of our activities, campaigns and services.
Getting involved in student activities is a great way to meet new people.
There are over 370 clubs, societies and projects which are all student-led and student-run.
This is one of largest varieties of student led activities at a University in the UK.
You’re guaranteed to find a group that shares your interests, and if not, create your own!
Not sure where to start with your private housing search?
Our Private Housing Masterclass can help.
Find properties and connect with other Imperial students on our very own property search website.
Search for properties
If you're studying at Silwood Park, our answers to frequently asked accommodation questions can help you learn more about living on campus.
View our FAQs

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-taught/offer-holders/fees-and-funding:
Everything you need to know about fees, funding and how to manage your money
When you accept your offer for a Master’s course, you'll need to pay a deposit to reserve your place.
The deposit is 10% of your first-year course fee.
We'll send an invoice for the deposit by email five working days after you accept your offer.
You'll need to pay the deposit within 30 days of receiving your invoice.
The tuition fees for our postgraduate courses are set by Imperial and vary by course.
There are two rates of tuition: Home and Overseas.
The rate you pay is determined by your fee status, which we assess after you apply using criteria set out in the UK government’s fee regulations.
Learn more about tuition fees
There’s a range of financial support on offer to help you fund your studies at Imperial.
We offer a range of scholarships for Master’s students.
Unlike loans, you don’t need to pay these back.
Use our online search tool to find scholarships in your subject of interest and to check your eligibility.
A growing number of external organisations, such as businesses, foundations and NGOs, offer scholarships for postgraduate study.
Grants from charities and trusts are a great source of funding for Master's study.
Explore what's available in the Alternative Guide to Postgraduate Funding.
Access the guide
It’s really important to consider what your living costs could be to help you to budget and manage your money.
You can use our guide to living costs to understand what you could spend on transport, food, leisure and transport.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-taught/offer-holders/support:
Our specialist support teams are ready to help whenever you need it.
The Disability Advisory Service provides guidance for prospective students and offer holders about disclosing and how to request support and adjustments, advice about accommodation and the teams and networks there for you at Imperial and in your department.
Imperial's Student Counselling and Mental Health Advice Service offers individual and group counselling, workshops and courses, as well as access to SilverCloud, an online platform for self-help programmes.
The Student Support Zone offers advice about mental health , including tips about how you can support your mental wellbeing.
Read our guide to help get the most out of your time.
Explore our student Success Guide
Find answers to frequently asked questions about studying at Imperial.
Explore help centre

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-taught/offer-holders/after-you-graduate:
See where an Imperial degree can take you.
Imperial students are always in high demand – so high that you might even get headhunted before you graduate.
*Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA), Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22
From your first day here, you’ll have access to a huge range of support services to help you prepare for – and secure – the next step in your academic or professional life.
We’re here to help you get the most from your future with our Careers Service.
Read more about our Career Service support
The Early Career Researcher Institute supports postgraduate students across Imperial through tailored professional development courses and community events.
Learn more about the Institute

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-taught/offer-holders/international-students:
At Imperial, you’ll be in good company as an international student.
To help you feel settled when you arrive in London, our International Student Support team offers specialist immigration advice, webinars, trips, plus online and in-person welcome events.
Learn more about student visas
You’ll need this before you apply for a visa.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-doctoral:
There can be a lot to consider when you apply for doctoral study – from finding a supervisor and writing a research proposal, to exploring funding options.
We’ve got the information and guidance you need to navigate the process.
We're here to help you successfully navigate the application process for doctoral study.
Discover all the doctoral study options available at Imperial.
Browse our current funded PhD opportunities.
Find essential information for starting your doctoral application.
Discover detailed information and key requirements on how to apply for doctoral programmes at Imperial.
Join Annie as she takes you on a typical day as a PhD student within the School of Public Health at Imperial.
Explore further resources for successfully applying for doctoral study at Imperial.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-doctoral/application-process:
All applicants should identify the research area (and if appropriate, specific research project) and department in which they wish to work.
You should also check with the department in advance whether you need to identify a supervisor before you apply.
If you do then you should include details of the person who's agreed to supervise you in your application.
Read more about finding a supervisor .
Get advice on choosing a doctoral course at Imperial.
Many of our departments require you to find a supervisor before you apply.
How to find a supervisor
Your supervisor may ask you to formalise your idea as a research proposal.
Research proposal
Application references
An interview is an important part of selection for doctoral study.
Finding a supervisor
Writing a research proposal
Interview

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-doctoral/application-process/choose-course:
The Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) is the most common type of Doctoral course, which normally takes three or four years of full-time study to complete.
Part-time study is also an option.
PhD courses
This type of doctoral training typically consists of a one-year Master's course (MSc or MRes) which leads straight into a three-year PhD.
Integrated PhDs
Aimed at working professionals, these research qualifications (EngD and MD(Res)) combine taught courses and a supervised research project associated with your current employment.
Professional Doctorates
Our Split PhD scheme allows you to carry out some of your research abroad, either in the field or at an overseas institution.
Split PhDs
If you work in a public research institution, industrial research laboratory or at another university then you may be able to register for a PhD at Imperial but carry out the research where you work.
Partner Research Institution (PRI) scheme
Advanced standing allows you to be admitted for a doctoral course with a shorter registration period.
Apply for admission with advanced standing

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-doctoral/application-process/choose-course/phd:
Use our scholarships search tool to look for available scholarships.
Also explore our latest funded PhD vacancies .
A PhD (Doctor of Philosophy) is the most common type of doctoral degree and the highest level of academic qualification you can achieve.
It normally takes between three and four years of full-time work to complete.
It is also possible to undertake a PhD part time, over five to six years.
The main activity of a PhD is to carry out an original research project under the direction of one or more supervisors, to be written up as a thesis.
There are a number of ways to achieving a PhD at Imperial:
To search for PhD opportunities based on your own research proposal you first need to identify a research group within Imperial whose area of expertise best matches your idea.
Use the links below to search the different PhD opportunities within our academic departments, centres and institutes.
This includes information about current studentships and often guidance on finding a supervisor.
Our interdisciplinary approach means our expertise often spans departmental boundaries – and so do our courses – so you may find opportunities in an unexpected area of the university.
We have six Global Challenge institutes, which were created to address some of society's biggest challenges.
If you have an idea for a PhD that falls within the remit of one of our Global Challenge institutes please contact them directly to discuss before making a formal application.
Energy Futures Lab does not offer PhD programmes, but does deliver the MSc in Sustainable Energy Futures .
We have recently formed a strategic partnership in education, research and innovation with the Technical University of Munich, one of Germany’s most international and entrepreneurial universities, producing highly ranked research, like Imperial, in science, engineering and medicine.
As part of the partnership, Imperial and TUM have launched a 'Joint Academy of Doctoral Studies' with the aim of co-developing cross-disciplinary clusters of PhD students who will have access to world-leading academic supervisors and state-of-the art facilities at both institutions.
The first round of the programme will focus on the theme of 'Artificial Intelligence, Healthcare and Robotics'.
Find out more about the Joint Academy of Doctoral Studies and apply
PhD
Split PhD
Professional Doctorate
Integrated PhD
PRI scheme
Advanced standing

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-doctoral/application-process/choose-course/split-phd:
Arrangements are normally confined to institutions with which Imperial has established links and in cases where the research problem requires local fieldwork, for example, the study of a particular aspect of geology or biology.
Students on the Split PhD scheme are required to be in physical attendance at Imperial for a minimum of 12 months out of the normal 36 months duration of a PhD programme.
Please be aware that not all Imperial departments will accept Split PhD applications so we advise you to first discuss this with the Imperial department of interest at the admissions stage.
If the department is open to a Split PhD proposal, you should submit a covering note with your application explaining the benefits of pursuing part of your proposed research project beyond Imperial.
You will also need to provide a copy of the CV of the supervisor who will oversee your work undertaken outside of Imperial.
If your Split PhD proposal is approved, the department will advise you of the next steps to progress your application.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-doctoral/application-process/choose-course/professional-doctorate:
Our Professional Doctorates are for working professionals who are looking to make a unique contribution to their area of practice.
At Imperial, they're available through the following qualifications.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-doctoral/application-process/choose-course/integrated-phd:
Funding for our CDTs and DTPs is provided by Research Councils so eligibility criteria apply for the studentships that they offer.
This is outlined on the UK Research and Innovation website .
They may also consider self-funding applicants for non-funded projects.
Integrated PhDs provide a new model of postgraduate training.
They retain the depth, rigour and focus of a conventional PhD while also providing a broader training experience.
While the specific training routes may vary, they typically consist of a one-year Master's course (MSc or MRes) which leads straight into a three-year PhD.
This new style of doctoral training is available within our Research Council-funded Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs) and Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs).
Our CDTs and DTPs recruit cohorts of students from a broad spectrum of disciplines, creating vibrant multi-disciplinary communities.
The diversity of students recruited to these centres reflects the breadth of research which they cover.
As well as benefitting from a variety of training opportunities and cohort-building activities, students studying within these centres may also have access to a supervisor and facilities at a partner institution.
We offer the following DTPs:
Imperial is also a partner in London Interdisciplinary Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership (LISS) , funded by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC).
Imperial currently hosts the following Centres for Doctoral Training.
Explore the centres that interest you to find out more about their training programme and available studentships.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-doctoral/application-process/choose-course/pri-scheme:
If you work in a public research institution, industrial research laboratory or at another university then you may be able to register for a PhD at Imperial but carry out the research where you work, under the PRI scheme.
You will still need to spend at least two months of each year at Imperial, but the rest of the time can be spent at your other institution.
If you wish to apply to be registered under this scheme you should first discuss this with your local supervisor and your Imperial supervisor.
Once a research project has been agreed, you can make a formal application to Imperial online through My Imperial in the usual way.
Once your department of interest has received your application, they will organise for the PRI/A Form to be completed and submitted for appropriate checks and consideration by the ECRI Academic Deputy Director and the Academic Registrar.
If the department accepts your registration as a PRI student we will make you a conditional offer which reflect this.
For further information see:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-doctoral/application-process/choose-course/advanced-standing:
If you have already completed a period of doctoral level study at another institution, it may be possible for the work, activities, progress and assessments already undertaken in your engagement with research to count towards a doctoral course at Imperial.
This recognition of previous successful study is known as advanced standing.
It may also be used to recognise prior experiential learning undertaken as an employee, Research Assistant/Clinical Research Fellow (RAs/CRFs) of Imperial College London, or staff of the Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust.
Advanced standing applicants should apply online through our application system, My Imperial .
Once your application is received by your department, they will organise for the Admissions with Advanced Standing Form (.docx) to be sent to the following for review:
If your application to register with advanced standing is approved then you may be admitted to a doctoral course at Imperial for a shorter period of time – though you must complete at least 12 months (full-time) or 24 months (part-time).

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-doctoral/application-process/supervisor:
Finding a supervisor depends on which PhD route you're taking:
If you’re applying for a studentship, your supervisor will usually be the academic who made the funding application for the research project.
If you’re proposing your own PhD project, you will need to do some research to identify potential Imperial supervisors whose research interests align with your own.
To do this, we recommend first researching on the websites of appropriate Imperial departments, centres and institutes to see which areas of research they cover.
See an A–Z of our research groups .
Once you've identified an appropriate research group, you'll need to explore which academic staff are open to supervising students.
This is often noted on the website.
This is an important step as you will need to find out whether they have an appropriate supervisor.
You will also need to discuss your research idea before you apply.
When applying, you will need to provide details of your proposed supervisor and a proposal of your intended research.
If the department indicates that you don’t need to identify a supervisor before applying, you can submit your research proposal as part of your online application.
Once you have identified a potential supervisor,  the best way to move forward is to contact them by email.
This should be a formal email, which shows that you have done your research into their particular research expertise and past research work.
Once you have discussed the research project with your supervisor, you may wish to discuss other aspects of Imperial and supervision which will contribute to your overall experience.
For example, you may wish to ask:
Discussing these topics with your prospective supervisor will give you a sense of what it will be like to work in the lab and/or research group and whether this will suit you.
For more information, see Imperial's Success Guide, which has guidance on working with your supervisor.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-doctoral/application-process/research-proposal:
If your supervisor asks you to formalise your idea as a research proposal (this is not always a requirement) this needs to define a clear research question.
You should also be prepared to explain how this contributes to and develops (or challenges) any existing theories in the field.
It’s important to tailor your proposal to the department you’re applying to.
Different departments may also have different format requirements (e.g.
word limit, content) so it’s important to discuss these with your potential supervisor in advance.
For more general advice on how to write a good proposal, see FindaPhd.com .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-doctoral/application-process/interview:
An interview is an important part of the selection process for doctoral study at Imperial and all applicants must be interviewed before a formal offer of admission is made.
This interview must be conducted by at least 1 and normally 2 members of staff, as well as:
Interviews may be conducted as a video conference or teleconference if it is not possible for the candidate to visit the Department.
Further information about an individual Department’s interview processes, including its policy and practice on interviewing applicants based overseas are detailed on the individual departmental websites.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-doctoral/offer-holders:
Find out your next steps and how to accept your offer, discover more about what postgraduate student life is like and explore the opportunities you’ll have once you join Imperial.
Everything you need to know about how to apply for Imperial Scholarships and find external funding.
"A PhD isn’t something you do entirely alone.
While it’s an independent project, being able to lean on others for advice and support has been invaluable – it's made a real difference in both my progress and motivation for my PhD."
Discover our campus highlights, see more of London and use ‘Explore map' to search locations and get top tips on our neighbourhoods from our students.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-doctoral/offer-holders/next-steps:
Find out more about submitting offer conditions
Learn more about postgraduate accommodation options

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-doctoral/offer-holders/next-steps/deferred-entry:
Deferral requests are based on a change of circumstance that is outside your control and could not have been foreseen, and that will prevent you from taking up your place at the original course start date.
You can find the contact details for your department on the course page of the course you are holding an offer for.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-doctoral/offer-holders/life-on-campus:
You may come to Imperial for a degree, but you'll leave with so much more
Enjoy hands-on workshops, fascinating talks, performances and installations from iconic museums, research and culture organisations, including Imperial College London, the Natural History Museum, Science Museum, V&A and many more.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-doctoral/offer-holders/accommodation:
Whether you prefer accommodation that's been designed with postgraduates in mind or you’re considering London's huge range of private rental options, we can help you find a home that's right for you.
Our Student Accommodation Office has lots of information about popular areas and guidance about average rents.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-doctoral/offer-holders/fees-and-funding:
All you need to know about funding your studies and the costs you need to factor into your budgeting
The fee you pay depends on a number of factors, including your fee status, your course or department, and the financial support you’re eligible for.
You can learn more information about tuition fees for our doctoral courses on our tuition fee pages.
Find out more about tuition fees
There’s a range of financial support on offer to help you fund your studies while at Imperial.
We offer a range of scholarships for Doctoral students.
Grants from charities, trusts, and foundations are an under-exploited source of funding for Master's study.
Explore what's available via the Alternative Guide to Postgraduate Funding Online gateway.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/postgraduate-doctoral/offer-holders/support:
Student Support Zone
Explore our help centre
University can feel like a big change.
We’ve created a handy guide to help you understand more about life at Imperial and top tips to help you get the most from your time with us.
Explore our Success Guide

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/english-language:
To study with us, all home, EU and overseas applicants must demonstrate they meet the required English language competency level for their chosen course.
We have two English language attainment levels:
See our course pages to find out whether you will need to meet the standard or higher level for your chosen course.
Find your course
The requirements for meeting the standard or higher level are explained below – see 'Tests we accept' and 'English language qualifications we accept'.
There are a number of different ways to demonstrate that you meet the relevant English language proficiency for your course.
You only need to do one of the following:
*Applicable for postgraduate students only
The Business School no longer offers its own pre-sessional courses, or recognises other pre-sessional courses, as a means of meeting the English language requirement.
If you have any questions about this, please contact the Business School directly.
Imperial College London does not accept award of a transnational joint degree with exempted countries as a means of meeting the university’s English language requirement.
You may not need to prove your English speaking knowledge if you have completed a qualification that is equivalent to a UK degree from certain countries.
To find out more about this exemption, see English language exemptions for details.
If you have already met the English language requirement, but want to boost your academic language so that you can communicate more confidently and effectively, we offer the Imperial College London 3-week Pre-sessional and Orientation course .
The course empowers participants to speak and write about their science in a compelling, impactful way as part of a vibrant learning community.
After meeting the relevant English language requirement for entry to a doctoral programme at Imperial, all doctoral students must also fulfil the Imperial College London Doctoral Academic Communication Requirement (DACR).
Find out more about Imperial College London Doctoral Academic Communication Requirement (DACR) .
If you need a student visa to study with us, you will need to prove your English language proficiency.
You can prove your knowledge of English by demonstrating to us that you have:
We will confirm this in your Confirmation for Acceptance of Studies (CAS) – this is an electronic document that generates a reference number you need to be able to apply for your student visa.
This number confirms to UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) that we wish to sponsor your study in the UK.
Here are all of the English language tests and qualifications that we accept for entry to undergraduate and postgraduate study.
You only need to meet the relevant standard in one of the following.
*Test scores are only considered valid if taken within 2 years of the intended course start date.
Find out more on the Duolingo website .
*IELTS single score re-takes are not accepted.
Candidates must meet the IELTS requirements on a single test sitting.
Imperial College London considers IELTS scores to be valid for 2 years.
Scores must be valid at the beginning of your studies at Imperial if your application is successful.
Find out more on the IELTS website .
ESOL B2 Test (Listening, Reading, Writing, Speaking) with grade High Pass
LanguageCert Academic SELT – Taken at C1 Level with no less than 65 in in all components (Listening, Reading, Writing, Speaking)
ESOL C1 (Listening, Reading, Writing, Speaking) with grade pass in all components
LanguageCert Academic SELT – Taken at C1 Level with no less than 70 in all components (Listening, Reading, Writing, Speaking)
We will only accept LanguageCert Academic.
*Test scores are only considered valid if taken within two years of the intended course start date.
Find out more on the LanguageCert website .
*Test results must be within 12 months of programme start date in order to be treated as valid and subject to online verification.
*OET Paper/Computer at test centre and OET@Home accepted.
Find out more on the Cambridge website .
Imperial College London considers Pearson (PTE) scores to be valid for 2 years.
For more information regarding Pearson, please visit the Pearson website .
PTE Academic online test results are only accepted (where valid) for entry for those starting courses up to 31 December 2023.
*ETS at Home accepted for admission
Imperial College London considers TOEFL scores to be valid for 2 years.
You must meet the entry requirement in one test from your scaled scores ( 'My Best Scores' reported by TOEFL will not be considered ).
For more information relating regarding TOEFL please visit the ETS website .
You must email your TOEFL scores to the relevant admissions teams .
Score reports sent via post will not be processed.
*For this qualification our standard and higher English requirements are set at the same level.
*Grades obtained in the Option International du Baccalaureat (OIB) within the acceptable time frame will be considered for 2025 entry.
Grade C
Grade B
176 overall (minimum 169 in all elements)
185 overall (minimum 176 in all elements)
Must be studied in Canada and excludes Quebec High School Diploma.
Any pass grade with a pass in each element OR Level C1 certificate*
Any pass grade with a pass in each element
For this qualification our standard and higher English Language requirements are set at the same level for 2025 entry.
If you are a Home student and you are applying for a course for 2025 entry , we require a Grade 5 in English Language for all courses except MBBS Medicine, which requires a Grade 6 in English Language GCSE.
For qualifications taken after 2013
For qualifications taken before 2013
Post 2017: Grade H5 in English*
Pre 2017: Grade B2 in English at Standard/Ordinary Level*
NCEA Level 2 English Grade: Merit*
NCEA Level 3 English Grade: Achieved*
Standard Grade 2 in English
National 5 Grade B
*For this qualification our standard and higher English Language and Composition requirements are set at the same level.
Must be studied in a majority English speaking country.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/english-language/english-language-exemption:
You do not need to prove your knowledge of English as part of your application if you’ve completed a qualification equivalent to a UK degree in one of the following countries:
* Please note that this exemption is not guaranteed if you are applying to Imperial Business School.
You may also be exempt if:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/visiting-students:
This information is applicable to both the 2024-25 and 2025-26 academic years.
Please check back in early 2026 for information relating to the 2026-27 academic year
Imperial College London accepts a number of visiting (non-degree) students each year:
Whether you are a prospective exchange or non-exchange student please ensure that you read the detailed information below before making a visiting student application.
If you are an Imperial staff member please read our guidance about hosting visiting students on our internal webpages .
Students who are admitted by Imperial as Visiting Students will find useful orientation on this page.
Imperial will consider applications for the following:
We welcome applications for placements at Doctoral level.
Please note that any applicant at any level of study who is seeking to undertake only an independent research period or a project should have the provisional agreement of a supervisor at Imperial to host them before applying.
Penultimate or final year undergraduate medical students seeking clinical internships/electives study periods at one of the NHS teaching hospitals partnered with Imperial should read the guidance on the Faculty of Medicine website .
If you wish to apply for a Summer School (for university level students) please do not apply as a visiting student.
Instead, you should follow the application and admissions information for the Summer School of interest.
Explore Summer at Imperial .
Imperial is also unable to offer study opportunities involving teaching from more than one department or from both the undergraduate curriculum (BEng/MEng/BSc/MSci) and postgraduate curriculum (MSc/MRes), unless:
Admission for less than a full academic year is not possible unless:
Please ensure you have read the guidance for applicants.
View a complete list of Imperial's global (curriculum-based) student exchange agreements, including links with Swiss universities and postgraduate partners for Imperial Business School.
Staff working in partner universities should read: Guidance for universities who are student exchange partners .
You should always apply as a visiting (non-degree) student if you have been awarded an Erasmus+ Traineeship grant by your home (non-UK) university and:
Please note that Imperial will classify any Erasmus+ Traineeship student it admits as a non-exchange (visiting) student.
Imperial will no longer automatically waive the tuition fee for a student it hosts who has Erasmus+ (Traineeship) status.
The student must discuss tuition fees with any proposed supervisor, and it is the decision of the host department whether the tuition fee can be reduced or waived.
For queries about Erasmus+ Traineeships, please email Adrian Hawksworth, Assistant Registrar (Placements) at a.hawksworth@imperial.ac.uk
For study periods starting during the 2024-25 academic year, please review this guidance:
For study periods starting during the 2025-26 academic year, please review this guidance:
If you are applying within the framework of a student exchange programme you should speak to the subject co-ordinator at your home university before applying to Imperial.
Visiting students are liable to pay a tuition fee if they are offered admission to Imperial except if they fall into one of the two categories below.
Official exchange programme students do not have to pay tuition fees to Imperial.
Such students would normally be expected to continue to pay normal tuition fees to their home university for the relevant period.
Apply through My Imperial
Review our academic term dates to determine your study period and academic year.
Guidance for 2024–25 entry will be available in early 2024.
Please email the appropriate Admissions Team if you have any queries.
Imperial's Student Exchange Co-ordinator is: Mr Adrian Hawksworth .
Imperial's Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme (UROP) is an alternative mechanism for hosting undergraduate students from other universities for research experiences (often a project).
Applications for UROP are made informally to potential supervisors.
UROP research experiences, which are agreed to by the host department, are then subject to a UROP registration.
It is the decision of the host department to use the UROP option for registration.
Students currently at universities outside the UK will normally be ineligible, unless they have UK or Ireland nationality.
Details on eligibility are available on the UROP website .
There are currently no tuition fees applicable to a UROP registration.
Further details are available on the UROP website .
The below orientation guides are for visiting (non-degree) students who start their studies either at the start of the 2024-25 academic year (28 Sept 2024) or during the academic year:
Orientation Information for Visiting (non-degree) Students (start date during the 2024-25 academic year)
Orientation for Visiting (non-degree) Students (start date - beginning of the 2024-25 academic year)
Orientation information for visiting (non-degree) students due to commence their study period at Imperial College in 2025-26 will be available on this webpage from 1 September 2025.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/course-changes:
We always seek to deliver each course in accordance with the information set out in our prospectus, on our relevant course pages and in other information we provided when you applied to study at Imperial.
However, there may be circumstances in which we may need to make changes to/in relation to our courses.
Please see the course pages for your year of entry for the most up-to-date information relating to your chosen course:
Some flexibility is inherent to the learning experience Imperial offers.
In most cases, you will have applied to Imperial well in advance of the start of the course, and our courses run over several years.
It is not desirable and can be very difficult to fix all aspects of course delivery so far in advance.
One of the particular features of life at Imperial is that our courses are designed to be dynamic and responsive.
We also encourage our academics to deliver courses in a manner which reflects their individual style and expertise, consistent with offering a world leading education.
This webpage details the limited circumstances in which we may need to make changes to or in relation to our courses, the type of changes we may make and how we will tell you about changes we have made.
Below we have set out the types of changes we may need to make to our courses, examples of those changes, and the reasons why we may need to make those changes.
Changes which go to the heart of the educational experience you receive or which are significantly different to what you were told and what you would have expected when you accepted your place.
For legal or regulatory reasons, if there is a compelling academic need to make the change or because we otherwise think the change is necessary and in Imperial’s and/or your best interests.
Changes which are part of the flexibility inherent to our courses, and which do not go to the heart of the educational experience you will receive; the course will not be significantly different from what you were told or what you would have expected.
In addition, to review and enhance the course as part of the College’s normal processes, to improve the services we offer or to operate efficiently.
We may need to make changes to our courses before you have accepted your place, after you have accepted your place, and once you have started studying on your course.
How we will communicate those changes to you and what course of action is open to you will depend on where you are in the application journey or whether you have already started your course of study.
Information in our prospectus and on our website is up to date when it is published, and is designed to be relevant to applicants who are then in the process of applying to study on the course.
As explained above, we may need to make certain changes to or in relation to our courses.
If we do so, we will try to draw them to your attention, but we are not always aware who will have seen our prospectus or visited our website.
As a result, we recommend you check the relevant course pages before finalising your application to ensure no changes have been made.
If we have to make any changes after you have been made an offer but before you start on the course, we will provide information on these within the relevant course pages .
As part of your preparations for starting at the College, you should regularly check the relevant course pages .
In the case of any major change , we will offer you the chance to withdraw from the course if you are unhappy about that change.
If you have any questions about changes that have been made to a course that you are holding an offer for, please contact the relevant department to discuss these changes and how they might affect your learning experience.
It is unlikely we will make major changes to your course once you have started studying however these types of changes are not always avoidable.
Exceptions include:
We will always do what we can to minimise any disruption or inconvenience to you.
In the event we have to make a major change, we will:
If you are unhappy with the major change, we will try to find a solution you are happy with and will support you, for example by offering you the right to withdraw without penalty, refunding your tuition fees, or allowing you to transfer to a different course.
Minor changes will take place as part of the natural lifecycle of a course and many are inherent to the successful operation of the courses we offer.
They are often unavoidable, for example, when a member of staff leaves.
You are therefore expected to adopt a cooperative and flexible approach.
You will be told about minor changes which affect your course, but you will not be offered the right to withdraw, a refund, or the right to transfer to a different course as a result of a minor change.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/apply/contact:
Whether you’re just starting to explore your options or you’ve already received an offer, we’re here to help.
To ensure your enquiry gets to the right team, please choose the option that applies to you.
Quick links
If you’re thinking about applying or have general questions about our courses, entry requirements, or the application process, please use our Admissions enquiry form below.
If you’ve already received an offer from us or are a referee, you can contact the relevant admissions team directly via email or phone using the contact details below.
If you have received an offer for a place, your offer may include details about submitting your results/certificates to our Admissions team.
Find more information about submitting your offer conditions:
If you are an Offer holder and you have questions about courses in the following departments: Aeronautics, Bioengineering, Chemical Engineering, Civil and Environmental Engineering, Computing (including Undergraduate Joint Mathematics and Computer Science), School of Design Engineering, Earth Science and Engineering, Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Materials and Mechanical Engineering.
If you are an Offer holder and you have questions about MBBS Medicine and Medical Biosciences:
If you are an Offer holder and you have questions about courses in the following departments: Brain Sciences, Immunology and Inflammation, Infectious Disease, Metabolism, Digestion and Reproduction, Surgery and Cancer; the Institute of Clinical Sciences, the National Heart & Lung Institute and the School of Public Health:
If you are an Offer holder and you have questions about courses in the following departments: Chemistry, Life Sciences, Mathematics, and Physics; the Centre for Environmental Policy, the Centre for Languages, Culture and Communication and the Educational Development Unit.
For questions about our Pre-sessional English programmes:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/undergraduate:
Learn more about our tuition fee rates for Home and Overseas students, managing your living costs in London and the different financial support options you may be eligible for – from student loans to bursaries, grants and scholarships.
Understand extra costs you may need to budget for and how to pay your fees.
Understand the payment terms for your tuition fees and discover available payment options.
Explore funding options for undergraduates at Imperial that you don’t have to pay back.
Learn about student loans available to Home undergraduates and how to apply for them.
Get information on tuition fees and visa financial requirements for international students.
Explore loan options for American and Canadian students at Imperial.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/undergraduate/tuition-fees:
We charge tuition fees for every year that your course lasts.
How much you pay depend on a number of factors, including:
The UK government also announced a 3.1% increase in the annual maintenance loan.
For full details, visit our Tuition fees and maintenance loan increase page .
The tuition fee for Overseas students is set by Imperial and is available on our course pages .
For more guidance on whether you are likely to pay the Home or Overseas fee rate, see information about fee status and how this is assessed.
Compliance with our Tuition Fee Policy forms part of your contractual obligations with Imperial College London.
Check our Tuition Fees Policy .
While the Home fee is the same for all of our undergraduate courses, the Overseas fee varies depending on your course of interest.
Find fees by course
Your fee status determines whether you pay the Home or Overseas rate of tuition.
We assess this after you apply.
About your fee status
If you are responsible for paying your own fees, you have a choice of methods to make your payments.
How to pay
Payment by instalments may be an option if you are self-funding and you cannot afford to pay your tuition fee charges in one go.
Payment in instalments
If you have gained sponsorship, you will need to follow our process to ensure your sponsorship award is accepted by Imperial.
Sponsored students
Home students can apply for a loan from the UK government to cover the entire cost of tuition for every year of study.
Tuition fee loan
If you're applying for a student visa, you will need to show you meet the financial requirements set by UK Visas & Immigration (UKVI).
Money you need
If you withdraw from your course or suspend your studies, you may be eligible for a tuition fee refund.
Tuition fee refund

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/undergraduate/bursaries-grants-scholarships:
Bursaries and scholarships are a source of financial support which, unlike student loans, you don't need to pay back.
Scholarships are usually linked to achievement (academic, sport, music).
They may also take into account your personal circumstances, such as where you come from or your ethnic heritage.
Our Imperial Bursary for Home students, meanwhile, is awarded based on financial need.
If your annual household income remains under £70,000 then you'll automatically qualify for a bursary for every year that your course lasts.
Explore the options below to see what you may be eligible for.
Find scholarships that match your personal circumstances, all in one place.
Explore scholarships offered by a range of external funding organisations to help student succeed at Imperial.
Explore external scholarships
Our five Ash music scholarships give you the chance to have instrumental or vocal lessons at neighbouring Royal College of Music.
Music scholarships
Imperial Athletes offers support to students who are competing at national and international levels.
Imperial sports scholarships
Our Imperial Bursary for eligible Home students is worth between £1,000–£5,000 per year.
Imperial Bursary
Support to cover the study-related costs you have because of a mental health problem, long term illness or any other disability.
Disabled students' allowance (DSA)
Full-fee scholarships, with mentoring support, for students of Black heritage with Home-fee status.
Presidential scholarships for students of Black heritage
Eligible medicine students are eligible for a bursary and/or payment of their tuition fees by the NHS in years 5 and 6.
NHS Bursary for Medicine students
These £5,000 per year awards are for Overseas-fee paying students studying the International Baccalaureate (IB) diploma programme.
IB Excellence scholarships

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/undergraduate/bursaries-grants-scholarships/imperial-bursary:
The Imperial Bursary: generous support for Home undergraduates
If your household income is under £70,000 a year, you could receive up to £5,000 every year throughout your course.
*Eligible care leavers and estranged students get an extra £500 (£5,500 per year) and can choose to receive their first payment two months early.
Use the funds for food, accommodation, or any other expenses.
The Imperial Bursary is paid on top of any government funding you're eligible for and you don’t have to pay it back.
The Imperial Bursary gives you between £1,000 and £5,000 each year, depending on your household income.
If you’re a Home undergraduate student and your household income is below £70,000, you'll automatically qualify.
The amount you’ll get is based on yours or your family’s household income.
For courses starting in autumn 2025 and 2026, the bursary amounts are:
We may need to adjust our bursary offer if the UK government changes the levels of fees or the associated arrangements for supporting students, for example, following the ongoing Higher Education Review.
We will publish any changes on this webpage.
Back to top of page
To qualify for the Imperial Bursary each year, you must:
The Imperial Bursary is not available for:
Other things to note:
There is no separate application form or process for the Imperial Bursary.
To be considered, you must apply for a means-tested government loan from your regional funding body e.g.
a Maintenance Loan from Student Finance England for students from England.
You should apply for this funding even if you do not intend to take it out.
We encourage you to submit your application for funding as soon as possible so we can confirm what support you will be eligible for.
With your consent, the information you provide on this application is shared with us and we use it to assess your eligibility for the Imperial Bursary.
We must receive your household income information by 31 May after the start of the academic year, e.g.
31 May 2026 for students starting in October 2025.
The Student Loans Company (SLC) is responsible for paying grants and loans on behalf of the Government after you’ve applied through your regional funding body.
SLC will write to you in the summer to tell you how much funding you’ll get in the next academic year.
We will then email you to confirm the Imperial Bursary amount that you will receive from Imperial.
This is normally after A-level results day.
You get your first payment in your bank account on 7 November.
After that, you'll receive equal monthly payments until 7 June each year.
Provide your bank details securely in the My Personal Details section on My Imperial .
If you want to use your Imperial Bursary for accommodation or tuition fees, you can request this when you get your award letter.
Care leavers and estranged students can choose to get their bursary two months earlier than the usual first payment date.
Funding is available for eligible students commencing on our MBBS Medicine (Graduate Entry) course in partnership with Cumbria School of Medicine (CSM).
The amount you'll get is based on yours or your family's household income.
For MBBS Medicine (Graduate Entry), the bursary amounts are:
To apply, please follow the guidance in our How to apply section.
The Imperial Bursary (Cumbria School of Medicine) for care leavers and estranged students for 2025 – 2026 entrants will be £3,000.
Look out for an email from Student Financial Support and follow the instructions to confirm your payment preferences.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/undergraduate/bursaries-grants-scholarships/sanctuary:
Our new Undergraduate Sanctuary Scholarship provides a financial package for students from displaced communities applying for Undergraduate study in autumn 2025.
This information is for students starting their course in autumn 2025.
Each scholarship covers:
The award is for a maximum of 4 years, excluding repeat periods of study.
If you are studying a course longer than 4 years, you are eligible to apply, but will still only receive funding for 4 years, if successful.
There is one scholarship available for undergraduate study.
To be eligible for the Sanctuary Scholarship you must:
All eligible applicants must be able to evidence their immigration status.
If you have an uncertain immigration status, please get in touch with Student Financial Support directly to discuss your situation.
To apply for a Sanctuary Scholarship, please complete our Sanctuary Scholarship application form by the deadline of 23.59 (UK local time), 25th April 2025.
If you have any questions regarding your eligibility or this scholarship please contact us at student.funding@imperial.ac.uk .
If you are successful, we'll notify you by email no later than 30 June 2025.
If you have not heard from us by this date please assume you have been unsuccessful in your application.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/undergraduate/bursaries-grants-scholarships/nhs-bursary:
Funding from the NHS is available for eligible students in years 5 and 6 of our MBBS/BSc Medicine course and years 3 and 4 of our Graduate Entry (Cumbria) MBBS course .
The funding you may be eligible for depends on your chosen course and year of entry.
Currently, if you’re an eligible full-time student, you can apply for the following in years 5 and 6 of the Imperial MBBS/BSc Medicine course/years 3 and 4 of the MBBS Graduate Entry (Cumbria) course:
The 2025–26 bursary rates for full-time students are up to:
This funding is on top of any Government Maintenance Loan (at a reduced rate in years with NHS Bursary funding) you may be eligible for.
Plus the Imperial Bursary .
If your course runs for more than 30 weeks and 3 days, you will be entitled to Extra Weeks Allowance, subject to means testing.
If you have to attend the course for 45 weeks or more in an academic year, you will receive Extra Weeks Allowance to ensure your bursary covers all 52 weeks of the year.
Find out more in the NHS Bursary guidance document (PDF) .
Year 1 to Year 4
Imperial Bursary (means tested)
You need to register for an NHS Bursary account before you start your application.
After you’ve registered, you can log in to your account and apply for an NHS Bursary.
This bursary is not available until years 5 and 6 of your Medicine course or years 3 and 4 of your MBBS Graduate Entry (Cumbria) course.
NHS Bursaries are only available to students who were ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the first academic year in which their medical or dental course began.
If you moved to England from elsewhere in the UK (including the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man) wholly or mainly for the purpose of undertaking full time education, you will not be eligible for NHS Bursary funding.
Instead, you should contact the relevant funding authority in Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland or the Islands:
EU students studying who do not qualify for the maintenance grant elements of the NHS Bursary may still be entitled to have their tuition fee paid by the NHS in years 5 and 6 of their course (or years 3 and 4 of their MBBS Graduate Entry (Cumbria) course), providing they meet the relevant residency criteria.
See the gov.uk webpages for details.
You may be able to claim between £100 and £3,000, depending on your current financial circumstances.
To apply you must be:
For information about the NHS Hardship Grant, including how to apply, see the NHS Business Authority website .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/scholarships-search:
Use our tool to find scholarships for Imperial students.
We are continuously adding scholarships for the 2025–26 academic year, so use the filter to see current opportunities and check back often for updates.
For more funding options, visit our external scholarships page .
Showing 259 results
Postgraduate doctoral
Full tuition fees at the home rate and a stipend at the UKRI minimum rate.
Home, Overseas, Full time
2024/2025
08/01/2024 Closed
Undergraduate
Cash bursary of £20,000 per year to be paid towards tuition fees and living costs
Home, Full time
24/05/2024 Closed
2025/2026
30/05/2025 Closed
Postgraduate taught
Full tuition fee
100% of tuition fee
15/01/2024 Closed
Up to £15,000
Overseas, Full time, Part time
29/03/2024 Closed
Up to 50% of the tuition fee
07/05/2024 Closed
£20,000
Full Home level tuition fees and stipend approximately £21,500
Home, Overseas, Full time, Part time
02/06/2024 Closed
The scholarship covers fees and a contribution towards living expenses up to a total of £50,000.
Overseas, Full time
01/06/2025 Closed
01/06/2024 Closed
Up to £3,000 towards tuition fees
31/05/2024 Closed
Master's research
Cash bursary of £7,500 to be used towards the cost of tuition fees
Full funding for tuition fees (Home or Overseas rate) and approx £25k stipend(TBC)
09/01/2025 Closed
£14,000 per annum maintenance grant
19/04/2024 Closed
Master's research, Postgraduate doctoral
An annual award of £10,000
02/05/2025 Closed
Postgraduate taught, Master's research
Full tuition fees, annual stipend and return flights
05/04/2024 Closed
Free instrumental tuition at the Royal College of Music
2026/2027
28/02/2026
28/02/2025 Closed
Full tuition fees at the Home rate
05/07/2024 Closed
Full tuition fees at Home rate
Full tuition fees
07/06/2024 Closed
£40,000
20/05/2024 Closed
Tuition Fees at the Home rate, maintenance stipend (UKRI rate for London) and £2,000 consumables
10/01/2024 Closed
Full tuition fees at Home rates and a stipend of £22,278 per annum
25/03/2024 Closed
Masters loan tuition fee top up and stipend at UKRI rate
02/06/2025 Closed
£2,000 per annum
31/01/2024 Closed
31/01/2025 Closed
This scholarship will be for the sum of £10,000
£5,000 towards tuition fees.
50% of the Tuition Fee
18/03/2024 Closed
Covers 50% of the tuition fee for the Full-Time MBA program.
Cash bursary of £9,500 per annum
A total of £7,025 towards fees
Up to £10,000
12/04/2024 Closed
04/04/2025 Closed
The award covers 50% of the total tuition fee per year, with a maximum duration of three years.
29/01/2025 Closed
This scholarship will be for the sum of £3,000
£2000 towards their total course fees
31/05/2025 Closed
Full tuition fees (Home rate) and a stipend (UKRI London rate) per annum
04/03/2024 Closed
£5,000 per year
Cash bursary of £2,500 per annum
Full tuition fees (Home rate) for 3 years OR contribution to Overseas tuition fees
Full tuition fees (Home) plus a stipend (UKRI London rate) per annum OR contribution to Overseas fee
Full tuition fees (overseas rate) and annual stipend of £19,500
11/04/2024 Closed
06/03/2025 Closed
Imperial College London will cover 25% of tuition and COLFUTURO a Scholarship-Loan of up to $50,000 USD
Imperial College London will cover 25% of tuition and COLFUTURO a Scholarship-Loan of up to $50,000 USD.
29/02/2024 Closed
Full tuition fees and stipend plus allowances and economy airfare
12/12/2024 Closed
Full tuition fees (overseas rate) and annual stipend of £20,280
16/12/2024 Closed
Full tuition fees (overseas rate), annual stipend of £19,824 and approved economy class return journey
05/12/2023 Closed
Home tuition fees and £10,000 per annum maintenance grant
Full tuition fees (overseas rate) and annual stipend
30/09/2025
£30,000
£25,000
A contribution of £75,000 towards fees over a duration of 3.5 years (and maintenance for Home fee status students)
15/09/2024 Closed
Full tuition fees (home or overseas)
01/03/2025 Closed
31/03/2024 Closed
£4,999 one-off payment
15/03/2024 Closed
£2,000 (full-time) or £1,000 per year (part-time, two-year program)
Home, Full time, Part time
£2,000 towards the tuition fee rate for 2025-26.
For part-time study, £1,000 will be awarded for each year of the two-year degree.
£1,000 one-off payment
Home fee waiver and £6,000 stipend towards living costs.
3 awards, one for full home fees, two for full overseas fees.
Stipend of £21,237 per annum for 3.5 years
10/01/2025 Closed
Stipend of £20,622 per annum
Full tuition fees (Home rate) only
Annual stipend of £25,000, full tuition fees at home or overseas rate
02/12/2024 Closed
£10k towards tuition fees
Will cover difference between Home and Overseas fees
31/03/2025 Closed
Full fees and a maintenance grant to support living expenses.
Full home tuition fees and a bursary of up to £7,500
30/04/2024 Closed
This scholarship covers the full home tuition fee and a bursary of up to £7,500
full home tuition fee and a bursary of up to £9,000, which, in combination with postgraduate loans, is expected to enable a candidate to fully fund this one-year full-time course.
One-off cash bursary of £1,000 paid in 2025-26 only
05/09/2025
4 years tuition fees at the Home rate and a stipend of £22,780 plus £4,000 per annum industry top-up
18/05/2025 Closed
4 years tuition fees at the Home rate and a stipend of £21,237 plus £5,000 per annum industry
4 years tuition fees at the Home rate and a stipend of £21,870 plus £4,000 per annum industry top-up
16/03/2025 Closed
Cash Bursary of £2,000 per year
£10,000 towards tuition fees to study a Master's programme and one scholarship covering the full tuition fee (at the 'Home' fee rate only) for Home and Overseas applicants to study a lab-based MSc or MRes Programme
22/04/2025 Closed
Up to 3 scholarships of £10,000 and up to 4 partial or full tuition fee scholarships at the Home rate
25/04/2024 Closed
Up to £20,000
Tuition fees at the Home rate and a maintenance stipend of £14,209 per year
26/04/2024 Closed
Up to 50% of tuition fee
Full tuition fees (overseas rate) and annual stipend of £21,171
07/10/2025
One award for £7,750 to cover 50% of the Home tuition fees.
One award for £15,500 to cover 100% of the Home tuition fee.
1 x £14,000 to cover 100% Home fees and 1 x £7,000 to cover 50% Home fees
Full tuition fees and a stipend of £21,420 per annum plus allowances (£2,200 travel grant and £1,700 equipment grant)
17/05/2024 Closed
Full tuition fees (Home or Overseas); stipend £21,420; equipment grant £1,700; travel grant £2,200
The scholarship is worth £37,000.
It will cover the full cost of tuition fees for the Master's in Climate Change, Management and Finance (CCMF)
£15,000 towards tuition fees
28/03/2025 Closed
13/03/2024 Closed
Cash bursary of £2,250 per annum
Between £1,200 and £4,800 depending on financial need
18/04/2024 Closed
25/04/2025 Closed
Full tuition fees and an annual stipend equal to the UKRI London rate
03/02/2025 Closed
Full tuition fees, monthly stipend and additional allowances
27/02/2026
Full tuition fees at the Home rate, maintenance stipend (UKRI London rate) and use of department laptop
Payment of tuition fees and stipend of £19,668 per annum for 3 years
13/10/2023 Closed
All degree levels
Tailored support packages (£250-£3000), including financial assistance & access to high performance services (Strength & conditioning, Physiotherapy, Psychology, Nutrition & Performance lifestyle)
04/08/2025 Closed
Overseas tuition fees, maintenance allowance and one economy class return journey to China
Overseas tuition fees, maintenance allowance (£21,237 in 2024-25), and one economy class return journey to China.
13/01/2025 Closed
Up to £25,000
20% off tuition
£13,500 (20% of tuition fee)
10% of Tuition Fees
19/01/2024 Closed
10% off tuition
£10,000 towards tuition fees
07/04/2025 Closed
11/05/2024 Closed
£5,000 per year for the duration of your studies
An award up to the UK tuition fee of £7,030
30/09/2024 Closed
£39,400 towards tuition fees and maintenance stipend
30/05/2024 Closed
Full tuition fees at the Overseas rate and a stipend equivalent to the annual RCUK rate
Full tuition fees at the Overseas rate and a stipend equivalent to the annual UKRI rate
23/05/2025 Closed
Cash bursary of £15,000 per annum
Home rate Tuition Fees and £12,500 cash bursary
Tuition fee at Overseas rate per year
Up to £15000
Home or Overseas level tuition fees & UKRI level stipend (approximately £21,237) for 3.5 years
30/06/2024 Closed
£15,000
,
Up to $12,000
Full tuition fees at the Home rate and a stipend at the UKRI rate
12/01/2024 Closed
The studentship includes funding for Home tuition fees and a stipend of £20,622 per annum
23/02/2024 Closed
Funding for 3.5 years, including UKRI home tuition fees, and a tax-free stipend of £21,237 per year.
17/02/2025 Closed
Tuition fees (Home & Overseas), bursary (UKRI rates with London allowance + £500 per annum)
01/03/2024 Closed
Home tuition fees up to £18,500, stipend of £21,000, £1,500 equipment grant & Mentoring Support
09/05/2025 Closed
Home tuition fees up to £18,500, stipend of £19,000, £1,500 equipment grant  and Mentoring Support - Activate programme
Full tuition fees and a living allowance for four years
Home tuition fees for 3 years and a stipend at UKRI (£20,622) level + £5,000 per annum for 3,5 years
Full Tuition fees at the Home rate and a stipend of £19,668 per annum
29/05/2024 Closed
Full tuition fees at the Home rate at a stipend at the UKRI rate.
12/01/2025 Closed
Full tuition fees at the home rate and a UKRI stipend of £21,237
15/07/2024 Closed
Up to 3 bursaries are offered to home fee-paying students.
Each bursary is valued at £7,450, which is applied for the 1-year programme.
22/08/2025 Closed
£7,450
23/08/2024 Closed
A stipend of £5,000
21/03/2025 Closed
22/03/2024 Closed
Scholarships will provide full home tuition fees.
11/04/2025 Closed
Home/Overseas tuition fees and stipend
Each bursary is valued at £7,100, with 50% of the award applied in each year of the 2-year programme
Overseas, Part time
24/06/2024 Closed
A total of £7,500 towards maintenance costs
18/11/2023 Closed
Tuition fees at UKRI level.
Annual stipend at UKRI 'Inside London' Rate (£21,237 pa).
RTSG and conference funds.
Full tuition fees at UKRI level.
Annual stipend at UKRI 'Inside London' Rate (£22,622 pa).
16/11/2023 Closed
Home level tuition fees & 3.5 year UKRI level stipend
One full-fee scholarship covering tuition for the Global Master of Public Health (online) programme.
30/04/2025 Closed
Tuition Fees at Home rate & bursary of £22,278 in year 1, to be incremented each year, for 3 years
11/03/2024 Closed
Each award is worth £1000
Home, Overseas, Part time
10/06/2025 Closed
Home or Overseas tuition fees & bursary for 3.5 years at (UKRI rate)
02/08/2024 Closed
Full tuition fees (home or overseas) and a stipend rate of £22,900 per annum for 42 months
Full tuition fees at the Home or Overseas rate and a stipend of £21,237 per annum
01/11/2024 Closed
Tuition fees at Home rate and stipend of £21,237 + £5,000 per annum top-up from industry
Full tuition fees at either Home or Overseas level, and a stipend of approximately £19,668 per annum (tax-free)
2022/2023
01/05/2023 Closed
Studentship include funding for Home tuition fees and a stipend of £20,622 per annum
The studentship will cover 3.5 years funding including an annual stipend of £22,780, tuition fees at the Home rate, plus additional research and travel expenses.
07/03/2025 Closed
Full tuition fees and an annual stipend at the UKRI London rate
Full tuition fees at the Home or Overseas rate, stipend of £19,668 per annum and Research Training Support allowance (RTSG)
30/03/2023 Closed
Full tuition fees at the Home rate and a stipend of £20,622 per annum for 42 months
Full tuition fees, a stipend and consumables budget
10/03/2025 Closed
Full tuition fees and a stipend of £25,150 for 3.5 years, and a £2,000 consumables budget for the first 3 years.
Home tuition fees up to £18,500, maintenance stipend of £21,000 and equipment grant of £1,500
01/04/2025 Closed
Home tuition fees up to £18,500, maintenance stipend of £19,500 and equipment grant of £1,500
Home tuition fees and Mentoring Support - Activate programme
Home tuition fees (£9,250) and Mentoring Support - Activate programme
Cash bursary of £14,500 per year up to 4 academic years
24/02/2025 Closed
The ROMBA Fellowship offers a financial award of £20,000.
Fellows will also receive access to exclusive leadership and networking opportunities, including a fellowship leadership retreat in North America (July 2025), complimentary registration for ROMBA events, and a travel stipend for attending the leadership retreat.
Full tuition fees and a stipend of £17,082 per annum
Full tuition fees and a stipend of £15,462 per annum
Cash Bursary of £2,500 per year
Full tuition fees (overseas rate), maintenance allowance and arrival allowance
31/10/2025
Tuition Fees, maintenance stipend and arrival allowance
14/11/2023 Closed
£50,000
£4,000
Full tuition fees, stipend of £19,500 and £1,500 equipment grant
Full tuition fees, stipend of £21,000 and £1,500 equipment grant
Full tuition fees, stipend of £15,000 and one-off equipment grant of £1,500
Full tuition fees, stipend of £14,500 and one-off equipment grant of £1,500
£10,000 per academic year
Full cost of Home tuition fees and a UKRI equivalent bursary
Home Tuition Fees; stipend at UKRI London rate; Research costs
Full tuition fees and a stipend of £18,982
26/02/2024 Closed
Full tuition fees (Overseas rate) and a stipend (UKRI London rate) per annum plus travel and visa
Full tuition fees at the overseas rate and a stipend of at least £22k per annum
Full tuition fees, a stipend at the UKRI 2024/25 rate and £2,000 consumables for 3.5 years
Stipend of approximately £20,622 per year for 3.5 years, tuition fees (Home or Overseas)
30/11/2023 Closed
Cash bursary of £4,000 per annum
Full tuition fees, annual stipend of £19,500 and return flights
20/03/2024 Closed
05/03/2025 Closed
01/07/2024 Closed
Full tuition fees at overseas rate
Two-thirds of tuition fees & maintenance stipend plus allowance
£700 per month bursary, for up to four years of study (total award value: £31,500)
Cash bursary of £2,000 per annum
An award between £5,000 and £15,000
Full tuition fees and a stipend of £25,980 p.a.
for 3.5 years and a consumables budget (£2,000 in first three years and £1,000 in final year)
Full tuition fees and a stipend of £25,150 p.a.
Full tuition fees and a maintenance grant
Cash bursary of £9,055 per annum
05/05/2025 Closed
Cash bursary of £8,000 per annum
Maintenance grant of £19,580
01/05/2025 Closed
£10,000 cash bursary
27/03/2025 Closed
£50,000 towards tuition fees and living costs
Cash bursary of £7,000 per annum
Full Tuition Fees (Home rate), a bursary (UKRI London rate, ie, £22,780 pa in 2025-26), and conference support funds
Free Accommodation for the Duration of Your Degree Programme
14/06/2024 Closed
£2,000 per year of study, up to three years
£5,000 stipend
£12,000
Undergraduate, Postgraduate taught, Master's research
£1,000 in Year 1 and 2 (Undergraduates) and £7,500 in MSci, MSc or MRes
18/11/2024 Closed
No matching results

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/undergraduate/bursaries-grants-scholarships/ib-excellence:
Please note: this information refers to 2025 entry.
Our International Baccalaureate Excellence Scholarships provide financial support for international applicants studying the International Baccalaureate (IB) diploma programme.
For students who apply for autumn 2025 entry, we are offering 23 scholarships across three of our Faculties:
Search our undergraduate courses .
Each scholarship is worth £5,000 per year for each year that your course lasts.
This applies for students commencing in 2024 and 2025.
To be eligible for a scholarship, you must be:
Scholarships will be awarded to exceptional International Baccalaureate students who achieve academic excellence in their diploma programme.
There is no formal application process or separate application form for the scheme.
Academically excellent IB applicants will be nominated for selection for this scholarship by the Imperial department to which they apply as part of the admission process.
Please note: for 2025 entry the nomination deadline is 4 April 2025 .
These awards are for the highest achieving students.
Academic merit and potential to succeed at Imperial will be taken into account during the nomination process.
We will notify all scholarship recipients by August 2025.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/undergraduate/bursaries-grants-scholarships/presidential-scholarships-black-heritage-students:
Email our Student Financial Support team: student.funding@imperial.ac.uk
Overview
Our Presidential Scholarships for students of Black heritage provide a package of financial and mentoring support.
They're for Home students of Black heritage applying for undergraduate study in autumn 2025 in:
Search our courses
The scholarships are paid on top of any other financial support you may also be eligible for.
One Presidential Scholarship is available in the Faculties of Engineering, Imperial Business School, Medicine and Natural Sciences for firm-choice offer holders of Black Heritage who:
To meet the eligibility criteria for a Presidential Scholarship for students of Black heritage, your ethnic heritage must match one of the following (or their equivalent in the respective application systems):
To apply for a Presidential Scholarship for students of Black heritage, you need to:
We will contact successful applicants by the 30 June 2025 to let them know they've been awarded a scholarship.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/other-funding-sources/external-scholarships:
Students often use a mixture of funding sources to help pay for their studies, which may include scholarships.
Many external organisations offers scholarships and awards so it's worth exploring what you may be eligible for.
Listed in the tables below you will find:
The British Council offers a range of grants aimed at overseas students interested in undertaking their studies in the UK.
Applicants can search for scholarships that are available for students by nationality.
Postgraduate Studentships (Masters Compare) provides a wide directory of taught and research scholarships; as well as other funding opportunities.
The website also compares Master's courses and events.
The Anglo-Danish Society are offering the following scholarships:
For POST-GRADUATE courses / research
Academic year from Oct 2025 to July 2026 Applications are invited from:
DANISH GRADUATES
With a first degree from a Danish university/higher education institution (HEI) who are undertaking postgraduate studies/research at a university/HEI in the United Kingdom
or
BRITISH GRADUATES
With a first degree from a university/HEI in the United Kingdom who are undertaking postgraduate studies/research at a university/HEI in Denmark.
Applicants should either have embarked on postgraduate courses / research leading to a higher degree, or be assured of being able to do so in the academic year indicated above.
DEADLINE is 1 st of March
GRANT is worth £2,500 and aims d to be only a supplement to students’ other funding
HOW TO APPLY: Scholarships Application Form « Anglo-Danish Society
Artemis offers 2 scholarships for Overseas fee paying students aged between 17-21 years old, who meet the requirements set by Imperial College for the course for the year of admission.
Fluency in Greek and English is required.
AKER Scholarships are open to applicants from all academic disciplines, and must be Norwegian or have a strong link to Norway.
Imperial College London is one of a select list of leading universities eligible to receive AKER scholars.
See the AKER website for more information, and Imperial College London AKER scholars' biographies .
The Canadian Centennial Scholarship Fund (CCSF) , established in 1967, has awarded c£1,000,000 in scholarships to some 500 talented Canadians studying at over 40 different universities, colleges and conservatories across the UK.
Recipients are chosen on the basis of academic or artistic excellence and their ability to represent Canada in the UK.
Awards are granted to scholars from a wide range of disciplines including science, engineering, social science and humanities as well as music, creative arts and design.
Fourteen outstanding Canadian scholars were awarded CCSF scholarships for the 2020-2021 academic year.
IAEA Marie Sklodowska-Curie Fellowship Programme (MSCFP) aims  to increase the number of women in the nuclear field, supporting an inclusive workforce of men and women who contribute to and drive global scientific and technological innovation.
Scholarships are awarded annually, to 100+ female students, subject to availability of funds.
In the selection of students, consideration is given to geographic and field of study diversity, in addition to eligibility requirements and other criteria.
The selected students are awarded up to €20,000 for tuition costs and up to €20,000 for living costs for their Master’s programme
The scholarship includes:
Apply to Santander Universities Black Inclusion Programme for 3,000 university students & grads to win free access to 8-hours of online trending financial topics incl.
green finance, blockchain, private equity, etc.
& the opportunity to win a £1,500 Santander Scholarship.
Santander Universities UK has joined forces with Finance Unlocked - a comprehensive, on-demand learning platform built specifically for financial education, to run a new and exciting learning experience for Black and Black Mixed undergraduate students in the UK (including students who have recently graduated in the 2019/2020 academic year).
3,000 Black and Black Mixed undergraduate students and recent graduates from all UK universities will have the opportunity to complete an 8-hour online course provided by Finance Unlocked.
This will cover a range of concepts including green finance, blockchain, private equity, financial crises, and more.
Participants will be able to enhance their financial skills through videos and access to real-life case studies.
Upon completion of the content and online quizzes, students with an average score of 80% or more will have the opportunity to win a £1,500 Santander Scholarship.
30 of these students will be randomly selected using an online random winner selection platform.
Students and recent graduates will receive a digital certificate upon completion of the 8-hours content and quizzes to celebrate their participation in the programme.
Applications are via the Santander Universities Becas platform and applications close on 5 March 2021.
The 3,000 successful applicants will be announced on 12 March 2021.
The online programme for the successful applicants will launch on 30 March and run for 6 weeks.
Applicants can complete the programme in their own time across the 6 week period but must complete the full 8 hours of content and associated assessments by 9 May.
Application period: Scholarships offered prior to matriculation: Early July through mid-August Scholarships for university-accepted students: End-December through early February
To apply, please see the Yanai Tadashi Foundation webpage (only available in Japanese).

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/undergraduate/loans:
A student loan is money that you borrow to pay for your university studies.
You'll need to pay the loan back over a certain period of time with interest.
The UK government offers loans to Home students to pay the full cost of their tuition.
They also offer maintenance loans that you can use towards your living costs.
The financial support available in each UK region is slightly different so it's worth exploring what's available through your regional funding body e.g.
Student Finance England for students who normally live in England.
With this loan the cost of your tuition will be fully covered for every year that your course lasts.
The loan is paid directly into your bank account at the start of each term to help with your living costs.
Maintenance loan
The money you borrow has to be paid back once you're in employment, earning over a certain amount.
Loan repayment
American and Canadian students who are interested in studying at Imperial can access various loans to help with the cost of study in the UK.
American students can access federal student loans, which are low-interest loans issued directly by the federal government.
Explore loans
Canadian students can apply for a loan, for consideration by both the Provincial and Federal Government.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/undergraduate/loans/tuition-fee-loan:
The Home rate of tuition for students starting an undergraduate course at Imperial in 2025–26 is £9,535 per year.
If you are a Home student, you can apply for a Tuition Fee Loan from the UK government.
This will cover the entire cost of tuition for every year of study, which means you do not have to pay any money towards your fees while you are studying.
The loan covers the entire cost of tuition for every year of study.
The loan is paid direct to your university each year.
The loan covers your entire fee so if the fee goes up, the loan will match it, if you apply for the right amount.
The loan is not means-tested so, unlike the Maintenance Loan for living costs , it doesn't matter what your household income is.
It is important to know the tuition fee that you will be charged so that you can apply for the right loan amount from your funding authority e.g.
Student Finance England for students living in England.
Whether you can get a Tuition Fee Loan depends on your:
Explore the full list of who qualifies on Gov.uk.
The money is paid to Imperial in three installments over the course of each academic year:
You need to apply for a Tuition Fee Loan each year via your regional funding body – a different process will apply depending on where you're from:
EU, other EEA and Swiss nationals starting courses on or after 1 August 2021 must have settled or pre-settled status in the UK under the EU Settlement Scheme to be able to apply for funding through the Student Loans Company.
Visit the EU Settlement Scheme information guide for more information.
Visit the Student finance for undergraduates: EU students - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk) for more information on how your Settlement status affects your support.
This does not apply to students who are Irish citizens living in the UK or Ireland, who are automatically treated as settled in the UK and do not need to apply to the EU Settlement Scheme to benefit from the right to UK student finance.
You have to repay your Tuition Fee Loan, but only once you:
When you start repaying your loan and how much you pay depends on which repayment plan you’re on i.e.
which regional funding body you applied to.
Find out more about repaying your loans .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/undergraduate/loans/maintenance-loan:
The Maintenance Loan is designed to support full-time Home students with their living costs e.g.
food, rent and travel.
See an estimate of costs for living in London as an Imperial student.
How much you can get depends on your household income and where you live while studying.
The loan is paid directly into your bank account at the start of each term.
Loans for students living away from their parents, in London are more generous than for students studying elsewhere.
The amount you can get depends on:
Use the links in the How to apply section below to find out how much financial support you may be eligible for and whether you’re eligible for extra grants or allowances, such as the Disabled Students Allowance .
You need to apply for a Maintenance Loan each year via your regional funding body – different type of funding will apply depending on where you're from:
Explore the full list of who qualifies for this kind of financial support on Gov.uk.
See Imperial term dates .
You have to repay your Maintenance Loan, but only once you:
Students from England can use the UK government's student finance calculator to estimate how much they may be eligible to receive in student loans.
It can also let you know whether you may be eligible for extra student funding, for example if you’re disabled or have children.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/loan-repayment:
If you have taken out a government loan via the Student Loans Company then the repayments will only begin once:
Your repayments are linked to your earnings and not the loan itself, so the amount you owe in total will have no effect on your repayments.
Instead the amount you repay per month is calculated on how much you’re earning above the threshold – the threshold varies depending on the type of loan (undergraduate or postgraduate) and where your regional funding body is based in the UK.
The current repayment threshold for students who normally live in England, Northern Ireland or Wales is £27,295 a year, £2,274 a month, or £524 a week.
For Scottish students, the threshold is £25,000/year in 2022–23.
Loan repayments are calculated at 9% of the amount you’re earning over the repayment threshold.
So if you normally live in England and you're earning £30,000/year, you are earning £2,705 over the current annual threshold for repayments.
Your repayments will be calculated at 9% of this amount.
9% of £2,705 is £243.45.
£243.45 spread over 12 months is £20.29 , which will be your monthly repayments.
If your income falls below the repayment threshold, repayments will stop and only restart when your income is over the threshold again.
The current repayment threshold for students who took out a Postgraduate Master’s Loan on or after 1 August 2016 or a Postgraduate Doctoral Loan on or after 1 August 2018 is £21,000 a year, £1,750 a month or £404 a week in the UK.
Loan repayments are calculated at 6% (9% in Scotland and Northern Ireland) of the amount you’re earning over the threshold.
If you're earning £45,000/year, you are earning £24,000 over the annual threshold for repayments.
Your repayments will be calculated at 6% of this amount.
6% of £24,000 is £1,440.
£1,440 spread over 12 months is £120 , which will be your monthly repayments.
If you have taken out an undergraduate and postgraduate student loan, you'll repay both at the same time, but they are treated separately.
This is because the 6% you repay above £21,000 on a postgraduate loan is lower than the 9% above £27,295 you repay on undergraduate loans.
Once the balance on one loan is cleared you stop paying it, but will keep paying the other until that is also cleared.
If you normally live in Northern Ireland, Scotland or Wales, your repayments will be managed by your regional funding body.
See the below websites for more information.
Northern Ireland: Student Finance NI Scotland: Student Awards Agency for Scotland Wales: Student Finance Wales

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/us-loans:
Federal Direct Loans are financed by the U.S.
Department of Education and assist students with the cost of their studies.
Undergraduate students may be eligible for the Subsidized Loan (no interest while in school), Unsubsidized Loan (interest accrues while in school) and the Parent PLUS Loan for parent borrowers.
For students in a postgraduate program you have the option of the Unsubsidized Loan and Graduate PLUS Loan .
Unfortunately, students studying at a foreign school such as Imperial College London are not eligible for need-based grants such as the Pell Grant.
The first step is to complete the Department of Education’s 2025-26 Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) .
The School Code for Imperial College London is G11567.
In addition to federal loans you may also wish to explore a private loan with Sallie Mae or Earnest .
These are low interest loans for eligible students to help cover the cost of higher education.
Eligible students borrow directly from the U.S.
Department of Education (USDE) at participating schools.
Direct Loans include the following types of loans:
Further information about the Direct Stafford Loans and eligibility for loans is available via Federal Student Aid webpages .
The USDE has set borrowing limits for the Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans:
The total aggregate loan limit from all Direct Loans combined at any one time is:
Interest rates for July 1, 2025 - June 30, 2026:
The interest rates shown above are fixed rates for the life of the loan.
Origination fees:
The maximum PLUS loan available in any academic year is limited to your calculated annual Cost of Attendance (CoA) minus any other sources of funding.
We will work with private lenders who are able to issue loans to our students.
We cannot recommend any private lenders specifically, but if a student applies for private funding, we can certify such loans.
The ineligible courses listed above do not apply to private loans.
Students will be required to complete the relevant COA spreadsheet to enable us to certify the loan and submit this to the Student Financial Support team stating that you wish to apply for a private loan.
Please also state the amount of the Sallie Mae loan you have applied for in your email.
1.
Complete the FAFSA or private loan application.
When completing the FAFSA, use School Code G11567 and ensure it generates a Student Aid Index (SAI) number.
2.
Review the 2025-26 Undergraduate Cost of Attendance or 2025-26 Postgraduate Cost of Attendance .
You must declare any other forms of financial aid you are due to receive, e.g.
scholarships or stipends.
Your total COA, minus any other financial aid, will then determine your maximum loan eligibility.
Use the various components in the COA to estimate the amount of loan(s) you need to take out for the academic year.
We recommend you only take out the amount of loan funding that is absolutely necessary.
3.
If you are applying for a Parent PLUS or Graduate PLUS loan, you or your parent will need to complete the PLUS Application 4.
Complete the Master Promissory Note (MPN) if this is the first year you are taking out federal loans to study at ICL.
5.
First time federal loan borrowers must complete loan Entrance Counseling 6.
For PLUS applicants, if your loan was approved with an endorser you will also need to complete a PLUS Credit Counseling session 7.
Send an email to student.funding@imperial.ac.uk providing your completed COA spreadsheet only.
Please do not provide any other documentation unless requested to do so.
8.
Once the SFS office has certified that all documentation has been completed, they shall provide you with a funding letter.
This letter includes the amount of loan(s) approved and the disbursement dates.
This letter should be reviewed, completed and returned by the student to student.funding@imperial.ac.uk 9.
Once the signed funding letter has been returned, SFS shall provide you with a letter which you can use as part of your visa process.
More information on the visa process can be found at International students | Study | Imperial College London.
The deadline for undergraduate students to submit their COA for 2025-26 U.S.
loan funding with ICL is 1 st June 2026 .
The deadline for postgraduate students to submit their COA for 2025-26 U.S.
loan funding with ICL is 1 st August 2026 (Business School students) and 1 st September 2026 for all other PG students.
ICL has partnered with Convera UK Financial Limited, who will pay your living cost payments.
You will receive two emails from Convera ahead of your first disbursement.
The first email has instructions and a temporary password.
The second email will contain a secure link and User ID to access the system.
Once you have registered, you will be able to securely upload your bank details to their system for payment.
You are able to upload UK or U.S.
bank details.
The 2025-26 disbursement dates are as follows:
Disbursement dates:
Autumn
Wednesday 3rd September 2025
Wednesday 1 st October 2025
Spring
Tuesday 13 th January 2026
Summer
Wednesday 29 th April 2026
Prior to releasing a disbursement, ICL shall check the following:
Students must ensure that they have sufficient funding for the period leading up to their first disbursement.
Students who shall be in receipt of a U.S.
loan for the upcoming academic year are not required to pay the 10% deposit in advance of registering.
SFS can arrange to waive your deposit requirement, if instructed by the student.
Imperial College London will disburse your federal loan in 3 equal disbursements.
Private loans can be disbursed either in full at the start of the academic year, or in 3 instalments if the value of the loan covers your tuition fee balance.
Your tuition fees will therefore be proportioned in line with your disbursements.
Your loan disbursement will be used to credit your tuition fee instalment first, with any surplus funds paid directly to you to use towards your living costs.
If your disbursement is less than the proportioned tuition fees payable that term, you are responsible for paying the outstanding tuition fee debt not covered by the disbursement.
Your eligibility for Direct Loans is dependent upon your continued attendance and participation on the relevant degree programme.
If there is any change to your circumstances (for example temporary or permanent withdrawal, extensions, etc.) you must inform us and the US Department of Education immediately.
You will be required to provide the Student Financial Support team with the name and contact details (including email address) of your supervisor/tutor within the first two weeks of the start of the academic year.
We are required to contact them and confirm your satisfactory academic progress at the end of each study term (trimester).
Please read the full Satisfactory Academic Progress for Federal Aid Recipients [PDF] for further information.
Without this progress confirmation we are unable to process any of your Direct Loan disbursements.
Please note that in the event that a student’s SAP report is not satisfactory they will be put on probation for 3 months.
Failure to improve academic results during this period will affect future disbursements.
Subsidized and Unsubsidized loans enter repayment six months after a student graduates or drops below half-time (grace period).
Payments to the principle and interest on Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loans can be deferred while the student is in school and during the grace period (although interest will still accrue).
Deferred interest will be capitalized (added to the principle) at repayment or the borrower can pay while in school.
A Parent PLUS loan will enter repayment 30 days after the final disbursement.
Parents have the option to defer payment until after their dependent student graduates or drops below half time enrolment by contacting their loan servicer.
The standard repayment period for all Federal loans is 10 years but can be extended.
Please go to studentaid.gov for information about different repayment plan options, deferments and forbearances available through the Department of Education.
The College’s code of conduct for US loans is as follows:
In order to prohibit a conflict of interest of an agent with respect to private education loans, all agents at the University with responsibility for US loans are prohibited from the following:
All agents with responsibility for US loans are reminded at least annually of the code.
We understand that there may be special circumstances where students may request to adjust a component of the cost of attendance.
There may also be unusual circumstances where certain conditions justify College making an adjustment to a student’s dependency status based on a unique situation (e.g., human trafficking, refugee or asylee status, parental abuse or abandonment, incarceration), more commonly referred to as a dependency override.
For more information, please read Imperial's Professional Judgement - Special and Unusual Circumstances policy [PDF]
If you feel that you have a special or unusual circumstance, please contact student.funding@imperial.ac.uk to discuss your situation in more detail.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/canadian-student-loans:
Student loans for Canadian students are available for full-time and part-time study at designated schools, including Imperial.
For an overview of the financial aid process for Canadian students, visit the Campus Access website .
When you apply for a loan, you are considered for funding by both the Provincial and Federal Government, meaning you only have to apply once for funding for the year.
Canadian Federal loans are processed via the National Student Loans Service Centre and provincial loans through the provincial governments and student aid branches.
You should apply through your provincial student assistance office or website.
Imperial is not involved in processing your application for a loan.
However, we can confirm your student status.
If you have queries relating to confirmation of your registration status, please contact Imperial's Student Records Team: records@imperial.ac.uk
Please contact the appropriate Admissions team with any queries.
Canadian taxpayers who are studying full-time for a degree are eligible to claim the appropriate percentage of tuition fees paid (subject to certain restrictions) as a tax credit.
The parent or guardian of the student is also eligible to claim the transferred portion of tuition fees allowed under the Canadian Income Tax Act.
Further information is available on the Government of Canada's website .
Students are required to submit the Canadian Tax form tl11a-fill-11e to the Canadian Revenue Agency by 30 April of the following year.
If you would like us to certify these forms, please contact the Student Financial Support team: student.funding@imperial.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-taught:
Learn about the costs for our Master’s courses.
Plus, find advice about managing your living costs and explore what financial support you may be eligible for – from student loans to grants and scholarships.
Understand how to pay your tuition fees.
Discover grants and scholarships for Master’s students at Imperial.
Explore student loan options for Master’s courses and how to apply.
Get information on tuition fees for international students at Imperial.
Learn what evidence you need for a visa application and what rules apply in the UK.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-taught/tuition-fees:
How much you pay depend on a number of factors, including:
Important: Compliance with our Tuition Fee Policy forms part of your contractual obligations with Imperial College London.
You can find our Tuition Fees Policy .
The fee you pay varies depending on your course of interest.
If you pay your fees at least 45 days before your invoice due date, you may be eligible for a discount.
Early payment discount
MSc, MBA and MRes applicants need to pay 10% of the tuition fee as a deposit to secure their place.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-taught/grants-scholarships:
Grants and scholarships are a source of financial support which, unlike loans, you don't need to pay back.
These scholarships are for students from displaced communities such as asylum seekers and refugees.
Sanctuary scholarships
Explore this under-used form of funding by registering for the Alternative Guide to Postgraduate Funding.
Charitable grants and trusts
Explore scholarships offered from organisations around the world.
International scholarship collaborations
Source funding for educational opportunities through the searchable database of almost 1,000 charities.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-taught/grants-scholarships/presidential-scholarships-black-heritage-students:
This is information for 2025 entrants
Our Presidential Scholarships for students of Black heritage provide a package of financial for Home fee students applying for eligible autumn 2025 entry Master's courses in
One scholarship is available in each Faculty.
*For the MSc Applied Machine Learning in the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering and for any Master’s courses in the Department of Earth Science and Engineering the full Home tuition fees will be covered
To meet the eligibility criteria for a Presidential Scholarship for students of Black heritage, you must be in one of the following ethnic heritages (or their equivalent in the respective application systems):
Certain factors relating to widening participation backgrounds will be considered alongside academic rankings when the College makes final decisions on scholarship recipients.
Other eligibility criteria also apply.
As well as the above criteria, you must also apply for an eligible course:
Please note: This scholarship is not available to continuing students.
If you have any questions regarding eligibility or this scholarship please contact us at student.funding@imperial.ac.uk .
We will contact successful applicants by the end of July 2025 to let them know they've been awarded a scholarship.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-taught/grants-scholarships/sanctuary:
Our Postgraduate Sanctuary Scholarship provides a financial package for students from displaced communities applying for Master's study in autumn 2025.
This scholarship information is for 2025 entry.
Each Postgraduate Sanctuary Scholarship covers:
The award is for one year, excluding repeat periods of study.
There is one scholarship available for postgraduate study.
If you have an uncertain immigration status, please get in touch with Student Financial Support directly to discuss your situation.
To apply for a Sanctuary Scholarship, you need to:
If you are successful, we’ll notify you by email no later than Monday 30th June 2025.
If you have not heard from us by this date, please assume you have been unsuccessful in your application.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-taught/grants-scholarships/international-scholarship-collaborations/great---imperial-college-london-scholarship:
This scholarship is now open for applications for 2025 entry.
In partnership with the British Council and the UK government's GREAT Britain Campaign, Imperial College London is offering 9 scholarships to students  from France, Greece, Italy, Pakistan and Spain applying for postgraduate courses  in Science, Technology, Engineering, Medicine and Business subjects.
The scholarship programme offers financial support to students pursuing one-year postgraduate study at Imperial.
All eligible applicants holding a valid passport and also resident of France, Greece, Italy, Pakistan and Spain will be invited to apply for a GREAT scholarship if they receive an offer to study at Imperial by 28 March 2025.
For more information on the GREAT Scholarships 2025, please visit Study UK and the British Council website in your country.
To be considered for a GREAT – Imperial College London Scholarship you must:
+ Applicants from France, Greece, Italy and Spain - all faculties (Engineering, Medicine and Natural Sciences), Science Communication Unit and Business School;
+ Applicants from Pakistan - all faculties (Engineering, Medicine and Natural Sciences) and Science Communication Unit, but EXCLUDING Business School
You are not eligible if:
In addition to the above eligibility, applicants who are awarded this scholarship will be required to have met College English entry requirements (Pre-sessional English courses are not supported by this programme) by 30 June 2025.
If you have not met the English entry requirements yet, please make the necessary arrangements as soon as possible to ensure you meet this requirement by 30 June 2025.
Please visit our English Language requirement page for further information
Stage 1: Apply for a one-year full-time Master's course at Imperial College London by 16 January 2025* (*by 9 January 2025 for Master's courses at the Business School)
You must submit an application for a master’s course through the standard College application procedure and have an offer of admission by the deadline of 11:59 pm (UK local time), Friday, 28 March 2025
Important
Stage 2: Eligible candidates will be invited to apply for the scholarship
During the week commencing 14 April 2025, eligible students who have received an offer of admission to study at the College for Autumn 2025-26 will be contacted via email and invited to complete a GREAT Scholarship application form.
Each  GREAT – Imperial College London Scholarship - 2025 is worth:
The scholarship can only be used towards tuition fees.
There are nine awards in total (two each for applicants of France, Greece, Italy and Spain and one for Pakistan).
The successful candidates will be notified by email no later than 30 June 2025.
Please note that the successful scholars will be expected to meet informally with the donors on occasions, and will be required to submit a short statement of progress each year that will be shared with the donors.
This award is for students starting in the Autumn 2025-26 and cannot be deferred.
All scholarships are awarded subject to students accepting award Terms and Conditions.
Please contact scholarships@imperial.ac.uk if you have any questions.
The GREAT Scholarships 2025 programme, launched by the British Council together with more than 70 UK universities, supports postgraduate students from Bangladesh, China, Egypt, France, Ghana, Greece, Kenya, India, Indonesia, Italy,  Malaysia, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Spain, Thailand, Turkey and Vietnam to access world-class UK higher education opportunities.
Students can apply for courses in a range of subjects, at the 70 institutions across England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-taught/grants-scholarships/international-scholarship-collaborations/asean-uk-sage:
The Women in STEM Scholarships provide support for women studying towards a one-year Master’s degree at Imperial College London commencing in autumn 2025-26
In partnership with the British Council , Imperial College London is offering 5 full scholarships for women who are a passport holder and permanent resident of Brazil.
Eligibility criteria
To apply for a Women in STEM Scholarship, you must:
Additional Eligibility Criteria
(*) Relatives are defined as parents or stepparents, siblings or stepsiblings, children or stepchildren, spouse, civil partner, or unmarried partner (where the couple have been in a relationship akin to marriage or civil partnership for at least two years).
Eligible one-year full-time Master's courses
Please note that the courses listed below are the only courses eligible for this scholarship.
Imperial Business School
Faculty of Natural Sciences
Faculty of Engineering
Application process
IMPORTANT:
Guidance on completing the Application Fee Waiver Request Form: For the Section 2 Supporting Statement, please clearly state that you are a passport holder and permanent resident of Brazil and that you are applying to the Women in STEM Scholarship.
There is no need to provide any further information in this section.
Please compete the scholarship application at this Women in STEM Scholarships 2025-26 link .
The deadline to apply for the scholarship is 11.59pm (UK local time) on Friday, 4 April 2025
Please ensure you have fully read and understood the eligibility criteria before applying.
Value of awards
There are five scholarships.
Each scholarship covers full tuition fees, an annual stipend of £25,224, and a return economy-class flight from home country to UK.
It also covers other related costs including an accepted English language proficiency test exam fee* (*only if an English language test is required as part of the offer of admissions), visa application and Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS) surcharge.
Award holders will be refunded the cost of an English language proficiency test exam fee if eligible, visa application and IHS surcharge on receipt of receipts and accompanying documentation once they enrol on the course and provide their UK bank details.
The Student Financial Support Office team at Imperial College London will arrange the booking of flights to the UK for award holders.
Award holders will be provided of the process to book the flight once awards have been allocated.
Outcome of awards
The successful candidates will be notified by email no later than 27 June 2025.
Contact If you have any additional questions, please contact us at student.funding@imperial.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-taught/grants-scholarships/international-scholarship-collaborations/colfuturo-loan-scholarships:
In partnership with COLFUTURO, we are offering Joint Graduate Loan-Scholarships to talented Colombian students admitted to a one-year full-time Master's course.
This scholarship is now open for 2025 entry.
Imperial College London is offering Joint Graduate Loan-Scholarships, in partnership with COLFUTURO, to up to eight Colombian students admitted to a one-year full-time Master's course for the 2025-26 academic year.
Imperial College London will cover 25% of tuition fees for a maximum of eight eligible students selected as beneficiaries of the COLFUTURO Programa Crédito Beca.
The 8 selected will be notified at the end of June 2025.
The Imperial offer of the 25% of tuition fees will be conditional on them having accepted and formalized Colfuturo's offer of the Programa Crédito Beca (Loan-Scholarship Program) by 31 July 2025.
COLFUTURO offers each student a Scholarship-Loan of up to $50,000 USD.
You can find full details on the COLFUTURO Programa Crédito Beca here .
For information on the eligibility criteria, please go to the COLFUTURO Programa Crédito Beca website and find further information here.
Other eligibility criteria also apply – see How to apply below.
To apply for a COLFUTURO & Imperial College London Joint Graduate Loan-Scholarship, follow the steps below:
You can find more information on application fees and check if you're eligible for an application fee waiver here .
Assessment
Imperial College Selection Panel will assess applications on academic merit and/or potential through the standard admission process.
If you have any questions regarding eligibility or this scholarship please contact us at scholarships@imperial.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-taught/grants-scholarships/international-scholarship-collaborations/daad-scholarships:
DAAD is offering scholarships to talented German students admitted to a one-year full-time Master's taught or research courses at Imperial College London.
The German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) is offering five scholarships to German students admitted to a one-year full-time Master's taught or research courses for the 2025-26/2026-27 and 2027-28 academic years.
DAAD will provide:
Imperial will cover:
There are five scholarships available.
For information on eligibility criteria, please visit the DAAD website .
To apply for a DAAD scholarship, you need to:
You can find more information on application fees and check if you're eligible for an application fee waiver here.
If you have any questions regarding eligibility or this scholarship please contact us at scholarships@imperial.ac.uk .
The successful candidate(s) will be notified by email no later than 31 July.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/other-funding-sources/charities-trusts:
Charities are an under-utilised source of funding for education.
These voluntary bodies vary considerably in size and resources, from huge multi-million pound organisations like Oxfam to small trust funds run by a few volunteers.
Whether you are looking for £500 for a research trip, or you need additional funding to finance a Master's or PhD course, it's worth exploring what this very important sector could offer you.
Imperial subscribes to the externally-run Alternative Guide to Postgraduate Funding Online gateway, which contains a searchable database of almost 1,000 charities.
If you are an Imperial student you can use your email address to access the portal directly.
If you have not yet registered at Imperial, please complete the form below to register for guest access through our institutional subscription.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-taught/loans:
The UK government offers a Postgraduate Master's Loan for Home students to help with course fees and living costs.
Funding for postgraduate loans is different if you normally live in Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland so it's worth checking with your regional funding body what's available.
A Postgraduate Master's Loan can help with course fees and living costs while you study a postgraduate taught course.
Postgraduate Master's Loan
American and Canadian students who are interested in studying at Imperial can access various loans to help with the cost of postgraduate taught study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-taught/loans/masters-loan:
The Postgraduate Master's Loan from the UK government is designed to support students who normally live in England while they are studying a full, standalone Master’s course, worth at least 180 credits.
Your course can be taught or research-based though students studying a postgraduate certificate or diploma will not be eligible for a Postgraduate Master’s Loan.
The loan is to contribute towards the cost of your postgraduate study, and you can choose whether you put this towards your tuition fees or living costs.
Funding for postgraduate loans is different if:
The maximum value of the loan is £12,858 for courses starting on or after 1 August 2025.
This loan is not means tested so the amount you’ll get is not based on your household income or your family’s.
You may also be eligible for extra grants or allowances, such as the Disabled Students Allowance .
Students who normally live in England should apply via Student Finance England.
If you’ve taken out a loan with Student Finance England before, use your account to apply .
If you do not already have one, set up an account .
You will only need to apply once, even if your Master’s course is longer than one year.
Whether you qualify for a Postgraduate Master's Loan depends on:
EU, other EEA and Swiss nationals starting courses on or after 1 August 2021 must have settled or pre-settled status in the UK under the EU Settlement Scheme to be able to apply for this type of financial support.
For full information on the nationality or residency status requirement for this type of financial support, please see the Gov.uk website .
You get the first payment after you register at Imperial and after your course starts.
The loan will be paid directly to you in three instalments each year.
You have to repay your loan, but only once you:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-doctoral:
Learn about how much it costs to undertake a PhD at Imperial.
Plus, explore the different financial support options you may be eligible for – from student loans to studentships and scholarships.
Understand the tuition fees for our doctoral programmes and how to pay your fees.
Find out about student loans and alternative sources of funding via grants and trusts.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-doctoral/tuition-fees:
What fee you pay depends on a number of factors, including:
Find more information below.
The fee you pay varies depending on your programme of interest.
Find fees by programme for 2025-26 entry

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-doctoral/grants-scholarships:
Receive full funding for tuition fees and a generous stipend for a PhD place at Imperial College London.
President's PhD scholarships
Awards for Home/EU students provided by UK Research Councils.
Research Council studentships (PhD)

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-doctoral/grants-scholarships/presidents-phd:
If you have a question about the application process/application form, please speak with the relevant Admissions department and/or your department or supervisor.
If you have a question about our President's PhD Scholarships, please email the Student Financial Support team: student.funding@imperial.ac.uk
If you are a high performing undergraduate or Master's student and have a strong desire to undertake a PhD programme at a world-class research institution, a President's PhD Scholarship could provide you with the outstanding opportunity to receive full funding for tuition fees and a generous stipend for a 3.5 year PhD place at Imperial College London.
The President’s PhD Scholarships allow students to undertake a research project of their choosing with the support of an excellent supervisor, alongside cohort-building opportunities with other President's PhD Scholars.
Read stories of Imperial students who have received a President's PhD Scholarship.
Each of the 50 scholarships available provides the following support during the 3.5 years of study:
You will also have access to the full range of support available to postgraduates at Imperial, including tailored support for disabled and international students, and the wider Early Career Researcher Institute Learning and development courses .
This competitive scheme has higher than usual eligibility requirements, attracting candidates that show excellent academic performance and promising research potential.
We accept applications from talented candidates from Imperial College London, the UK and worldwide.
There are no restrictions on nationality.
The scholarship applies to both full- and part-time study.
We encourage applications from people from all backgrounds, as we recognise that diversity not only benefits Imperial but also helps the sector to better represent the communities that we serve.
This allows candidates who have demonstrated excellence at Master's level, but not achieved a first class undergraduate degree, to be able to apply to the scheme.
Candidates with only a single undergraduate degree or integrated Master’s must still must be in receipt of, or due to receive, a first class or equivalent.
International candidates should check with the relevant Admissions team that their grades meet the requirements of the scheme.
Department Special Case
Applicants that have not met the advertised eligibility criteria for the scheme may be selected by their department as a special case if there are extenuating circumstances around why the grades were not acquired, but they are otherwise of the calibre required for the scholarship (e.g.
high marks in research project modules; evidence of high performance on research placements).
Candidates that want to identify themselves for this should contact their proposed department directly before applying.
Alternate Pathways
At Imperial we are committed to attracting, nurturing and championing the best local, national and global talent by providing equality of opportunity and removing barriers.
Candidates with non-traditional academic and/or career pathways who show strong research potential are encouraged to apply for this scholarship.
Read our scholarships terms and conditions .
Applications for this scholarship scheme will be considered at three points throughout the academic year – see 'When you'll hear' below.
Scholarship-specific instructions for the admissions process are below; you must also meet any additional application requirements stated by your department of choice.
50 scholarship places are available.
Applications will be reviewed by a two-stage process:
Candidates are assessed by the Faculties and College Selection Panel against the following criteria:
Successful candidates will receive written confirmation of their scholarship.
Any offer of a PhD place will be conditional on the candidate receiving the predicted qualifications.
Applicants not selected for the scholarship will automatically be considered for a standard PhD.
If you're a current Imperial President's PhD Scholar or Imperial staff member, please find information for you at the following links:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-doctoral/grants-scholarships/ukri:
UK Research Councils have allocated awards or provide the College with funding for specific activity, and full awards (for UK nationals and EU nationals who have taken their first degree in the UK and are normally ordinarily resident within the EEA) cover maintenance and 'home' rate fees.
Otherwise, EU nationals are normally eligible for fee support only.
Individuals should visit their prospective department’s website, for the latest funding opportunities available.
Please note that departments will contact you if they wish to nominate you.
You must have been offered admission as a postgraduate student in order for your nomination to be forwarded.
EU nationals will remain eligible to apply for Research Council PhD studentships at UK institutions for programmes commencing prior to 2021.
EU Fee Rates from 2021
EU students will no longer be able to claim tuition fee loans or the lower EU fee rates for programmes starting from 2021.
Continuing students, who commence prior to 2021, will retain their fees and funding for the duration of the programme.
For more information please see www.gov.uk/government/news/student-support-in-england
There are residence requirements which are mainly in line with Home/EU fee status classification – see the overseas fees liability information and also the relevant guidance on each research council website .
In addition, candidates must have applied for admission at Imperial College London, and be holding an offer, at the time of nomination.
Candidates must have a good Honours degree from a British academic institution.
For a research studentship this must be a first or upper second class Honours degree; for an advanced course studentship, it should be a first or second class Honours degree.
Research Councils may also accept qualifications or a combination of qualifications and experience that shows equivalent ability and attainment.
These are normally awarded for not more than three years.
The duration of such a studentship will be reduced by a period equal to any previous period of postgraduate training, or of activity equivalent to postgraduate training, undertaken by the student.
Exceptions are:
Please note that advanced course studentships are not normally awarded to candidates who have recently spent a full-time period in postgraduate training or in an activity equivalent to postgraduate training.
Candidates must be recommended by the institution that nominates them and, in some instances, by the head of the department where they graduated.
The majority of Research Councils award studentships through the heads of departments of universities and colleges where the awards are to be held.
The AHRC and ESRC allocate some of their awards through an open competition; however, students cannot apply unless they have departmental support.
Research Councils do not accept applications direct from individual students.
Those wishing to be considered for an award should contact the department in which they intend to study.
Application forms will then be made available to those students whom the department wishes to nominate.
As a result of increasing competition for awards in recent years, it does not follow that a student who satisfies the eligibility criteria will necessarily be nominated for a studentship by the College nor, if nominated by the College, awarded a studentship by the Research Councils.
Those students who wish to be considered for Research Council support are advised to make an application for admission to the College as soon as possible, paying due regard to the relevant closing date and bearing in mind that they will need to have been accepted by the department well in advance of that time.
Candidates nominated for a studentship (particularly under the CASE award scheme) are advised not to relinquish any post they may be holding until they have received confirmation from the Research Council that the award has been granted.
Notification of the results of Research Council Studentships nominations is sometimes delayed until near the start of session.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-doctoral/loans:
The UK government offers a Postgraduate Doctoral Loan for Home students to help with course fees and living costs.
There’s different funding if you normally live in Wales so it's worth checking with your regional funding body ( Student Finance Wales ) what's available.
A Postgraduate Doctoral Loan can help with course fees and living costs while you study a postgraduate doctoral course.
Postgraduate Doctoral Loan
American and Canadian students who are interested in studying at Imperial can access various loans to help with the cost of postgraduate doctoral study in the UK.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/postgraduate-doctoral/loans/doctoral-loan:
If you are a Home student, you can apply for Postgraduate Doctoral Loan from the UK government to help with course fees and living costs while you study a postgraduate doctoral course, such as a PhD.
There’s different funding if you normally live in Wales .
The loan will not be available if:
Students studying doctoral courses starting on or after 1 August 2025 can get up to £30,301.
The loan is not means-tested, so it doesn't matter what your household income is.
If you're a Home student living elsewhere, you should apply to your regional funding body.
Explore information about eligibility for this loan on Gov.uk.
The loan is paid directly to you.
It will be divided equally across each year of your course.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/tuition-fees:
All you need to know about paying your tuition fees.
We publish the fee for all of our undergraduate and postgraduate taught courses on our course pages – search our courses .
If you are interested in studying a postgraduate doctoral course, see our postgraduate tuition fees .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/how-to-pay:
Imperial has partnered with two of the market leading platforms for UK and international online payments, Convera and Flywire , offering added security, tracking of your payment, multilingual support and multiple payment options.
These include:
You'll have the option between two payment platforms to provide you with the widest range of competitive payment options.
You may use either of these platforms to make payment for your student fees.
Pay via Convera
Pay via Flywire
Explore Convera
Imperial has partnered with Convera to offer you a simple and smart way to pay your fees from all over the world.
Pay online via popular options including bank transfer, credit, or debit card or eWallet; compare payment options instantly and avoid costly transaction charges from your bank.
Discover why Convera is a preferred payment method for international tuition fees .
Discover Flywire
Imperial has partnered with Flywire to accept payments from students worldwide.
Easily and securely make payment in your own currency and using local payment methods.
With real-time tracking and around-the-clock multilingual support, millions of students and families around the world trust Flywire for payment processing.
Explore how to use Flywire .
Please note
Imperial does not accept direct bank transfers into our bank account (except via the above payment portals), cheques or cash for student payments, which includes cash paid directly to our bank.
Home students can apply for help from the UK government, via the Student Loans Company (SLC) towards their tuition fees:
Home students will be able to specify whether or not they have applied or intend to apply for a Tuition Fee Loan from the Student Loans Company (SLC) or an NHS Bursary for MBBS/BSc Medicine students when they register at Imperial online.
If you are receiving tuition fee support from the SLC or NHS, this will be paid directly to Imperial and you will not receive a fee invoice.
It is important to apply for a Tuition Fee Loan every summer before the start of the academic term.
Failure to do so may result in you becoming liable for the full tuition fee.
Please also ensure that you apply for the current amount.
We will invoice you directly for the different between the loan amount applied for and the final tuition fee due to Imperial.
If you believe that you are being funded by the SLC but receive a tuition fee invoice, please check that you have received confirmation of your loan.
Once you have this confirmation, please forward a copy to the Tuition Fees team and we will cancel your invoice once receiving confirmation.
If you receive a Master's or Doctoral loan from the UK government, it will be paid directly to you via the Student Loans Company.
It may be used towards your tuition fees or in support of maintenance costs.
As this loan is paid directly to you, we do not regard it as sponsorship.
You should therefore declare that you are self-funding when you register.
You may also have the option to pay your fee in instalments – this does not apply to students receiving Postgraduate loans via the Student Awards Agency for Scotland.
Further information is available from the Student Lending team .
Until your sponsorship award has been formally confirmed by your sponsoring organisation and accepted by Imperial, your tuition fees will remain your financial responsibility.
Once your sponsorship has been accepted, any fee amount not covered by your sponsor is your responsibility and must be paid by the applicable tuition payment deadline to avoid late fees.
Find more information about submitting your sponsorship information .
You will receive an automatic confirmation email when funds are posted to your Imperial account.
This email is confirmation that we have received the payment, it is not a formal receipt.
Please bear in mind that the amount in the confirmation email may be slightly less than the original amount paid, as any charges applied by the bank will be deducted before the payment reaches us.
If you need a receipt for tuition fees or accommodation payments, please email our Accounts Receivable team .
Please include the reason you need the receipt in the email body to ensure the team issues the correct document.
If you need a receipt as part of your visa application to confirm tuition fee payments to UKVI, the easiest and most secure way of doing this is by uploading the payment to your CAS.
Payments uploaded to your CAS will be visible in My Passport, Visa & CAS on the My Imperial student portal .
Find more information about CAS payment upload times .
You must pay all your fees by their due dates.
If you are late on a payment, we will charge you a late fee after the due date.
You will continue to be charged a late fee every day – at an annualised rate of 7.5% above the base rate of National Westminster Bank Plc – until your charges and late fees are paid in full or until you have agreed a payment plan with Credit Control.
If all outstanding amounts are paid in full within six months of the due date, we will discount the late payment charge to an annualised rate of 2% above the base rate of National Westminster Bank Plc.
If you are late on paying your fees for six months or more, we will raise the issue with your department and your Faculty Senior Tutor.
In accordance with Regulation Two of the Imperial College London Academic Regulations, any student with outstanding tuition-related charges will not normally be allowed to progress to the next year of their course and may be required to withdraw from Imperial.
For further information on late payment, please see the full Tuition Fee Policy .
Once the payment reaches us, it typically takes us 1–2 working days to process it.
This does not take into account the time that it takes for the payment to reach Imperial, which can be up to 5 working days for some payment methods.
Taught postgraduate students are eligible for an early payment discount if we receive payment of your fees at least 45 days before your invoice due date.
Always use one of the official payment methods listed above when making payment to Imperial – we're aware of applicants and students being targeted in the past by offers for discounted payment for visas, tuition fees, or fee deposits.
Find out more about recent scams targeting Imperial students .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/payment-terms:
How much tuition you pay at Imperial depends on a number of factors, including:
We advertise the first-year fee for all of our courses on our course pages .
This is the fee for one academic year, if you enter Imperial during the year advertised.
If your programme lasts for more than one year, you should budget and expect your fees for subsequent years to increase each year by an amount linked to inflation.
These uplifts will only apply after your first year of study.
The Home rate of fee for undergraduate students is regulated by the UK Government, these fees may be increased by an amount linked to the RPIX.
Imperial College London does not have any control over the decision to adjust these fees.
The Home rate of fee for some research students is regulated by UK Research and Innovation and may be increased each year by an amount linked to the GDP Deflator.
Research programmes that charge the UKRI fee will be clearly identified on the fee schedules and pages.
The fees for all other students will be increased each year by an amount up to the average change in the CPI over the twelve months up to March in the year of the uplift.
Your fee is based on the year you start studying at Imperial.
If you start a course in 2023, for example, and repeat a year or resume your studies after an interruption, your fees will be the fee that applied in 2023, plus any inflationary increases that have occurred.
Your fee will not include any other fee increases that may have been applied to new entrants to the course in subsequent years.
If you defer entry, your fee will be based on the fee that applies in the year in which you start your course.
Tuition fee payment terms are subject to annual revision and Imperial College London reserves the right to amend or update these terms.
Any changes to the payment terms will be published in the Tuition fees section of this site.
See how to pay your fees, including using UK government loans.
See when you will receive your fee invoice, when you pay it and how payments are recorded on a CAS for students requiring a student visa.
Understanding the billing process
Find information about paying your tuition fee using third-party sponsorship.
Paying fees via sponsorship
If you're studying with us as a visiting student, you may need to pay tuition fees.
Tuition fees for visiting students
You may be able to spread the cost of your tuition fees over instalments.
How to pay fees in instalments
Learn more about the circumstances in which you can request a tuition fee refund.
Tuition fee refund policy
You can save on your postgraduate taught tuition fees by paying before the invoice date.
Early payment discount terms
You need to pay a deposit after you receive your offer, if you're studying a postgraduate taught or research Master's course.
Deposits and how to pay
Imperial staff may be eligible for a tuition fee discount on a part-time postgraduate degree at Imperial.
Eligibility for staff
Some countries charge a Goods and Services Tax (GST) for studying online courses.
Who pays GST

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/payment-terms/self-funding-students:
This information is for students who are responsible for paying their own tuition fees.
If you are a Home undergraduate student and you have applied for a Tuition Fee Loan , please see information about paying your fee using a student loan on our How to pay page .
If you have applied for your loan in time, you should not receive a tuition fee invoice as payment will be covered entirely by your loan, if you have applied for the correct amount.
If you have applied for a Postgraduate loan, you will still be regarded as self-funding.
This is because, unlike an undergraduate loan which is paid directly to Imperial, Postgraduate loans are paid directly to you.
If you are receiving sponsorship, please see our information for sponsored students .
The tuition fees charging cycle for each year usually starts in May.
After this, you will receive a tuition fee invoice within five working days of completing the final condition of your offer and having your place confirmed.
Find out more about submitting your offer conditions .
Tuition fees are payable each year by 1 September or within 30 days of invoicing, whichever is the later of the two dates.
If you are paying the Home rate of tuition, you should expect your invoice after we have received the Student Loan Company confirmation list, towards the end of September.
If you wish to receive an invoice before this, you can request one by emailing the Student Fees team: tuition.fees@imperial.ac.uk
You may make any number of payments towards the invoice total at any time after receiving your invoice to ensure full payment reaches Imperial by the due date.
Find out How to pay .
Fifth and sixth-year undergraduate MBBS/BSc Medicine students may be eligible for an NHS bursary to cover their tuition fees for these years.
Find out more .
The NHS will confirm the amount of bursary being provided.
If you do not receive this confirmation please contact the NHS directly to check the status of your application.
You no longer need to send a copy of your Notification of Award to Imperial.
Applications to the NHS for bursary support should normally be submitted by early June each year.
You may make an application beyond this date.
However, all applications must be submitted no later than six months after the first day of the academic year for which you are applying for support.
We will send a tuition fee invoice to any student that the NHS has not confirmed is in receipt of an NHS bursary by December each year.
Failure to pay this invoice by the due date shown on the invoice may result in late payment charges.
If you are invoiced but subsequently awarded a bursary, a refund of any tuition fees paid will be made.
This refund will not cover any late payment surcharge that may have been incurred by non-payment of the December invoice.
You will receive an invoice normally within five working days of completing the final condition of your offer and having your place confirmed.
Find out more about submitting the conditions of your offer .
You need to pay your tuition fees each year on the first day of the month closest to one month before your course starts, or within 30 days of invoicing, whichever date is the later of the two.
You may make any number of payments towards the invoice total at any time after receiving your invoice.
We will deduct any deposit payment received from the balance due.
Doctoral students who start their studies on or after 1 September will be considered to be joining the new cohort for that academic year.
You will be billed for a full 12 months fees at the cohort rate for the year of study, regardless of your start date.
After this first year, your fees will be billed on the first day of the month closest to the anniversary of the course start date.
If your fees have not been paid in full, you will not be allowed to proceed to the next year of your course and you will be required to withdraw from Imperial.
Until fees and charges have been paid in full, your degree award will not be conferred and no certificate will be issued.
Payments made by students requiring a student visa will be uploaded to their Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS).
These payments will also be reflected on My Imperial Student Portal .
You are strongly advised to check that any payments made are shown before booking a visa appointment.
Payments made once the CAS has been issued may not be visible on My Imperial.
Please contact the relevant Admissions team for more information, if required.
See the Guideline CAS payment upload times on our financial requirements for student visas page.
Payments cannot be uploaded to a CAS that shows a status of Used.
Students whose CAS has been used and who need to show a payment made to Imperial are advised to contact the relevant Admissions team at their earliest convenience.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/payment-terms/sponsored-students:
For answers to frequently asked questions, visit our help centre .
If you still need help, contact the relevant Student Fees team .
If you have gained sponsorship to study at Imperial, you will need to follow the steps below to ensure your sponsorship award is accepted by Imperial.
Until your sponsorship award has been formally confirmed by your sponsoring organisation and accepted by Imperial, your tuition fees will remain your financial responsibility.
Imperial College London reserves the right to determine what constitutes acceptable sponsorship.
Students who have applied for sponsorship should state that they are self-funding until their sponsorship award has been confirmed by Imperial.
Students who have declared they are fully sponsored will not be able to enrol until proof of sponsorship has been accepted by Imperial.
Students who are partially sponsored should state that they are self-funding when accepting their offer.
Payment terms for partially-sponsored students, including the option for payment of fees in instalments , will be the same as for self-funding students.
Satisfactory evidence of sponsorship is usually regarded as an original, dated and authorised letter from your sponsor on headed paper which includes the following:
Please submit your letters electronically via this form .
If you have any problems please e-mail: tuition.fees@imperial.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/payment-terms/visiting-students:
Imperial accepts a number of visiting (non-degree) students each year.
Erasmus Traineeship students do not have to pay tuition fees to Imperial (this rule will continue for admissions made on or before 31 May 2023, and therefore is subject to change thereafter).
Read more information for Visiting students .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/payment-terms/instalments:
Payment by instalments may be an option to help you if you cannot afford to pay your tuition fee charges in one go.
It offers you the option to budget payment of your fees over several months.
To qualify for paying your fees in two instalments, you must meet the following criteria:
To request instalments, you will need to log a ticket using the ASK Student Hub Online service.
If you are eligible to pay in instalments, it will work as follows:
Example: £30,000
For September starters:
Example: £30,000 fee
For October starters
For January starters
Students who need a student visa to study in the UK may choose to pay their fees by instalments.
You will still need to show evidence that you have enough money to pay for your course and support yourself in the UK.
Find out more about the money you need when applying for a visa .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/payment-terms/tuition-fee-refunds:
When you register at Imperial, you’re obligated to pay your tuition fees.
If you drop out or suspend your studies, you will be eligible for a tuition fee refund, though if your course has already started, we'll adjust the refund to take this into account.
See below for details.
To request a refund, please use this internal form to submit a case via ASK Imperial.
If you do not currently have an Imperial College Account, please register as an external user first, and then use this external form to submit your case.
Undergraduate students interrupting or withdrawing from their course during the academic session will be charged a pro-rata fee based on:
We will refund you any balance of fees paid above the pro-rata fee.
If you are interrupting your studies, the balance may be held on account for use against the balance of fees once you resume your studies.
If your fee (or part of your fee) is being paid by a sponsor, we will charge the sponsor the pro-rata fee and refund the rest on the same basis as above.
Postgraduate students interrupting or withdrawing from their course and postgraduate research students entering writing up during the academic session will be charged a pro-rata fee based on:
If you are interrupting your studies, the balance may be held on account for use against the balance of fees once you resume your studies.
For information about refunds for postgraduate application deposits, please see our application deposits refunds page .
Application fees are non-refundable after the initial 14-day cancellation period.
For more information, see the terms outlined on our application fees page .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/payment-terms/postgraduate-early-payment-discount:
The postgraduate early payment discount is available for 2025-26 entry .
It is very likely that it will not be available for 2026-27 entry.
If you are coming to Imperial to study a postgraduate taught course (including research masters) you may be eligible for a 1.5% discount on your tuition fees.
This discount applies if payment of your fees is received by Imperial at least 45 days before your invoice due date .
Funds must be cleared in Imperial College London's bank account by the specified date for the discount to be applied.
Your tuition fees are payable annually on the first day of the month closest to one month before the start of your course.
If you do not yet have a tuition fees invoice, you may still be entitled to this discount.
You are eligible for a postgraduate early payment discount if you can answer yes to all of the following:
To claim the discount, you should:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/payment-terms/postgraduate-application-deposits:
Once you’ve received an offer for a postgraduate taught or research Master's course and decide you want to attend Imperial, your next step is to reserve your place by paying a deposit.
Offer holders for the following type of courses need to pay a deposit to reserve their place:
You do not need to pay a deposit if you are holding an Imperial offer for:
Deposits vary depending on the course you are applying for:
You can find the fees for all of our courses on our course pages – search our courses .
If the fee for your course is controlled by a third party and has not been finalised at the time we receive your application, the deposit will be 10% of the provisional first-year fee advertised for the year of entry, unless specified otherwise.
We will deduct any deposit payment from the tuition fees balance.
The main fee invoice will show the full sessional fee, but you will only need to pay the balance as shown within the 'amount due' field in the accompanying email.
We will email you an invoice for the remaining fee once you have completed all conditions of your offer and your place is fully confirmed.
We will usually send an invoice for the deposit by email within five working days after you have accepted your offer.
This process is automated so you don't need to contact us to request an invoice.
You will need to pay the deposit within 30 days of the date of the invoice .
The details of the amount to pay and the payment due date will be clearly shown on the invoice and in the accompanying email.
Departments may, on a case-by-case basis, agree to extend the payment term for deposits.
If you wish to request an extension to the 30-day payment term you should email the Student Fees team – tuition.fees@imperial.ac.uk .
Please let us know why you are requesting the extension and the length of the extension requested.
If you receive your offer less than 31 days before the start of your course, you do not need to pay a deposit to reserve your place.
We offer lots of convenient ways for you to pay your deposit, including by bank transfer, online and by telephone.
See How to pay for more details.
You will remain responsible for paying your deposit until your sponsorship has been confirmed and a formal letter of sponsorship accepted by Imperial.
If you receive confirmation of full-fees sponsorship after paying your deposit, we will refund the amount paid in full.
If your sponsorship does not cover your tuition fees in full, we will refund any deposit that you paid over and above the portion of the fee you are responsible for.
To request a refund of your deposit, please use this internal form to submit a case via ASK Imperial.
If you fail to secure sponsorship or other funding and as a result of this are required to withdraw your application, your deposit will, unfortunately, not be refundable.
If you are applying for a student visa to study in the UK, we will upload your deposit payment to your CAS.
If you defer taking up your place to the following academic year, we will hold onto any deposit payment received at that point to deduct from any deposit payment you may owe the following year.
This is because the fee for your year of entry may be higher than in the year you applied.
As the deposit represents 10% of the fee in the year of entry, there may be a further balance to pay to complete the deposit requirement to secure your place on the course.
Where this applies, we will contact you when the applications open for your year of entry.
If you miss paying your deposit by the deadline, you will have failed to meet the conditions of your offer and it may be withdrawn by your department.
The application deposit is generally non-refundable.
However, there are certain circumstances under which you can apply for a refund of your deposit.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/payment-terms/postgraduate-application-deposits/refunds:
If your applied for a postgraduate taught or research Master's (MRes) course and paid a deposit to secure your place, this deposit is generally non-refundable.
We will refund your deposit in full if you meet one of the following conditions:
If you are not eligible for a deposit refund, this portion of the fee will be excluded from the calculation of any tuition fee refund due.
This will also be the case for self-funding students who were not required to pay a deposit on acceptance of their offer for a course that would ordinarily require a deposit.
See the Postgraduate application deposit policy on this page for full details.
For a refund to be granted under extreme mitigating circumstances, you must provide evidence of an unpredictable and unexpected event that has caused you to no longer be able to take you up your place
We will consider all requests on a case-by-case basis.
If you believe that your circumstances make you eligible for a refund on the basis of extreme mitigating circumstances, please use this internal form to submit a case via ASK Imperial.
Decisions regarding refunds based on mitigating circumstances are final.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/payment-terms/postgraduate-staff-discount:
The Tuition Fee Remission scheme enables eligible employees to take advantage of a tuition fee discount on a part-time postgraduate degree at Imperial.
The scheme is only available while you are employed at Imperial and only applies to the following types of degrees:
If you are employed to work on a particular project as a Research Assistant/Clinical Research Fellow or equivalent, you can apply for staff-student fees for staff .
Students taking a year out of their studies to act as a sabbatical officer of Imperial College Union will not be charged any fees for the duration of their term of office.
The scheme is available to all full- and part-time employees who have a contract of employment with Imperial (including employees of wholly-owned subsidiaries):
The following are not eligible for the Tuition Fee Remission scheme:
You will need to meet the normal entry requirements for admission to the course.
Search our courses .
In addition, you will need to demonstrate a clear business case for the study benefiting your work and must obtain approval from your Head of Department to receive the fee remission.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/payment-terms/goods-services-tax:
Goods and Services Tax (GST) is a consumption tax which some countries impose on services.
This may include our online courses.
If you are normally resident and studying in a country that levies a GST, you may incur an additional tax charge.
For example, if you study an online course in one of these countries.
We charge GST on tuition fee invoices at the rates shown.
This applies to invoices raised on or after the effective from date.
If you begin your studies before the effective from date, we will absorb the cost for you.
This includes GST charges for the duration of your programme.
If you travel to the UK to study, you do not need to pay GST.
Educational services are exempt these taxes in the UK.
If you are unwilling or unable to pay the GST, you can withdraw your application to study at Imperial.
If you want to withdraw your application, please read our course cancellation policy .
We are committed to supporting you during this transition.
Please contact us if you have questions about GST: student.creditcontrol@imperial.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/fee-status:
Your fee status determines whether you pay the 'home' or 'overseas' rate of tuition.
We assess your fee status after you make an application to Imperial using regulations set out by the UK government.
If we need more information from you to make a decision about your fee status once we have received your application, we may ask you to complete a Fee Status Questionnaire (Word doc) ‌.
You do not need to complete this questionnaire unless we ask you to.
Generally, you must be resident and ‘settled’ in the UK on ‘the first day of the first academic year’ of your course to be eligible for home student fee status.
For courses that start in September the first day of the first academic year is defined as 1 September.
With some exceptions, you must also have been ‘ordinarily resident’ in the UK for the three years before that date.
The three-year residency rule applies to UK nationals who have been living abroad.
The UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) provides specialist information and advice to international students and education providers on fees and funding.
It has produced a guide for students starting courses on or after 1 August 2021 setting out the updated eligibility categories following Brexit.
This guide includes the latest information on categories such as:
In September 2007, the UK government announced that it would begin to phase out funding for UK/EU students who are studying for a qualification that is at an equivalent or lower level to one that they have already been awarded – these are referred to as Equivalent or Lower Qualifications (ELQs).
In practice, this meant that if you already hold a qualification such as a first degree (BA, BSc) and you wish to study for another one at the same level (i.e another undergraduate degree), universities could charge you a higher fee than a student who is progressing to a higher qualification than one that they already have e.g.
progressing from A-levels to a BSc.
This policy has applied since the 2010–2011 academic year.
However, some subjects, including many at Imperial, are exempt from this policy, including:
When we receive your application we will assess whether you are an ELQ student, as well as what your overall fee status is (see above).
The College will decide what charges will apply to ELQ candidates in subject areas affected by the ELQ funding change.
If your application is successful and you are liable for the higher fee, we will let you know when we make you an offer.
It is not possible to amend your fee status once you have enrolled as a student and started your course.
So if you think a mistake has been made with your fee status decision, and would like to appeal it, please do the following as soon as possible:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/student-visa-money:
For further guidance on the financial requirements for visa applications, see our International Student Support website .
If you’re applying for a student visa from overseas, or if you are applying in the UK but have not been here with permission for 12 months or more, you must prove to UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) that:
It is not necessary to make a payment against your fees to obtain a CAS or your visa.
Full payment of your tuition fees will also not guarantee a successful visa application.
You can show you have enough money to pay the relevant course fee and support yourself in the UK using:
You must have this money for at least 28 consecutive days, unless you are relying on a student loan or official financial sponsorship.
The end date of the 28-day period must be within 31 days of the date you apply for your visa.
You might not need to provide this financial evidence as part of your application if you’re from an exempt country but you should still make sure you have enough money.
We will set out your course fee on your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies ( CAS ).
We will not be able to issue you with a CAS until you have:
Check if a payment you have made towards your tuition fees is showing on your CAS once it is issued.
If not, you will need to contact the relevant Admissions team .
If you make any additional tuition fee payments after we issue your CAS and full fee invoice but before receiving your visa, you will need to contact the relevant Admissions team , providing details of the payment made.
The Admissions team will only be able to update the fees on your CAS after the additional payments have been credited to your full fee invoice.
Tuition fee payments can take up to five working days to be received and processed.
After your payment has been received your CAS will be updated with the new amount paid and we will send you a new copy of your CAS.
This will take approximately 3–5 working days from receipt of the payment.
If your invoice has not yet been issued, any payments you make will be uploaded after we have issued your invoice and applied your payments.
Any payments shown on your CAS will be accepted as evidence by UKVI and you will not need a receipt to prove payment.
Consequently, we will not normally issue paper receipts to new students for visa application purposes.
If, however, the details of the money that you have already paid are not on the CAS, you will need to provide a receipt (which may be electronic) – issued by Imperial – that confirms either that all fees have been paid, or the amount that you have paid so far.
Payments received from a financial sponsor cannot be uploaded to your CAS.
You will need to supply an original, formal letter of sponsorship to UKVI to satisfy the tuition fee element of the maintenance requirement.
Providing you have a formal sponsor letter acceptable to UKVI, Imperial does not need to have received the funds before you can be granted a visa.
Students funding their studies by means of a governmental or commercial loan will need to provide the formal loan agreement.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/tuition-fees/equivalent-or-lower-qualifications-elq:
The Government does not provide funding to institutions for Home 'second degree students', i.e.
students studying for a qualification that is at an equivalent or lower level than a qualification that they have already been awarded – these are referred to as 'ELQs'.
This change means that institutions may charge a supplementary fee for such students, in order to compensate for the withdrawal of government funding.
Some subjects, including many at Imperial, are exempt:
Imperial College London policy will determine what charges will apply to ELQ candidates in areas affected by this change.
If we make you an offer we will provide more information at the time of offer.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/living-costs:
We recognise the ongoing financial pressures on students and their families as inflation remains high in the UK.
Our Student Financial Support team are there to provide advice and assistance.
£292, Weekly £1,264, Monthly £11,375, 9 Months
£397 to £424, Weekly £1,719 to £1,837, Monthly £15,470 to £16,530, 9 Months
£489, Weekly £2,118, Monthly £19,055, 9 Months
Below is a rough guide to what you might expect to spend to live in reasonable comfort in London.
We have considered key costs such as accommodation, food and travel.
Tuition fees and study materials are not included here, but you will want to factor these into your own budget.
Basic prices for things like food, personal costs, bills and insurance are similar wherever you study.
Costs related to accommodation and travel are more specific to London and Imperial.
To view a breakdown of the range of student spending, please visit our cost of living percentile breakdown page.
If you need a Tier 4 student visa, you will need sufficient funds to cover your tuition fees and living costs for your first year of study.
The estimates above do not include the cost of flights or insurance.
Don't forget that if you are planning to arrange initial short-term accommodation when you arrive in London, you will need to budget for this expense as well.
As a new student, you may have additional start-up costs in your first year.
This may include things like accommodation deposits and flights.
International students may need up to £1,500 for costs like these.
In College-run accommodation, each room is already equipped with a bed, study desk, chair, wardrobe, shelving, desk lamp, curtains, chest of drawers, notice board, bookshelf/case.
Other essentials you may need to buy include items such as bedding, crockery, cutlery and even some essential electrical items.
Some of our courses involve compulsory attendance on one or more field trips or visits.
Wherever possible an estimate of the costs involved will be given to you at the time an offer of admission is made.
If you are sponsored, you will need to make your financial sponsor aware of any such additional costs.
Some courses involve non-compulsory conference costs, which will be communicated by the Departments.
Students can apply for funding to cover these costs from their Department or the Imperial College Trust Fund.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/contact:
We're here to help with any questions you may have about tuition fees and student funding.
We have different teams for different types of queries so explore below which team is best placed to help you.
For information on scholarships, please see our Scholarships listings .
Each scholarship will include a contact email for specific questions.
For all general enquiries relating to scholarships and student funding at Imperial College London, please contact student.hub@imperial.ac.uk .
For specific enquiries relating to your bursary or financial support (including the Student Support Fund for hardship assistance), please contact us at: student.funding@imperial.ac.uk .
For questions about tuition fees, please use the relevant details below to ensure your query is dealt with by the right team:
If you wish to book a call with the Student Fees and Credit Control teams, you can use our online booking system .
You can contact the Finance teams or Student Financial Support by phone on the one number: +44 (0)20 7594 7777

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/fees-and-funding/other-funding-sources:
Many students at Imperial fund their studies via a combination of funding.
As well as scholarships , other Imperial funding and government loans and grants you may be eligible for, you may want to consider some of the following options to support your studies.
Explore financial awards from external organisations, charities, and trusts, by registering for the Alternative Guide to Funding.
Register now
This non-refundable support helps to cover the study-related costs you have because of a mental health problem, long term illness or any other disability.
Find out more about DSA
Doctoral students have the chance to get involved with the teaching, supervision and assessment of undergraduate and Master’s students.
Graduate Teaching Assistants
Some students engage in part-time work on campus.
Our Student Ambassador programme offers flexible opportunities to suit your schedule.
Student Ambassador programme

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/student-life/reputation:
Graduate prospects are a consistent area of strength for Imperial, with our graduates benefitting from a degree that is valued by employers across the world.
University of the Year for Graduate Employment ( The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025 )
Imperial has a greater proportion of world-leading research than any other UK university, according to the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021.
The results show that Imperial ranks top in the UK overall – with a greater proportion of 4* “world-leading” research than any other UK university.
Plus, Imperial ranks:
Imperial is regularly ranked amongst the top 10 best universities in the world and is The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025's University of the Year for graduate employment.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/student-life/careers:
Find out from our graduates what are they going to do next.
We are University of the Year for graduate employment in The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025 and ranked first for graduate prospects in The Guardian University Guide 2025.
Find out what Imperial graduates go on to do
From your first day until three years after you graduate, our Careers Service is on hand to support your career planning.
This includes a dedicated Placement and Internship Unit, helping you secure vital industry experience.
Careers support
If you're considering a future as an entrepreneur or bringing a new idea to market, Imperial's enterprise ecosystem offers unrivalled support – from the largest mentoring system in the country to prototyping equipment in our well-resourced hackspaces.
Enterprise support
Over 100 of Europe’s largest companies are headquartered in London, putting a global job market on your doorstep.
You will also be ideally placed to go to interviews, visit companies and attend networking events.
Discover the London advantage
Interested in the path that some of our alumni took to success?
Why not chat to them and find out, using your online chat tool?
Chat to our students and graduates
Find out more about the life of a biochemical student at the College and how we can support your career.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/student-life/imperial-education:
Imperial offers a world-leading and inclusive evidence-based education, embedded in a vibrant research environment.
Learn more about how Imperial's education is designed to set our students up for future success through innovations in learning.
The mixture of science and business is what makes an Imperial education unique.
At undergraduate level, science courses typically include business and finance modules, regardless of subject.
While two out of our four in-built I-Explore modules for undergraduate students, which focus on subjects outside their undergraduate degree, prioritise a multi-disciplinary approach.
And at all levels, our highly research-intensive curriculum is complemented by an entrepreneurship focus.
We have some of the best-resourced entrepreneurship facilities in the country, with one in eight students currently using our Enterprise Lab to brainstorm new business ideas, attend workshops on entrepreneurial skills, network with other students and receive mentoring from experts and alumni.
One of the most distinctive elements of an Imperial education is that our students join a community of world-class researchers.
They learn alongside leading experts in their field and are expected to generate their own knowledge.
Our strength in research puts a particular focus on solving real-world problems, complemented by our commitment to real-world impact and innovation.
Through the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme (UROP) , undergraduates can enjoy exposure to our research environment beyond their course.
Or gain research experience at a partner university overseas through the International Research Opportunities Programme (IROP) .
Imperial offers lots of opportunities for you to travel, learn a new language, explore new cultures and use your skills for good globally.
Opportunities to broaden your horizons include:
Learn more about Imperial's education and how staff and students are working together to develop our education further through the StudentShapers programme.
We offer a wide range of modules at undergraduate level to stimulate your personal, professional and intellectual growth.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/student-life/imperial-education/i-explore:
I-Explore modules prepare you to meet the challenges of a rapidly changing world
With I-Explore, you have the chance to broaden your knowledge and tackle a subject area that is outside of your core discipline.
You’ll gain new context to what you’ve learned during your studies and be able to share your expertise for the benefit of society.
As an undergraduate student, you’ll choose one I-Explore module, which you will earn credit for as part of your degree.
Follow your interests and pursue your passion with our range of options, which we have divided into four categories:
You’ll take your I-Explore module in either your second or third year, depending on your department.
You’ll select your preferences in the academic year before you take the module.
You choose six modules you’re interested, giving your preferred options.
We use an algorithm to try and give all students one of their highly preferred modules.
Nearly all undergraduate students have the opportunity to study I-Explore modules.
However, I-Explore is not available to students studying the following degrees:
Find out more about I-Explore

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/student-life/imperial-education/study-abroad:
Take your studies abroad at one of our partners around the world
Study abroad at Imperial is normally undertaken as a year abroad as part of your undergraduate degree andgives you the chance to challenge yourself personally in a different academic and cultural environment.
It's also proof to employers that you’re adaptable, independent and globally aware.
Find a course with a year abroad
Most departments offer opportunities for you to complete a year of your degree at an institution within Europe.
It may be possible to study further afield, for example in the USA, Australia or Singapore, through partnerships developed by your department.
We have chosen our exchange partners carefully.
Not only do they include some of the world’s best universities, they offer a comparable level of teaching in your subject field.
This means that the year you spend abroad will count directly towards your Imperial degree.
Find out more about our student exchange programme with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
Read about the undergraduate year abroad , including when a year abroad takes place, funding information, the practical support we provide and with whom we have student exchanges.
If you are already learning a language, immersing yourself in the country where it is spoken is a great way to take your fluency to the next level.
And in the multinational job market, graduates with language skills are in demand.
Knowing the language of the host country to an acceptable level is required before embarking on a year abroad in Europe.
However, we make exceptions for a year abroad in the Netherlands and Scandinavian countries.
Where teaching is in English rather than the host language, the level of proficiency you need to achieve is normally lower.
Language tuition for a year abroad in Europe focuses on French, German, Spanish and Italian, and is provided by the College’s Centre for Languages, Culture and Communication.
Depending on the course language preparation is either embedded in the course or is undertaken for extra-credit.
Find information on language requirements and language tuition in the curriculum for the course you're interested in .
We also offer a range of specialist Language for Science degrees in the Departments of Chemistry and Life Sciences for students who wish to pursue language study to an advanced standard alongside their scientific studies.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/student-life/imperial-education/study-abroad/mit-exchange:
Discover the exchange programme between Imperial and MIT
Imperial has an exchange programme with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
The programme gives students from ten Imperial departments the chance to spend up to a year studying at MIT, while at the same time building credit towards their Imperial degree.
It builds on existing links between the College and US-based institution, including through the International Research Opportunities Programme (IROP) .
A limited number of places will be available through the exchange.
Currently, ten Imperial departments and eight MIT departments are taking part.
See which MIT departments our departments are partnered with:
To be considered for this exchange, you need to be achieving a certain academic standard by the time of selection for year abroad places within your department.
This may vary by participating department.
Places highly competitive, so other selection processes may apply and vary by department.
Please contact the department you're interested in joining directly for more information about the selection process – the contact details for each department are available on our course pages .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/student-life/imperial-education/international-research-opportunities:
Get involved with research across the globe as an undergraduate
The International Research Opportunities Programme is a chance to spend 8–10 weeks over the summer vacation at one of our international partner universities and gain research experience.
All of our partner universities have been chosen for their reputation in science and technology and include some of the world’s top institutions.
You will work on cutting-edge projects and work alongside industry-leading experts.
This is an exciting opportunity to experience working as a research scientist, while experiencing different working, learning and teaching styles.
Your IROP research may also go on to form the basis of your final year research project.
A bursary is available to help towards the costs of participating in the scheme.
IROP opportunities are advertised to eligible students internally by each department.
Opportunities are limited and not all departments currently participate in the scheme.
The eligibility requirements and the application process for the scheme are determined by each department.
Please check with your individual department for more information.
Find out more about our International Research Opportunities Programme .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/student-life/imperial-education/undergraduate-research-opportunities:
Get hands-on experience in real research projects as an undergraduate student
Our Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme (UROP) is a chance to get first-hand experience of life in a research lab under expert supervision.
It's a unique opportunity to experience life as a university researcher and work on a real research project.
You can even propose your own research idea, which could form the basis of your final year research project.
You'll get to explore the latest advances in your subject field – often beyond what is covered in your course.
Some UROP students even get their name on a scientific paper which could be an impressive addition to your CV!
UROP is designed to be highly flexible: in some cases you may carry out a specific project, with a beginning, a middle and an end.
In others, you may join an ongoing piece of research.
Your supervisor may wish to try something speculative; others will be looking to utilise you in more straightforward ways, such as data analysis.
A typical UROP research experience lasts 6–10 weeks during the second or penultimate summer vacation but can also be at other times, including during term time.
There are around 450+ UROP opportunities available each year.
Imperial's research expertise spans an enormous breadth of topics so it's no surprise that past UROP experiences have been equally varied, from teaching dance routines to a humanoid robot to studying plant-fungal symbiosis with academics based at Kew Gardens.
While a number of UROP opportunities are advertised as part of the scheme, many opportunities are advertised internally by departments.
Most researchers and academic staff also welcome applications from students directly so you are encouraged to be proactive and see if any UROP opportunities are available within your department.
Find out more about our Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/student-life/societies-clubs-culture:
From the friends who'll share your passion through our student societies to the new interests you'll discover along the way, there are plenty of ways to make the Imperial experience your own.
Life at Imperial isn't all labs and lectures.
From baking to biking and drones to dance, our students lead over 350 clubs.
societies and projects.
And if you can’t find an existing club or society to match your interests, it’s easy to start your own.
A-Z of student activities
Imperial Athletes is the home of Imperial's 90+ sports clubs, offering everything from American Football to Windsurfing.
There's also plenty for people who prefer a recreational approach, including intra-mural leagues, gyms, classes and wellbeing programmes.
Move Imperial
Imperial is full of opportunities to showcase and develop your musical talent, with dedicated support and facilities available in the The Blyth Centre for Music and Visual Arts.
Music at Imperial
Some of the many ways you can explore your artistic talents at Imperial include workshops, classes and our on-site gallery.
A number of our students are also dedicated to the arts and theatre, including ArtSoc, Poetry and Musical Theatre.
Arts and theatre

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/student-life/accommodation:
Guaranteed accommodation for eligible first year undergraduates and dedicated support for private and postgraduate housing
Over 90% of first year undergraduates choose to live in halls and there are plenty of reasons why
Take a virtual tour of our undergraduate halls to see where you could be living.
See how long it takes to get from each to our South Kensington Campus.
Explore our undergraduate halls
With single or twin rooms and halls in various locations, there are options with rents for a range of budgets.
See how much you can expect to pay and compare recent rents for different halls.
Compare prices across halls
GradPad provide private halls designed exclusively for postgraduate living.
Based in Battersea and White City, both halls of residence have good transport links with our South Kensington Campus.
We offer campus accommodation at our Silwood Park location in Ascot.
These are available for postgraduate students studying courses based there, primarily those in Life Sciences.
Undergraduates and postgraduates can access support from our team if you're seeking private accommodation.
We provide private housing guides alongside a service to help with your search.
We can even check your contracts, act as your rent guarantor and help you find local estate agents.
Visit the private accommodation support services page to learn more about the resources and support available.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/student-life/london:
Our central location sets you at the heart of the world's most exciting city
London is ranked the best student city in the world – QS Best Student Cities 2024
As a student in London, you’ll have lots of opportunities to start building a network of useful business contacts.
You will be ideally placed to go to interviews, visit companies and attend networking events.
Imperial's location in South Kensington makes these journeys even easier.
Strong links with industry and the concentration of business nearby mean that you will enjoy plenty of opportunities to gain industrial experience, within and outside the curriculum.
Hundreds of the world’s biggest employers are headquartered in London and many of them come to campus specifically to recruit our students.
From tech leaders like Google, to world-leaders like Barclays, Bloomberg, GlaxoSmithKline, KPMG and Rolls-Royce and many more.
Many professional societies have their headquarters in London, including the British Medical Association, the Royal Society, and the Royal Academy of Engineering.
Look out for public events, lectures and conferences.
They're great opportunities to learn more about your subject and meet prospective employers and contacts for when you graduate.
A vibrant campus community right in the centre of London.
Our main campus is right on the doorstep of world-famous museums.
Or you can also relax in the  greenery of the beautiful Royal Parks – just few minutes away.
There's a reason why people come from all over the world to visit London.
The streets are packed with restaurants, pubs, comedy and music venues, theatres, sporting arenas, historical and cultural attractions and so much more.
With student discounts on everything from clothes to travel, being a student at the College is one of the most cost-effective times in your life to experience London living.
Most museums and galleries are free and you can always visit one of Londons many parks year-round.
All of our campuses have good transport links.
Our South Kensington Campus is easily reached by the London Underground, bus and cycle routes.
We offer secure bike storage on campus and discounts on secure locks.
To find out more about the accessibility of our campus and surround areas, visit AccessAble .
Student safety is our top priority.
That's why we have our own Security Service and emergency response team alongside campus-wide CCTV and access control for buildings and accommodation.
Our South Kensington Campus is well lit and well maintained.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/student-life/student-community:
Read stories from Imperial students about choosing their courses, discovering their communities and finding their passions.
Explore everything from support to societies, entrepreneurship to opportunities at Imperial.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/student-life/student-community/my-imperial-story:
Discover more about studying our undergraduate courses here at Imperial.
Undergraduate stories
Discover more about studying our postgraduate taught courses here at Imperial.
Postgraduate taught stories
Discover more about studying our postgraduate doctoral courses here at Imperial.
Postgraduate doctoral stories

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/student-life/student-community/my-imperial-story/undergraduate:
“I knew that being at Imperial, where one random conversation could teach me something new or make me see the world in a different way, was where I belonged.”
“Being part of such a vibrant, international community has broadened my perspective and enriched my time at Imperial.”
“The Imperial Bursary provided a great relief and gave me one less thing to worry about once I got to university.”
“I wanted to study at a top university and I wanted to be in London – Imperial ticked both those boxes.”
"I joined the African Caribbean Society at Imperial and that's where my love of dancing began."
"At Imperial, you can be as human or as robotic as you want, because the library is open 24/7!"
"There are a lot of people doing really interesting things in different areas.
And you become a part of that."
"I'm just somebody who happens to have an autoimmune condition – it's not my whole life."
"What I love about being in London is that there’s so much going on – the energy is really amazing."
"I'm basically living my best life, one I couldn’t even dream of before."
"Imperial is one of the most international universities in the UK, so I knew I'd feel welcomed."
"It's the people and my department that have made my Imperial experience.
It’s such a lovely community and it feels like a second home."
"The teaching is incredible, the lecturers are all at the top of their field."
"Chemical Engineering has such versatility, you can go on to do almost anything!"
"From aerospace to automotive, biomedical to renewable energies, I will be able to use the skills I have gained in many areas."
"Being in the Royal School of Mines has a certain prestige to it which really gives you something to be proud of."
"At Imperial, I’ve found a community of ambitious and like-minded individuals who inspire me to strive for my best."
"It's OK if you don’t have it all figured out within the first few weeks, because honestly, no one has!"
"With so many clubs and societies at Imperial, you can be certain that you will find something you like outside of your studies."
"I believe I-Explore modules are an amazing way to broaden your perspective on the world."
"After looking into it further, I decided that the Electronic and Information Engineering course at Imperial was the best option for me as I could study both software and hardware."

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/student-life/student-community/my-imperial-story/postgraduate-taught:
“Learning from tutors with successful industry experience along with placement opportunities made Imperial feel like the perfect launchpad for my future career.”
“To succeed, I believed having a global perspective and strategic thinking was necessary.
I felt that Imperial offered both through its courses, which made it my top choice of university.”
“I chose Imperial for its diverse community and because the unique Master’s course aligned most with my interests.”
“You are the only one who can define yourself – so define yourself through the possibilities that Imperial offers you.”
"Emilio from Spain realised that his interest really lay in mathematics.
Combined with the ambition to try out life in a bigger city, Emilio decided to apply to join the Department of Mathematics at Imperial."
“Imperial is the right place for me because of its unique focus on addressing real-world challenges, aligning perfectly with my professional goals.”
“I used to live in a small town far away from any capital city, so moving to study in a big and vibrant city like London was a life-changing moment for me.”
“I’m confident that choosing Imperial was the right step for both my personal growth and my ability to contribute meaningfully to the community.”
“I was attracted to the location of the campus in ‘downtown’ London and the diverse population of international students, but my primary deciding factor was the excellent research conducted at Imperial.”
“I could not have made it here without their help and am truly grateful for everyone in Imperial’s Student Financial Support team.”
"Since I got here, Imperial has been like home away from home for me and I find that very comforting."
"I found it was a place for out-of-the-box thinking and a balance between art, science, and micro/macro interventions.
"
“I’ve found my community at Imperial with my amazing coursemates, who have made my time at Imperial such an enjoyable and rewarding experience.”
"Imperial is the perfect place for me because of its central location in London, cutting-edge research opportunities and inclusive student organisations."
Imperial's Innovation Design Engineering course showcased a forward-thinking approach to STEMB education and an emphasis on creativity and real-world impact - this made it the perfect choice for me.
"I have met so many people who have changed the way I see the world and it has been eye-opening to learn from so many different cultures".
“As a first-generation university student, I am determined to pursue my PhD at Imperial too and become the first professor in my family.”
“I recommend Imperial to all international students – not just for the academics and practical knowledge, but also for the opportunity to experience living in one of the world’s best cities.”
"The ease of transport, history of the city, and plentiful connections to other parts of the UK and Europe are just a few reasons why I grew to really appreciate London."
"I’m astonished thinking about the growth of my knowledge over the duration of my course, and it has left me convinced that a PhD is on the cards for me, and perhaps a career in research."
"I wanted a deeper understanding of the subject and exposure to real-world physics, a preparatory step towards a PhD and beyond."
"My curiosity in pursuing a Master's in Signal Processing grew during my undergraduate studies when I joined a robotics club."
"Pursuing a postgraduate degree in the field of Control was a natural progression for me, as I wanted to deepen my knowledge and skills in a more specialised area."
"Every person in the department is celebrated for who they are, exactly the way they are."
"The variety of topics and range of industrial applications is what motivates me the most about my course."
"Meeting new people and getting a deeper and broader perspective on the world is a key motivator for going to university."
"Within two weeks I was perfectly settled in.
I think being in halls with other international students definitely helped."
"London is so diverse and multicultural, and you will always find a piece of home when you are here."
"This has opened my eyes to so many areas of research I wouldn’t have been otherwise exposed to."
"The day I discovered that I had been admitted to Imperial College London was, without a doubt, one of the happiest and most comforting days of my life."
"I think the content I’ve learned and the surgical innovation that’s going on right now is amazing, it’s great to be part of something that will have such an impact."
"The most gratifying part of the course so far has to be my group project.
There is a real feeling of accomplishment when I get to collaborate with three other students on an enormous task."
"Every lecture has opened my mind to the new possibilities of research.
I’ve been able to learn a variety of topics like magnetism, implants, nanomedicine, high-performance alloys, polymers and much more."
"As students, we are given many networking opportunities that can help us build connections and establish relationships with professionals in our field, which is a great opportunity for getting a future job or the opportunity to collaboration on research projects."
"One of the benefits of this course is the opportunity to learn about various cultures and engage with individuals from all parts of the world."
"I wanted to have a degree that would, boost my CV and help me in the job market.
And that’s exactly what Imperial did for me."

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/student-life/student-community/my-imperial-story/postgraduate-doctoral:
“The support from the diverse and inclusive staff and student body at Imperial will help you gain more confidence in yourself and make the learning experience so much better.”
“One of the best things about Imperial is the community: you’re surrounded by like-minded people, all working together to tackle some of the biggest challenges facing the world today.”
“What makes doing a PhD so rewarding is finding out new things and contributing to a community of researchers working toward the same goal of moving the field forward.”
“The work I’m doing has the potential to help so many people and change the care people receive which really motivates me to continue my research.”
“Imperial organised various PhD events which were a great way to meet other students and get a sense of the different research happening across departments.”
“The sense of community and the opportunity to live in a vibrant city like London made me confident that Imperial was the perfect place for my PhD studies.”
“Imperial's great facilities and research collaborations are essential when you’re doing a lab-based PhD.”
"The great thing about living in London is that it’s so big and all the areas are so different."
"I was drawn to Imperial for the quality of research and the research impact.
This was really important for me coming from a technology transfer background."
"There are just so many things you can do and see, it is never-ending!"

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/student-life/support:
Our dedicated student support teams offer wide ranging support.
We aim to ensure you health and wellbeing are looked after, while providing you with the advice and resources you need to thrive.
Throughout your time at Imperial you'll have access to a dedicated network of people and resources to support your academic and professional development.
Our Student Financial Support team can answer your questions about financial support, like loans, scholarships and studentships.
They also offer money management advice.
If you experience financial difficulties or have an unexpected change in circumstances, you may be eligible for financial help.
The Student Support Fund offers a one-off payment to cover emergencies and doesn't have to be repaid.
Undergraduate UK students can also benefit from the Imperial Bursary .
You can spend the money how ever you like and it doesn't need to be paid back.
We are proud to offer a wide range of support to help students settle into life in the UK and the College – we're even ranked as one of the UK's most international universities .
Our dedicated international student support team can provide you with visa advice and immigration issues before you begin your studies.
They can also help with work visas, travel and other wide-ranging support.
We can help you improve your English language skills through workshops, consultations and resources from our Centre for Academic English .
Everything you need represent your work effectively.
Disability Advisory Service gives you the information you need to make an informed choice about your application to Imperial, supporting your achievement with a team of qualified and specialist staff
Disability Advisory Service
The students' union is here to make sure you get the most out of your Imperial experience.
They will help you enjoy your time outside of studying and provide you with support, advice and representation.
Imperial College Union
If you're living in halls our Residential Support team is on call 24/7 to look  after your wellbeing.
They also organise lots of social activities to help you settle into your new home.
Residential support team
The Chaplaincy Multi-Faith Centre includes a team of Chaplains and Faith Advisors of many faiths.
The on-campus building has spaces for discussion, worship, meditation and activities, while mindfulness, one-to-one support and information on places of worship are offered.
We have many faith-based student societies in the Union, helping you meet like-minded students.
Find out more about the life of a mechanical engineering student and what support is available to you.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/undergraduate:
Learn more about Imperial through a range of online and in-person events, including Open Days in June and September.
Also explore our campus through walking tours and an on-demand virtual tour.
Join students Michael and Chan as they take you to an Open Day at Imperial College London.
Want to see for yourself?
Visit our South Kensington Campus at the next Open Day and experience what it is like to study with us.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/undergraduate/open-days:
Our Open Days are a great way to explore our facilities, meet current staff and students, and attend departmental sessions.
Booking is now open for our September Open Day.
This is a great opportunity to explore the South Kensington Campus and see what it is like to study at Imperial College London.
Book your place
Open Days are busy and there’s lots to see and do.
It’s best to come with a plan of action, so on this page, you can find out more about how to make the most of your day.
Can't make our Open Days?
Explore more about what it is like to study at Imperial with our hub of past event recordings such as virtual open days, subject taster lectures and application and student support services.
Discover more
Email the Open Days team at: opendays@imperial.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/undergraduate/open-days/september-open-day:
Our on-campus Open Day is a great opportunity to:
You will need to book an Open Day place to guarantee your seat in your preferred departmental sessions.
You can book a place for you and one guest in up to three sessions.
Sessions have limited capacity, so if the department you're interested in does not appear as an option on the booking form, it is fully booked.
To get an idea of what activities to expect beyond the departmental sessions, and how to prepare for your day, check out our make the most of your day pages.
Make the most of your day
For those who are unable to attend in-person, you can explore more about what it is like to study at Imperial with our on-demand talks and tasters .
We recommend booking in advance for Open Days.
This means you can receive our communications about Open Days before the event.
If you want to attend a departmental session, you must book these in advance.
You can book a place for you and one guest at up to three departmental sessions on the booking form for Open Days.
Yes!
You’re welcome to bring guests along to join you at Open Days, however, if you want a guest to join you at a departmental session, you will have to book their place in advance.
When you complete your booking, you’ll be sent a confirmation email.
This will have a unique link that shows your full booking details including any booked department talks.
Please check your email address is correct before completing your booking to make sure you receive the email.
Sometimes our confirmation emails can end up in spam folders.
If you didn’t receive your email, contact us at opendays@imperial.ac.uk and we can check your details.
We’ll send updates before the open days which will include links to your QR code.
Please have this available on the Open Day, as you’ll need this to check in on the day.
You can display It on your phone or bring a printed copy.
Our September Open Day at our South Kensington Campus will be the last Open Day event for 2025.
If you can't join us at an on-campus event, our Virtual Open Day recordings are now available on our On-demand page and this is a great opportunity to hear from course leads, academics and current students and find out what to expect studying as an Imperial undergraduate for the subjects you are interested in.
We recommend you still book a place and attend our Open Day, as there are lots of activities that don’t need booking in advance.
You can see what’s on offer on our making the most of the day pages.
Our booking system doesn’t offer a waiting list for departmental sessions, but we do release places if there are cancellations.
Keep an eye on our schedule to check if places become available for session(s) you're interested in.
Occasionally, places can be available for departmental sessions on Open Day, however due to limited capacity, we can’t guarantee a seat without a booking.
Yes.
If you need to make any changes to your booking, simply click the link in the email to access the booking system.
Be careful when editing your booking as increasing the number of guests may lose your spot at fully booked talks.
If you have any problems or require any help, please email opendays@imperial.ac.uk
You can send more details of your requirements by emailing us at opendays@imperial.ac.uk.
Please note: to help us make sure that we have all necessary arrangements in place for you, please contact us with additional information by Friday 5 September 2025 .
No, you can only book a place for one guest at departmental session.
You are very welcome to bring additional guests with you to Open Day.
We’ll also be running a talk for parents and supporters on both Open Days.
If your plans change and you can’t make Open Day, you can cancel your booking on our online booking system.
If you have any problems cancelling your booking, contact us with your name, email address and booking reference number: opendays@imperial.ac.uk .
You can find out about our travel bursary on our travel bursary page .
Applications for our travel bursary are now closed.
No, unfortunately limits on numbers at our departmental sessions means we are unable to accommodate school bookings.
However, if you are a teacher, your students can book a place directly using our online booking system.
Teachers are also welcome to attend the event and there are a range of activities that do not require advance booking.
You can now explore our full Open Day schedule available below:
To get an idea of what activities to expect, take a look at our Subject and student life fairs .
Please note: there will be some planned tube closure affecting travel to our campus, please check the TFL website before you travel for full details.
Our nearest Tube station is South Kensington which is on the Piccadilly, District and Circle lines.
Our campus is a 10-minute walk from the Tube station up Exhibition Road, next to the Science Museum, and is clearly signposted from the station.
We strongly recommend using public transport to travel to the Open Day.
Parking in the area is extremely limited and expensive.
Trains should be operating as usual but do check with your travel provider for information.
For a Tube map and general information for travel in London, visit the Transport for London website .
We know that not all our visitors will be familiar with public transport in London, so please do get in touch if you need support planning your journey.
We have a limited number of travel bursaries available for Year 12 students at a state school or college in the UK.
The bursaries will provide return rail or public transport to one of the June Open Days.
Applications for the travel bursary are now closed.
We are unable to reserve any spaces on weekends as campus operates as a normal car park.
Spaces are extremely limited on campus, but blue badge parking is available.
You must book departmental sessions in advance – you can book a place at up to three of these sessions.
You can also book a place for one guest to bring with you to departmental sessions (subject to availability) though you must indicate this at the time of booking due to limits on numbers.
If you need to make changes to your booking, simply log back into our online booking system.
To log back in you need to use the email address you used when you made the original booking and your booking reference number – you can find this on the email confirmation you received.
If you have any problems or require help with editing your booking, please email: opendays@imperial.ac.uk
We recommend you still book a place and attend our Open Day.
The booking system does not have a waiting list for departmental sessions, so please check back later to see if spaces have become available for the session(s) you are interested in.
You will still be able to explore the campus, attend an accommodation tour and have the opportunity to speak to our academic departments at our Information Fair.
You'll also be able to ask our staff and students any questions you have.
In addition, you may be able to attend a drop-in session about the subject you're interested in.
If your plans change and you are unable to make the open day please do log back into our online booking system to cancel your booking and free up the place for another visitor.
If you have any problems cancelling your booking please email: opendays@imperial.ac.uk .
Only available sessions will appear on the booking form.
If your departmental session does not appear, it is most likely fully booked.
You can still attend the Open Day and visit our Information Fair and drop-in sessions.
Unfortunately, only one parent, carer or guest will be able to attend a booked department session with you.
We have strict capacity limits for booked talks in lecture theatres for health and safety reasons, which is why we must keep the maximum booking number to two people.
Guests are welcome to attend the elements of the Open Day which do not require advance booking , for example our accommodation and general information talks.
Guests will also be able to visit the department and support services exhibition stands at the Information Fairs to speak with staff and current students from the department(s) of your choice.
Please be aware some departments may give priority to prospective students so guests may be asked to wait or go to an overflow room.
Please note: You can email us at opendays@imperial.ac.uk for any further questions or speak to staff at any Welcome Desk on the day for any concerns.
However, if you are a teacher, please do encourage your students to book individually using our online booking system.
Accommodation tours run throughout the day – be sure to head to our tour tent and join the next available tour.
Visit us now with a virtual tour and explore our departments and facilities.
Discover more about Imperial
Discover more from our students about studying as an undergraduate.
Explore more about the student experience

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/undergraduate/open-days/september-open-day/travel-bursary:
To be eligible for the Open Day Travel Bursary, you must either be in Year 12 or Year 13 in September 2025 and currently attending a UK state school.
The bursaries will provide return rail or public transport to our September Open Day.
These bursaries are funded from Imperial's access and participation funds, so priority will be given to applicants that fall into groups currently underrepresented in higher education.
Please see details of the eligibility criteria below.
We will provide paid tickets for successful applicants via rail or other reasonable public transport where rail is not feasible.
When filling out the application form please make sure that you enter your details carefully as they will be used to book your tickets for travel if successful.
This application form is for the travel bursary only, you will need to register for any departmental sessions separately on our Open Day page.
You must be in Year 12 or Year 13 and at a UK state school.
If we receive more applications than there are bursaries available, then priority will be given to applicants that meet the most of the following eligibility criteria:
We may also look at information about your school or postcode to understand if you come from a school with low overall attainment or high proportion of free school meals students, or if you live in a disadvantaged area ( IMD ) or area where not many students progress to higher education ( POLAR ).
We may also consider the travel distance from your home to our South Kensington Campus.
If we receive more applications than bursaries available, then the more criteria you meet, the more likely your application will be successful.
Please note: applications for the travel bursary are now closed.
We will be in touch with the outcome of your application shortly after the closure date.
The bursary funding is limited so it will not be possible to approve all applications.
If you have any questions regarding the scheme or your application, please contact opendaytravelbursary@imperial.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/undergraduate/open-days/make-the-most-of-your-day:
It’s best to come with a plan of action, so on this page, you can find out more about how to make the most of your day – from planning your journey, what to bring and how you can catch up with talks you might have missed.
Open Day starts at 9.00 and ends at 16.30.
As a rough guide, we recommend arriving at least 10 minutes before your first scheduled talk begins.
You can now explore our Open Day schedule:
This is where you can ask questions and find out more about your chosen department.
You can also meet staff from our student services including:
Some departments offer informal drop-in sessions, where you can talk to staff and students about our courses.
Departmental sessions last between 60 and 90 minutes, usually taking place within a lecture hall or facilities in the department’s building on campus.
You will hear presentations from academic staff, get detailed information on the courses and selection process at Imperial, and may include a tour.
Join our team for a dedicated talk for parents and supporters to learn more about Imperial and the application process.
No booking needed.
Hear from our students and staff about student life, support, careers and admissions our general talks.
Join a student-led tour of some of the halls of residence on our South Kensington Campus or visit our on-campus sports centre, Ethos.
Visit our main library to meet staff and see our facilities for group, quiet and silent study.
There’s lots going on at our Open Days, so it’s a good idea to make a plan for:
Here, we’ve put together information and advice to help you plan what you can do before Open Day, on the day itself and after Open Day.
Use our course list to find subjects you’re interested in and think about the questions you’d like to ask our staff and students.
If it’s helpful, write them down.
A full schedule of talks, fairs and department drop-ins is now available so do take a look through and decide what you want to see and do.
There's lots going on and you might not have time for everything.
The easiest way to get to our South Kensington Campus is by public transport.
The nearest Underground stations are South Kensington and Gloucester Road , on the District, Circle and Piccadilly lines.
You can plan your route with the Transport for London journey planner .
On-site parking is only available for Blue Badge holders.
If you need to request a car parking space, email us at opendays@imperial.ac.uk with your vehicle registration and driver’s name at least one week before Open Day.
You can also find more information about how to find us – including directions on Google Maps – on our South Kensington Campus page .
Some of our student accommodation is available to stay in during the summer term for the September Open Day.
Find out more about their availability and prices .
There are also plenty of hotels, hostels and homestays in the surrounding areas.
You can find access guides to our buildings at the South Kensington Campus on the AccessAble website.
Accessible information at Imperial can be found on our Accessibility page and you can send more details of your requirements by emailing us at opendays@imperial.ac.uk .
To help us make sure that we have all the necessary arrangements in place for you, please contact us with additional information.
It's a good idea to check the weather to make sure you can stay comfortable during Open Day .
When you arrive on campus, we recommend heading to one of our Welcome Points to check-in.
You’ll get a printed programme, study guide and tote bag, and it is great place to ask questions if you’re not sure where to start.
Check in by showing your barcode (on your confirmation email) to staff who will scan it.
You can do this at any time during the day.
If you arrive close to the start time of a talk or activity you want to attend, then please head straight to that, and you can come and visit a Welcome Point later.
There’ll be students and staff in bright t-shirts to help guide you around the campus throughout the day.
You can find a campus map at the back of our Open Day programme to help you get around campus.
We also have an online campus map which you can explore on our virtual tour.
We have lots of catering outlets on campus that offer hot and cold food throughout the day.
There’ll also be a pop-up tent serving hot food.
You can find water fountains across campus and free tea and coffee is available all day in the information fairs.
Our Open Days are a great excuse to visit the London and see the sights.
Our students, Lorraine , Tee and Aim about their favourite spots around South Kensington and beyond!
If you don’t manage to make it to everything you want to do on Open Day, you can catch up with our talks and tasters online.
View our on-demand talks and tasters .
See more of our labs, workshops, teaching spaces and accommodation with our 360° virtual tour of our campuses and halls.
Take a virtual tour .
You can ask questions and chat to our student ambassadors online anytime through UniBuddy.
Meet our student ambassadors .
Join our student ambassadors Chan and Michael for an introduction to the Imperial Open Day – from checking-in and visiting our subject information fairs, to department drop-in sessions and campus tours.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/undergraduate/open-days/make-the-most-of-your-day/student-life-fairs:
Please note: while booking is required to attend the Open Day, no separate booking is needed for the events listed on this page, you're free to join any on the day.
Meet staff and students at our information fairs to learn more about our different courses and departments, and chat with members of our support service teams, Enterprise Lab and students’ union to find out more about student life at Imperial.
Use our course search to learn more about our departments and undergraduate courses.
You can find venues and building locations on our campus map .
Location: level 1 Sherfield Building (West)
Location: level 2, Sherfield Building (West)

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/undergraduate/open-days/make-the-most-of-your-day/subject-sessions:
Advance booking needed.
Hear presentations from academic staff about our courses, facilities and application guidance at our next Open Day .
We recommend you arrive at the session venue 10 minutes before the start time.
Sessions last up to 90 minutes.
Due to limited capacity, you can only bring one guest to each session.
Guest places must be booked in advance.
You can find details of the sessions you have booked in your confirmation email and by logging into our booking system.
Subject sessions will be updated a few weeks before the next Open Day.
Start times: 10.00, 12.30, 15.00
Venue: Room 300, City and Guilds Building
For Biomedical Engineering, Molecular Bioengineering and Biomedical Technology Ventures
Venue: Room 1.31, Royal School of Mines
For Economics, Finance and Data Science
Venue: Room LG-100, Imperial Business School
Start times: 10.00, 12.30
Venue: Lecture Theatre 1, ACEX Building
Venue: RCS 101, Lecture Theatre C, Royal College of Science Building
Meet outside Royal College of Science.
Venue: Room 201, Skempton Building
Venue: Room 308, Huxley Building
Venue: Ground Floor Lecture Theatre, Dyson Building of Design Engineering
For Geology, Geophysics and Planetary Science
Venue: Room G.38, Royal School of Mines
Venue: Room 408, Electrical and Electronic Engineering Building
For Biochemistry and Biotechnology
Start times: 10.00
Venue: Room G34, Sir Alexander Fleming Building
For Biological Sciences
Start times: 12.30, 15.00
Venue: G20, Royal School of Mines
Venue: Clore Lecture Theatre, Huxley Building
Venue: Room 200, City and Guilds Building
For Biomedical Science
Venue: Room G28, Sir Alexander Fleming Building
Venue: Ondaatje Lecture Theatre, Royal Geographical Society, Exhibition Road
There will be spaces available for those without bookings.
These will be on a first come first served basis.
Venue: Lecture Theatre 1, Blackett Laboratory

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/undergraduate/open-days/make-the-most-of-your-day/talks:
Hear more about our support services and student life at our talks held throughout the day.
You don’t need to book, but capacity is limited, so we recommend you arrive at the talk venue 10-minutes before the start time.
Talks last for 30-minutes.
The full Talks schedule will be updated a few weeks before the next Open Day.
Find out more about our selection process, including our new admissions tests, and what we are looking for in an applicant.
10.00 and 15.45 – SAF G.
16, Sir Alexander Fleming Building
Learn about the huge range of activities, societies, clubs and support available from our students union.
11.45 and 14.00 – Student Union Concert Hall, Student Union Building
Get insight into life at Imperial from a panel of current students, including an interactive Q&A.
12.30 and 14.45 – Student Union Concert Hall, Student Union Building
Get top tips on producing an important part of your UCAS application – an excellent personal statement.
11.45 and 14.00 – SAF G.
Learn about Imperial halls of residence and private housing options for your first year and beyond.
11.30 and 15.00 – SAF G.
Learn about the cost of university study and the financial support available from Imperial and the UK government.
10.45 and 13.30 – SAF G.
If this if your first Open Day, this session is ideal to get familiar with how you apply to university.
Join our admissions team for an overview of how to make your application through UCAS and our admissions process.
12.30 – Huxley Building
Join our dedicated talk for parents and family, friends and other guests to learn more about how to support future students on their journey to university and address some key concerns.
13.15 – Room 340, Huxley Building
Hear more about the huge range of careers support available for every Imperial student from their very first day.
11.00 – Student Union Concert Hall, Student Union Building
Ask your burning questions about the Imperial application process directly to our Deputy Director of Admissions in this interactive session.
14.00 – Room 340, Huxley Building
Drop-in any time to watch our introductory talks about Imperial, applying, our admissions tests and writing a strong personal statement.
The full screening lasts around 25 minutes and is repeated throughout the day.
9.30 to 16.30 – ACEX 203, ACEX Building
Back to the top of the page

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/undergraduate/open-days/make-the-most-of-your-day/department-sessions:
Meet staff from our departments and ask questions about subject areas and courses at our informal drop-in sessions.
Capacity at sessions can be limited, so arrive early to avoid disappointment.
Department drop-in sessions will be updated a few weeks before the next Open Day.
Royal School of Mines
Lab and department tours
11.00, 11.15, 13.30, 13.45, 16.00, 16.15
Tours leave from room 1.31 on level 1 in the Royal School of Mines.
Taster lecture
11.45
Join for a 30-minute taster lecture in room 1.31 in the Royal School of Mines on level 1.
Chemistry Building
Meet students and staff
10.00 to 16.00, Chemistry Café
Teaching lab showcase
10.00 to 12.30 and 13.30 to 16.00, Chemistry Café
Department tours
9.20 to 16.50, explore the department's facilities, including the Chemical Kitchen.
Tours leave every 15 minutes from the Chemistry Café.
Last tour at 16.15.
Skempton Building
Structural Resilience: Earthquake and Impacting Testing
10.00 to 12.00 and 13.00 to 15.00, join us in room 301 on level 3 to get hands-on experience building and testing structural models to withstand earthquake and impact loads.
Dyson Building of Design Engineering
Department tour and student work displays
Tours leave from the Dyson Library on level 1 between 10.00–16.30.
Chat with Design Engineering alumni
Dyson Library (ground floor) 10.00-16.30.
Q&A with staff and Interactive Displays
Meet the department in room G.41 on level 0 in the Royal School of Mines from 19.00 to 16.30.
Q&A with staff and students
Meet staff and students in room LG19A/B from 9.30 to 17.00.
Department talk overflow room – missed out on booking your spot?
Join us at Business School LGR to watch the talk at 10.00, 12.30 and 15.00.
Electrical and Electronic Engineering Building
Q&A with students
Meet students in the building foyer from 11.00 to 15.00.
Huxley Building
Coffee and chat with students
Meet current students and see examples of project work in rooms 341 and 342 on level 3 between 10.00 and 16.00.
City and Guilds Building
Women in Mechanical Engineering and quiet space
Join us in room 359, City and Guilds Building
10.00 to 16.00
Sir Alexander Fleming Building
Imperial School of Medicine Students’ Union: student experience and Q&A
Join us in rooms G60 and G65, level 0, between 10.00 and 16.00.
Blackett Laboratory
Staff Q&A
Join us in the Level 3 foyer at 9.30 to 10.00, 12.00 to 12.30 and 14.30 to 15.00
These tours will leave from Blackett LT1 at 11.00, 13.30 and 16.00.
PhD student research posters and stands
Join us in the Level 2 foyer at 9.30 to 15.00
Year 1 Project stand
Society for women and non-binary individuals in Physics
Join us in the Level 2 foyer all day
Physics society

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/undergraduate/open-days/make-the-most-of-your-day/tours-and-visits:
Explore more of Imperial on a guided tour from our students.
Tours operate throughout the day, so if there’s a queue you can come back later in the day.
Tour times Tours operate between 9.30 and 15.30.
Meeting point Tour Tent, Dalby Court
Visit one of three halls of residence at our South Kensington Campus: Eastside and Southside.
Meet at the Tour Tent to join the next available tour.
Tours last around 30 minutes and include bedrooms and communal facilities.
You can leave the tour at any time.
Meeting point Ethos Sports Centre, Prince’s Gardens
Check out our sports facilities at Ethos.
Tours leave from outside Ethos every 15 minutes and last around 10 minutes.
Use the marshalled crossing points to cross Exhibition Road.
Our campus is easy to explore with our self-guided walking tour on the Welcome to Imperial app.
Visit the Welcome Point at the Main Entrance for help with the app or tour.
Download our tour app Welcome to Imperial.
Open for visitors 10.00 to 16.00
Explore the Abdus Salam Library on Dangoor Plaza to see our facilities and areas for group, quiet and silent study.
Library staff are on hand to welcome you and explain the support they offer.
Open for visitors 11.00 to 15.30
See the main Union building and join some of the student life talks in the concert hall on level 3.
Location Student Union Concert Hall, Student Union Building
Tour times
Tours operate between 9.30 to 12.30 and 13.00 to 15.30
No booking needed
Join our mini walking tour of campus with a student guide.
A great introduction to Imperial, our history and the different activities taking place on Open Day.
Tours last around 20 minutes.
Meet at the information point on Dangoor Plaza.
Tours operate at 11.30, 13.30, 14.00 and 16.00.
Join our tours of Imperial's purpose-built music practice facilities and art gallery and learn more about how you can explore your creativity whilst studying at Imperial.
Meeting point
Level 2 Sherfield Building (west), near the lifts.
Explore our campus, facilities and halls wherever you are by heading to your virtual tour page .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/undergraduate/open-days/campus-map:
You can find a campus map at the back of our Open Day programme which you'll receive at our welcome points.
Use our map to explore our campus and facilities, find your closest café, food stall and toilets.
You can download our map as a pdf to use on your device or explore our online campus map on our virtual tour.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/undergraduate/teachers-conference:
We typically host a conference and showcase event for counsellors and advisers on campus in London in the Spring.
Further details will be published here as 2025-26 events are confirmed.
We recommend joining our mailing list to receive information on future counsellor events.
Join Advisers Newsletter
Imperial introduced new Admissions tests for 2025 entry onwards:
We can support you and your students' university application journey during each stage of the UCAS cycle.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/appointments:
We offer weekly in-person appointments for prospective students in our Visitor Centre in the main entrance of our South Kensington Campus on Exhibition Road – located in square B2 on this campus map .
These 25-minute appointments with a member of our Student Recruitment team are a chance for you to ask any questions you may have about studying at Imperial, from what our courses are like to how to find accommodation in London.
Book your appointment now
Session schedule: Appointment slots are posted four weeks in advance and take place on Wednesdays.
If the calendar on our booking form does not yet have the date you plan to visit, please check back a month from your desired date.
No walk-in availability: All visitors must be pre-registered.
We will provide walk-in visitors with a self-guided walking tour map.
Business School courses: If you are interested in studying a course in Imperial Business School, please contact the Business School directly.
Campus tours: These sessions are information sessions with a member of staff and do not include a campus tour.
Our student-led campus tours also run on Wednesdays – we encourage you to book this separately.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/undergraduate/imperial-on-tour:
This April, we took Imperial on the road for our UK tour, visiting Leeds, Manchester, Birmingham and Cheltenham – and it was great to see so many of you there.
Visitors joined us to hear from our admissions staff, subject specialists, and Imperial students, gaining insights into our courses, how to apply, and what it's like to study and live in London – named QS Best Student City 2025.
During the events, attendees were able to:
We'll be back on tour next year – we hope to see you then!

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/postgraduate:
Learn more about Imperial through a range of online and in-person events.
Discover non-academic events and activities in and around our campuses.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/postgraduate/open-days:
Join us for our next postgraduate Open Day.
Please consider broadening your search query.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/summer-schools/high-school:
We provide summer school opportunities for UK students and international students from all over the world.
Keep up to date on our 2025 summer schools by joining our mailing list .
You’ll explore different fields of engineering through taster sessions and hands-on activities.
At the end of the programme, you’ll work in a group to create a poster showcasing your new-found engineering knowledge, which you’ll then present to staff and visitors.
You’ll spend four days on campus, attending a series of exciting taster sessions specific to your stream, learning about university life, and enjoying a busy pastoral programme.
At the end of the week, you'll share what you've learned with staff and visitors in a poster presentation.
You'll be part of a small team tasked with devising a new and innovative solution to a real-world problem in an online hackathon.
With the help of your mentor, you and your fellow team members will combine your diverse skills and knowledge in STEM and design to develop a well-structured plan from your ideas.
On the final day, you'll visit Imperial to showcase your project and present your ideas to a panel of judges.
You’ll spend the week immersed in the academic department of your choice, exploring the subject you're passionate about with the support of undergraduate mentors and gaining practical skills that will support you in the transition to university.
You'll stay in our halls of residence and take part in a variety of pastoral activities designed to give you an insight into student like at Imperial.
You can apply to one of six of our departments for a one-week placement working alongside researchers in their laboratories.
You'll also benefit from specialist talks on topics such as writing effective personal statements and interview skills.
You'll attend a two–week programme, choosing a specialist area of science and engineering for your first week and undertake a challenge in week two, developing your problem-solving and entrepreneurial skills.
Apply now

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/summer-schools/undergraduate:
Each year, we offer a range of summer schools for current undergraduate students, from a three-week immersive insight into the latest biomedicine research in the Faculty of Medicine to a three-week programme in Imperial Business School.
Join the Faculty of Medicine for an exciting summer school experience.
The on-campus summer school offers you the chance to explore frontiers in science and medicine, or you can gain laboratory experience in cell signalling.
Explore Revolutions in Biomedicine
Join us in July and August 2025 for an unforgettable Undergraduate Summer School experience at Imperial College London.
Designed for ambitious students, our Undergraduate Summer Schools give you the opportunity to explore cutting-edge science, engineering and business while experiencing life at a world-leading university.
Find out more about Summer Schools

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/on-demand-talks-tasters:
Explore our on-demand content hubs and see what studying at Imperial could be like.
From virtual open days to subject taster lectures, application and student services support sessions, access a wide range of event recordings whenever and wherever you like.
Discover our courses with taster lectures, get top tips on how to make your application shine and find out more about support available to students at Imperial.
Understand the application process at Imperial, gain insights into career pathways or further postgraduate study and learn more about different options for financial support.
Hear from our graduates about their favourite memories and highlights of life at Imperial.
Our ambassadors are here to answer your questions about student life, living in London, clubs and societies and the academic experience.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/campus-tours:
Tours take place on most Wednesday afternoons during term time, with additional tours usually offered during school holidays.
They last for around 60 minutes and start from the university’s Main Entrance on Exhibition Road.
Booking is essential.
Places can fill up fast, so it’s a good idea to book early – we advertise tour dates up to six weeks in advance.
If you’d like to bring family or friends, you can also book places for up to two guests to join you on your tour.
Book a campus tour
With one our student tour guides, you’ll visit some of our campus landmarks, like the university Main Entrance, Dalby Court and Dangoor Plaza, along with selected teaching spaces and facilities, including Ethos Sports Centre and Imperial College Union.
Our tour guides are students studying in departments across Imperial and can answer general questions about the university and student life.
If you’d like to talk to students from a course or department you’re interested in, you can chat to our students online anytime, anywhere.
Unfortunately, not all our buildings and spaces are open for you to visit on the tour.
However, you can visit our online Virtual Tour to explore our teaching and research spaces, communal areas and halls of residence.
You can contact our team to let us know about any access arrangements or adjustments you need for the tour.
We recommend contacting us at least three working days before your tour date.
You can also learn more about accessibility at our South Kensington Campus in the AccessAble guide for Imperial College London .
Contact us at visit@imperial.ac.uk .
Enjoy a virtual tour of Imperial's campus and facilities and discover more about departments, accommodation and student life.
If you can’t make one of our tour dates or want to explore on your own, you can download the Imperial Guides app and use our self-guided tour to explore South Kensington Campus at your own pace.
You can find more information about how to download the app on our self-guided tour page .
You can visit us at our Undergraduate Open Days to meet our students and staff, and explore our facilities, including labs, teaching spaces and workshops.
You can learn more on our Open Day pages and sign up to our mailing list to hear first when booking opens.
Our regular campus tours are for individuals and their guests.
If you want to visit the campus with your school, you can learn more on our page for school groups .
Imperial closes for vacation periods at Christmas and Easter each year.
We don’t run our tours during the weeks of key university events, like our Open Days and Graduation.
Unfortunately, we can’t provide translators for our tours.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/campus-tours/school-groups:
Explore our South Kensington Campus with a school group visit and learn about what it’s like to study at Imperial College London.
Our school group visits are available on weekdays during term time between 10.00 and 16.00 and are suitable for young people aged between 15 and 18 who are studying at a level equivalent to UK school years 11 to 13.
Our school group visits typically include:
You can request a school visit to Imperial by email.
We recommend that you submit your request at least four weeks in advance.
We aim to respond to requests within three working days.
You should include your school’s name in the subject line of your email and include the following information in your message:
Submit your visit request
We recommend students are proficient in English to get the most of out their visit.
We can't provide translators.
We can’t provide tours of our teaching facilities, library or accommodation, or organise lectures and lab taster sessions.
We don’t offer tours or presentations for independent tour groups or agencies.
Our visits are aimed at students who are interested in studying a degree at Imperial.
For other requests, you may wish to contact one of our academic departments directly.
If you are a university group interested in further study at Imperial, email us with the details of your request.
Imperial College London is a world-leading university for science, engineering, medicine and business.
Our school group visits are aimed at students interested in these subject areas.
You can learn more about our teaching and search our courses on our Study website.
Imperial’s Outreach team also works with schools and colleges to deliver a range of activities to help inspire the next generation to study STEMB subjects at university.
You can learn more about the team’s activities on our schools outreach pages .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/campus-tours/self-guided-tour:
Our self-guided tour of our South Kensington Campus can help you explore Imperial in your own time.
Using the app, you can explore our campus independently and really take in all it has to offer.
The tour is available on our Imperial Guides app – available to download for free from the Apple Store or Google Play Store.
When you re-open the app, the tour will be saved in your My Guides tab.
The tour begins from outside our Main Entrance on Exhibition Road and should take around 35–45 minutes to complete.
We recommend visiting our campus between 8.00 and 19.00.
Imperial is closed on bank holidays and during vacation periods at Easter and Christmas.
Check our closure dates before you travel to campus.
The tour is a general tour of the South Kensington Campus and is aimed at prospective students and their supporters.
However, you can visit our Virtual Tour to explore our teaching and research spaces, communal areas and halls of residence online.
An audio version of the tour is coming soon, but for now we hope you enjoy the text version during your visit to Imperial.
If you have any issues accessing the Imperial Guides app or questions about making an independent visit to Imperial, email us at visit@imperial.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/events:
Discover more about studying at Imperial at one of our events.
From open days and webinars, to fairs and drop-ins.
Learn about our courses, admissions, life at Imperial, funding and more.
We can also answer your questions about Imperial.
You can filter the events depending on your location or study level to help find the right event you are looking for.
Wed 27 August 2025, 17.00 – 18.15 BST
Wed 3 September 2025, 11.00 – 12.15 BST
Sat 6 September 2025, 11.00 – 16.00 IST
Sun 7 September 2025, 11.00 – 16.00 IST
Tue 9 September 2025, 9.00 – 20.00 PDT
Tue 9 September 2025, 19.00 – 20.00 BST
Sat 13 September 2025, 11.00 – 16.00 IST
Mon 15 September 2025, 15.00 – 18.00 CDT
Discover more online by accessing our hub of past undergraduate event recordings.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/visit/contact:
You can always contact our events team should you have a question about opportunities to visit Imperial and/or our in-person and on-demand events, contact the relevant team using the details below.
Please contact: opendays@imperial.ac.uk
Please contact: visit@imperial.ac.uk
UK Summer Schools: outreach.scienceactivities@imperial.ac.uk
Global Summer Schools: globalsummerschool@imperial.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/international-students/information-by-region:
Find out more about our policy on working with representatives from international agencies.
View our campus from anywhere in the world!
Discover facilities, accommodation and much more.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/international-students/information-by-region/africa:
Imperial is the preferred destination for students from many African countries.
Students from Imperial's Nigerian Society are pictured above, enjoying a day trip from London.
At Imperial, you'll join students and staff from all over the world to study alongside and learn from.
Ethos sports centre – our state-of-the-art sports facility in the heart of South Kensington with great rates for student memberships.
All Imperial students graduate in the spectacular Royal Albert Hall, which is next door to the Students' Union building on our South Kensington Campus.
The Welcome Fair is the place to find out about our 380+ student-run clubs, societies and activities.
Opeoluwa Olawale (Nigeria)
MSc Petroleum Engineering
The College works with partners in Africa across a broad range of contexts.
In May 2016, the College launched The Centre of African Research and Engagement (ICCARE) to bring together much of the work taking place across the College.
Africa also provides a source of inspiration for our students and our researchers.
For example, in 2017, an Imperial researcher filmed his daring descent into one of the world's most spectacular active volcanoes in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Find out more about our work with Africa at Imperial Global , including Imperial Global Ghana , a regional hub for collaboration that supports research, education and innovation opportunities.
Each year, we welcome students from over 130 countries.
African nations currently represented at Imperial include: Botswana, Kenya, Mauritius, Morocco, Nigeria, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda
An undergraduate degree at Imperial normally lasts three years for a Bachelor’s level qualification or four years for an integrated Master’s.
Some departments offer a year abroad or a year in industry which can add to the overall length of your degree.
To apply for a full-time undergraduate programme at Imperial, you must make an online application via the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service – UCAS .
The UCAS code for Imperial College London is I50 .
UCAS allows you to apply to a maximum of five courses in one cycle.
Find step-by-step instructions on how to apply ; you can also visit the UCAS website for more in-depth advice.
If we want to offer you a place, but you have not yet taken your final school exams, then we would usually make you a 'conditional offer'.
This means we will guarantee you a place at Imperial subject to you satisfying the conditions of your offer, such as achieving certain scores in your final qualifications and gaining an ATAS certificate for certain courses.
You can submit your results after you have applied; this is usual practice in the UK and is the reason why you must let us know which qualifications you are taking on your UCAS application.
Exact entry requirements vary by course - see the entry requirements section on our course pages for details of the international qualifications we accept.
If your school qualification is not on the list of accepted qualifications, you may be considered by taking an accepted Foundation programme, or an accepted qualification at an external provider - see our course pages for details.
All applicants should also achieve the required level of English language and provide evidence of a valid English language qualification to qualify for a place.
There are two levels of English language requirement at Imperial:
See the English language requirement on the relevant course page to see whether your chosen course requires the standard or higher level.
Find out more about the English language requirements for each level.
You do not need to have reached the required level before you apply.
We can assess your academic profile without your English language qualification.
Should we decide to make an offer, we would give you a target grade to meet as part of your offer.
If you have studied one of our recognised English language exams as part of your High School studies (e.g.
IGCSE English, IB English etc.), you may be exempt from the need to provide additional evidence of your English language ability.
Check our English language requirement page for full details.
English language proficiency tests should have been obtained within two years of the start date of your chosen course.
A Master's degree at Imperial normally lasts one year, though we do offer some degrees which you can take part-time over two years and PG Certificate and PG Diploma qualifications which vary in length.
A PhD with us will usually take 3–4 years of full-time study to complete.
To apply for a Master's or Doctoral course, you need to submit an application via our online application system.
Find out more about how to apply for postgraduate taught or postgraduate doctoral study.
Exact entry requirements vary per course, but to be considered for admission to a Master's e.g.
MSc, MRes, MBA etc, you should hold a Bachelor's degree.
To check if your international qualification meets the College minimum requirement, please see our accepted qualifications .
Departments may also often  set higher level requirements, due to the demanding and competitive nature of our courses.
For the vast majority of our degrees, we do not require additional testing such as the GRE or GMAT.
If we do require any additional testing it will be clearly stated on the course page .
If you're applying for a Doctoral degree, you should hold a Master's degree – the grades you require will be specified by the Department you're applying to.
In addition, you'll need to hold a Bachelor's degree passed at the prescribed level.
If we want to make you an offer, but you have not yet graduated, then we would usually make you a conditional offer subject to you achieving a certain grade or score.
This means your place at Imperial is guaranteed providing you meet the conditions of your offer.
You can submit your overall average after you have made your application, which is normal practice in the UK.
Successful applicants will need to achieve a certain level of English to qualify for a place on their chosen course.
Each course specifies either a Standard or Higher language requirement, which is the level of English required for entry on to that particular course, even if English is your first language.
Full details can be found on the relevant course page and English language requirement page .
If you have previously applied to Imperial and were unsuccessful, you will need to submit a new application.
If you have successfully requested deferred entry, you do not need to complete a new application.
You can search our scholarships in one place.
Examples of scholarships for students from Africa include:
If life at Imperial was all labs and lectures, we wouldn’t have around 350 clubs and societies to get involved with, and state-of-the-art sports facilities right on campus.
All of our clubs, societies and projects are open to all students, though you may find the following of particular interest:
As well as other cultural societies, there are also clubs and societies covering arts and entertainment, charitable endeavours, departmental and academic-related societies, societies related to faith, media societies (two student newspapers, student radio and TV stations and a photography society) and over 100 sports clubs, including martial arts and indoor and outdoor sports.
To get a feel for life on our South Kensington Campus, take a virtual tour .
Your relationship with Imperial does not end when you graduate.
There are various options to remain in the UK and seek work after you have completed your studies.
We can provide specific advice, guidance and assistance with the Graduate visa , which enables graduates to work in the UK for two years after completing an undergraduate or Master's degree, or three years after completing a PhD.
We can also provide limited advice and guidance on the Skilled Worker, Global Talent, Tier 5 (Government Authorised Exchange) and Tier 5 (Youth Mobility Scheme) work visas.
Other graduates move abroad again, and as an Imperial alumnus you will join a community of over 250,000 alumni in over 200 countries.
We have alumni groups worldwide and you can join our online platform Imperial Plexus to help you build links with other former students.
In Africa these include:
Ghana-born Mechanical Engineering student, Vishal reflects on his first trip to our campus and feeling at home straight away.
He discusses all the academic support available and the importance of joining clubs and societies to make friends
Vishal talks: African food in our library cafe, the academic support available and making friends
Thu 13 November 2025, 12.00 – 13.00 GMT
Tue 18 November 2025, 10.00 – 11.00 GMT
Thu 27 November 2025, 12.00 – 13.00 GMT
The Imperial representative for Africa is Roberta Geraci, Senior International Recruitment Officer.
Get in touch
In our new Shifting The Lens series, Imperial staff and students have opened up about their culture and heritage .
Read about their lives outside of the College – from the festivals they celebrate to the challenges they have faced.
Solar-grids and safari: Moving IMPACT partners' first meeting in Kenya
01 July 2025
11 April 2025
04 April 2025
13 March 2025
21 February 2025

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/international-students/information-by-region/caribbean:
The African Caribbean society is a welcoming community for people of any and every background.
Afrogala is Imperial’s African Caribbean society’s flagship annual event.
All Imperial students graduate at the world famous Royal Albert Hall, which is next door to the Students' Union building on our South Kensington Campus.
Imperial Varsity is the biggest event in the Imperial Athletes sporting calendar, where the College and medics battle it out in many different sports.
Our annual Welcome Fair is the place to find out more about our 380+ student-led clubs, societies and projects in Imperial College Union.
As a student in London, you'll be welcomed into a city where over 300 languages are spoken and where over 100,000 students from 200 countries come to study each year.
Imperial is ranked as one of the UK's most international universities and located in the heart of the Best Student City in the World .
Each year we welcome students from over 100 countries.
The Caribbean nations currently represented at Imperial include:
You can submit your results after you have applied; this is usual practice in the UK and is the reason why you must tell us which qualifications you are taking on your UCAS application.
Exact entry requirements vary by course -  see the entry requirements section on our course pages for details of the range of international qualifications we accept.
If your school qualification is not on the list of accepted qualifications, you may be considered by taking an accepted Foundation programme, or an accepted qualification at an external provider - see our course pages for details.
You can also find our English Language requirements here , which you need to satisfy even if English is your native language - check the relevant course page to see whether your course of interest requires the standard or higher standard for entry.
You can search all of our scholarships in one place .
Examples of scholarships for students from the Caribbean include:
All of our clubs, societies and projects are open to all students, though you may find the African Caribbean society of particular interest.
In our Shifting The Lens series , Imperial staff and students have opened up about their culture and heritage.
The Imperial representative for the Caribbean is Catherine Eames, International Student Recruitment Manager.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/international-students/information-by-region/central-and-south-america:
Our Brazil Forum acts as a focal point for students and academic staff involved or interested in Brazilian issues or currently working with Brazilian institutions.
The Imperial Dance Club has a rich history of over 50 years of nurturing award winning dancers and helping young novice get started on their dancing journey.
All Imperial student graduate in the world famous concert hall, the Royal Albert Hall, which is next door to our Students' Union building on our South Kensington Campus.
Our Welcome Fair is the place to find out about our 380+ student-run clubs, societies and projects, including the Imperial College Parachuting and Skydiving club shown here.
The Shaping the Future of Latin America Symposium, organised by the Latin America Society, was attended by nearly 130 delegates including several Latin American ambassadors to the UK, science attachés and researchers with an interest in the continent.
Leaders from Imperial and University of São Paulo sign new research and education partnership.
Many Imperial departments have long-standing active collaborations with Central and South America, in areas ranging from engineering, aeronautics, geosciences and mining to energy and climate change, land use, biodiversity and ecosystems, as well as public health.
Central and South American nations currently represented amongst our student community include Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico and Peru.
Find out more about our connections with Central and South America with Imperial Global .
Boris Fernando Ochoa-Toachi (Ecuador), PhD Civil Engineering
If we want to offer you a place, but you have not yet taken your final school exams , then we would usually make you a 'conditional offer'.
Y ou can submit your results after you have applied; this is usual practice in the UK and is the reason why you must let us know which qualifications you are taking on your UCAS application.
Exact entry requirements vary by course - see the entry requirements section on our our course pages for details on the range of international qualifications we accept.
Examples of funding for students from Central and South America include:
We have clubs and societies covering arts and entertainment, charitable endeavours, culture, departmental and academic-related societies, societies related to faith, media societies (two student newspapers, student radio and TV stations and a photography society) and over 100 sports clubs, including martial arts and indoor and outdoor sports.
All of our societies are open to all students but here are some you may find of particular interest:
Hear from Jose Cuadros Adriazola, a Civil and Environmental Engineering student from Peru.
Joining an international university was a top priority for Jose.
The diverse make-up of the faculty, students and course topics meant he was not disappointed at Imperial.
The Master’s in Hydrology and Water Resource Management has given Jose the opportunity to understand complex theories, travel around the world and apply what he has learned to real life situations.
Hear from Herman, an Electrical and Electronic Engineering student from Ecuador.
Herman studied the MSc in Communications and Signal Processing and shares how he first discovered the subject, motivations for studying the course and how he approached his project work.
Communications and Signal Processing helps to develop an in-depth knowledge of modern information engineering problems and their solutions.
The Imperial representative for Central and South America is Catherine Eames, International Student Recruitment Manager.
Imperial and University of São Paulo sign new research and education partnership
14 May 2024
Latin American Women in STEM: ESE unveils video interview series
04 March 2024
16 August 2023
24 March 2023
21 February 2023
26 April 2022

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/international-students/information-by-region/east-asia:
China State Visit of President Xi Jinping at Imperial and the Chinese First Lady Peng Liyuan.
The CSC Secretary General Dr Liu Jinghui and Imperial's President Alice Gast launch a new Joint Programme for Innovative Talent Training between Imperial and the China Scholarship Council - signed as President Xi Jinping visited Imperial in 2015.
Dr Reiko Tanaka from Department of Bioengineering – a former PhD at the University of Tokyo and Assistant Professor at Keio University.
Hong Kong's Chief Executive Carrie Lam used her first official visit to the UK to see Imperial's technological lead in medical robotics.
Imperial's Welcome Fair is the place to find out about our 380+ student-run clubs, societies and projects, including the Chinese Society, pictured here.
Civil Engineering student Xiaoxiao Ding was shot for Imperial's Regular Giving Direct Mail appeal in June 2017; she’s also a former telephone campaign caller.
Imperial Varsity is the biggest event in the Imperial Athletes sporting calendar, where the university and medics battle it out in many different sports.
Student's here compete in Badminton at Ethos Sports Centre.
East Asian nations currently represented at Imperial include: China, including Hong Kong, Macau; Taiwan; Japan and South Korea.
In addition, the College is very active in the East Asia region, with several key institutional partners particularly in China and South Korea.
Vanessa Ho (Hong Kong), BSc Chemistry
Exact entry requirements vary by course - see the entry requirements section on our course pages for details of the range of international qualifications we accept.
All departments expect you to pass required subjects, normally with an A* or A at A-level or an overall grade of 7 or 6 at Higher Level of the IB or grade 5–5* in HKDSE (or equivalent).
Successful applicants would have studied the right combination of the relevant subjects in their qualifications.
The subject and grade requirements for each course are published on our course pages.
Our subject requirements are defined as follows:
You can submit your results after you have applied; this is usual practice in the UK and is the reason why you must specify clearly which exams you are due to take on your UCAS application.
Please note that we do not consider the following qualifications sufficient for entry to any of our degrees at Imperial, but you may be considered by taking an accepted Foundation programme, or an accepted qualification at an external provider:
Please note that there are two levels of English language requirement at Imperial:
Our English language requirement page has more information about the requirements for each level.
If you have studied one of our recognised English language qualifications as part of your High School studies (e.g.
IGCSE English, HKDSE English, IB English etc.), you may be exempt from the need to provide additional evidence of your English language ability.
Postgraduate study at Imperial is intense and intellectually demanding.
If we do require any additional testing it will be clearly stated on the course page.
Full details can be found on the relevant course page and English language requirement page.
You can search all of our scholarships in one place.
Examples of scholarships for students from East Asia include:
All of our clubs, societies and projects are open to all students, though below are some that you may find of particular interest.
A nd if there isn’t a society for the things you love yet, you can set one up!
All of our societies are open to all students, and can found here , but here are some you may find of particular interest:
In East Asia, these include:
Hear from Adrian, an Environmental Technology student from Hong Kong.
Join MSc Environmental Technology student Adrian, who is from Hong Kong, on a tour of his studio at GradPad's Griffon Studios in Battersea.
GradPad is a private accommodation provider for postgraduates in London, which many Imperial students call home.
Hear from Louie, a Life Sciences student from Hong Kong.
A love of insects and passion for the environment landed postgraduate student Louie a very important job, Head Apiarist of the Environmental Society.
Discover what Louie gets up to in the role and how being an active member of a society has shaped his Imperial experience.
Sohyeon is a Applied Machine Learning student at Imperial.
She talks about her motivations for studying a postgraduate degree, her favourite aspects of the course and the friends she made along the way.
The MSc in Applied Machine Learning teaches students how to design, implement and evaluate machine learning systems.
The Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering offer five specialist postgraduate courses that combine lectures, tutorials, and practical laboratories to cultivate advanced technical engineering skills.
Tianyi studied the MSc in Control and Optimisation at Imperial.
She shares her background prior to doing a Master's, her favourite aspects of the curriculum and aspirations for the future.
The MSc in Control and Optimisation focuses on aspects of control theory and optimisation and their application to the design of automated systems.
Studying at Imperial helped Tongyue advance his technical and research skills, and increased his exposure of an international work environment.
Outside of studying, he met lots of other students that he not only learned from, but formed friendships with, so they could enjoy life in London together.
The Imperial representative for East Asia is Jake Ganymede, Senior International Recruitment Officer.
Imperial hosts landmark UK-Korea symposium on Engineering Biology
Imperial Global Singapore celebrates a year of research collaboration and impact
16 April 2025
17 October 2024
27 September 2024
06 September 2024
26 January 2024

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/international-students/information-by-region/europe:
All Imperial students graduate in the world famous concert hall, the Royal Albert Hall, which is next door to our Students' Union building on our South Kensington Campus.
Imperial's Welcome Fair is the place to find out about our 380+ student-run clubs, societies and projects, including the Drone Society, pictured here.
Diverse academic community - join students and staff from all over the world to study alongside and learn from.
Imperial is proud of the innovations, ideas and inspiration that come from the European members of its community, which includes 2,800 students and over 2,000 staff.
European nations represented here include Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and Türkiye .
In the last decade alone, Imperial has published more than 60,000 research papers with European partners.
Find out more about our work in Europe at Imperial Global .
Liu Haoyun (Switzerland) BSc Biochemistry and Management
Exact entry requirements vary by course - see the entry requirements on our course pages for details of the range of international qualifications we accept.
Our English language requirement page has more information about the requirements for each level.
You can submit your degree results after you have made your application, which is normal practice in the UK.
Examples of scholarships for students from Europe include:
You may also want to look at the British Council's guide to local funding sources for EU students to study in the UK for funding opportunities at undergraduate and postgraduate level.
If you need to complete National Service and you apply to Imperial two years before you are due to complete this, you should initially apply for deferred entry.
If your place is confirmed within the UCAS cycle in which you apply, you can then contact the relevant Admissions team the next July to request another deferment of your place to the following year (i.e.
In Europe these include:
Hear from Catherine about studying at Imperial
Hear from Eva about studying at Imperial
Hear from Hortense about studying at Imperial
Hear from Evandros about studying at Imperial
Hear from Lorraine about studying at Imperial
Second-year Biology student Lorraine shares a jammed packed 48 hours of activities across London.
From trying delicious food and watching West End shows to exploring nature on the outskirts of the city, there's something for everyone!
Tue 14 October 2025 – Thu 16 October 2025, 10.00 – 16.00 CEST
Sat 18 October 2025 – Sun 19 October 2025, 13.00 – 18.00 UTC+03
Mon 3 November 2025, 10.00 – 12.00 CET
The Imperial representative for Europe is Roberta Geraci, Senior International Recruitment Officer.
Imperial awarded European COST Action Funding
27 June 2025
05 June 2025
01 May 2025
30 April 2025

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/international-students/information-by-region/middle-east:
The annual Welcome Fair is the place to find out more about our 380+ student-run clubs, societies and projects, like the Skydiving society pictured here.
Ethos sports centre on our South Kensington Campus supports a wide range of sporting activities, from fencing (pictured here) to swimming in the 25m pool to exercise in the on-site gym.
Noura Zamzam is a PhD student and is supported by an Award from The Leverhulme Trust.
Noura works on ultrafast measurements of photosynthesis.
Imperial has an age-old tradition of mascotry, symbolising its spirit and character.
Pictured here are Move Imperial's mascots Victoria and Albert and Imperial College School of Medicine Union's mascot, Phoenix.
Imperial College Saudi Society is one of over 380 student-run clubs, societies and projects.
Each year, we welcome students from over 100 countries.
This includes over 300 students from the Middle East.
The countries with greatest student numbers include: Egypt, Iran, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, UAE, and Turkey.
Find out more about our large number of partnerships with universities, research institutes and industry in the MENA region at Imperial Global .
Saeed Alshiri (Saudi Arabia) PhD Chemical Engineering
Exact entry requirements vary by course - see the entry requirements on our course pages for details of the range of international qualifications we accept.
If your school qualification is not on the list of accepted qualifications, you may be considered by taking an accepted Foundation programme, or an accepted qualification at an external provider - see our course pages for details.
You can submit your overall GPA after you have made your application, which is normal practice in the UK.
Examples of scholarships for students from the Middle East include:
Saïd Foundation Scholarship ( Syrian, Jordanian, Lebanese or Palestinian nationals)
There is a student-run Islamic prayer room on campus with separate male and female areas available.
Three multi-faith prayer rooms are also available in the Chaplaincy Multi-Faith Centre for use by all faith groups.
All university accommodation is self-catered.
Halal and vegetarian options are also available in catering outlets on campus.
In our new Shifting The Lens series, Imperial staff and students have opened up about their culture and heritage.
In the Middle East these include:
Sat 4 October 2025, 10.00 – 11.00 GST
Sat 11 October 2025 – Sun 12 October 2025, 16.00 – 19.30 GST
Mon 13 October 2025, 16.00 – 19.30 GST
The Imperial representative for the Middle East is Alice Crichton, Senior International Recruitment Officer.
Imperial celebrates Kuwait links with first alumni event
15 April 2024
Imperial launches new scholarship programme for Lebanese students
12 October 2023
24 November 2021
02 September 2021
13 August 2021

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/international-students/information-by-region/north-america:
The annual Welcome Fair is the place to find out about our 380+ clubs, societies and projects including Imperial's Cheerleading society.
President of the United States, Joe Biden, delivering the inaugural lecture of the Imperial Cancer Research UK (CRUK) Centre (Oct 2018).
Pictured here are Move Imperial's mascots Victoria and Albert, named after Queen Victoria and Prince Albert.
The Techtonics - Imperial's all-male student a cappella group – were the first non-US group to be named the international champions of collegiate a cappella in 2016.
There are several long-standing exchange programmes between Imperial and American universities, including the University of California, MIT, and Carnegie Mellon University.
The College also collaborates on a number of short-term summer programmes with partners including MIT and the University of British Columbia (UBC).
These allow undergraduates from both institutions to undertake a period of supervised research overseas at the partner institution.
Other collaborations include the Global Fellows Programme , supporting high impact international placements for PhD students in labs at partner institutions include Cornell and the University of Toronto, and the MIT-Imperial Seed Fund to kick start early stage and 'blue skies' research.
Find out more about our work with North America at Imperial Global , including Imperial Global USA , a dedicated US hub that will enhance our research partnerships with US academic and industrial partners and support our growing US alumni network and student recruitment opportunities.
Tyler Sorensen (USA), PhD Computing
A key difference between university study in England and North America is that we do not teach any general courses, meaning that you need to choose a particular subject area before you apply.
This allows you to achieve a greater depth of knowledge in your chosen specialism from the very first year, studying more advanced specialist modules that are tied to our research, as the course progresses.
If we want to offer you a place, but you have not yet taken your exams, then we would usually make you a 'conditional offer'.
This means we will guarantee you a place at Imperial subject to you satisfying the conditions of your offer, such as achieving certain scores in your final qualifications.
You can submit your results after you have applied; this is usual practice in the UK.
Exact entry requirements vary by course - see the entry requirements section on our our course pages for details of the range of international qualifications we accept.
We accept Canadian provincial high school diplomas with scores of 85%–90% overall across all grade 12 subjects, including 85%–90% in at least five grade 12 subjects including required subjects (exact requirements will depend upon on your degree of interest).
APs are not required for students from Canadian schools, but may be considered as part of the application if submitted.
We do not accept ACT or SAT scores for entry at undergraduate level.
Instead we're seeking a minimum of 3–4 AP tests with scores of 5 (see our course pages for required subjects).
These are expected alongside your high school diploma.
You can also find our English language requirements here, which you need to satisfy even if English is your native language – check the relevant course page to see whether your course of interest requires the standard or higher standard for entry.
You can find out what else we are looking for in an application on our how to apply pages.
If you're applying for a Doctoral degree, you should usually hold a Master's degree – the grades you require will be specified by the Department you're applying to.
Successful applicants will need to achieve a certain level of English to qualify for a place on their chosen course, even if English is your native language.
Each course specifies either a Standard or Higher language requirement, which is the level of English required for entry on to that particular course.
A number of Imperial students from the US gain a prestigious Fulbright or Marshall scholarship.
Read more about one such scholar, Nick Schwartz , who studied MSc Advanced Mechanical Engineering.
Examples of funding for students from North America include:
If life at Imperial was all labs and lectures, we wouldn’t have around 350 clubs and societies to get involved with.
In North America these include:
Hear from Lindsey Payne, an Advanced Aeronautical Engineering student from Chicago, Illinois.
Lindsey was drawn to Imperial after hearing recommendations from her undergraduate professors.
And since starting her Master’s, she’s gained exposure to a wide variety of modules, offering intersectional learning across a range of subjects.
Jared wanted to find a challenging academic course that would help him develop a creative approach to working with new technology.
This led him to joining the Master’s in Advanced Mechanical Engineering.
Since joining Imperial, Jared has become part of the Rolls-Royce University Technology Centre for Vibration Research, working closely with their engineers and researchers.
Claire, a third-year Aerospace Engineering and Physics student from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) joined us to spend time with our Aeronautics department to work on her research project and explore London in the process.
Sat 20 September 2025, 15.00 – 17.30 EDT
Sun 21 September 2025, 13.00 – 16.00 EDT
Tue 23 September 2025, 17.30 – 21.00 EDT
Sat 27 September 2025, 11.00 – 13.00 MDT
Sat 27 September 2025, 14.00 – 17.30 MDT
Sun 28 September 2025, 12.00 – 14.30 MDT
Tue 30 September 2025, 16.00 – 19.00 CDT
Fri 3 October 2025, 15.00 – 19.00 PDT
The Imperial representative for North America is Catherine Eames, International Student Recruitment Manager.
Imperial and MIT announce latest winners of research seed fund
16 May 2025
Imperial startup raises £2.5m to take innovative joint replacements to the US
01 April 2025
19 February 2025
31 January 2025
06 November 2024

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/international-students/information-by-region/oceania:
The College has been welcoming students from Australia and New Zealand for many years.
Imperial's main campus is in the heart of South Kensington, with buildings new and old and plenty of places to relax and catch up with friends.
Our graduates join a global community of Imperial Alumni with regional groups including the Alumni Association of New South Wales, Australia and the Alumni Association of Western Australia.
All first-year students, who meet our terms and conditions, are guaranteed a place in halls, which is a great way to make friends when you first arrive in the UK.
Renee Tonkin (New Zealand)
PhD Materials Research
Australia is one of Imperial’s top research collaborators and we have connections with many leading universities and organisations in the region including University of Auckland, University of Otago, ANU, University of Melbourne, Monash University, the University of Queensland, CSIRO, the Australian Academy of Science, EMBL Australia, and Geoscience Australia.
Through recent collaborations, our researchers have helped confirm Australia’s Yarrabubba crater as the world’s oldest preserved impact structure ; helped to better understand underwater earthquakes in the Hikurangi subduction zone near New Zealand; and shown that an antiviral reducing influenza spread in ferrets could help control flu outbreaks.
In December 2020, Professor Miia Kivipelto was awarded the 2020 Ryman Prize for over 20 years of research into Alzheimer's Disease and dementia.
The annual prize was by the Right Honourable Jacinda Arden, Prime Minister of New Zealand.
Many of our undergraduate courses offer an option of a year abroad with previous exchange students in Bioengineering, Chemical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Earth Science and Engineering and Mechanical Engineering studying at partner universities in Australia.
Imperial has been welcoming students from Oceania for many years.
Exact entry requirements vary by course - see our course pages for details of the range of international qualifications we accept.
All of our clubs, societies and projects are open to all students, though you may find the Australian Society of particular interest.
Vanessa Tang (New Zealand), MEng Chemical Engineering
In Oceania these include:
Come along to a Community Collider event with Chan, a BSc Biology student from Australia.
Community Collider is a monthly social that brings together entrepreneurs from every corner of Imperial College London.
It's a fantastic opportunity to make new friends, meet future collaborators and join the Enterprise Lab community in a friendly, relaxed and creative environment.
The Imperial representative for Oceania is Chloe McClean, Senior International Recruitment Officer.
Cheetahs’ unrivalled speed explained by their ‘sweet spot’ size, finds study
12 March 2024
Imperial biochemist elected to Australian Academy of Science
25 May 2022
28 April 2021
12 April 2021
12 March 2021
22 October 2020

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/international-students/information-by-region/russia-and-central-asia:
Diverse academic community – join students and staff from all over the world to study alongside and learn from.
Russia and Central Asian nations currently represented at Imperial include Kazakhstan and Russia.
Petr Gusakov (Russia), MSc Economics & Strategy for Business
Exact entry requirements vary by course - see the entry requirements section on our course page s for details of the range of international qualifications we accept.
Examples of scholarships for students from Russia and Central Asia include:
The Imperial representative for Russia and Central Asia is Roberta Geraci, Senior International Recruitment Officer.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/international-students/information-by-region/south-asia:
The annual Welcome Fair is the place to find out more about our 380+ student-run clubs, societies and projects.
The Racing Green Formula student team of Mechanical Engineering undergraduates in the pit garage with the Formula Student Car.
Student's here compete in Cricket at Ethos Sports Centre.
South Asian nations currently represented at Imperial include:
The College has a long history of links with South Asia.
The first partnerships between academics at the College and the Indian Institute of Technology Delhi began in the 1950s and continues to this day.
Find out more about these links with Imperial Global .
Thisara Niriella (Sri Lanka), MEng Biomedical Engineering
Find step-by-step instructions on how to apply; you can also visit the UCAS website for more in-depth advice.
If your school qualification is not on the list of accepted qualifications, you may be considered by taking an accepted Foundation programme, or an accepted qualification at an external provider - see our course pages for details.
A PhD with us will usually take 3-4 years of full-time study to complete.
Examples of scholarships for students from South Asia include:
Hardik Rajpal (India), President's PhD scholar
In South Asia these include:
Hear from Pranjal Mathur, an Environmental Technology student from India.
Pranjal always had an interest in climate change, and studied the engineering aspect at undergraduate level.
Building on his engineering knowledge, the Master’s in Environmental Technology provided an interdisciplinary learning experience to solve environmental problems and address sustainability.
Hear from Lubaina, a student who relocated from India.
Lubaina shares her favourite places to explore and how she makes the most of her experience of living in London.
Hear from Prateek, an Analogue and Digital Integrated Circuit Design student from India.
Prateek shares why he chose to study a postgraduate course, how he started a new society at Imperial and the road to becoming an entrepreneur.
The MSc in Analogue and Digital Integrated Circuit Design provides experience in the practical issues of device-level design and system-level performance requirements.
For any enquiries for South Asia , please email us.
The Imperial representative for India is Samreen Khan.
Please use the link below Samreen's photo to get in touch.
From Southall to South Kensington
06 August 2025
Imperial’s leading cleantech startups make connections during India Venture Trek
12 June 2025
21 May 2025
10 April 2025
03 September 2024

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/international-students/information-by-region/south-east-asia:
Our Aerial Robotics Lab was built with a kind donation from Mr Brahmal Vasudevan, Imperial alumnus from Malaysia and the founder and Chief Executive Officer of Creador.
Imperial opens first overseas research and innovation centre in Singapore in collaboration with Nanyang Technological University (NTU, Singapore).
Finalists of the annual Faculty of Natural Sciences 'Make a Difference' competition.
Ecoflow's project aims to use fruit peel to remove arsenic from underground well-water in Asia.
The South East Asian nations currently represented at Imperial include:
At the undergraduate level, the College is a partner in NTU's (Singapore) Renaissance Engineering Programme which allows the top 50 engineering students at NTU to train at Imperial (or other partner universities) for one year of their four-and-a-half year integrated programme.
The programme combines the study of engineering, science, technology, business, economics and entrepreneurship.
Find out more about our work in South East Asia at Imperial Global , including Imperial Global Singapore , where our scientists work closely with university, industry, government, and third-sector partners in Singapore.
The Centre, which builds on the longstanding partnership with Nanyang Technological University, Singapore (NTU Singapore), will enable scientists to rapidly scale new breakthroughs and technology to societal benefit and commercialisation in southeast Asia.
Exact entry requirements vary by course - see the entry requirements section on our course pages for details of the range of international qualifications we accept.
Examples of scholarships for students from South East Asia include:
The British High Commission Singapore has also compiled a list of scholarships and fellowships for Singaporeans keen to undertake research collaboration in the UK.
Imperial College Union organises and funds our huge range of student activities.
A nd if you find there isn’t a society for the things you love yet, they can help you can set one up!
Halal and vegetarian options are also available in catering outlets on campus
In South East Asia these include:
Aim, a BSc Biotechnology student at Imperial College London shares how she made use of Imperial’s Careers Service to secure an internship in her home country of Thailand.
She describes what support you can receive from our Careers Service and the resources that are available to help you to achieve your career goals.
Nafisa, a third-year Biological Sciences student takes you around some of her favourite places to study at our South Kensington Campus.
The Imperial representative for South East Asia is Chloe McClean, Senior International Recruitment Officer.
Imperial and Singapore’s HTX commit to partnership in public safety research
Thai Minister opens new MUT-Imperial SABER Lab focused on semiconductor research
06 June 2025
03 June 2025
24 March 2025
14 November 2024

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/international-students/information-by-region/imperial-visits:
Connect with Imperial and join our mailing list.
You'll receive event invites and get useful updates about studying with us direct to your inbox.
Join our mailing list

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/international-students/information-by-region/ask-us:
If you are an international student considering studying at Imperial, please email us at international-recruitment@imperial.ac.uk .
Our friendly International Student Recruitment team is here to answer any questions you may have.
If you're a current international student at Imperial and you have questions about student visas, ATAS, or other immigration issues, please email the International Student Support team at international@imperial.ac.uk .
If you are a visiting student and you have a question about student exchanges and other opportunities for visiting students at Imperial, please check out our Visiting student pages and email the relevant Admissions Team if you have any questions.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/international-students/international-student-support:
Explore the support available for international students at one of the UK's most international universities.
We provide specialist support for international students to ensure you have the best experience possible, both before and after you get here.
These are just some of the services and resources our dedicated team provides.
If you have any questions about entry requirements or the admissions process, please contact the admissions team of the department you are interested in joining.
If you have any specific questions, please visit the International Student Support site to arrange to speak to our team.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/international-students/agents:
Some agencies provide free, impartial information about studying in the UK, like The British Council.
However, many agents earn money by connecting students with universities.
They may have agreements with universities and get paid for each student they recruit.
Others charge students for application help.
No agreements : We do not have agreements with any agents or counsellors for the purposes of student recruitment.
No commissions : We do not pay commissions for student referrals.
No endorsements : We do not endorse any agent services.
Beware of agents who :
We reserve the right to take legal action against any agents claiming to represent Imperial.
Using an agent to apply to Imperial does not offer any benefits.
If you decide to use an agent, remember that all information in your application will be treated as if you provided it yourself.
This includes any mistakes, even if you did not know about them.
If you are a counsellor or advisor, or a student interested in applying to Imperial, we can provide free information about Imperial and our application process.
For accurate information, please contact the International Recruitment Team.
You can find the contact details for your regional representative on our Information by region pages.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/study/international-students/contact-us:
Our International Student Recruitment team is on hand to provide more information about our degree courses and Imperial student life.
If you're a prospective international student or an international teacher/counsellor, please use our enquiry form to contact us and we'll be happy to help you.
We can also let you know if we'll be attending an education event near you soon.
Contact the International Student Recruitment team
For information about student visas, ATAS or other related immigration queries please contact the International Student Support team.
For more information on international student support, visas and immigration, and the Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS), please email the International Student Support team: international@imperial.ac.uk
Our International Relations Office is a central team which supports the development of Imperial's international relationships with:
Please contact the Office by emailing international.relations@imperial.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/students/accommodation/prospective:
From vibrant social spaces to quiet study rooms, our halls offer a variety of living options.
Thinking about living in halls?
This guide has everything you need — explore your options, see what’s in a room, take a tour, get key application dates and more!
Take a look at our undergraduate accommodation options
Quickly compare our halls' room types, prices, facilities, and proximity to campus.
Explore the application process and ensure you're up to date with all the key dates.
Take a look at our fees and payment options.
Take a look at our postgraduate accommodation options
Find out more about our accommodation for students studying at Silwood Park.
We have plenty of resources to help you find accommodation in the private sector.
The Student Accommodation Code
Our halls are signed up for The Student Accommodation Code guaranteeing your right to safe and quality accommodation.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/institute-of-extended-learning:
We will help to future-proof careers, businesses and communities by providing the advanced skills training and values-driven leadership needed to thrive in a tech-enabled world.
For humanity to thrive in a science and tech-driven world, higher learning institutions must act quickly and decisively.
Our new Imperial Institute of Extended Learning expands beyond degree programmes to offer advanced STEMB training.
Working with Imperial academic departments and our new Schools of Convergence Science, the Institute provides advanced skills training for individuals, businesses, governments and other knowledge organisations.
We equip professionals with cutting-edge business, tech, and leadership skills, offering innovative learning, leading faculty, and a global alumni network.
We give you the tools to improve the clarity, effectiveness and impact of your academic and technical communication.
We partner with academic, education and professional colleagues to design and co-create innovative, accessible digital learning experiences and solutions.
We empower lifelong learners through advanced education in STEMB disciplines, enabling them to stay at the forefront of innovation and industry developments.
Attending a summer school is a great way to explore your interest in STEMB and discover more about Imperial.
Executive Education partnered with Bain & Company,  a global strategic management consulting firm, to deliver a bespoke and blended ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance)  programme.
Together, we were able to rapidly upskill all 600 of their UK consultants, equipping them with the knowledge and skills needed to embed sustainable development and ESG expertise into their work.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/Stories/my-imperial-story-blessings:
BSc Mathematics
I'm Blessings and I study BSc Mathematics at Imperial.
I was interested in studying at Imperial College London because I wanted to study at a top university and I wanted to be in London â Imperial ticked both those boxes.
Being from Nottingham meant that the prospect of living in London was really exciting for me, making Imperial the obvious choice.
I had always enjoyed maths but didnât plan to study it at university until I began learning more complex mathematics.
One book in particular inspired me â Music of the Primes: Why an Unsolved Problem in Mathematics Matters.
This book talks about the history of the Riemann Hypothesis, how the problem evolved, and the many different ways people have approached and attempted to solve it.
Itâs the creativity of maths that appeals to me, and how there are probably infinite ways to solve a problem and come to the same answer.
It had always been my favourite and best subject â that only grew in sixth form, so I decided to go for it.
Studying maths at Imperial can be challenging academically.
The emphasis on rigorous proofs in maths is tasking and Iâve found that understanding content tends to be a challenge for me.
The phrase every maths student has heard at least once is that âMaths is not a spectator sportâ.
Overcoming this has just been a case of sheer perseverance and reading â understanding and completing as many proofs as possible to get used to the methods and rigour used at university level.
In my first year I got to research a topic individually and present it on a poster.
The title for my poster was: âThe impact of glucagon on the glucose system and diabetesâ and I looked at how we could use mathematics to model diabetes.
This was a nice change to my usual day-to-day, as I got to see the maths that I study every day come to life in a more tangible way.
Societies are a big part of Imperial life and the ones Iâm most involved in are Imperial College School of Medicine Football Club and the African-Caribbean Society (ACS).
Blessings and the Afro-Caribbean Society
Playing footbal with Imperial College School of Medicine Football Club
In my role as Sponsorship Officer, I ran a number of career events, including an Internship Insider event attended by students from University College London (UCL) and Queen Mary University of London (QMUL).
It was also supported by the bank, HSBC, which is one of the ACSâs supporters.
Iâm now the President of the ACS.
The previous President inspired me to run for the role by involving me in some of the responsibilities and I found myself really enjoying them.
I like helping people and being able to pass on my experience of things I didnât know when I applied for or started university and that I would have found useful.
We run some big events â like Afrogala â which are a lot of fun, but they tend to be less frequent.
This year, my focus is on creating more regular, intimate social events.
I think it is important to play sports too.
Iâm part of the Imperial College School of Medicine Football Club (you donât need to be a Medicine student to join!).
Iâve enjoyed having weekly social events and the sense of community that comes from meeting regularly.
It means I also get to compete in sports events like the Imperial Varsity â one of the most exciting days of the year at Imperial â and is something to look forward to every year.
The Imperial Bursary has been really valuable for me.
With the Bursary, you can get between Â£1,000 and Â£5,000 each year, and itâs paid to you monthly.
I received the Imperial Bursary in my first and second years.
It helped me to pay for a Travelcard, which made things easier by not having to think about covering travel expenses.
After studying at Imperial, I hope to go into finance, particularly trading â this has been the plan since starting my degree and is part of the reason I chose to study maths.
I have done various tasks to work towards this goal, such as completing the Spring Insight Programmes at firms like Jane Street and Credit Suisse, networking with quantitative traders, and Iâve also completed an internship with the bank BNP Paribas.
First, although you get a lot of independence at university, you don't need to feel like you have to tackle everything on your own.
Things like 'problems classes' and officer hours are really useful tools.
They give you the chance to ask any questions you have one-to-one with either a Graduate Teaching Assistant or a lecturer, who is very likely to be a leading figure in their field of study.
Second, use all the resources and opportunities given to you, both career-wise and academically.
I would recommend attending some of the careers fairs held on campus to talk to recruiters and get an idea as to what you would like to do.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research:
Imperial undertakes fundamental, discovery-led research, while encouraging technology transfer, policy interventions, start ups and industry connections.
A commitment to excellence in all of these underpins everything we do.
The College is committed to research excellence, supported by a culture of integrity, good governance and best practice that encourages courageous research with a global outlook.
Our Global Challenge Institutes were created to address some of the most important issues facing the world today - issues that are too big to be tackled by individual academics or teams.
Imperial Multi-Faculty Centres of Excellence aim to galvanise a critical mass of researchers, transcending Faculty boundaries to support a multidisciplinary theme.
Imperial Multi-Faculty Networks of Excellence aim to establish and grow connections around an important multidisciplinary area that is being explored at early stages.
Read the latest research news stories from across the College.
These pages define the standards of research governance and integrity essential to the College's reputation and success.
The College has adopted the definitions of research misconduct set out in the UK Research Integrity Office model procedures.
Animal research at Imperial
Search a directory of all research groups.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/enduring-excellence-in-research:
Imperial is a research powerhouse.
Our people share ideas, expertise and technology to answer the big scientific questions and global challenges.
Top links
Imperial research is defined by its internationalism, innovation and impact.
Two-thirds of our research involves an international collaborator, spanning more than 130 countries, making us the UK’s most international university.
Our talented staff don’t just cross borders; they transcend traditional academic disciplines to tackle major societal issues.
Challenges like climate change, future energy supplies, antibiotic resistance and national security can only be tackled by bringing together highly collaborative, multidisciplinary teams.
Such partnerships require patience and curiosity and will thrive in environments in which the facilities and research ethos are outstanding.
There are many strands to a world class research university.
This excellence is how we expand the frontiers of knowledge in science, medicine, engineering and business, and translate those discoveries into benefits for society.
Vice-Provost (Research and Enterprise)

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/enduring-excellence-in-research/imperial-in-numbers:
The infographic above shows the following:
For the 2017-18 academic year:
In the 2017-18 financial year:
Research grants and contract income in 2017-18 was £372 million comprising of:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/enduring-excellence-in-research/our-approach:
We have five key themes in our approach to research: we sustain our core academic disciplines, develop our multidisciplinary research, support and nurture our research talent, build exceptional partnerships, and create impact, in the UK and across the world.
Imperial’s research is world leading, and our success originates in the strength of our core academic disciplines.
We draw upon the strength and depth of our knowledge within our core disciplines to foster multidisciplinary working.
People are the key to Imperial’s success.
We attract the best talent and offer opportunities and support to our community at all levels of academic pursuit.
Our partnerships are vital to our success, and we continue to seek new opportunities for collaboration whilst strengthening existing ties.
Our research changes the world.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/enduring-excellence-in-research/our-approach/sustain-world-class-core-academic-disciplines:
By pursuing fundamental science, we sustain and develop the very best research.
We have tremendous strength in the core disciplines practiced by our academic departments.
This was demonstrated in the 2014 Research Excellence Framework, in which over 90 per cent of the research submitted by Imperial was judged to be world leading or internationally excellent – a greater proportion than any other major university.
This excellence is broadly found across all our disciplines and applies equally to our research outputs, impact and environment.
These strengths provide us with the underpinning capability required to work together across disciplines in order to address global challenges.
Fields medallist Professor Martin Hairer, from the Department of Mathematics , researches phenomena in space and time that have some random input, which can be described by stochastic partial differential equations.
These systems are everywhere - for example when you stir a cup of coffee.
The movement can be described by space and time, in terms of the velocity of the movement of the coffee, but the stirring introduces a random element.
Professor Hairer has made fundamental advances in the field, creating a new theory that provides tools for addressing problems that until now had seemed impenetrable.
Imperial researchers, working with NHS partners in the Imperial College Academic Health Science Centre ( Develop effective partnerships ) seek to improve patient outcomes by harnessing scientific discoveries and translating them as quickly as possible into new diagnostics, devices and therapies.
GripAble™ is a simple, low-cost device designed by a team of researchers led by Dr Paul Bentley from the Division of Brain Sciences .
Over 5 million people in the UK live with arm weakness and the only effective intervention is repetitive, task-specific exercise.
GripAble™ features a lightweight electronic handgrip that interacts with a computer to enable the user to play arm-training games.
Testing at hospitals within the Imperial College NHS Trust has shown that using the device increases the proportion of paralysed stroke patients able to direct movements on a tablet screen by 50 per cent compared to standard methods.
Professor Michele Dougherty, Head of the Department of Physics , was principal investigator for the magnetometer instrument that was aboard the Cassini spacecraft on its mission to explore Saturn and its surroundings.
The team’s innovative use of magnetic field data has had an enormous impact on our understanding of the moons in our Solar System.
The Department of Chemistry originated with the establishment of the Royal College of Chemistry in 1845.
Today the Department is based in new state-of-the-art facilities at our White City Campus.
The Molecular Sciences Research Hub gives the Department space to grow to become one of the largest in the world, with research spanning across the whole range of modern molecular science.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/enduring-excellence-in-research/our-approach/foster-multidisciplinary-research:
C ollaboration between disciplines is essential for responding to today’s global challenges.
Across the world, people are recognising that the changes and challenges we face require us to work together more effectively.
We have created a flexible framework of Multidisciplinary networks, centres and institutes to facilitate working across disciplines.
Our institutes, centres and networks transcend faculty boundaries to enable the efficient progression of scientific endeavour.
Our global institutes address some of the most important issues facing the world today, from health inequalities and the dangers of global warming, to the opportunities created by big data and molecular engineering.
These institutes are outward-facing, collaborating with policy makers and businesses to apply new knowledge and provide independent scientific advice.
We ensure that our multidisciplinary research has an environment in which it can flourish.
Multidisciplinary hubs at our White City Campus, including the Molecular Sciences Research Hub and the The Sir Michael Uren Biomedical Engineering Research Hub, have been designed to encourage close team working and serendipitous encounters.
Dr Nuria Oliva-Jorge (pictured) , from the Department of Bioengineering , develops smart nanomaterials for the controlled delivery of growth factors for bone repair.
Her research combines aspects of materials science, nanotechnology and biology to develop a transformational approach to using growth factors, which are powerful biomolecules that promote wound healing and repair.
The technology she is developing could enable the use of less growth factor, making this type of therapy safer and cheaper.
The continued global increase in noncommunicable disease (obesity, type 2 diabetes, heart disease and cancer) is driven through changes in lifestyle, a major component of which is food.
Expanding populations and rapid urbanisation are leading to grand challenges on resources, food, energy, and waste globally.
The Centre for Translational Nutrition and Food Research brings together research teams across the College’s faculties to tackle these issues by understanding novel approaches to food design and functionality, as well as understanding how food interacts with metabolism.
The understanding of food at a molecular level, as well as the underlying effect of food and nutrition on public health, is crucial to the design of food systems that can take advantage of key and emerging trends and respond to current challenges.
The Antimicrobial Research Collaborative (ARC@Imperial) consolidates world leading, multidisciplinary research across the College to address the urgent global threat of antimicrobial resistance.
Antimicrobial resistance occurs when microorganisms are able to survive exposure to antibiotics that would normally kill them or stop their growth.
Of particular concern are microorganisms known as ‘superbugs’, which become resistant to most antibiotics.
Infections which were once easily treatable can become fatal.
ARC@Imperial harnesses the expertise of over 100 academic experts across all of Imperial’s faculties, alongside numerous external partners.
The ultimate driving force of the collaborative is to deliver improvements in patient care and population health, to support and develop staff and researchers, and build groundbreaking multidisciplinary research programmes that facilitate the translation of innovation into healthcare.
The Grantham Institute – Climate Change and the Environment is an authority on climate and environmental science and works with nearly 200 Imperial staff who are making an impact across academia, industry, NGOs and governments.
In the last year, Institute members and affiliate members met with organisations from 26 countries, discussed their work in the media over 80 times, and published over 500 scholarly scientific articles.
The Grantham Institute’s mission is to drive climate and environment-related research and translate this knowledge into real-world impact.
Harnessing the tremendous research strengths areas of the College, the Institute addresses issues including fundamental understanding of climate processes, environmental impacts, mitigation technologies and policies.
The Royal British Legion Centre for Blast Injury Studies is a cross-faculty centre that aims to develop a rigorous scientific approach to investigating the effects of blast on the human body.
As a result of the Centre’s research, the posture and placement of personnel in Army vehicles has been changed to reduce injury, assessment criteria for amputations following heel injury have been altered, and clinical practice has been changed for pelvic injuries in Afghanistan and major civilian trauma centres.
For more information see Centre for Blast Injury Studies

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/enduring-excellence-in-research/our-approach/nuture-research-talent:
We develop and support researchers at every level.
The College’s Learning and Teaching Strategy aims to engage all undergraduates in active research experience as part of their degree.
The Early Career Researcher Institute (ECRI) (Old Graduate School pages), the Early Career Researcher Institute (old PFDC pages), and the  support our research community in their professional development, alongside the research and funding support provided at both faculty and College level.
We believe our diversity of thought and culture contributes to our ability to solve complex challenges.
Equality of opportunity is absolutely essential to achieve excellence.
We want to remove barriers, eliminate discrimination and make sure everyone has the opportunity to develop their potential to the full.
Our Equality, diversity and inclusion Centre and Strategy provide support to promote those values throughout the College.
The College was a founder member of the Athena SWAN Charter in 2005, which aims to encourage and recognise commitment to advancing the careers of women in higher education and research.
We hold an institutional silver level award and are working towards achieving gold level awards at departmental and institutional level.
We greatly value our talented researchers, and recognise that they are fundamental to our ability to develop and deliver world class research.
The College provides opportunities and funding to researchers at the start of their career and at critical moments in their professional development:
Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme (UROP) gives undergraduates the opportunity to experience the academic research environment and be supervised by a member of Imperial academic staff during their placement.
Since 1980, UROP has furthered the ambitions of over 7,000 students through the management of research experiences within Imperial.
The President's PhD Scholarships scheme provides up to 50 outstanding research students with full tuition fee funding and living cost stipends for PhD study.
Imperial College Research Fellowships allow outstanding early-career scientists to focus on research and establish their scientific independence.
The scheme helps researchers to consolidate their standing in the scientific community and make the leap from post doc to permanent lecturer.
The  recognises the necessity of a research-only role for academics returning from maternity, adoption and/or shared parental leave.
The Award provides central funding for 50 per cent of salary costs for up to 12 months, enabling the academic to concentrate fully on research.
Professor Aimee Morgans is Professor of Thermofluids in the Department of Mechanical Engineering .
Professor Morgans received an Elsie Widdowson Fellowship award after both her periods of maternity leave, allowing her to maintain her research activity on sound waves, flames and aerodynamics.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/enduring-excellence-in-research/our-approach/develop-effective-partnerships:
Imperial is renowned for its wealth of collaborations across disciplines, with other institutions, and with industry.
From 2013–2016, Imperial shared research awards with 114 UK organisations and co-authored publications with over 500 UK organisations.
We work with academic institutions, charities, government and industrial partners to find answers and solutions to research challenges, and our collaborations produce unique advances that we would not achieve alone.
Research partnerships involve a process of continual communication, co-creation and co-design, where new research challenges arise in the course of discovery and lead to further breakthroughs.
Our close ties with the NHS are exemplified by the Imperial College Academic Health Science Centre (AHSC), which ensures that Imperial research is translated into advances in human health.
The AHSC partnership comprises the College, the Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, and the Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust and Royal Brompton & Harefield NHS Foundation Trust, The partnership’s vision is to reduce the burden of disease through a focus on detection, diagnosis and treatment.
Patients seen at an AHSC partner Trust benefit from some of the best outcomes in the UK, as research translates into outstanding care.
We are partners of the The Francis Crick Institute , the Rosalind Franklin Institute , and the Henry Royce Institute , among other major UK government backed institutions.
We also work with CERN and the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, and host five Medical Research Council Centres.
Through Imperial Consultants, the College’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Imperial researchers have supported over 400 companies from 29 countries with consultancy services.
Such partnerships act as focal points for research, enabling researchers and companies to work together and make a fundamental difference.
Robot DE NIRO is the Robot Intelligence Lab’s largest robot and has the ability to safely tackle complex manipulation tasks and move autonomously around dynamically changing environments.
The robot has been developed as a healthcare tool and might one day provide support for caregivers and offer direct interaction with patients.
The Dyson School of Design Engineering at Imperial was funded by a generous donation from the James Dyson Foundation.
The School teaches a four-year Master of Engineering degree in Design Engineering, alongside the world renowned MA/MSc Innovation Design Engineering and MA/MSc Global Innovation Design, both offered with the Royal College of Art.
The curriculum, designed in partnership with Dyson engineers to ensure industry relevance, blends technical discipline with creativity.
It challenges students to develop tangible and compelling products, as well as giving them the commercial know-how to make the products a commercial success.
The Cancer Research UK Imperial Centre (Archived on 8 January 2024 - S Thomas) is a partnership between Imperial College London, Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust and Cancer Research UK.
The Centre facilitates interdisciplinary collaborations between scientists and clinical academics to translate research of the highest quality into patient benefit.
The Centre offers a Development Fund to support collaborative research and facilitates translational research through its facilities, events and workshops.
The Centre has a strong focus on breast, ovarian and colorectal cancers with large clinical/academic teams working in these areas.
There are also teams working on cancers of unmet need (lung, pancreatic, glioma, oesophageal), and there is recognised expertise in prostate cancer research and in haemato-oncology.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/enduring-excellence-in-research/our-approach/make-an-impact:
We communicate and translate our research in order to benefit society.
Every day, individuals, policy makers and business leaders face questions that require an understanding of the natural world, technology, medical advances and business analysis.
Our expertise and knowledge enable us to provide factual evidence and advice to decision makers in government and business and help to inspire a love of discovery and curiosity in the public.
The impact of some research is evident immediately.
During the Ebola crisis of 2014–16 in West Africa, for example, researchers at the MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis analysed disease data in real time to inform government, military and NGO policy at a strategic level.
In other cases, it can take years, or even decades, before the true value becomes apparent.
Professor Steve Bloom’s pioneering research into the influence of gut hormones on appetite regulation during the 1980s led to the development of appetite reduction therapies and two spin out companies.
He is now, some thirty years later, working with Professor Chris Toumazou to develop a microchip capable of to recognising and processing signatures of appetite, to mimic instructions to the brain and reduce the urge to eat.
There are no simple predictors of potential benefit or outcomes, and no single measure of impact.
The 2014 Research Excellence Framework exercise ranked our research higher than any other major university for impact.
However, our true impact runs deeper than that: from nanobiotics for medicine to uncovering water elsewhere in the Solar System.
A data visualisation created by the Data Science Institute in collaboration with Zhejiang University, China.
Researchers have visualised the Chinese floating population and urbanisation on the Data Observatory, making it easier to interrogate the data and communicate results.
It showed that migrants to Henan province are generally young and well educated, and research has determined that accessibility, business start-up oriented policies and rapid urbanisation are the key reasons for this.
The Transport Strategy Centre (TSC) (RTSC) is a centre of excellence that carries out research in the field of public transport operations and management, and transport economics and policy.
The Centre has renowned expertise in the initiation, facilitation and management of multi-year international benchmarking projects.
The Centre has developed methods to evaluate the performance of mass transit systems, which have been applied in 60 of the world’s major cities.
The financial benefit, as quantified by mass transit operators, has been in excess of £0.5 billion between 2003 and 2013.
Research impacts include cost savings for escalator renewal by London Underground, influencing fares policy in Hong Kong, and the adoption of performance measurement systems by Chinese metros.
Dr Cristina Banks-Leite, from the Department of Life Sciences , has devoted her career to saving the forests of São Paulo, which have suffered great losses due to deforestation for agriculture.
Her research has paved the way for the restoration of a fragile forest ecosystem, safeguarding the biodiversity of the region and providing vital water security for the farmers and residents of Brazil’s most populous state.
Dr Banks-Leite identified the minimum forest cover required to maintain biodiversity (30 percent), a threshold that has now been employed as the official target for restoration in the Atlantic Forest by the Brazilian government.
Dr Banks-Leite is now looking to apply her methods to other biomes around the world.
Imperial’s Medical Research Council Centre for Preparedness and Response to Emerging Threats analyses data in real time during disease outbreaks to help inform policy at a strategic level.
During the Ebola outbreak between 2013 and 2016, researchers led by Professor Neil Ferguson conducted vital work analysing the line lists – information on where the patients lived, who they were in contact with, their demographics and symptoms.
They were able to track the spread of the epidemic through time to estimate the transmission rate and incubation period.
By linking Ebola cases, researchers were able to determine the risk factors for transmission and to identify the most effective interventions for agencies on the ground.
In addition to helping steer the emergency relief efforts in West Africa and controlling the epidemic, the evidence helped convey the seriousness of the situation, providing support for the public funding from governments and charities.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/enduring-excellence-in-research/our-infrastructure:
Research infrastructure directly supports technological innovation by offering the essential conditions and the necessary critical mass to carry out cutting edge research.
Research at Imperial is supported by our research facilities and equipment, and by our research support staff.
We provide world class research facilities, ensuring our researchers have outstanding equipment for their work.
We have a range of activities at the College designed to support staff and students with their careers, projects, and pathways to impact.
Masers (microwave amplification by stimulated emission of radiation), the microwave frequency forerunner of the laser, are not widely used as they must be cooled to temperatures close to absolute zero to function.
A research team from Imperial and UCL have used a synthetic diamond grown in a nitrogen-rich atmosphere to create the world's first maser that operates continuously at room-temperature.
Masers could be used in a range of applications such as medical imaging abd airport security scanning, and could play a pivotal role in improving sensors to remotely detect bombs, new technology for quantum computers, and might even improve space communication methods to potentially find life on other planets.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/enduring-excellence-in-research/our-infrastructure/research-facilities:
Having access to advanced research facilities is a vital part of our pursuit of cutting edge research.
We continually invest in resources and improve research facilities to ensure that our academic staff and students are able to pursue their ideas, undertake research and transfer their knowledge to ensure significant global impact.
We have state of the art research facilities across our campuses, which are supported by researchers who can advise on areas from experimental set-up to data analysis and visualisation.
We also collaborate with many other research institutions and universities to ensure that our researchers have access to the very best facilities in the world.
The Brahmal Vasudevan Multi-Terrain Aerial Robotics Arena is the first of its kind in Europe.
It is dedicated to the design, development and testing of novel mobile robots for various unstructured and extreme environments.
The Imperial College Advanced Hackspace is a unique network of workshops, labs and co-location spaces housing bespoke and commercial prototyping technologies in one of the largest facilities of its kind in the world.
In these creative facilities, Imperial staff, students, alumni and commercial partners from different disciplines work together to rapidly convert research ideas into breakthrough prototype products and solutions.
ICAH’s mission is to make it easier for anyone at, or associated with Imperial, to make anything.
The Data Observatory is the largest of its kind in Europe.
It provides an opportunity for academics and industry to visualise data in a way that uncovers new insights, and promotes the communication of complex data sets and analysis in an immersive and multidimensional environment.
The total screen resolution is 130 million pixels, made up of 64 monitors enveloping a circular wall, creating 313 degrees of surround vision.
Imaging has become a key tool for unlocking the molecular secrets of disease.
It can be used to follow and evaluate novel treatments in life, reduce the number of subjects required in clinical studies and contribute to personalised care.
Imperial’s Hammersmith Campus houses state of the art pre-clinical and clinical imaging facilities supporting world leading translational research.
The MRC-NIHR National Phenome Centre enables scientists to better understand and tackle diseases that are triggered by environment, as well as genetic causes, thereby increasing the potential to develop strategies for their prevention and treatment.
The Centre is led by Imperial College London and King’s College London, and is funded jointly by MRC and NIHR.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/enduring-excellence-in-research/our-infrastructure/research-support:
Imperial offers expert support for the research process, from supporting idea generation at the beginning of the research journey by holding hackathons and community building activities, to helping to disseminate research impact at the end of the research journey, through commercialisation support and policy forums.
Along the way, we provide support to staff to help them meet compliance requirements for funders, and other legal regulations.
The image to the left shows the following: Research Project Support includes a lifecycle of Ideas, Funding, Research and Sharing which includes Building Networks, Hackathons, User Engagement, Project Costing, Proposal Peer Review, Funder Relationship Management, Ethical Review, Data Management, Financial Reporting, Policy Forums, Open Access Publishing and Commercialisation.
Noura Zamzam is a PhD student in the Department of Life Sciences , and is supported by a Leverhulme Trust grant awarded to Professor Jasper van Thor.
The Early Career Researcher Institute (old PFDC pages) (PDFC) offers an extensive programme of professional skills and career development training, support and opportunities, to enable postdocs and fellows to succeed in their current position while planning their next step.
The PFDC aims to support postdocs with a variety of initiatives, including one-to-one advisory sessions, popup briefings following a new announcement or funding stream, leadership courses, residential away days, and much more.
The Centre for Academic English (CfAE) provides a wide range of STEMM communication courses, workshops, retreats and consultations to support the research output of the College.
We work with doctoral students, researchers and academic staff in areas such as writing for publication, preparing for conference presentations and writing for the REF.
The Centre also offers tailored support to departments, for example training on writing impact case studies and consultancy on writing effective research funding proposals.
The Early Career Researcher Institute (ECRI) (Old Graduate School pages) enriches the postgraduate student experience via a tailored programme of professional skills training, cohort building and coaching which enhances the professional impact of Imperial students and helps to ensure that their personal ambitions are realised.
In 2017, the Graduate School was awarded a Guardian University Award for Supporting the Student Experience through the Researching Well Together Project.
A package of support was developed as a partnership between staff and students and for the first time aligned tailored support for doctoral students with continuing professional development for supervisors.
The project has resulted in the establishment of a residential Writing Retreat, the creation of a doctoral student coaching programme, and the development of an online course for supervisors focusing on supporting the mental health and wellbeing of Imperial’s doctoral students.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/enduring-excellence-in-research/ways-to-engage:
We are always looking for ways to communicate our research, for new collaborative opportunities, and for ways our research can create an impact.
Our partnerships are a vital part of our success, and there are a range of ways for the public, industry, government and academics to engage with us.
If you are an academic or academic institution and you are interested in developing a relationship with the College or in learning more about us, please get in touch with the relevant faculty, department or centre, as detailed on Imperial’s website.
Our Industry partnerships and commercialisation team helps industry and academics to develop bespoke collaborations, ranging from challenge-led collaborative research, to flagship industry funded centres.
These collaborations offer the opportunity to employ academic curiosity and leading-edge innovation to tackle complex real-world challenges.
Find out more about Industry partnerships and commercialisation .
Imperial Business Partners enables business leaders and policy-makers to meet world class researchers to exchange learning and insights.
Members can access a range of unique services including professional development, mentoring and consultancy services.
For more information about Imperial Business Partners please visit Imperial Business Partners .
Imperial Tech Foresight brings together world leading academics and business leaders to offer challenging, provocative and personal visions of the future.
Each year, Tech Foresight and Imperial Business Partners jointly host an annual showcase event to explore the future of science and technology in areas such as computing, robotics and energy networks.
Find out more about Imperial Tech Foresight at Imperial Tech Foresight.
Imperial Consultants harnesses the breadth and depth of expertise at the College to deliver solutions for both national and international organisations (ranging from SMEs to global corporates) within business, academia, non-profit, healthcare and government institutions.
Imperial Consultants offer advisory services, expert insight, expert witness, analysis and testing, specialist training, and collaborative spaces.
Find out more about Imperial Consultants at Imperial Consultants .
Engaging with the public – including schools, patients and local communities – is a vital part of our effort to ensure that our research benefits society.
Our research engagement activities include blogs, talks, exhibits, games, and events.
Our flagship event, Imperial Festival, is a free weekend-long public event held each year, which features activities for all ages and gives the public a chance to experience our research in science, engineering, health and business up close.
Find out more about our engagement opportunities at Be inspired .
The support of alumni and friends helps us advance research across the College, enabling us to fund exciting research projects, researchers and students, and provide world class laboratory equipment and facilities.
If you would like to find out more about opportunities for philanthropy visit our Giving pages.
Dr Riccardo Sapienza of the Department of Physics speaks to delegates at Tech Foresight 2038, where Imperial Business Partner members explored how companies can adapt to technology-enabled futures.
Dr Sapienza researches how light can be controlled at the nanoscale through the use of nanostructured complex material.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/research-culture:
Imperial supports and nurtures a research environment that is defined by a culture of integrity, good governance and best practice.
Our highly ambitious, collaborative, multidisciplinary community of researchers possess a common goal of tackling the biggest scientific challenges of our time.
This is only possible through our outstanding collective research ethos, and by placing public trust and confidence in our research at the heart of everything we do.
We have built an environment where researchers can be bold, challenge the boundaries of their fields, and feel supported in judicious risk-taking.Imperial is committed to embedding a positive research culture throughout the College to support our mission to achieve enduring excellence in research and education in science, engineering, medicine and business for the benefit of society.
Achieving a positive research culture is the responsibility of all staff and students at the College.
We greatly value our talented researchers and recognise that they are fundamental to our ability to develop and deliver world class research.
Imperial is dedicated to building a supportive, considerate and highly motivated community based on diversity, inclusivity and mutual respect across all disciplines, functions and activities to help us to attract and retain our talented staff and students.
Equality of opportunity is essential to achieving research excellence and we believe our diversity of thought and culture is fundamental to our ability to solve complex challenges.
We aim to remove barriers, eliminate discrimination and make sure everyone has the opportunity to reach their full potential.
Imperial’s commitment to excellence underpins everything we do, but this is only possible through our approach to ensuring a positive and inclusive research culture is fully embedded in policies, practices and initiatives across the entire College.
Our community is keen to promote a positive research culture.
Staff and students are carrying out a range of activities in this space, with the aim of ensuring the research ecosystem at Imperial and beyond is made up of talented and diverse people, working in an environment that nurtures and gets the best out of everyone.
A database of these initiatives can be found on our website (Imperial login only).
Imperial also uses funding from Research England to support university-wide projects designed to enhance our research culture.
Read more on our Supported Projects and Case studies pages.
We have also provided our staff with a Research Environment Toolkit (Imperial login only) to help them implement change both as part of their grant applications and within their own research environment.
If you would like to hear more about our work on research culture, please contact the Funding Strategy Team at the Research Office.
Supporting the personal and professional development of researchers and research-associated professions.
We thrive on interdisciplinary work, recognising that the complexity of global challenges demands integrated solutions.
Promoting a culture of inclusivity, where diverse groups of people feel able to participate in research.
Performing research as openly as possible, according to the principles of transparency, openness, verification, and reproducibility.
Carrying out research to the highest standards of ethical practice, promoting a culture of honesty and responsibility.
Interacting with the public to ensure that education and research benefits society.
Creating sustainable environments for learning, teaching, researching and working.
Supporting the wellbeing of our students and staff.
Please check back soon for updates.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/research-culture/careers:
Supporting the personal and professional development of researchers and research-associated professions is key to create a positive research environment.
Imperial is committed to attracting, nurturing and empowering the next generation of outstanding Science, Technology, Engineering, Medicine, and Business (STEMB) research talent.
The university is a signatory of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and the Technician Commitment , a reflection of our ambition to support the career development of researchers, technicians and the different roles that contribute to research.
There is a wide range of development opportunities for both staff and students at Imperial, and a dedicated team in the Early Career Researcher Institute (ECRI) delivering award-winning and sector-leading training to support the professional and career development of our researchers, including guidance and training in leadership and management , and providing a good supervisory experience for our doctoral students.
We also have a number of staff award schemes recognising the achievements of staff at Imperial.
These awards are for all staff, at all levels, across research, teaching and professional services roles, who have demonstrated a valuable contribution to our mission.
As a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment ( DORA ), Imperial is committed to ensuring that we will not consider journal-based metrics, such as journal impact factors (JIFs), in assessing the research achievements of staff or candidates for recruitment.
Celebrating Sustainability Fortnight “My work here isn’t just a career—it’s a calling to make the world a better, more sustainable place.”…
“Along with my studies, mental health activism has given me a sense of purpose as a means of personal and public empowerment.” I am Aglaia,…
“It is always very gratifying when students tell me that what they have learned in my class is helping them directly in their lives and their…
“I enjoy doing research and seeing students improve through my teaching and supervision.” My project Safety in Smart Vehicle-Pedestrian Interaction…

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/research-culture/collaboration:
Collaboration plays a crucial role in research and innovation, driving progress by bringing together diverse expertise and resources.
This is essential to address the complex global challenges with which we are faced today.
Collaboration is vital for advancing research and creating a more dynamic, inclusive, and sustainable research environment, as well as helping build a positive research culture by promoting trust and shared accountability.
At the same time, collaboration with industry, governments, and the third sector is essential for translating research into practical solutions, allowing for an alignment with policy goals and effective implementation of research outcomes at a societal level.
Collaboration is at the heart of Imperial's mission to advance science for the benefit of humanity .
Imperial fosters connections across faculties and departments and with other universities and research institutions, enabling ground-breaking research and innovation at the intersections of different fields.
Collaboration extends beyond academia, with partnerships designed to tackle grand challenges through global networks and local communities, as well as industries and governments.
The links below highlight some of the teams and programmes at Imperial promoting knowledge sharing activities, collaborative research, and exchanges between academia and business, industry or public or third sector bodies:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/research-culture/edi:
Promoting a culture of inclusivity, where diverse groups of people feel able to participate in research, is integral to creating a positive research environment.
Imperial is committed to embedding equality, diversity and inclusion throughout the university and to positioning it at the centre of everything we do.
Our EDI Strategy underpins many of our policies in this area, bringing a focus and coherence to the work developed by our dedicated team at the EDI Centre , our Associate Provosts (EDI) , and the various committees, networks and working groups supporting EDI across Imperial.
Imperial's commitment to EDI is reflected through our accreditations, standards, and charter marks.
As an institution, we hold an Athena Swan Silver Award, a Race Equality Charter Bronze Award and a Stonewall UK Workplace Equality Index Gold Award, we are a Disability Confident Leader and a Stonewall Diversity Champion , and we work in partnership with GIRES to promote respect for trans people.
We also provide a range of EDI training , including unconscious bias training, an online EDI course (recommended for all staff), and recruitment and selection training (mandatory for all staff involved in recruitment).
We fund activities that promote EDI at Imperial through our EDI Excellence Seed Fund and recognise outstanding contributions in this space through the President's Awards for Excellence in Culture and Community .
Imperial Maths School celebrates first A-levels and 2nd place national ranking
Global health students and community groups mark transformative collaborations
28 November 2024
31 October 2024
22 August 2024
20 August 2024

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/research-culture/open-research:
Open research is the principle that research should be performed, and knowledge should be shared, as openly as possible, according to the principles of transparency, openness, verification, and reproducibility.
Open research improves public value and research integrity, as well as facilitating collaboration.
As such, it is integral to a healthy research culture.
The links below represent pooled information from across Imperial and externally relating to open research :

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/research-culture/research-conduct:
Good research conduct is integral to a healthy research environment.
It is important that research is carried out to the highest standards of scientific and ethical practice, taking into account the wider impacts of research and innovation (with the aim of avoiding unintended consequences), and managing the potential risks associated with international research collaboration, protecting research and staff from theft, misuse, and exploitation.
Imperial expects all staff and students to promote and maintain a culture of honesty, openness and responsibility, enabling all research to be conducted with integrity, one of our core Values .
As an institution, we are signatories of the UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity (pdf) and the Concordat on Openness on Animal Research and we have adopted the government’s Universal Ethical Code for Scientists .
We also provide guidance and training to staff and students across a wide range of areas.
The links below represent pooled information from across Imperial relating to research conduct:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/research-culture/societal-engagement:
Societal engagement is about interacting with the public – including schools, patients and local communities – to ensure that education and research benefits society.
Societal engagement expresses Imperial’s commitment to sharing the wonder and importance of what we do and our desire to empower people through engagement with our research.
We are a signatory of the Concordat for Engaging the Public with Research and our societal engagement strategy and framework , overseen by our Associate Provost (Societal Engagement) , strengthen how we recognise, support and embed engagement with the public as an integral part of our work.
Imperial’s dedicated Centre for Societal Engagement provides staff and students with funding and training to support their engagement activities.
Our annual President's Awards for Excellence in Societal Engagement recognise and reward staff, students and community partners who have delivered excellence in societal engagement, underpinned by an aspiration to better connect the work of Imperial and our research with society.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/research-culture/sustainable-research:
In this period of unprecedented environmental change, the need to take urgent, meaningful climate action is undeniable.
The UK Research and Innovation sector, leaders in informing climate science, is well placed to lead the way in making R&I itself environmentally sustainable.
As a world-leading STEMB university, Imperial aims to be at the forefront of this change.
We are committed to creating sustainable environments for learning, teaching, researching and working and becoming a net-zero institution by 2040, and we were one of the first signatories of the Concordat for the Environmental Sustainability of Research and Innovation Practice .
Our sustainability strategy underpins the university-wide work we are doing on this, with much of it being complemented by action taken at faculty and department level.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/research-culture/wellbeing:
Imperial is committed to supporting the wellbeing of our , and the mental and physical health of our community is a priority for the university.
We are a signatory of the Mindful Employer Charter and the Time to Change pledge, and our Mental Health and Wellbeing Strategy outlines our goals for creating an inclusive, respectful and compassionate environment, in which staff who experience mental health difficulties feel able to disclose these and are provided with assistance.
Imperial has a network of mental health first aiders that support our community and health and wellbeing training is available to everyone.
As well as the university-wide resources, research staff and students can also access materials tailored to researchers.
Imperial has a zero-tolerance approach to bullying and harassment.
We are members of the Forum for Tackling Bullying and Harassment in Research and Innovation and we have an ongoing review of our policies for reporting and recording bullying and harassment.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/research-culture/supported-projects:
Since 2021-22, the College has secured over £4m from Research England's Enhancing Research Culture funding to invest in developing our research culture.
These funds can be used in any of the areas covered by the government’s 2021 R&D People and Culture Strategy to pilot new initiatives, increase the scale of already-proven activities and continue activities already supported via this funding stream.
At the College, this funding is managed by the Vice-Provost (Research and Enterprise) Office and the Funding Strategy team (Research Office), and it has been used to support projects both cross-College and Department-led, as well as the salaries of core members of staff in charge of managing the grant.
Funded projects were selected according to their fit within the remit of the Enhancing Research Culture grant, as well as the College’s strategic priorities regarding research culture.
Areas for investment include:
At the start of the funding, the priority for the College was to pump prime scoping projects; as the funding has continued, the focus has shifted to providing ongoing support to those projects that have showed the most potential from the initial pump priming to allow them to embed within the College.
Prof Michael Bearpark (Dept of Chemistry/Research Computing Service)
Vicky Brightman (Office of the Provost - Public Engagement)
Expanding the content of the 3Rs Hub website and promoting its contents (internally and externally) through communication activities.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/research-culture/case-studies:
Leadership development and peer mentoring programme for Fellows and new Lecturers
A mentoring programme dedicated to supporting under-represented groups at Imperial.
Supporting Black students to gain entry to university, progress into postgraduate study, and develop their careers.
Coming soon!
Equipment, facility and material sharing for a more sustainable research practice.
Discussions about contemporary Research Culture

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/global-institutes:
The Institutes enable and support cross-faculty collaboration across College, while engaging externally with policy makers, businesses and end-users, and international partners to bring rapid, innovative progress to these critical issues.
Together, these enhance and promote Imperial’s world-leading research strengths in these areas.
Driving research on climate and the environment for real world impact.
Improving healthcare around the world through evidence-based innovation.
Promoting energy innovation and advancing systemic solutions for a sustainable energy future
Scientific research, education, and innovation for a secure and resilient world
Managing, interpreting and capitalising on big data.
Designing at the molecular scale to engineer better materials, systems and processes.
Facing the challenges of global infectious disease together.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/centres-of-excellence:
Supporting multidisciplinary research across faculties
Transcending faculty boundaries
The framework that supports the creation and approval of Centres of Excellence was introduced in 2017 to support the growth of cross-faculty communities.
View a full list of Imperial's Multi-Faculty Centres and Networks
There are currently no events

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/networks-of-excellence:
Supporting multidisciplinary collaboration across faculties
The framework that supports the creation and approval of Networks of Excellence was introduced in 2017 to support the growth of cross-faculty communities.
Currently Imperial has 36 multi-faculty Networks of Excellence.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/research-news:
21 July 2025
Imperial researcher awarded prestigious Helmholtz Doctoral Prize
Consolidating Data on Ovarian Cancer into Stories
Sir Michael Uren Prize recognises pioneering research in sustainable agriculture
11 July 2025
Smartwatch data outperforms clinical scores in early Parkinson’s detection
Professor Jamil Mayet and Dr Amit Kaura named recipients of Graham-Dixon Award

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/research-integrity-investigations:
Imperial College London is a signatory to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and is committed to “maintaining the highest standards of rigour and integrity in all aspects of research”.
View the revised concordat
Imperial College London has been a subscriber to the UK Research Integrity Office since 2016.
Further details are available on the UKRIO page.
Imperial College London is committed to undertaking research of the highest international quality within an intellectually challenging and inspiring environment, to extending the frontiers of research within and beyond existing research disciplines, and to bringing together research expertise within and beyond the University to address the science challenges of today and the future.
The University's achievements in research are underpinned by the quality and expertise of the individuals within it, and these pages define the standards of research governance and integrity essential to Imperial's reputation and success.
The University has adopted the Council for Science and technology's Universal Ethical Code for Scientists and upholds its three principles, which are:
It is the responsibility of every staff member and student to uphold the good reputation of the University and, consequently, it is expected that they will conduct research with integrity.
The primary way to encourage appropriate conduct is to promote and maintain a culture of honesty, openness and responsibility.
Imperial attracts talented academic, research and professional support staff from across the world, creating a vibrant and inspiring environment in which to work.
It supports the notion of collegiality and, while recognising individual independence, encourages staff and students from many different disciplines to work together in an atmosphere of mutual respect and co-operation and to recognise the impact that their research activities may have on the rest of the University.
As a signatory to the UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity, Imperial publishes an annual report on research integrity, which includes a high-level statement on any formal investigations of research misconduct that have been undertaken in the previous year.
View the most recent Annual Report: Annual statement on research integrity 2024 .
The senior member of staff with leadership oversight for research integrity at the College is the Vice-Provost (Research and Enterprise), Professor Mary Ryan .
The Registrar & University Secretary , Richard Martin , is the point of contact for whistle-blowers and for any person wishing to raise concerns about the integrity of research conducted at Imperial.
The links below represent pooled information from across the University relating to Research Integrity.
Please send any comments on the content, or suggestions for additional content to the Research Office .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/research-integrity-investigations/misconduct:
The Library provides a wide range of resources and information to raise awareness of plagiarism in different groups of staff and students.
Visit their pages to learn more about plagiarism and how to avoid it in your work.
Research Misconduct can be characterised as behaviours or actions that fall short of the standards of ethics, research and scholarship required to ensure that the integrity of research is upheld.
It can cause harm to people and the environment, wastes resources, undermines the research record and damages the credibility of research.
Regardless of discipline and institution, the fundamental factor in ensuring the quality of research and research practices has to be the honesty of the individual investigator.
Investigators should be honest with respect to their own work, which means subscribing to proper scientific practices such as acknowledging the contributions of colleagues or collaborators, ensuring veracity of data, and acting with integrity in the depiction of results and conclusions.
However, investigators are also expected to be honest in relation to the work of their colleagues and peers.
Colluding in, or concealing, the misconduct of others is not compatible with an environment which encourages intellectual honesty and is, therefore, in itself misconduct.
The College’s policy on, and procedures for, the investigation of allegations of research misconduct:
This policy is intended to satisfy the requirements of those who fund research at Imperial College that the College has proper mechanisms in place for the management of complaints of research fraud or misconduct.
The college has adopted the definitions of research misconduct set out in the UK Research Integrity Office model procedures.
The following definitions give indicative descriptions of the types of activity covered by this Regulation.
These descriptions are neither exclusive nor exhaustive.
Interpretation of the terms will involve judgements, which should be guided by previous experience and decisions made on matters of misconduct in research.
Fabrication;
Falsification;
Misrepresentation of data and/or interests and or involvement;
Plagiarism;
Failures to follow accepted procedures or to exercise due care in carrying out responsibilities for avoiding unreasonable risk or harm to: humans; animals used in research; the environment; and the proper handling of privileged or private information or individuals collected during the research.
Enquiries about the operation of these procedures, or about potential cases of misconduct should be addressed to Jonathan Hancock, Director of Research Integrity Investigations: Jonathan.hancock@imperial.ac.uk
In accordance with its commitments under the UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity the College provides the Council with an annual report on research integrity, which includes a high-level statement on any formal investigations of research misconduct that have been undertaken in the previous year.
The current report is published on the Annual statement on research integrity 2024 page.
Copies of previous years annual reports are available below:
Annual statement on research integrity 2023
Annual statement on research integrity 2022
Research integrity report 2021
Research Integrity Report 2020 [pdf]
Research Integrity Report - 2019 [pdf]
Research Integrity Report - 2018 [pdf]
Research Integrity Report - 2017 [pdf]
Research Misconduct Report - 2016 [pdf]
Some of these earlier documents do not meet accessibility requirements.
Please email Jonathan Hancock, Director of Research Integrity Investigations: Jonathan.hancock@imperial.ac.uk for an accessible version.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/ref/case-studies:
The little-known fund driving excellent research
18 February 2025

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/about-imperial-research/ref/results-2021:
Imperial has a greater proportion of world-leading research than any other UK university , according to the Research Excellence Framework (REF) published today.
The results are Imperial's best-ever in the UK’s research assessment exercise, showing improvements in every area of assessment and confirming our position as a world-class research university.
The College ranks top in the UK overall – with a greater proportion of 4* “world-leading” research than any other UK university.
Imperial ranks first in the UK for research outputs, first in the UK for research environment, and first for research impact among Russell Group universities .
The results reaffirm that Imperial is the best place in the UK for academics to pursue their research, with top results for its research environment.
This achievement is the result of Imperial’s commitment to both discovery-led research and the translation of that work into tangible benefits for society.
Imperial tops the board with the highest research impact of all Russell Group universities.
Imperial’s impact has been underlined during the pandemic, with the College’s researchers at the forefront of global efforts – modelling disease spread, pioneering the rapid development of new vaccine technology, and accelerating breakthrough treatments to help COVID-19 patients.
As we emerge from the pandemic, Imperial is driving forward major strategic initiatives, accelerating a transition to a zero-pollution future , using the latest advances in machine learning to tackle societal challenges , and finding new real-world applications for deep tech discoveries .
Imperial is going from strength to strength.
This excellent news about our research follows Imperial being named University of the Year by The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide, this year’s University of the Year for Student Experience 2022 by the Good University Guide, our Queen’s Anniversary Prize for our COVID-19 response, and our highest ever student satisfaction scores last year.
“These are outstanding results for Imperial.
They confirm our position as a world-class research university, and are testament to the spirit of innovation, collaboration and internationalism that runs through everything we do.I am grateful for the tremendous efforts of our whole community.
Every single member of staff at Imperial has contributed to this success from academics, postdocs and fellows, learning and teaching colleagues, to technical, operational and professional services."
“Imperial is the best place in the UK for academics to pursue their research, and these REF results show that.
We have created an environment that supports our researchers in tackling some of science’s deepest questions and some of society’s most urgent problems.
Our research is stronger because of our collaborations – whether that’s across academic disciplines, institutions or international borders: we will always be a global institution."
“Imperial is a place where innovation, creativity and collaboration co-exist and thrive.
Our researchers tackle the biggest challenges like climate change, future energy supplies, antibiotic resistance and national security, and they know the importance of making the most of their breakthroughs to deliver new technologies across the globe, creating a better, more sustainable and healthier future."
Behind login - only accessible to Imperial members

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff:
The ECRI delivers inclusive and comprehensive support for Imperial’s community of early career researchers.
The Education Ethics team assists in reviewing specifically educational research projects.
As part of the 2024/5 Enhancing Research Culture funding, Imperial is supporting a new Community of Practice for staff tasked with managing large research investments,
Find out more about PRISM
The Joint Research Office (JRO) provides integrated support for researchers from the Faculty of Medicine and Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust.
We support the research ethics application process.
Our team provides a full project management package to support academic colleagues with their multi-partner EU and government-funded projects.
Policy and guidance for preparing research proposals, costing and pricing, funding opportunities, managing projects and intellectual property.
Contact your Faculty research support team for administration of external research funding and contract management:
Learn about Imperial's commitment to disseminating its research as widely as possible and find out about how to ensure research output is available through open access (OA).
The SAS provides statistical consulting services to clients within Imperial College and external public and commercial bodies.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/faculty-research-services-teams:
This team is responsible for the administration of research funding and contract management for the Faculty of Engineering.
Meet the team
The Faculty of Medicine's Joint Research Office provides support for Investigators in the Faculty of Medicine and ICHT with all stages of the management of a research project.
Visit the JRO website
This team is responsible for the administration of research funding and contract management for the Faculty of Natural Sciences.
This team is responsible for the application and management of research grants for the Business School.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication:
Supporting the Imperial community to communicate and disseminate their research and academic work
Meet the requirements of your funder's open access policy
Funder open access policies
Make your work open access in the Spiral repository and on publisher websites
Open access and Spiral
Manage your research data in accordance with your funder's and Imperial's RDM policy
Research data management
Find out about ORCID at Imperial and get your ID

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-research:
Open research, also known as open science, means conducting and sharing research in ways that enable transparency, equity, accessibility and reliability.
Find out about Imperial's commitment to open research and how you can make your research open.
Learn about Imperial’s open access policy, funds and publisher agreements, and the tools available to support you
Find out about Imperial's commitment to fair, transparent and robust research assessment
Your data should follow the FAIR principles - Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable
The Scholarly Communications Management team can also help with the following:
Open Access - contact openaccess@imperial.ac.uk
Research Data Management - contact rdm-enquiries@imperial.ac.uk
Bibliometrics - contact bibliometrics@imperial.ac.uk
Copyright - contact copyright@imperial.ac.uk
Subscribe to the Imperial Open Research Newsletter now (Imperial staff and students only)

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-research/the-beyond-open-research-project:
Beyond Open Research: Understanding what matters for quality and reliability
These are some of the questions we’ve been asking in a Library-led, university-wide project on enhancing research culture since January 2024.
The first phase of the project looked at the challenges and opportunities of embedding transparency, quality and scrutiny into the research data life cycle.
We ran a series of workshops from April to July 2024.
We involved researchers, professional staff and the public to scope out the challenges and co-create practical solutions.
Challenges of data transparency, quality and integrity in research data
How much can we rely on artificial intelligence in patient treatment?
Developing a responsible approach to data in society
What matters?
Recognising and incentivising quality and reliability
We complemented the workshops with a series of semi-structured interviews with subject experts in research culture and assessment, public applications of research data, and data quality and transparency.
Recognition, incentives and research assessment
Read the interview transcript
Reliability of data-based applications
Open, FAIR and robust research data
Peter Schmidt met with Hamid Khan and Julie McCann to find out how Imperial want to go "beyond" open research.
Listen to the episode
Meet six of the research software champions at Imperial who help to create better research through better software.
This episode features Imperial's Research Software Champion scheme with guests Jeremy Cohen and Mike Bearpark.
The Beyond Open Research Project would like to extend their heartfelt gratitude to all stakeholders and leadership members for their invaluable contributions to this project:
For enquiries about the Beyond Open Research Project or to find out how you could get involved, please complete the following Qualtrics form
Subscribe to the Imperial Open Research Newsletter now (Imperial staff and students only).

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-research/the-beyond-open-research-project/what-are-the-challenges:
Thursday 11 April 2024
This workshop brought together researchers and professional, technical and operational staff - many of them for the first time.
The aims of this workshop were to:
Ian Walmsley , Provost of Imperial College London, introduced Open Research at Imperial, why it matters and how this project aligns with Imperial's strategy and vision.
Chris Gullick , Chief Data and Artificial Intelligence Officer, Ofgem, introduced the overall topic: why do we need openness and transparency of research data, what does it mean for data to be high-quality, what are the general challenges of embedding open data practices and quality?
Hamid Khan , Open Research Manager at Imperial, introduced the opportunities and challenges of using data in decision-making, why reliability matters, and what the ideal of reliable tools might look like.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-research/the-beyond-open-research-project/why-does-it-matter-for-society:
Thursday 9 May 2024
Marc Boubnovski - Martell , PhD student in the Department of Surgery and Cance r at Imperia l , introduced the ways data, models and AI are used in decision-making in areas of healthcare such as diagnosis, t reatment , drug discovery and planning .
He discussed the role of researchers in developing AI tools.
Zeynep Engin , C hai r and Director at Data for Policy CIC, and Senior Researcher at University College London, opened up the black box of AI, discussing trustworthiness and what factors researchers, practitioners and developers should consider before a model or an AI is used to support a clinical decision , including openness, transparency, explainability and reliability.
Raquel Iniesta , Senior Lecturer at King' s College London, introduced the concept of reliability, why it matters and what can be done to m aximise it.
What role do governance frameworks play?
Reliability is critical to understanding whether an AI tool is fit for purpose.
What factors affect reliability?
It might be accurate , but is it accurate enough ?
What role can different stakeholders play ?

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-research/the-beyond-open-research-project/what-can-we-do-about-it:
Wednesday 5 June 2024
Sofia Fernandes , Associate Director and Head of Research and Academic Services, University of Warwick , introduced the principles of F indability, A ccessibility, I nteroperability and R e usability of research data (the FAIR principles).
Sofia explained why the principles are a necessary condition for meaningful transparency , how they help c reate opportunities for scrutiny , and how they can help enhance societal benefits of research .
Fiona Booth , Director , Data Integrity and Quality Assurance p rogramme , University of Bristol, discussed the processes and practices that improve data integrity and quality in the public interest .
D ata is not necessarily high-quality even if it is FAIR.
What does someone in her role do to check or interrogate the quality of data?
Jennifer Ding , Senior Researcher in Research Applications, Alan Turing Institute, introduced the processes, practices and questions that can help improve the reliability of data-based applications in society (e.g.
Artificial Intelligence in patient treatment, or climate simulation models).
What do we need to know about the data used to train a model or AI?
What do we need to know about how bias has been mitigated at each stage?
What do we need to know about how a model works and the assumptions it makes?
What do we need to know about the capabilities of an AI in the real world before it is widely rolled out?
What is the existing role of researchers, research institutions, developpers and policymakers in scrutinising reliability?
Jennifer introduced the work of the Alan Turing Institute in promoting and supporting scrutiny of research data applications.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-research/the-beyond-open-research-project/how-can-we-incentivise-the-right-things:
Thursday 11 July 2024
Kim Huijpen , Programme Manager, Recognition and Rewards, at Universities of the Netherlands, introduced the mismatch between what we deem important in academic work and where we reward researchers for.
She discussed the 2019 position paper ‘Room for Everyone’s Talent’ in the context of important international developments like the 2013 San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA), the Coalition on Advancing Research Assessment (CoARA) and the 2022 Agreement on Reforming Research Assessment.
She explained why moving away from journal-based metrics for evaluating research is crucial for promoting quality.
Finally, Kim presented the Netherlands’ Recognition and Rewards Vision as a model for the future.
Alex Freeman , Founder of the Octopus research platform and former Director of the Winton Centre for Public Understanding of Risk, discussed the activities and outputs that might be important for shifting research culture away from publish-orperish.
Journal articles are only one of several types of research output, while publishing them is just one type of contribution to research.
But too often this is all that matters for a researcher’s career.
What other examples of research outputs and contributions could we recognise and incentivise, and how can we improve inclusion, quality and reliability by broadening our understanding of what matters?
Alex introduced Octopus and similar initiatives and discussed how they aim to do just that.
Stephen Curry , Consul, Imperial College London, discussed excellence as an Imperial value in the context of its research and international collaborations.
If we work out what research outputs and contributions matter for quality and reliability, then what does excellence in those outputs and contributions look like?
Is it possible to measure it, e.g.
use of metrics?
What are the risks and trade-offs of metrics?

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-research/imperial-open-research-newsletter:
Please email the editors to make a enquiry
The global research community is facing increasing calls to become ‘open’ in the ways that research is conducted, shared, published, evaluated and more.
The Imperial Open Research Newsletter aims to keep the research community at Imperial College London up to date with this rapidly changing landscape and what it means for you.
April 2025
December 2024
October 2024
December 2023
September 2023
June 2023
March 2022
November 2021
September 2021
June 2021
April 2021
February 2021
December 2020
October 2020
June 2020
April 2020
February 2020
December 2019
October 2019
Data protection policy: Poppulo and your data

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-research/open-research-education:
Open research (also known as open science) means conducting and sharing research in ways that enable transparency, accessibility, equity and reproducibility.
The following infographic and themes below show the times in a research project where the open research courses and support offered at Imperial may be particlularly helpful.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management:
Imperial is committed to promoting the highest standards of excellence in research data management - read the Imperial RDM Policy , and our research data management quick guides

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/introduction-to-research-data-management:
Research data management refers to how you will look after the data you collect or generate during your research.
It covers activities such as planning for your data management needs at the start of your project, organising , storing and securing data during your project and ensuring long-term preservation , data sharing and reuse at the end of your project.
Data management is increasingly recognised as an essential part of good research practice.
Responsibly managed data is important for research integrity, transparency and open science.
Many funders now expect data that supports published findings or has potential for reuse in future research to be made publicly available with as few restrictions as possible whenever legal and ethical restrictions allow .
The benefits of research data management include:
Research data are any materials that you collect or generate during your research project that can be used to support or verify your research findings .
The UKRI Concordat on Open Research Data defines research data as ‘… the evidence that underpins the answer to the research question, and can be used to validate findings regardless of its form (e.g.
print, digital, or physical)'.
Research data can be generated or collected for different purposes and through different processes:
Having a clear understanding of the types of data you will collect or generate will help you make informed decisions about managing your data effectively.
Contact the Research Data Management team by booking a 1-2-1 consultation or send us an email at rdm-enquiries@imperial.ac.uk .
Find out what your funder requires in relation to research data management
Find out what your publisher requires in relation to research data management
Read the Imperial College London research data management policy

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/introduction-to-research-data-management/what-does-my-funder-require:
BBSRC Data Sharing Policy
All applications seeking research grant funding from BBSRC must submit a data management plan.
DMP template and guidance for BBSRC at DMPonline
All data required to validate the findings should be retained for 10 years after completion of a research project, regardless of its sharing status.
Archival and preservation
All BBSRC-funded projects are expected to make efforts to share data where possible , but the following data is strongly expected to be shared :
Published results should always include information on how to access the supporting data.
You should release your data in a timely fashion according to established practice in your field, and generally no later than the publication of the findings .
In the absence of established practice, this should be within three years of generation of the dataset .
Sharing data
Funding to support management and sharing of research data may be requested from BBSRC as part of the full economic cost of a project .
This includes staff time (e.g.
to prepare data for sharing/archival) and physical resources (e.g.
storage and network capacity).
Adherence to a BBSRC-funded project's data management and sharing strategies will be monitored through the Final Report assessment .
The BHF currently has no formal policy or requirements on research data management, although they have expressed support for the principle of public access to research data.
The Cancer Research UK policy applies to all CRUK-funded research, and encompasses all high-quality data regardless of whether it has been used in a publication.
Submission of a data sharing and preservation strategy
All research proposals for Cancer Research UK funding must include a data management plan .
DMP template and guidance for Cancer Research UK at DMPonline
CRUK data management plan
All data should be retained for 10 years after completion of a research project, regardless of its sharing status, in line with the Imperial College research data management policy: this will cover the basic CRUK requirement of 5 years.
Data must be shared in a "timely and responsible manner" , in line with standard practice in the relevant research area.
A reasonable period of exclusive use is permitted , as are delays or restrictions to allow commercialisation and respect obligations of confidentiality .
Appropriate permissions and safeguards must be in place to protect the privacy and interests of human participants in research.
In 2015 Cancer Research UK changed its approach so that “appropriately justified” costs can be included in grant proposals.
Specifically, applicants can now include “proportionate, relevant data management sharing activities and resources as a running cost in applications.” This may cover, for example, data managers’ salary costs, and/or archiving and repository costs, but not open access (OA) article processing charges which are dealt with separately.
Adherence will be monitored through the committee's grant review process and the end-of-grant report .
EPSRC data sharing policy
The EPSRC policy applies to all organisations in receipt of EPSRC research funding.
EPSRC policy on research data
The EPSRC expect a data management plan to be in place for every EPSRC-funded project.
DMP template and guidance for EPSRC at DMPonline
All data required to validate the findings should be retained for 10 years after the date of its last use by the original researchers or a third party.
Metadata describing the data held must be made freely available on the internet within 12 months of the data being generated .
This metadata must be sufficient to allow others to understand what research data exists, why, when and how it was generated, and how to access it.
Where access to the data is restricted the published metadata should also give the reason and summarise the conditions which must be satisfied for access to be granted.
Funding to support management and sharing of research data may be requested from EPSRC to cover requirements above what is provided as standard by Imperial.
This may include staff time (e.g.
Sharing of research data will be monitored through periodic "dip-stick" testing of organisations' research outputs.
ESRC data sharing policy
ESRC grant applicants planning to generate data are required to submit a data management and sharing plan as part of the grant application process.
ESRC award holders are expected to make use of existing standards for data management and to make data available for further re-use.
Publications should be made available via the ESRC research catalogue.
Research data should be made available to the scientific community in a timely and responsible manner.
The data service supports data sharing.
The ESRC offer extensive support to researchers.
Data centre staff will assist researchers to plan their data management and sharing , and providing ongoing support throughout the project to final deposit and reuse.
The ESRC states it will monitor compliance with its policies.
The final payment of a grant may be withheld if data has not been offered for deposit to the required standard , unless a waiver has been agreed in advance.
Video on How to deposit data in the ReShare repository
The Horizon Europe data sharing policy
The Horizon 2020 policy on open access to research data applies to projects enrolled in the Open Research Data Pilot.
As of 2017 the Open Research data Pilot was extended to cover all the thematic areas of Horizon 2020.
It is possible to fully or partly opt out of the pilot, or projects in other areas to opt in.
A data management plan must be delivered within the first six months of the project and this deliverable must be mentioned in the proposal .
DMP template and guidance for Horizon 2020 at DMPonline
The data and associated metadata needed to validate the published results of the project along with other data of value as mentioned in the data management plan, must be deposited in a research data repository .
It must be possible for third parties to access, mine, exploit, reproduce and disseminate this data.
The European Commission have published guidance to support applicants in meeting the Horizon 2020 data requirements.
Compliance will be monitored through delivery of the initial data management plan and subsequent updated versions included with the mid-term and final reviews .
MRC data sharing policy
Applicants are expected to submit a data management plan at the grant proposal stage.
Note: the template cannot be uploaded in the new Funding Service (TFS) as an attachment.
Instead MRC recommend copying and/or re-using the numbered headings into TFS to provide structure to the DMP.
MRC data management plan
Primary research data must be retained in their original form within the research establishment that generated them for a minimum of ten years .
The MRC expects publications to be available promptly and encourages researchers to make data available with as few restrictions as possible.
The MRC offers guidance on data sharing including support for data management planning.
Good research practice policies and guidance
A template is provided for DMPs, as well as guidance for peer-reviewers when assessing plans.
No statement is given on how compliance with MRC's open access or data sharing policies will be monitored.
NIH Data Management and Sharing (DMS) policy
As of January 25 2023, applicants planning to generate scientific data will submit DMS Plans to NIH as part of the funding application or proposal.
NIH sample DMS plans
Under the 2023 DMS policy, NIH encourages investigators to use an established repository .
When selecting a repository, investigators should choose based on factors such as the sensitivity of the data, the size and complexity of the dataset, and the volume of requests anticipated.
Data should be made available no later than the acceptance for publication of the main findings from the final dataset.
Data from large studies can be released in waves as data become available or as they are published.
Any restrictions should be discussed in the data sharing plan section of the funding application.
Researchers should carefully plan the study design, informed consent documents, and structure of resulting dataset prior to initiating the study
Applicants may request funds for data sharing and archiving.
The financial issues should be addressed in the budget section of the application.
Data sharing resources
NIH will delay processing an award if publications arising from it are not in compliance with the NIH Policy.
NERC data policy
A mandatory, single page, Outline Data Management Plan (ODMP) is required for all grant and fellowship applications.
NERC data management plan
It is expected that data will be submitted to the NERC data centre.
An extensive data centre infrastructure is in place to facilitate long-term curation.
NERC will maintain a Data Value Checklist to identify environmental data of long-term value.
Researchers are expected to offer data for deposit in one of the NERC data centres .
NERC will supply the environmental data it holds for free, apart from a few special cases.
Information on all data held within the data centres will be made available through the NERC Data Discovery Service.
Find a NERC facility or resource
Support for researchers on data creation and management is provided through the specialist data centres.
The NERC data centres support curation of environmental data holdings of long-term value.
Compliance with the open access policy will be taken into consideration when considering further applications for funding.
Those funded by NERC who do not meet the data policy requirements risk having award payments withheld or becoming ineligible for future funding from NERC.
STFC scientific data policy
A data management plan is mandatory and should be no longer than two pages of A4.
Data management plans are expected for projects that will result in the production or collection of scientific data.
STFC data management plan
STFC would normally expect data to be managed through an institutional repository, e.g.
as operated by a research organisation (such as STFC), a university, a laboratory or an independently managed subject specific database.
The data management plan should specify which data are to be deposited in a repository, where and for how long, with appropriate justification.
Data resulting from publicly funded research should be made publicly available after a limited period , unless there are specific reasons why this should not happen.
The data policy points researchers to the DCC for support.
Several data centres, services and research portals are in place, such as the UK Solar System Data Centre, the Chemical Database Service and the Diamond Data Portal.
It is not clear if compliance with STFC's open access policy is monitored.
Wellcome data, software and materials management and sharing policy
The Wellcome policy on data, software and materials management and sharing requires applicants to complete a comprehensive Output Managements Plan that sets out how researchers will manage and share significant data, software or materials resulting from Wellcome-funded research.
Data should be maintained securely for a minimum of 10 years .
Wellcome supports unrestricted access to publications via PubMed Central
Researchers are to maximise the availability of data with as few restrictions as possible .
Data should be made available on publication of results.
Wellcome does not run its own data centre, but supports UK PubMed Central .
Where there is no provision, responsibility falls to the institutions in which Wellcome-funded researchers are based.
Wellcome considers that timely and appropriate data management and sharing should represent an integral component of the research process.
Applicants may therefore include any costs associated with their proposed approach as part of their proposal .
Compliance with the open access policy is monitored .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/introduction-to-research-data-management/publisher-data-policies:
Publishers are increasingly developing research data policies for authors as part of their journal submissions.
These may be mandatory or strongly encouraged.
They may also advise on which data repositories to use.
Here is a list of Publishers with known research data policies.
If you do not see your publisher listed here, please contact the RDM Team and we will be happy to check for any relevant policies before submitting to your journal of choice.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/imperial-policy:
Imperial College London is committed to promoting the highest standards of academic research, including excellence in research data management.
This includes a robust digital curation infrastructure that supports open data access and protects confidential data.
Imperial acknowledges legal, ethical and commercial constraints on data sharing and the need to preserve the academic entitlement to publication.
Read the Imperial College London research data management policy (pdf)
Further guidance about research data management can be found on our webpages
Research Data Management is being championed within Imperial by the Research Office, with key services being provided by Library Services and ICT.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/data-management-planning:
Imperial policy requires a data management plan (DMP) to accompany every grant application.
Most research funders now require a DMP to be submitted anyway, but even where this isn't the case, it is good scientific practice to consider how data will be managed as part of the project plan.
It is the responsibility of the Principal Investigator (PI) to ensure the DMP is appropriate for the research proposed.
PIs may find it useful to abstract common elements into a standing research data policy for their research group, section or department.
How to complete a data management plan
Budgeting for research data management

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/data-management-planning/data-management-plan:
A data management plan or DMP is a document outlining how you will manage your research data both during and after your research project.
A DMP can help you anticipate your data management needs so you can prepare for them before the project starts .
Research funding bodies increasingly require grant holders to develop and implement data management plan as part of the application .
H owever, a DMP s hould also be thought of as a “living” document to be revised and updated throughout the project .
Not all plans require a great amount of detail, but you may wish to cover:
To check your funder DMP requirements visit our web page What does my funder require?
The best way to get started writing a data management plan (DMP) is to begin with a suitable template.
We recommend using DMPonline an online tool from the Digital Curation Centre (DCC) which provides templates for all UK research funders who require a plan , as well as Imperial-specific templates and guidance.
You can get help with writing your data management plan by booking a one-to-one consultation with the research data management team: Book an RDM consultation .
You can also get advice on how to improve your plan from the Research Data Management team by emailing a draft copy to rdm-enquiries@imperial.ac.uk or using the feedback request option in DMPOnline.
Additional guidance is available from the national Digital Curation Centre (DCC):
If you want feedback or advice on getting started why not

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/data-management-planning/budgeting:
It is important to consider any costs associated with research data management.
These could include additional staff time, equipment or external services necessary for managing research data throughout the project's lifespan.
Many funding bodies permit the inclusion of data management costs in funding applications, provided they are reasonable and proportionate and incurred before the end of the project.
You cannot claim costs for services that are centrally supported by indirect costing, but directly incurred costs associated with research data management - such as expenses for data storage, software, personnel, and other directly attributable resources - are typically allowable.
Find out whether your funder will accept data management costs
Data management activities that are integrated into routine research practices may incur minimal or no additional costs.
However, for data that are large-scale or complex, the associated costs can be higher.
Examples of costs associated with specific data management activities include:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/organising-and-describing-data:
We are producing more and more data in the course of our work, and it is increasingly important to keep it well organised and documented so that we can find what we want, when we want it, and understand what we find.
Naming files and folders
Choosing file formats
Data documentation and metadata
Electronic Laboratory Notebooks (ELN)

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/organising-and-describing-data/naming-files-and-folders:
Well-organised file names and folder structures make it easier to find and keep track of data and other files.
Having a logical file structure can prevent your files from becoming disorganised.
When collaborating with others, a logical file structure is even more important.
There are many ways to organise files; think carefully about the best structure for your project.
Some useful tips include:
The UK Data Service have an example file structure
Good file names can provide useful clues about the content and status of a file, can uniquely identify a file, and can help in classifying files.
A good file naming strategy can also help prevent files being accidentally deleted or overwritten.
Consider which elements will help you quickly identify the content of your files.
Common elements to consider using in a file naming strategy include:
Some general principles to follow when naming files include:
Sources CESSDA Data Management Expert Guide: File naming and folder structure and Harvard Biomedical Data Management: File Naming Conventions
Version control is a way of recording changes made to files during the lifetime of a project.
It enables you to distinguish between current and older versions of data.
Version control also ensures that research publications cite the exact version of the dataset that underpins published results.
There are various ways file versioning can be managed, including:
A simple method of data versioning is to use consecutive numbering to indicate whether a change is major or minor with decimals used for minor changes (e.g.
v1; v1.1; v2; v2.1; v2.2).
If multiple people are collaboratively working on the same file decide on a common versioning strategy and consider including a version control table within each file where versions, dates, authors and details of changes can be recorded.
The UK Data Service have an example of a version control table .
Some software programs (e.g.
Microsoft Office) and file sharing services (e.g.
One Drive for Business) provide automatic version control which can also be useful when working on files collaboratively.
There are also dedicated version control tools available such as Git described in a blog post by Open Knowledge Foundation: Git (and Github) for Data or TortoiseSVN .
These are especially useful for working collaboratively on code or software.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/organising-and-describing-data/choosing-file-formats:
As a general rule of thumb, while actively working with a dataset you should use whichever file format best suits the way you work .
In most cases, this will be dictated by the software that you prefer to use.
If you have some flexibility, perhaps because your software supports several formats or you are writing your own software, consider using an archive-suitable formats described below.
When you have finished working with a particular dataset, you should transform it to a more stable, standard format for archive .
It is increasingly common to find old files which are completely unreadable now, just because the software that created them is no longer available.
Ideally, your archival format should be at least one of:
If possible, try to choose a format that allows you to describe and document the data directly within the file.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/organising-and-describing-data/documenting-data:
Data documentation provides the contextual information needed to discover, understand, access and reuse research data.
Without this information it may be impossible for future users, including yourself, to understand your data
Data documentation is essential for the reproducibility and replication of research findings and the re-analysis of data.
Ensuring that data are adequately documented and described supports research transparency and facilitates data sharing and reuse.
Documenting your data also minimises the risk of your data being misused or misinterpreted .
You should begin documenting your data at the beginning of your project and continue adding information as you go.
It is much easier to capture information as the project progresses than trying to remember what you have done at a later date.
Data can be described at different levels:
Project-level documentation provides information about the aims of the study, what the research questions were, methods of data collection, instruments used, how the data were processed, who collected the data and when, and how the data can be accessed.
File-level documentation provides descriptions of the contents of a folder or dataset including details of data types, file formats used, and relations between files contained in the folder or dataset.
A README.txt file is a form of documentation commonly used for this purpose.
Variable-level documentation provides definitions and explanations of variables, values, units of measurement, missing values and any other codes or abbreviations used.
This information can be embedded within a data file or documented separately as a data dictionary or codebook or included within a README file.
Source: MANTRA (Research Data Management Training): Documentation and metadata
Examples of documents that can used to describe your data (and software) include:
Additional information on how to document and describe research software can be found on our web page: Making research software open and shareable
Metadata is commonly defined as ‘information about data’.
Metadata and documentation are sometimes used interchangeably but metadata is also used to describe information that is structured and machine readable.
Some research communities make use of domain specific metadata standards.
You can find examples of disciplinary metadata standards and other community standards (e.g.
ontologies, vocabularies) on these websites:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/organising-and-describing-data/eln:
Lab notebooks are a way for researchers to remember vital information about their research through an organised and systematic manner.
They may be considered part of your research data and will need to be archived along with your other data.
If it already in digital form this will be easier to archive over handwritten notes.
Traditionally lab notebooks have been handwritten but as technology advances there are many advantages to using an ELN over a traditional handwritten notebook.
There is a huge variety of ELNs out there.
They can offer a range of functions and some can be customised to suit your needs.
If you are thinking of moving to using ELNs going forward, you may want to consider making a list of the minimum requirements that you would like the ELN to have in order to make the move.
Here are some examples of requirements to think about:
Labstep is a free digital research environment that offers an end-to-end software solution for scientists.
Labstep combines an electronic lab notebook (ELN), inventory and order management and instrument and data connections in an integrated Cloud software.
Labstep is optimised for team collaboration and research project management.
Labstep offers 24/7 customer support and technical support.
You can reach the Labstep team through the in-app live chat or at info@labstep.com .
Go to labstep for more information or create a Labstep account .
The College has access to Miscrosoft OneNote which is one option for a generic ELN, here is some guidance on how to use OneNote as an ELN.
As there is no Imperial recommended ELN this allows for the freedom to choose a system that you are comfortable with.
Your lab leader and department will be able to help you with the content of your lab notebooks whether handwritten or ELN as there may be standard protocols to follow.
Keeping good metadata via lab notebooks is part of good data management practices, you may want to consult our RDM webpages for more information relating to this subject.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/data-storage-and-security:
Storing your data effectively, and keeping it secure through its lifecycle, are important aspects of good research data management.
Imperial provides a number of data storage solutions to its researchers, and guidance is also available around data security, and storing sensitive data.
See guidance on storing live data
See guidance on managing sensitive data

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/data-storage-and-security/box:
Storing live data effectively and securely is an important part of the research data lifecycle.
Imperial expects researchers to store and maintain research data appropriately in relation to its sensitivity and value.
Therefore, it is important to decide how you will do this in the early stages of any research project.
On this webpage you will find information about facilities provided by Imperial to help researchers with their data storage needs.
The High Performance Computing service provided by Imperial College is available for all College researchers.
The standard service is free at the point of use.
Post-docs, PhD and research postgraduate students should contact their group leader or supervisor who will be able to register you
The Research Data Store (RDS) is a central service for storing and collaborating on large volumes of research data.
All research projects with a unique entry in the college's grant management system are entitled to 2TB of RDS allocation free of charge.
If you need more space or you do not have an entry in the grants management system, there will be a cost.
Postdoctoral students and postgraduate research students can apply for access to the RDS.
Access to the RDS groups work similarly to HPC access groups.
A user can be added on selfservice to an RDS project and they will then have access to that project.
For more information on the RDS and pricing visit the Research Data Store webpage.
The RDS cannot be used to store personally identifiable data.
For advice on how to store and manage access to personal or sensitive data contact ICT Security .
Postdoctoral students and postgraduate research students can apply for access to the TRE .
In all cases, students will need an academic supervisor for their project, usually a PI or senior academic.
The supervisor will apply for access on behalf of their student.
The application will be reviewed before access to the TRE is granted.
Details of other storage options for research materials is available on this web page: Saving My Files
Guidance on storing sensitive data is available on these web pages, Keep your files and data safe and Managing sensitive data .
Where collaboration on sensitive research data is expected to take place with external partners, research staff and students should contact ICT for further guidance .
For detailed guidance on the key aspects of Research Security, the principles of Trusted Research and what support is available, please visit the Research Security webpage .
Where possible, we recommend using Imperial maintained services to store your research data, however there may be occasions where this is not practical, and it is necessary to use external media devices or storage facilities to collect and/or store research data.
Whilst portable storage devices and commercial cloud storage are often convenient and easy to use, they can also increase the risk of data loss and unwarranted data exposure.
There are a number of factors to consider when thinking about using these options.
Many researchers keep copies of their research data on personal laptops, external hard drives, USB sticks and other portable storage devices.
These can provide a useful way of transporting or backing up data but should not be relied upon as a primary method of storage.
This is because:
We would therefore recommend that you only use portable storage as a secondary storage option in conjunction with Imperial storage provision and that regular checks are carried out to ensure that any data held on personal devices are still accessible.
Securely encrypt any sensitive or confidential data that is being kept on a personal device.
For information about encrypting personal devices please see the Imperial ICT webpage.
There are a number of commercial cloud storage services available including Google Drive, Dropbox, iCloud and others.
Many provide a certain amount of free space before charging for extra storage.
Whilst these services can seem convenient there are a number of factors to consider before using them.
We strongly recommend using Imperial maintained services rather than commercial cloud providers for the storage of research data.
Commercial cloud storage should not be used to store sensitive or confidential data.
Data stored on One Drive for Business and the Research Data Store (RDS) are regularly backed up but having an additional backup copy of important data offsite (e.g.
stored on an external hard drive) protects your data from extraordinary events like natural disasters.
A good rule of thumb is to follow is the 3-2-1 principle:
You should also regularly test to ensure you can restore your backup without errors.
Copies of data containing sensitive data should be kept a minimum, ideally just the master copy and a single backup.
Backups should only be performed on storage media capable of holding that type of sensitive data, and the data should be encrypted once the backup is completed.
For information on how to sync and backup with One Drive for Business visit Microsoft Support

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/data-storage-and-security/storing-sensitive-and-personal-data:
Sensitive data can refer to:
For more further information about data storage and security see the Imperial ICT web guidance on keeping your files and data safe and saving my files or contact ICT Security
For advice on how to manage research data in compliance with the GDPR and UK Data Protection Act visit the Information Governance team’s web pages on use of personal data in research or contact your faculty data protection coordinator .
For advice on managing health data and patient identifiable information visit the Faculty of Medicine’s Information Governance SharePoint site .
For detailed guidance on the key aspects of Research Security, the principles of Trusted Research and what support is available, please visit the Research Security webpage.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/archival-and-preservation:
All data supporting published research conclusions at Imperial must be preserved for at least 10 years from the end of the project that produced it - some data may need to be kept for longer, depending on relevant laws or funder policies.
When a project is nearing completion (or periodically during a longer project), you should consider what data needs to be retained and make sure a copy is kept in a safe place.
Find out what data should be preserved at the end of your research project
Find out how to identify a suitable venue in which to deposit your research data
Read the deposit agreement for submission to Imperial College London research data repository
A checklist of things to consider when depositing your data in a data repository

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/archival-and-preservation/what-to-keep:
Not all research data needs to be kept.
It may be impracticable or undesirable to retain all data beyond the end of the project.
There may be additional storage costs associated with long-term preservation or contractual or licensing terms that prevent archiving.
Deciding which data to keep will differ from project to project but considering these questions can help when making decisions on what data to keep:
If your answer to one or more of these questions is yes, you will most likely want to keep the data beyond the end of your project.
Some funders have data management and sharing policies which specify retention periods for datasets generated from funded projects.
Which data need to be retained and for how long varies from funder to funder.
See our web page What does my funder require?
for brief summaries and links to individual funder data policies.
If there is no funder requirement you should consult Imperial’s retention schedule .
Primary research data should be kept for a minimum of 10 years or longer if required by a funder or sponsor and data relating to clinical or public health studies retained for a minimum of 20 years or more.
Wherever possible we recommend depositing your data with a trusted data repository to ensure long-term preservation.
See our web page Finding a research data repository for further information.
Files that are not required for long-term preservation should be disposed of securely at the end of the project.
Extra care should be taken when disposing of files that contain sensitive or confidential information.
For help with disposing of confidential data contact the ICT Service Desk .
For help with archiving or disposing of non-digital research data contact the College Archives and Corporate Records Unit.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/archival-and-preservation/finding-a-research-data-repository--archive:
Most major funders and an increasing number of journal publishers now expect data that underpin published findings or have potential value in future research to be made publicly available with as few restrictions as possible.
The best way to ensure the long-term preservation, access and reuse of data is to deposit with a trusted data repository.
Imperial’s research data management policy also requires that Principal Investigators deposit data needed to validate published results with a public repository.
The advantages of depositing your data with a repository include:
Where possible, we recommend depositing your data with a discipline-specific data repository.
They have subject specialist expertise and the resources to manage specific types of data.
Examples of discipline-specific data repositories:
You can also search for a repository by subject using the Registry of Research Data Repositories ( re3data.org ).
Your funder may also support or recommend a particular repository:
Some publishers have also published lists of recommended data repositories:
If no discipline-specific repository or community resource is available, we recommend depositing with a general-purpose data repository.
Examples of general-purpose data repositories:
Zenodo and Figshare both allow registered users to deposit data free of charge.
Dryad charges a data publication fee, but some publishers have an agreement with Dryad to sponsor authors’ data publication charges.
Not all data be made publicly available.
Appropriate safeguards need to be in place before data that contain sensitive or confidential information can be shared.
Some repositories provide a facility to control access to sensitive data.
Here is a list of repositories that provide restricted access options.
You can also search re3data.org using the “restricted access” filter.
Visit our web page ‘ Sharing Sensitive Data ’ for additional guidance on how to share sensitive data.
Email the Research Data Management team or book a one to one consultation with a member of the Research Data Management team if you would like additional help with choosing a suitable data repository.
For guidance on archiving and sharing research software visit our web page Making research software open and shareable .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/archival-and-preservation/data-deposit-agreement:
Dataset – a set of files containing both research data and documentation
Depositor - the person who uploads data.
For the purposes of this document the depositor is either the rights holder or has permission to deposit the data on behalf of the rights holder(s)
Metadata - data or information about data which describes or contextualises the data
Research Data - data that is collected, observed, or created, for purposes of analysis to produce original research results.
The word “data” is used throughout this document to refer to research data
Repository - storage location referred to in this document as the Imperial College London Research Data Repository, in this case for research data.
Research data are increasingly recognised as valuable research outputs in their own right.
Research data provide the evidence that supports published findings and are an important resource for future research.
Modern technology makes it possible to produce and disseminate more data than ever before.
However, digital data are also at risk from file and software obsolescence and data corruption.
Imperial College London recognises the importance of research data and is committed to providing facilities that will enable long-term storage, preservation and accessibility of Datasets.
This Deposit Agreement gives Imperial permission to deposit Datasets and carry out activities necessary to facilitate the long-term preservation and sharing of Datasets within the terms and conditions set out below.
1.1 By clicking through this licence, I grant Imperial College London the non-exclusive right to electronically store, archive, translate, copy, re-arrange or convert the Dataset for preservation and/or migration purposes and to ensure future accessibility without changing the content and/or distribute my Dataset (including the Metadata) worldwide in electronic format.
I am free to deposit my Dataset in its present version or future versions elsewhere.
1.2 I understand that Imperial will make copies of the Dataset (including Metadata) available for distribution worldwide in electronic format for the purposes of access without charge.
1.3 I understand that Imperial is under no obligation to reproduce, transmit, broadcast or display the Dataset in the same formats or resolutions as those in which it was originally deposited, subject to any third-party requirements.
1.4 I understand that Imperial may migrate my Dataset to another repository where this is judged to be in the interests of Imperial’s researchers and/or where it helps Imperial’s researchers meet funder requirements.
Should a national or European data repository be created, my data may be included at no charge.
1.5 I understand that once my Dataset is uploaded to the Imperial College London Research Data Repository, a citation to it will always remain visible, although the author(s) retain the right to update it.
The Metadata that forms the citation will be placed in the public domain via a Creative Commons Zero Licence (CC0).
1.6 I agree that Imperial may create persistent identifiers (e.g.
Digital Object identifiers (DOIs)) to provide a permanent link to the Dataset via a data catalogue or other resource.
1.7 I understand that I can request that public access to the Dataset be restricted.
1.8 I understand that Imperial may remove my Dataset and/or Metadata without notice if the Dataset is found to violate the legal rights of any person or organisation or breach College regulations, UK law or funder mandates.
1.9 I understand that should access to a Dataset and/or Metadata record be restricted by either Imperial or at the request of the Depositor, the university reserves the right to retain the Dataset and Metadata record of the Dataset in the repository in perpetuity.
2.1 That I am either the sole rights holder or am authorised by all rights holder(s) of the Dataset to enter into this agreement and hereby give Imperial the right to make my Dataset available in the way described above.
2.2 That the submission does not infringe the copyright, or any confidentiality rights of a third party.
2.3 Imperial is under no obligation to take or defend legal action on my behalf, or on behalf of any other rights holder(s) if the Dataset breaches intellectual property rights or is otherwise subject to legal dispute.
2.4 If the Dataset has been commissioned, sponsored or supported by an agency or organisation other than Imperial College London, I represent that I have fulfilled all the obligations required by such contract(s) or agreements(s).
2.5 Imperial will clearly identify me as the Depositor in my capacity as either the Dataset’s creator or copyright owner.
2.6 Imperial will not make any alteration, other than as allowed by this licence, to my Dataset.
2.7 Imperial may keep more than one copy of my Dataset for purposes of security, back-up, and preservation.
2.8 Where the Dataset concerns human subjects, I confirm that the appropriate written and informed consent and ethical approval was obtained for the collection.
2.9 All necessary steps – including anonymisation - have been taken to prevent disclosure of confidential information or information that relates to an individual who can be identified.
2.10 I confirm that where the collection of personal data was carried out without consent, an alternative legal basis was provided in accordance with the principles of the UK Data Protection Act 2018 and the GDPR.
2.11 I acknowledge that I am responsible for the secure retention or destruction of any identifiable information collected as part of my research.
2.12 The Dataset does not breach any law nor contain any material of a defamatory or libellous nature.
2.13 To the best of my knowledge there are no ethical or moral reasons which might prohibit the Dataset being made publicly available.
2.14 To the best of my knowledge and belief I have provided sufficient Metadata to ensure that the Dataset is discoverable and sufficient explanatory documentation to ensure that the Dataset is understandable and reusable.
2.15 I confirm that I have actively chosen a licence for my Dataset, one that is compliant with funder requirements and/or is appropriate for the Dataset type and its use by the research community.
3.1 While every care will be taken to preserve the integrity of the Dataset, Imperial is not liable for loss or damage to the dataset while it is stored in the Imperial College London Data Repository or any repository to which the data is subsequently migrated.
3.2 Imperial accepts no responsibility for mistakes, omissions, or legal infringements within the Dataset.
3.3 Datasets are being distributed without warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied.
In no event shall Imperial College London be liable for damages arising from their use.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/archival-and-preservation/data-deposit-checklist:
Contact rdm-enquiries@imperial.ac.uk for additional help.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/sharing-data:
Data is not always thought of as a publishable, shareable output of research in the same way that articles, reports and books are, but there are many compelling reasons why you should consider sharing your data.
Find out about best practice around data sharing
Find out about how to make your research software open and shareable
Find out about best practice around sharing sensitive data
Find out about the different kinds of licenses that you can attach to your data

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/sharing-data/how-to-share-research-data:
The most widespread type of data sharing is the collaboration that happens within research groups and projects as part of the day-to-day research process.
It is also increasingly common to share data more widely as a form of publication, in addition to more conventional research papers and books.
Both of these types of sharing are supported by research data management practices such as Organising and describing data ,  and Data preservation , but require additional tools as well.
Transfers of large volumes of data between Imperial and external sites, as well as sharing project data with third parties, is available via Globus.
More research support services from ICT
If using third-party collaboration tools, make sure you do so safely , see Sharing sensitive data .
If you cannot share your data, you must still include a statement briefly explaining why: you should be aware of your options for sharing sensitive data .
Writing a data access statement
At a minimum, Imperial and the research councils expect data underlying published results to be made available .
You can either do this directly (if you have the right to share the data yourself) or indicate where readers can obtain the data for themselves.
If possible, try to use several of the methods described below, to improve the chances of your data being found.
Check specific requirements of your funder
The most straightforward way to make data available is to deposit it in a public repository (also known as an archive or data centre).
In many cases, this will also meet the requirement to archive your data for the long term.
Most data repositories will give you a Digital Object Identifier (DOI) for your dataset, enabling it to be cited and tracked like a regular publication.
If your data is too sensitive to share publicly, you could deposit some summary statistics or an anonymised version to advertise your availability to collaborate on the full dataset.
Finding a data repository / archive
A comprehensive collection of domain specific data centres are listed in Recommended data repositories .
If the data is very small, some journals may accept it as supplementary information and host it themselves.
However, this is not ideal as supplementary information can be difficult to discover and some publishers unintentionally corrupt it as part of their publishing process.
There are now a growing number of "data journals": journals dedicated solely to publishing brief descriptions of data (data papers or data descriptors) that link to the dataset itself.
Some leading data journals include Scientific Data (Nature) and the Geoscience Data Journal (Wiley) , but the list is growing daily so it's probably easiest to ask colleagues or search the web for data journals in your area.
If none of the options above are possible (perhaps because your data is sensitive), you can offer to make the data available on request.
This allows you, for example, to enter into a data sharing agreement that binds the user to comply the consent granted by the participants who provided the data.
Do not use an individual person's email address for this.
People change jobs or retire, but it must still be possible for people to obtain the data, so use a shared email address for your research group or department.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/sharing-data/how-to-write-a-data-access-statement:
Data access statements, also known as data availability statements, are included in publications to describe where the data associated with the paper is available, and under what conditions the data can be accessed.
They are required by many funders and scientific journals as well as the UKRI Common Principles on Data Policy .
Examples of data access statements are provided below, but your statement should typically include:
“Data supporting this study are not publicly available due to (GIVE REASONS WHY DATA ARE NOT PUBLIC).
Please contact our-research-group@imperial.ac.uk)”
“Data supporting this study cannot be made available due to (GIVE REASONS WHY THE DATA CANNOT BE SHARED)”
“No new data were generated or analysed during this study”
*A simple direction to contact the author may not be considered acceptable by some funders and publishers.
The EPSRC have made this explicit.
Consider setting up a shared email address for your research group or use an existing departmental address.
** Under some circumstances (e.g.
participants did not agree for their data to be shared) it may be appropriate to explain that the data are not available at all.
In this case, you must give clear and justified reasons.
Additional examples of data access/availability statements can be found on these publisher web pages: Springer Nature , Wiley and Taylor Francis .
Some journals provide a “data access” or “data availability” section.
If no such section exists, you can place your statement in the acknowledgements section.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/sharing-data/sharing-sensitive-data:
Many funders, publishers and other stakeholders encourage researchers to make their data publicly available, but this is not always possible.
Reasons for this may include:
Before sharing sensitive or confidential research data, it is important to check whether there are any ethical or legal obligations or regulations preventing you from making the data available.
However, even if openly sharing data is not possible, it may still be possible to share sensitive data if appropriate safeguards are in place.
Ethical and legal data sharing can be supported by a combination of obtaining consent for data sharing, data anonymisation and implementing data access controls.
Researchers should plan early on in a project for how and under what conditions data should be shared.
If the research involves human participants plans for future data sharing should be addressed during ethics approval.
Informed consent should be obtained from research participants including future use and reuse of the data by others.
It is important to explain to participants how their data will be shared both during and after the project.
Data sharing must always be consistent with consent agreements signed by participants.
Intellectual Property Rights such as copyright and patents, significantly influence how you and others can use your research data.
Clarifying these rights at the beginning of the research process is crucial to ensure that data sharing does not infringe the rights of IP owners.
When data is collected or created during multi-partner research projects, multiple parties may hold joint copyright and intellectual property rights.
Before sharing such data, it is essential to obtain permission from all IP holders.
Data derived from secondary analysis may contain third-party content.
It's important to seek permission from the rights holders, who may impose usage restrictions.
Ensure that any shared derived data adheres to the relevant terms of use and clearly communicates any conditions to future users.
Researchers need to ensure that any sharing of personal data conforms to relevant data protection legislation such as UK Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA 2018) and the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
The GDPR includes a research exemption that allows the processing of personal data for research and archiving, provided that appropriate safeguards, such as pseudonymisation and anonymisation, are in place.
Pseudonymisation is the process of replacing identifiable information with pseudonymous identifiers and ensuring that the identifiable information or “key” is kept separate.
While individuals may not be identifiable from the pseudonymous data itself, they can be identified by referring to other information held separately so pseudonymised data should still be treated as personal data.
Anonymisation is the process of turning personal data into anonymous information so that an individual is no longer identifiable.
This process allows sensitive research data to be shared while protecting the privacy of participants and complying with data protection regulations.
Data protection regulations do not apply to anonymised data.
The GDPR defines personal data as any information relating to a living person that can be used to identify them, either directly or indirectly.
Removing direct identifiers (e.g., name, address, telephone number, image) may not guarantee anonymisation.
If a dataset includes indirect identifiers - information that could indirectly identify an individual when combined with other data (e.g., age, occupation, post code, salary) - it may still be considered personal data.
With some datasets, anonymisation may compromise the usefulness or value of the data.
Anonymising datasets which contain rich and detailed information might result in the loss of context and relevance thereby limiting their value for both analysis and subsequent use.
Data sharing under controlled access conditions allows researchers to use more detailed data while still protecting individuals' privacy, striking a balance between data utility and confidentiality.
Some data repositories provide tiered access levels to research data.
Open access provides unrestricted data availability to all users, whereas restricted or controlled access sets specific limitations.
These limitations may include:
While it may be necessary to restrict access to a dataset to protect confidentiality, it is still possible to publish a metadata record in a data repository.
Important: Datasets containing personal data as defined by the GDPR may only be transferred to an external repository if a data processing agreement is in place between the university and the repository.
For further information, please contact rdm-enquires@imperial.ac.uk.
If no suitable repository is available, potentially disclosive data should be stored on a secure platform that offers encryption and strict access controls to ensure that only authorized persons can access the data.
Procedures for handling data access requests from external researchers should be established along with the use of data sharing agreements outlining the terms and conditions for accessing and using the data.
Sharing data from clinical trials increases scientific knowledge, leads to better therapies for patients and increases public trust in clinical trials.
Data must be anonymised before publication, and participant consent should explicitly state that data can be shared beyond the initial trial.
Although making anonymised clinical trial publicly accessible promotes transparency and supports research advancement, it also presents risks of disclosure and misuse.
Consequently, funding bodies like the MRC recommend using controlled access data-sharing methods.
Whenever feasible, data should be stored in a repository that provides restricted access options- such as the UK Data Service - and access restricted to authorised users under a formal data access agreement.
The UK Data Service provides comprehensive guidance on consent for data sharing and data anonymisation
A link to the university’s Intellectual Property (IP) Policy can found on the Intellectual Property web page .
The OSF maintain a List of Approved Protected Access Repositories
For assistance with data sharing agreements, please contact your faculty or departmental contracts manager.
Relevant links are available on the Material Transfer Agreements (MTAs) web page .
The MRC, in collaboration with other major funders, has published Good practice principles for sharing individual participant data from publicly funded clinical trials .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/sharing-data/licensing-your-data:
Licensing is recommended when publishing research data.
Licences allow you to share your data while stating clearly what others can do with the data.
If you deposit your data with a data repository you may be asked to choose from a range of licences.
Facts cannot be copyrighted, so if your dataset only contains facts or dates you might consider releasing the data under a public domain declaration such as the Creative Commons Zero Public Domain Dedication (CCO) .
A CCO dedication allows the copyright holder to waive copyright ownership of a work and enables others to use the work without restriction.
Attribution of authorship is not a requirement of reuse under the dedication, but the usual expectations of attribution and citation for academic scholarship should still be followed.
Releasing your data under a CCO public waiver is the most effective option effective for encouraging others to share and reuse your data in support of open science.
However, if you do not wish to waive copyright or your dataset contains media rich content such as text, images or film you should consider applying a Creative Commons licence .
Creative Commons licenses allow the copyright holder to retain copyright ownership of their works while allowing others to use the work under certain conditions specified by the chosen licence.
There are six main licence types (listed below).
The most permissive license - and therefore the license most suited for enabling data sharing and reuse - is the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY Attribution).
Popular open source licenses for software include:
Additional information is available from the Software Sustainability Institute and Open Source Initiative .
Open Data Commons licences are similar to Creative Commons licences but are intended specifically for use with databases:
The tools below can help you choose the most appropriate licence for your data/software.
Creative Commons
Choose an open source license
License Selector

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/make-your-data-fair-:
The FAIR principles , introduced in 2014 and formally published in 2016 , serve as a framework to meet the challenges posed by the increasing reliance on computational support for data analysis and interpretation.
These principles emphasise the importance of making data findable , accessible , interoperable , and reusable by both humans and machines.
By adhering to FAIR principles, researchers and institutions can ensure that their data are well-described, easily discoverable, and ready for reuse in diverse contexts.
Findability refers to the ease with which data can be discovered and located
Practical steps:
Accessibility ensures that data can be retrieved and accessed by both humans and machines
Interoperability enables seamless integration of diverse datasets, applications, and workflows
Reusability ensures that data can be used for various research purposes beyond their initial collection
FAIR data does not necessarily mean open access to data.
Not all data can be made openly available.
Sometimes restrictions are needed to protect sensitive and confidential information (see our web page Sharing sensitive data ).
However, data that are not openly available can still be FAIR if the guidelines outlined above are followed e.g.
if the data are accompanied by metadata and supporting documentation which provide detailed information about the providence of the data and how and under what conditions the data can be accessed.
The principle you should follow is for the data to be ‘as open as possible, as closed as necessary’
It is important to embed FAIRness into your data management practices from the start of your project, and creating a data management plan can help you achieve this.
Implementing a data management plan helps to enhance the FAIRness of your data from the outset.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/sharing-data/research-software:
Research software are a fundamental part of research.
As with other research outputs, there are good reasons for preserving software and making it available for future use.
The benefits of preserving and sharing research software include:
Many funding bodies and journal publishers now expect software that supports research findings to be made publicly available upon publication.
A source code repository is an online service that supports version control and other software development tools such as file hosting, bug tracking and issue tracking.
Popular code repositories include GitHub , BitBucket and GitLab .
Hosted services are especially useful for working with collaborators across more than one institution.
Imperial has a license with GitHub that allows users to create both public and private code repositories at no cost.
For further information see Working with GitHub.com .
If your project requires extra security beyond that provided by private repositories in GitHub.com you should consider using the Imperial-hosted GitHub Enterprise service.
GitHub Enterprise offers similar functionality to GitHub.com, but all code is stored on-premise and an Imperial user account is required to access the service.
See Working with GitHub Enterprise for more information.
Software documentation provides essential contextual information which describes the software and tells others how the software was created, how it operates and how it can be used.
Software documentation can be embedded in the source code or included in written texts that accompany the software.
As a minimum you should include a README file with your software.
A README file typically includes information such as:
GitHub will automatically display the content of a file named README on your repository's top-level page.
Consider using Markdown syntax for your README file since GitHub will format this in a manner that makes it more readable and accessible.
Please see this example of a README file and other supporting documentation for a software project in GitHub
Every GitHub repository includes a wiki which can also be used to add descriptive information about your software.
For help with creating a README file and a wiki for software projects in GitHub see Documenting your projects on GitHub .
Code hosting services such as GitHub, BitBucket or GitLab are not suitable for archiving software.
If you have software that supports published findings, is needed to reproduce or replicate research results, or has potential for use in future research, we recommend archiving a copy with a data repository such as Zenodo or Figshare .
As well as ensuring long-term preservation and access to the software, Zenodo and Figshare both assign DOI’s (Digital Object Identifiers) to software outputs making it easier to cite and track specific versions of your software.
Both Zenodo and Figshare have implemented integration tools to support the automated deposit of software from GitHub.
For further information see Making your code citable (for archiving GitHub repositories with Zenodo) and How to connect Figshare with your GitHub account
For additional support from the Software Sustainability Institute see Choosing a repository for your software project and Software deposit: Where to deposit software
A software licence is an agreement between a developer and user which provides a set of conditions for the use and distribution of software.
An open source licence allows users to use, copy, modify and redistribute the software providing that credit is given to the author.
Because open source licences place minimal restrictions on how others can use software outputs, they are an important tool for making software accessible and reusable.
When you deposit your software in a repository - whether a code hosting service like GitHub or a general purpose repository like Zenodo or Figshare - you will typically be given the option of choosing a licence.
Some popular examples of open source licences for software are Apache 2.0 , GNU General Public License (GPL) and MIT .
Imperial’s preferred open source license is the BSD open source licence .
Further details are available on Imperial’s Enterprise Division’s web site: Open Source Software Licences.
A comprehensive list of open source licences with detailed information for each licence is available from the Open Source Initiative’s web page: Licenses and Standards .
If you are planning to modify and/or redistribute someone else's code check to make sure that this is compatible with the permissions granted under the original licence.
Open source licences are unlikely to be appropriate for software that are subject to contractual restrictions set by third parties or where the intellectual property rights (IP) for the software are owned by Imperial and have potential for commercialisation.
Imperial's Intellectual Property policy is available with your Imperial login.
Help with the IP commercialisation process is available from Imperial's Enterprise division: enterprise@imperial.ac.uk
Research software should be given the same importance as any other research output and considered citable in the same way as an article or monograph.
If you are making your software publicly available - e.g.
via a hosting service such as GitHub or a data repository such as Zenodo or Figshare - you can encourage others to cite your software by including a recommended citation in your README file or by including a CITATION file .
If the software supports published findings you should also include a recommended citation in the published paper.
This can be added to the acknowledgements section or as part of a separate data access statement.
If you have used someone else's software in your research project you should include a citation in your published paper.
This could be in the acknowledgements, footnotes, methods section or appendices depending on publisher requirements.
It is not necessary to acknowledge all the software used.
The Software Sustainability Institute recommend citation only if the software played a critical role in your research and made a novel contribution.
The Australian National Data Service (ANDS) recommend using these core citation elements:
Author, Publication Year, Title, Version, Publisher, Resource type (Software), Identifier (e.g.
DOI)
Example:
Xu, C., & Christoffersen, B.
(2017).
The Functionally-Assembled Terrestrial Ecosystem Simulator Version 1.
Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL), Los Alamos, NM (United States).
[Software].
https://doi.org/10.11578/dc.20171025.1962
Some publishers and software providers have also published guidelines for software citation.
Examples can be found on the Software Sustainability Institute’s webpage How to cite software
Australian National Data Service (ANDS) Software Citation
Force 11 Software Citation Principles
In addition to making your software publicly available you might also consider publishing a paper describing your software.
Journals which specialise in publishing peer reviewed software papers include:
Journal of open research software
Journal of Open Source Software (JOSS)
SoftwareX
Journal of Statistical Software
For a more detailed list of journals which accept software papers, see the Software Sustainability Institute's web guide In which journals should I publish my software?
Imperial would like to know about your software and where it is.
Once you have archived your software, create a record for it in Symplectic.
This will increase its visibility and discoverability.
This guide provides instructions on how to deposit information about your software with Symplectic.
We have also created this how-to video .
Introducing the FAIR Principles for research software (article)

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/data-discovery-and-reuse:
You can make your data deposits more visible and discoverable to others in a number of ways.
You can enter metadata describing your deposit into Symplectic; you can cite your dataset in your published papers; and you can link your deposit to your ORCiD iD.
All of the above is good practice.
Find out about how to use Symplectic and Spiral to make your work more discoverable
Understand how to cite data properly using recommended formats
Find out about how to use ORCID to distinguish your research profile

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/data-discovery-and-reuse/symplectic-and-spiral:
To make your data, software and code deposits more discoverable you can enter metadata about them into Symplectic.
This then feeds through into Spiral, the Imperial College institutional repository.
Spiral is indexed by various search engines, including Google Scholar, and will improve the visibility of your work which will in turn make it more citable.
To do this access your Symplectic account and add information about your data, software or code.
Principle Investigators are required to inform the College of the location of published datasets and software via Symplectic in order to meet funder requirements, ensure that valuable assets are not lost, and to help make research outputs more visible.
Videos on how to deposit information about your dataset, software or code in Symplectic are available below:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/data-discovery-and-reuse/how-to-cite-data:
Citing and measuring the impact of datasets is increasingly important for the scientific research community.
If you use, adapt or reference someone else’s dataset it is important that you acknowledge this, and you may wish to cite your own deposited datasets in research papers and publications.
Information on how to correctly cite a dataset can be found on the DataCite website , following the principles outlined by Force11 in 2014.
The recommended format for data citation usually comprises the following components:
If applicable, information about two other properties, Version and ResourceType, should also be included
Further reading:
Australian National Data Service: Data Citation
UK Data Service: Cite the data

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/orcid:
ORCID ( O pen R esearcher and C ontributor ID ) is a global, not-for-profit organisation.
ORCID iD is a free, unique, persistent identifier (PID) for individuals to use for all their research-related activities and outputs.
It is a 16-character alphanumeric code unique to the user helping them distinguish from each other.
An ORCID iD is a unique researcher identifier which can be added to your research outputs to ensure that your work is easily distinguished from that of other researchers.
ORCID is becoming an international standard with over 1.5 million iDs registered by researchers, and now used by an increasing number of publishers, funders and universities.
Your ORCID profile is managed by you and can be linked to a range of information such as publications, grants, education and employment history.
Find out more about ORCID at Imperial at the ORCID Project , or by reading Your name is not good enough: introducing the ORCID researcher identifier at Imperial College London .
You will get credit for your work and others will easily find your research (no matter how many people have your same or similar name).
You can record your ‘grey literature’ in your ORCID, such as reports, working papers, blog posts, and even videos.
ORCID helps reduce the negative consequences of name changes.
An ORCID iD will move with you across institutions, ensuring continuity of identity across your career and beyond.
You will easily be able to keep track of and report on your work to funders, publishers, and institutions.
Many funders now require you to have an ORCID iD to submit your grant application.
ORCID is a community-driven project, open to all researchers in any discipline and at any career stage.
ORCID allows you to authenticate with different platforms, such as GitHub and the Research Council’s grant system (Je-S) .
Many journals and publishers now require you to submit your manuscript via ORCID.
Add your ORCID iD to your Symplectic profile and any items tagged with your iD will automatically be claimed by Symplectic.
In grant applications.
As of July 2015 Research Councils UK are investigating ORCID integration with its systems.
With systems of over 150 members including publishers, funders and research management tools.
On GitHub to distinguish yourself in a project.
Creating an ORCID iD via Symplectic means your iD is automatically linked to your Symplectic profile
Create an ORCID iD and connect to Symplectic
Staff and students without a Symplectic profile can still get the benefits of an ORCID iD by registering at orcid.org
Create an ORCID iD at ORCID.org
To read more about ORCID, please check out About ORCID - ORCID

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/training-and-resources:
The appropriate management of research data is a high priority of Imperial.
This section provides information about useful resources, training material and guidance that have been developed for researchers in the HEI sector.
RDM training available at Imperial
Glossary of RDM terms

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/training-and-resources/imperial-guidance:
Here you will find information about the Research Data Management (RDM) training that we offer at Imperial.
Data is a key research asset, underpinning almost all published research conclusions.
This course will highlight the key considerations for students and researchers to help them assess when it is appropriate to share your data and how, and how to write a data management plan.
Visit the Early Career Researcher Institute website to find out more information and to book your place on the next session.
This webinar will introduce you to the online data management planning tool DMPonline and cover some of the more practical elements of creating a data management plan.
You may be interested in other topics surrounding Research Data Mangement (RDM) such as Open Access (OA), Copyright, and Research Impact.
You can visit our SCM Training and event s page to see what other sessions we are offering.
Please note there are no dates available for this training at the moment.
This course covers the basics of organising and managing research data.
Whether created by yourself or reusing data from existing resources, making sure research data are well managed can help prevent data loss, ensure research transparency and reproducibility, and enable data sharing and reuse.
You can find information about this session on the Lunchtime workshops page under Digital and information skills .
Find out more about the Research Computing & Data Science programme of courses available for research staff and students.
If you haven't found an appropriate training course here, we would be happy to provide you with a bespoke session.
These can cover a topic of your choosing or you can ask us to provide an overview for you.
They can be a short 10 minute introduction or a longer session of over an hour.
We aim to help all researchers including students at all levels and staff.
Please contact the team at rdm-enquiries@imperial.ac.uk to request more information on your bespoke training.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/training-and-resources/glossary:
Anonymised data: Data relating to a specific individual where the identifiers have been removed to prevent identification of that individual.
Archive: A place or collection containing static records, documents, or other materials for long-term preservation.
Big data: A broad term for datasets that are so large and complex that traditional processing applications are inadequate.
The use of advanced methods can extract value from data, such as trend-analysis, disease prevention, crime prevention, etc.
Challenges can include analysis, capture, curation, sharing, storage, information privacy, etc.
Born digital: This refers to materials that originate in digital form, in contrast to analogue, or physical,  materials that have been reformatted to become digital.
Examples of born digital content include: websites, forums, wikis, digital documents and manuscripts, electronic records, data sets, digital photographs, digital art, digital media publications.
Data: The quantities, characters, or symbols on which operations are performed by a computer, which may be stored and transmitted in the form of electrical signals and recorded on magnetic, optical, or mechanical recording media.
Things known or assumed as facts, making the basis of reasoning or calculation.
Data catalogue: A curated collection of metadata about datasets and their data elements.
Data lifecycle: Refers to all the stages in the existence of digital information from creation to destruction.
A lifecycle view is used to enable active management of the data objects and resource over time, thus maintaining accessibility and usability.
Data management plan: A plan outlining what data will be created, how, and whether the necessary support is in place, making the research process easier by saving time and effort.
Data management plans typically require researchers to cover:
Most funders have specific guidelines which should be referred to.
The DCC provides a summary of DMP requirements and links to funders’ guidance.
Data sharing: The transfer of data between different organisations or individuals to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of research or service delivery, in line with current domestic legislation and the UK’s international obligations.
Dataset: The Freedom of Information act defines a dataset as: information comprising a collection of information held in electronic form where all or most of the information in the collection:
Has been obtained or recorded for the purpose of providing a public authority with information in connection with the provision of a service by the authority or the carrying out of any other function of the authority and is factual information which:
De-anonymisation: The process of determining the identity of an individual to whom a pseudonymised dataset relates by cross-referencing with other sources of data.
Digital curation: The selection, preservation, maintenance, and archiving of digital objects in order to add value to collections of data for present and future use.
Robust digital curation will mitigate digital obsolescence and ensure user access to information indefinitely.
Digital Object Identifier (DOI): A persistent identifier for a digital object on a network.
It is permanently assigned to an object that allows it to be referenced reliably even if its location or metadata undergo change over time.
Disclosive: Data is potentially disclosive if, despite the removal of obvious identifiers, characteristics of this dataset in isolation or in conjunction with other datasets in the public domain might lead to identification of the individual to whom a record belongs.
Intellectual property: A set of property rights that grant the right to protect the materials created by them.
Intellectual property comprises copyright, designs, patents, certain confidential information and trademarks.
Linked data: Described by an identifier and an address to permit linking with other relevant data which might not otherwise be connected, improving discoverability.
It may contain embedded links to other data.
Metadata: ‘Data about data’.
Content, such as that in a digital repository, can be described in detail via the input of associated metadata.
This acts like a catalogue record and allows searching across items within the repository.
If the repository has implemented an appropriate metadata exposure method (such as Open Archives Initiative Protocol for Metadata Harvesting and/or RSS) the metadata can then be harvested by external services and exposed to the wider world.
Repositories use open standards to ensure that the content they contain can be searched and retrieved for later use.
The use of these agreed international standards allows mechanisms to be set up which import, export, identify, store and retrieve the digital content within the repository.
Metadata enables research data to be discovered, understood and effectively re-used by others.
Published research results should always include information on how to access the supporting metadata.
Mosaic effect: The process of combining anonymised data with auxiliary data in order to reconstruct identifiers linking data to the individual it relates to.
Open access: Provision of free access to peer-reviewed academic publications without subscription charges or paywalls.
Open data: Data that is:
Open data also refers to the availability of data underlying research outputs.
A principle of Research Councils UK is that publicly funded research data is a public good, produced in the public interest, which should be made openly available with as few restrictions as possible in a timely and responsible manner that does not harm intellectual property.
Open standards: Repositories use open standards to ensure that the content they contain is accessible in that it can be searched and retrieved for later use.
The use of agreed international standards allows mechanisms to be set up which import, export, identify, store and retrieve the digital content within the repository.
Personal data: As defined by the Data Protection Action 1998, data relating to a specific individual where the individual is identified or identifiable in the hands of a recipient of the data.
Pseudonymised data: Data relating to a specific individual where the identifiers have been replaced by artificial identifiers to prevent identification of the individual.
Raw data: Data that has not been processed for meaningful use.
Although raw data has the potential to become "information," it requires selective extraction, organisation, and sometimes analysis and formatting for presentation.
As a result of processing, raw data sometimes ends up in a database, which enables the data to become accessible for further processing and analysis in a number of different ways.
Repository: A digital repository is a means of managing, storing and providing access to digital content.
It is where digital assets are stored and managed to facilitate searching and retrieval for later use.
A repository supports mechanisms to import, export, identify, store, preserve and retrieve digital assets.
Putting digital content into an institutional repository enables institutions to manage and preserve it, and therefore derive maximum value from it.
A repository can support research, teaching, learning, and administrative processes.
Although many institutional repositories are primarily established for the benefit of the organisation and its users, there is an increasing movement towards open access to the wider community, sometimes in a global sense.
Research: The College defines a research project as one that constitutes a ‘useful subject of study’; in a subject, or be directed towards establishing an outcome, which is both of value and calculated to promote the College’s charitable aims in a meaningful and direct way.
'Useful' means that the project should be capable of increasing or enhancing knowledge, understanding and learning, rather than being ‘useful’ in a practical sense.
It must involve the creation and/or acquisition of new knowledge - and does not include the application of existing knowledge or expertise to solve specific problems where there is nothing novel being created.
A project must be undertaken ‘for the public benefit’ and with the intention that the useful knowledge it generates will be disseminated to the public and others who are able to utilise or benefit from it.
Any useful knowledge generated must be disseminated.
Research Excellence Framework (REF): The REF is the system for assessing research in UK universities.
The results are used to determine public funding for universities' research, and affect their reputations.
Through the REF expert panels, made up of both practising researchers and research users, assess the academic excellence of research as well as the impact of research beyond academia.
Universities can submit all types of research, funded from any source.
Research impact: A recorded, or otherwise auditable occasion of influence, from academic research on another actor or organisation.
Impact is usually demonstrated by pointing to a record of the active consultation, consideration, citation, discussion, referencing or use of a piece of research.
Research has an academic impact when the influence is upon another researcher, university organization or academic author, usually demonstrated by citation indicators.
Research output: The finished product(s) of the research, rather than the components that make it up.
The following are considered research outputs in the Research Excellence Framework:
CASRAI dictionary (now managed by CODATA)
If you are unable to find a term here, a more detailed Glossary has been developed as a practical reference for individuals and working groups.
A regularly updated ‘living document’ this Glossary provides a URL allowing researchers to link directly to RDM terms should they wish to.
CASRAI Dictionary

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/faq:
Research data management describes the decisions made to ensure that data collected and used during a research project are properly cared for and maintained.
It involves planning for data management needs at the start of the project, organising and storing data during the project, and preparing data for archiving and sharing beyond the end of the project.
Good management of research data is beneficial to researchers and ensures that data remains available to validate claims made in published research.
Research data is the evidence that underpins all research conclusions (except those which are purely theoretical) and includes data that has been collected, observed, generated, created or obtained from commercial, government or other sources, for subsequent analysis and synthesis to produce original research results.
These results are then used to generate research papers and submitted for publication.
Our research data management policy is designed to give academics clear guidance on the principles of research data management, while allowing them flexibility to select the tools that best suit their approach.
Principal investigators have overall responsibility for the effective management of research data generated within or obtained for their research, including by their research groups.
This includes developing a data management plan (DMP) at the start of a project, ensuring that data is stored in a way that minimises the risk of loss and making shareable data publicly available where this is required to validate published research.
See the College’s research data management policy for details.
The Library and ICT will provide training, guidance and services to support PIs.
PhD students are not required to comply with the College’s data management policy but are advised to follow the data management principles outlined in the College’s research data management policy and on the College web pages .
They are also are encouraged to archive and, where appropriate, share the data that supports their published thesis findings by depositing their data with a trusted repository to improve the visibility of their research.
Like data, software can be a valuable research output in its own right.
In many cases data cannot be fully understood without the software that was used to generate it.
Where software is developed as part of a research project, PIs are required to archive the version of the software that was used to generate/analyse the data and to inform the Library of the location, using Symplectic.
Software should be archived even when it cannot be made publicly available.
Additional information is available on our web page Making research software open and shareable .
Many funding bodies now require or expect researchers to archive and share data which supports published findings.
Links to funder data policies are available on our web pages .
A data management plan or DMP is a document that outlines how you will handle your data both during your project and after it is completed.
Having a data management plan will help you identify risks to your data, clarify any legal and ethical issues and prepare for any additional costs and resources that might be needed.
Many funders require a DMP as part of the grant application.
See our web page on How to complete a data management plan for additional information and support.
The College's recommended platform for storing research data is the Research Data Store (RDS).
PIs for projects with active research grants are eligible for 2TB online storage with additional storage available at cost.
HPC users have access to 1TB of 'ephemeral storage' (30 days max).
Individual researchers and postgraduate students who don't have access to the RDS can use their College One Drive for Business account to store research data.
All staff and students have access to 5TB online storage.
The College recommends that sensitive data is saved and shared using the cloud-service OneDrive for Business .
We do not recommend using portable media or personal laptops/PCs to store sensitive data, but if this is unavoidable devices should be password protected and files encrypted.
Make sure you have a back-up copy.
Additional information can be found on our web pages storing sensitive and personal data and keeping files and data safe .
Data that support published findings and/or are considered to have long-term value should be deposited with an established data repository or community database to aid data preservation, sharing and reuse.
Where possible, data should be deposited with a domain/subject specific repository.
re3data.org is a registry of data repositories that allows you to search by subject.
If no subject repository is available, we recommend depositing with a general-purpose repository such as Zenodo or Figshare .
Alternatively, you might consider depositing your data with the College's Research Data Repository.
Email the Research Data Mangement team if you would like help with choosing a suitable repository.
Additional help can be found our web page finding a data repository .
If there are no restrictions on data sharing and the data can be made publicly available, we recommend depositing with a data repository (see FAQ ‘Where can I archive my data?’).
Depositing with a reputable data repository will also ensure the long-term preservation of your data.
Where possible, data required to validate or reproduce published results, or which has potential value for future research should be made public, but it is important to ensure that publication will not infringe any legal or ethical obligations, for example if the dataset contains personal or patient identifiable data, commercially sensitive information or third party copyright material.
However, even sensitive data can be shared if appropriate safeguards and measures are put in place (see FAQ ‘My data contains sensitive information’).
Furthermore, in some cases - e.g.
if the data are generated as a result of running computer simulations - it might be algorithm or script rather than the data that should be preserved and shared.
Not all data can be shared openly without restriction.
Data sharing must comply with legal and ethical obligations.
Data that contain personally identifiable information must follow the requirements set out by the GDPR.
However, even sensitive data can be shared if appropriate safeguards are in place to avoid unwarranted disclosure and protect data confidentiality e.g.
See our web page Sharing sensitive data for more information
The College owns any IP created by College Employees in the course of their normal duties unless explicitly stated otherwise.
If you are part of a multi-partnered research project with academic or commercial partners, agreements or legal contracts should be in place clarifying IP ownership and determining which data can be shared and which cannot.
Guidance on contracts and intellectual property is available from the Research Office .
Where there is potential for commercialisation, researchers are advised to contact the College’s Industry Partnerships and Commercialisation (IPC) team .
If you have obtained data from a third party, you will need to check any licencing or contractual agreements to clarify whether or not the data can be shared.
Data should be made available when the research that it supports is published.
In some cases, it may be necessary to embargo the data for a reasonable period, for example when other outputs based on the data have not yet been published.
The College recognises the PI’s entitlement to be the first to publish based on data they have generated.
If the PI will not be able to publish their findings by the funder’s deadline for data sharing, the PI should request an extension of the embargo period from the funder.
All research publications produced by Imperial authors must include a statement on how the underlying data can be accessed.
This is in line with UKRI and individual funder policies.
Our web page How to write a data access statement contains examples of data access statements.
Links to training and resources can be found on our web pages .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/research-data-management/book-a-one-to-one:
Fill in the form below to book a one to one consultation on a Research Data Management related topic.
If you have any difficulty using the form, please contact us directly.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access:
Open access publishing makes your online scholarly work available, free of charge to anyone.
It facilitates the discovery and sharing of knowledge and may be required by your research funder.
Imperial has an open access policy that enables staff to meet the requirements for REF and their funders.
You are advised to upload your work on acceptance to Symplectic , for deposit in Spiral, Imperial's repository.
Funding is available to make the published version of your work immediately available from the publisher’s website.
We are based in Library Services and can advise on all aspects of open access publishing and policy.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/oa-policy:
From 1 January 2024, the new Research Publications Open Access Policy comes into effect.
This replaces the previous Open Access Policy which applied up until 31 December 2023.
Imperial has updated its Open Access (OA) policy to allow researchers to make peer-reviewed journal articles and conference proceedings available on an OA basis without post-publication embargoes.
The Research Publications Open Access Policy (RPOAP) enables those outputs to meet funder obligations and to be eligible for the next Research Excellence Framework (REF) exercise .
Imperial undertook a one-time notification of 128 publishers at the end of 2023 .
New publishers will be added to the list regularly.
Prior notification enables authors to retain their rights to the accepted manuscript by default.
Authors will, again by default, grant a non-exclusive licence to Imperial to allow immediate sharing of the accepted manuscript via Spiral upon publication of the article.
RPOAP is a bold and innovative step towards a society where research is openly available for all to read and use.
It empowers Imperial researchers to retain their right to share and reuse their work.
Imperial introduced the RPOAP on 1 January 2024.
It applies to all manuscripts and conference proceedings accepted for publication on or after that date, by all researchers and staff affiliated to Imperial.
Most research articles will be compliant with RPOAP by default if published in a fully OA journal or via a publisher that Imperial has signed a transformative agreement with, which covers reading and publishing.
These routes are known as Gold Open Access.
RPOAP means any articles that can’t be made OA in those ways can be made OA immediately via Spiral.
This is known as Green Open Access .
Without rights retention, publishers can require authors to sign a Copyright Transfer Agreement to publish their articles and impose embargo periods lasting several years during which the article is not OA.
Authors need to add a rights retention statement to every manuscript at the point of submission to retain the right to share and reuse their work without embargo.
Under RPOAP, all of this changes.
RPOAP brings Imperial into line with universities in the UK and overseas that have implemented rights retention policies.
The ultimate question is: who decides?
Should publishers get to decide what research readers see and what they can do with it, or should it be for the research community to decide for itself?
RPOAP answers the question in favour of the community.
What is the Research Publications Open Access Policy (RPOAP)?
Staff and researchers across Imperial help you make sense of the University’s new Open Access policy, which is in effect as of 1 January 2024.
The policy enables Imperial authors to retain the right to share and reuse their work, and to make it Open Access as soon as it is published in a journal.
Read about the Research Publications Open Access Policy ahead of the launch
Read the blog post
Find out which publishers have been notified about the new policy
list of notified publishers
Deposit your accepted manuscript and conference paper as usual to retain your rights
Deposit in Spiral via Symplectic
The policy enables authors to make their research outputs openly available, ensuring wider and more equitable access to anyone wanting to read Imperial authored research.
This policy is a revision of the College’s Open Access Policy, first implemented in 2012.
Authors will retain copyright over their work.
Under the policy, each author grants the University a non ‐ exclusive, irrevocable, sub-licensable, worldwide licence (effective from acceptance of publication) to make the AAM publicly available under the terms of a Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) licence.
The right being granted is that of allowing the University to make the accepted manuscript openly available in Spiral without an embargo from the date of publication.
The University does not retain the copyright to research outputs.
We notified publishers of the policy implementation date in November and December 2023.
New publishers will be added to the list regularly .
Please contact your librarian or the Open Access team if you have any questions about your publisher/s.
The RPOAP does apply to students including postgraduate taught, postgraduate research and undergraduate students.
That means if you are publishing in a non-open access journal, you will be able to make your accepted manuscript openly available on publication.
This means it will get to a much wider audience than if it were only accessible in a subscription journal.
If you are an undergraduate or postgraduate taught student publishing a journal article or conference proceeding, please contact the Open Access team for advice about how to make your work available on open access.
Peer-reviewed journal articles and conference proceedings accepted for publication from 1 January 2024.
You should notify your co-authors that the RPOAP will apply to your published papers.
When the paper is published all co-authors will be able to benefit from the paper being available open access in our repository.
While co-authors can then deposit a copy of the manuscript in their institutional repositories, we’d advise providing co-authors with a link to the accepted manuscript in Spiral to reduce duplication.
Open access publishers do not have to be notified of RPOAP, and you can submit your work to their journals as you normally would.
You do not have to deposit a copy of the accepted manuscript or version of record to Spiral, but you can choose to do so if you want.
If your publisher isn’t on our list of notified publishers, please contact the Open Access team who can arrange for notification.
You can then submit your manuscript as soon as you need to, and we would advise you include the rights retention statement when you do submit.
You only need to do this when submitting work to publishers not on the notified publishers list.
We recommend using the following wording: For the purpose of open access, the author has applied a ‘Creative Commons Attribution’ (CC BY) licence to any Author Accepted Manuscript version arising.
If the version you have deposited in arXiv is the accepted version, then you can add the link to the OA location field in Symplectic Elements.
You should choose the CC BY licence to be applied to this version in arXiv.
Please send the following statement to the Open Access team to confirm the preprint is the accepted version:
Dear Open Access Team,
I, the author of TITLE, DOI/CITATION, can confirm that the version of the paper currently held in PREPRINT SERVER NAME:PREPRINT NUMBER, version 1/2/3/4 etc., is the accepted manuscript version of this paper, which was submitted to PREPRINT NAME on INSERT PREPRINT DEPOSIT DATE, prior to its first publication on PUBLICATION DATE.
Kind regards, AUTHOR’S NAME
If you are publishing with a full OA publisher or your publisher is on the list of those notified, you do not need to include a rights retention statement.
If your publisher has not been notified, we would advise that you include a rights retention statement, and contact the Open Access team openaccess@imperial.ac.uk who can arrange for notification.
See our UKRI and Wellcome Trust policy pages for information about their open access policy requirements, and the wording for the relevant statement.
If you are funded by both UKRI and Wellcome Trust, you may use either funder’s wording for the statement, as they both have the same purpose.
Do you have a question about the new Research Publications Open Access Policy (RPOAP) which is not covered here?
Get in touch with the open access team at: openaccess@imperial.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/research-funders-open-access-policies:
You must publish any research outputs arising from your research award in such a way that they fully meet your funder's requirements.
The policy will be available on your funder's website and should be highlighted in the start-up documents supplied with your research award.
A summary of the standard policies for some major funders is below.
To help you comply with their open access policy, your research funder may provide funding for open access fees in one of the following ways:
a) directly to you in the awarded grant (e.g.
Horizon Europe) b) via a dedicated fund held by the grant awarding body (e.g.
the UKRI monograph fund, which the open access team can apply to on your behalf, see the relevant link below) or c) via a dedicated fund, provided and managed by Imperial, to which you can apply.
The funds available at Imperial are:
The Imperial Open Access Fund (Imperial Fund) is available to authors who do not have eligible open access funding in their research award or whose work is not externally funded.
The fund will only pay for original research articles in journals listed on the Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ) .
Other publication types can be considered upon request – please contact us in advance of submission.
In addition to these funds, open access fees for some journal publications may be covered by publisher agreements that Imperial has signed.
UKRI’s open access policy applies to journal articles and conference proceedings submitted for publication from 1 April 2022, and to monographs and book chapters published from 1 January 2024.
For article publications, to find out if your chosen journal is compliant with the UKRI and Wellcome open access policies, use the Journal Checker Tool .
If your funder is not listed, search for them in Jisc’s open policy finder which provides a central source of funder open access policy information.
For further assistance, please contact the Library’s open access team .
Acknowledging your funding
Submitted papers may also require a rights retention statement in certain circumstances, see the relevant section of the UKRI – articles page for details.
‘All in-scope research articles to include a Data Access Statement…’ according to the UKRI OA policy
Examples of: How to write a data access statement

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/ref-2029:
Need help?
Try our frequently asked questions
By depositing your accepted manuscript in Spiral now, your final published journal article or conference paper will be eligible for submission to REF 2029.
To do this, you must upload a copy of your accepted manuscript to Symplectic, or ask a proxy to do so.
The Library’s open access team will manage all accepted manuscript submissions to ensure you have provided sufficient information, and that the submitted manuscript meets the REF eligibility requirements.
If you have deposited your accepted manuscript in arXiv, you can choose to either upload the manuscript or add the arXiv link to the OA location field in Symplectic.
To meet REF requirements, it must be the accepted manuscript, not the preprint, that is deposited in arXiv for this to apply and it should have been deposited prior to the date of publication.
Please contact the Library’s open access team for more information.
Your final journal article or conference paper does not have to be published on ‘gold’ open access, i.e.
you do not have to pay an open access fee or APC, to be eligible for REF 2029.
What is the REF census period for outputs?
Outputs produced from 1 January 2021 will be eligible for REF 2029.
This video shows you how to use Spiral and Symplectic to upload your research outputs and make them eligible for REF.
Find out more here about the relationship between Symplectic and Spiral
To be eligible for the REF 2029 you must deposit peer-reviewed versions of your journal articles and conference proceedings in a repository at acceptance

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/faq:
REF 2029 open access policy
What is open access?
Depositing your work in Spiral
Using Symplectic
Imperial Profiles
Applying for OA fees (article processing charges)
Preparing your research degree thesis for submission to Spiral

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/spiral:
Depositing your work in Spiral, Imperial’s repository, allows you to make journal articles and other research outputs open access and meets the requirements of the next Research Excellence Framework (REF), and to meet your funder obligations.
Outputs published from 1 January 2021 will be eligible for the next REF.
The relationship between Symplectic and Spiral

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/spiral/deposit-on-acceptance:
To deposit an output to Spiral via Symplectic, you will need:
Add additional information about your funding in the APC Comments box .
If you have applied for APC funding, you will be notified of an outcome within three working days.
Please do not request an invoice from your publisher before hearing back from the Open Access Team.
A member of the Open Access team will review the publisher’s open access policy, check that the correct version has been deposited and apply any necessary embargoes.
They will then notify you of your paper’s successful deposit in Spiral or contact you if further information is required.
Your paper will then be made public and available for download from Spiral.
For further support contact the Open Access Team at openaccess@imperial.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/spiral/deposit-after-publication:
To deposit a paper you will need:
If your paper has been accepted, but not yet published, see Deposit on acceptance .
Log in to Symplectic using your Imperial username and password.
To deposit a journal article, conference paper or other output, go to Publications and click on the link to the output type you wish to deposit to open the publication listing.
If your paper is not listed, click on +Add New and select your publication type.
Click on the title to open the full record (if you wish to check the metadata) otherwise click on the Deposit tab to open the deposit page.
Please check your publisher agreement, this often includes a policy on depositing your work in a repository.
While most publishers allow this, permission usually only extends to the accepted version of your work, unless your publication is gold open access (paid an open access fee).
The publisher’s posting policy is available via the guidance on the deposit page to help you to upload the correct version.
If no information is available check the policy by searching for the journal in Jisc’s open policy finder .
Alternatively, contact the Library's open access team or your librarian.
Where you see the statement "Must link to publisher version or journal homepage" or "Set statements to accompany deposits", you do not need to do anything - library staff will add this information to Spiral.
4.
Click on Choose File to locate your file or enter an OA location if your article has been deposited in an external repository.
Select a version description that matches your paper from the drop-down menu.
For more help see Publication versions .
Click on Upload or Save location .
Read and accept the licence agreement and click on Deposit my publication .
You have successfully deposited your publication.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/spiral/deposit-after-publication/deposit-a-paper-from-europe-pubmed-central:
Your publisher may deposit a copy of your paper in PubMed Central on your behalf.
Symplectic will detect that a copy is available and ask you to deposit the paper in Spiral direct from Europe PMC.
If there is a file available to deposit from Europe PMC, it will appear on the upload page.
Click on the PDF filename to download it and check it is the correct paper.
Select the correct File version from the drop-down list and click on Upload .
When the page refreshes read the Licence agreement and check the box to agree.
Click on Deposit my publication.
You will see a page to confirm that your publication has been deposited .
Your paper will then be checked by a member of the Library’s open access team.
They will review the publisher’s open access policy, check that the correct version has been deposited and apply any embargoes necessary.
A link to the paper will automatically appear on your Professional Web Page (PWP) and those of other Imperial authors of the paper.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/spiral/permissions:
The College expects you to respect prior agreements with publishers and only to self-archive your paper in Spiral where permitted, unless your paper will be published on immediate open access (paid open access).
Before uploading a paper, you must check that you have permission .
On the repository page in Symplectic you will see the Deposit advice with information about the publisher’s posting policy:
Where no information of the publisher’s posting policy is available guidance on requesting permission.
The new Research Publications Open Access Policy (RPOAP) allows you to deposit the peer-reviewed author accepted manuscript (AAM) with a CC-BY licence where the publisher has been notified by the College.
Please see publisher notified list .
If your paper is not on the notified list, you will need to add a rights retention statement on submission.
Please contact the Open Access team who can arrange for notification.
If you have your publishing agreement
Check the "rights retained by authors" section.
Contact the publisher if information about deposit to an institutional repository is missing or unclear.
If you don't have a copy of the publishing agreement
Search for the journal in Jisc’s open policy finder to see what version of your paper you can deposit and if there are any embargo requirements.
If you need to request permission from the publisher, you may use the Sample permissions letter .
If you intend to publish your paper in a journal, follow the procedure for published journal articles.
Where no publishing agreement has been signed, you remain the copyright holder of your work and may deposit to Spiral.
If you intend to publish your paper in a journal, check with prospective publishers that depositing to a repository would not be regarded as prior publication.
You must also make sure you have permission to include any third-party copyright materials.
If your report was written under contract for a commissioning organisation, the rights retained by the author on completion will be detailed in the contract.
Where permission is required, contact the commissioning organisation.
When writing a working paper, check whether you, or your department, should be listed as the copyright holder.
The Research Office provides information about the College’s Intellectual Property policy .
Consult the College’s Intellectual Property policy .
The commercialisation process is managed within Imperial's Enterprise division.
For further information, including an Inventors Guide, please see the Commercialisation pages .
As a general rule, the College does not exert its right to own copyright in work generated by its employees in the course of their employment.
However, there is an exception for copyright protected works arising from research such as computer software, databases or other copyright material with commercial potential.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/spiral/versions:
For peer-reviewed journal articles and conference papers accepted on or after the 1 st January 2024, upload the author accepted manuscript (AAM) under the new Research Open Access Policy (RPOAP) if your publisher is on the publisher notified list .
Please contact the Open Access team if your publisher is not on the list.
For all other published outputs, you should upload the version which your publisher permits.
Check your publisher agreement or search for the journal in Jisc’s open policy finder .
Milestone versions

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/spiral/licences-and-policies:
If you own the copyright to any material on Spiral and do not agree to its use under the platform’s terms and conditions , (see licences below), you can request its removal.
To do so, please complete the Rapid Takedown Form for authors or publishers .
The Open Access Team will confirm receipt of your request within five working days.
Reasons for requesting a withdrawal of material include, but are not limited to, discovering:
By clicking through this licence, I (the author or copyright owner) grant to Imperial College London the non-exclusive , irrevocable, sub-licensable right to reproduce, translate to any medium or format (for the purpose of preservation or migration), and/or distribute my submission (including the abstract) worldwide in electronic format ( provided that , if I am providing my submission under the university ’s Research Publications Open Access Policy, this is done under the terms of a Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) licence or a more permissive licence ) .
I am free to publish my submission in its present version or future versions elsewhere.
I understand that once my submission is uploaded to the repository, a citation to it will always remain visible, although the author(s) retain the right to update it.
The Imperial College London understands that there may be situations where you need or want to remove your submission from the Imperial College London Digital Repository .
If you inform t he university of this the university will , in the first instance, remove your submission from public view and investigate your concern before a final decision on take-down is made ( taking into account any relevant licence terms if applicable).
The university will not unreasonably withhold permission to remove your submission.
I understand that Imperial College London Digital Repository administrators may remove my submission without notice for profession al, legal or administrative reasons.
That I have the authority to make this agreement as either author, copyright owner, assignee, or that I am authorised by the copyright owner, and hereby give the Imperial College London Digital Repository administrators the right to make my submission available in the way described above.
That the submission does not infringe the copyright of any third party.
Imperial College London Digital Repository a dministrators are under no obligation to take legal action on my behalf, or on behalf of any other rights holder(s) if the submission breaches intellectual property rights or is otherwise subject to legal dispute.
If the submission is based upon work that has been sponsored or supported by an agency or organisation other than Imperial, I represent that I have fulfilled any right of review or other obligations required by contract and that the use of my submission as set out in this agreement does not infringe the intellectual property rights of the sponsor or agency.
Imperial College London Digital Repository will clearly identify me as the submitter in my capacity as either author or copyright owner.
6.
Imperial College London Digital Repository will not make any alteration, other than as allowed by this licence, to my submission.
7.
Imperial College London Digital Repository may keep more than one copy of this submission for purposes of security, back-up, and preservation.
All outputs in Spiral are subject to copyright and the terms and conditions of the licences (where applicable).
Where no licence information is available in the Copyright Statement field, Spiral has a default licence below.
By downloading material from Spiral, you agree to the following terms and conditions of the licence.
To reuse content with the default licence, please link to this licence:
Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommerical NoDerivatives Licence 4.0 (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0)
You do not have to comply with the license for elements of the material in the public domain or where your use is permitted by an applicable exception or limitation .
No warranties are given.
The license may not give you all of the permissions necessary for your intended use.
For example, other rights such as publicity, privacy, or moral rights may limit how you use the material.
This is the licence you agree to when you deposit your thesis in Spiral.
Below is the text of the Creative Commons Attribution NonCommercial version of this licence.
If you choose a different Creative Commons licence for your thesis the text will vary slightly to accommodate your licence choice.
When uploading your thesis, you will be presented with six licences, one for each Creative Commons licence.
Select the licence which contains the same Creative Commons licence as the copyright statement at the beginning of your thesis.
For example: if your chosen copyright statement says “Unless otherwise indicated, its contents are licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Licence (CC BY).” then you should pick the deposit and use licence with the heading Creative Commons Attribution Licence or if abbreviated, CC BY.
By agreeing to this licence the author(s) or copyright owner grants to end-users of the work the following Creative Commons use licence:
Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International (CC BY-NC 4.0)
You are free to:
Share — copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format
Adapt — remix, transform, and build upon the material
The licensor cannot revoke these freedoms as long as you follow the license terms.
Under the following terms:
Attribution — You must give appropriate credit , provide a link to the license, and indicate if changes were made .
You may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use.
NonCommercial — You may not use the material for commercial purposes .
No additional restrictions — You may not apply legal terms or technological measures that legally restrict others from doing anything the license permits.
View the full licence
(a) I authorise that the thesis presented by me in [ year ] for examination for the PhD/MPhil degree of the Imperial College London shall, if a degree is awarded, be deposited in the Spiral, and, if required, in EThOS, the UK’s national thesis service, where it will be made available for public reference.
(b) I authorise Imperial College London to copy the submission, or, without changing the content, translate it to any medium or format, for the purpose of security, back up and preservation.
(c) I authorise Imperial College London to supply a copy of the abstract of my thesis for inclusion in any published list (hard copy or electronic) of theses offered for higher degrees in British universities.
(d) I understand that before my thesis is made available for public reference and copying, the relevant statement regarding copyright licence is included at the beginning of my thesis.
(e) I warrant that this authorisation does not, to the best of my belief, infringe the rights of any third party.
I attach copies of all permission documents to my thesis.
Where I have not been able to obtain the necessary rights or permissions for the inclusion of certain material in my thesis I hereby affirm that I have exercised my best endeavours to secure these and have appended copies of my letters/emails seeking these to the thesis.
By agreeing to this license, you (the author(s) or copyright owner) grants to Imperial College London the non-exclusive right to reproduce, translate (as defined below), and/or distribute your submission (including the abstract) worldwide in print and electronic format and in any medium, including but not limited to audio or video.
You agree that Imperial may, without changing the content, translate the submission to any medium or format for the purpose of preservation.
You also agree that Imperial may keep more than one copy of this submission for purposes of security, back-up and preservation.
You represent that the submission is your original work, and that you have the right to grant the permissions contained in this licence and the use licence that you have selected for your thesis.
You also represent that third-party owned copyright materials are clearly identified and acknowledged within the text or content of the submission and that your submission does not, to the best of your knowledge, infringe upon anyone's copyright.
You affirm that you have included copies of all permission documents as an appendix to my thesis, both documents granting permission and letters/emails seeking permission to which, despite your best endeavours, you received no reply.
Where you have not been able to obtain the necessary rights or permissions for the inclusion of certain material in your thesis you affirm that you have removed it.
IF THE SUBMISSION IS BASED UPON WORK THAT HAS BEEN SPONSORED OR SUPPORTED BY AN AGENCY OR ORGANIZATION OTHER THAN IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON, YOU REPRESENT THAT YOU HAVE FULFILLED ANY RIGHT OF REVIEW OR OTHER OBLIGATIONS REQUIRED BY SUCH CONTRACT OR AGREEMENT.
Imperial College London will clearly identify your name(s) as the author(s) or owner(s) of the submission, and will not make any alteration, other than as allowed by this licence, to your submission.
I confirm that I have included at the beginning of my thesis one of the university approved copyright and licensing statements.
I have checked that the licence mentioned in that statement matches the use licence below.
I agree that an electronic copy of my thesis may be included in the EThOS, the UK’s national thesis service.
In doing so I understand that work deposited in the EThOS, the UK’s national thesis service will be accessible to a wide variety of people and institutions, including automated agents, via the Internet.
EThOS, or its agents, may without changing content, translate the work to any medium or format for the purpose of future preservation and accessibility.
Imperial College London is subject to the Freedom of Information Act 2000.
This Act gives a general right of access to all information held by the university, including information held in the repositories.
we will only make your material available in accordance with the restrictions you have placed upon it.
However, if someone specifically asks to see it, we must give them access unless the material qualifies for an exemption under the Act.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/depositing-in-pubmed-central:
PubMed comprises citations and abstracts for biomedical literature.
It does not contain full text articles, although it may provide links to them.
PubMed Central (PMC) is a repository containing full text for biomedical and life sciences journal articles.
Authors with US PMC funders , for example the National Institutes of Health (NIH) or the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), deposit to PMC via the NIH Manuscript Submission System .
Europe PMC (EPMC) is the European equivalent of PMC.
Authors with Europe PMC funders deposit via EPMC plus .
Any papers deposited in PMC are discoverable in Europe PMC and vice versa, so you do not need to deposit separately in both.
Please note you will need to have funding from one of the listed funding bodies in order to deposit.
If you are funded by MRC, BBSRC, Wellcome Trust, Cancer Research UK (CRUK) or British Heart Foundation (BHF), and you are paying for gold open access, the publisher should send the final version of record of your paper to EPMC once it is published.
However, it is the responsibility of the funded author to ensure that the paper meets the requirements, so we recommend checking that the deposit has been made.
If your funder requires deposit in EPMC but you are not paying a fee for gold open access, the author accepted manuscript may be deposited.
Some publishers will do this on your behalf, or you may need to do it yourself via Europe PMC plus .
An administrator can deposit on an author’s behalf, but an author on the paper will need to be named as a reviewer, and they will be notified to log in and check and approve the submission.
Under Imperial’s Research Publications Open Access Policy (RPOAP) you can make the accepted manuscript available immediately on publication (no embargo) with a CC BY license for publishers who have been notified of our policy.
You should first deposit in Spiral via Symplectic.
Your funder may require deposit under these terms to meet their open access policy.
Check your funder’s policy or our research funders open access policies page for details.
A list of publishers notified of RPOAP is available.
If your publisher has not been notified, contact openaccess@imperial.ac.uk so that we can notify them.
If you have arranged for deposit under particular terms via another mechanism, for example by using a rights retention statement, you can deposit under those terms.
Otherwise, check for any embargo required by the publisher by searching for the journal in Jisc’s open policy finder .
If you need any help determining funder compliance or whether you need to add an embargo, contact the open access team at openaccess@imperial.ac.uk in the Library.
If the publisher automatically deposits the published version and you also need to deposit the accepted version yourself, you may encounter a message that stops you completing the process.
If this happens, you will need to contact the EPMC helpdesk to allow you to complete the submission.
For more information on the two deposit routes, see the How papers get into PMC guide from the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI), the body who developed and maintain PubMed.
A video tutorial for Europe PMC plus explaining how to create a submission in Europe PMC plus
Creating a submission
Checking your submission status
A video tutorial for Europe PMC plus explaining how to check the status of your submissions
Reviewing a submission
A video tutorial for Europe PMC plus explaining how review a submission that has been submitted on your behalf by another user

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/applying-for-funding:
Open access publishing allows research to be freely available to all.
Imperial College London supports this through a number of funding routes that help cover open access charges (commonly known as article processing charges, or APCs).
This page outlines how to apply for support and what to check before submitting a funding request.
Note: The information on this page applies to journal articles .
Funding for books acknowledging UKRI is also available in certain circumstances.
For more information, see: UKRI – Monographs, Book Chapters, and Edited Collections
Before applying for funding, check whether the open access fee can be fully covered or discounted via one of our Publisher agreements and discounts .
You can apply for APC funding if:
See Research funders' open access policies for further guidance
To check your eligibility for APC funding before submitting a paper, please contact the Open Access team , providing as much detail as possible about the paper and any relevant research funding.
To submit an application:
This brief video shows you how to apply for APC funding as part of the process of depositing your paper in Spiral via Symplectic.
Note: If there is already an entry in Symplectic for your accepted paper, you will need to either add a new manual record, or edit the existing one, to submit a new APC funding application.
You can do this within the “data sources” section of the Symplectic record.
You’ll usually receive a response within three working days .
Imperial holds separate block grants from:
Conditions apply—see Research funders' open access policies for details.
For authors without eligible external funding.
This fund supports:
More details: Imperial OA Fund page
Wait for approval before requesting an invoice or attempting a payment.
The open access funds cover open access charges only (note: some publishers use the term APC to refer to charges not related to open access)
For guidance or help with your application, please contact the Open Access team
+44 (0)20 7594 2608
You've applied for funding to pay open access fees - what happens next?
Find out if the Library has an agreement with a publisher
Research funders' open access policies

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/applying-for-funding/what-happens-to-my-application:
The Library’s open access team will ensure that they have all the information they need to process your application.
They will check if:
APC applications are normally processed within three working days.
If approved, you will receive email confirmation and further instructions.
You should then contact the publisher confirming you wish to make your article open access.
If you are acknowledging funding in your work the funder may require a specific license to be applied to the article (e.g.
CC BY) so you should ensure that this is selected.
If your APC is eligible to be fully covered through one of our agreements, you will not need to make a payment.
Some publishers will automatically identify eligible papers, but for those that require action from the author we will provide you with the necessary instructions.
Where payment of an APC is required, in most cases we will be able to provide you with Virtual Credit Card (VCC) details upon approval of your application.
You will then be able to make an immediate payment to the publisher as if you were using a normal credit card.
Where the VCC option is not available we will provide you with a purchase order (PO) number, VAT number and correct billing address upon approval, so that you can request an invoice from the publisher.
You can then forward the invoice to us and we will pass it on to Accounts Payable for payment, which should be made within 30 days of the invoice date.
A member of the OA team will contact you if further information is required.
If we are unable to resolve the issue your application will be rejected.
However, by depositing your manuscript in Spiral via Symplectic it will become open access, in Imperial’s repository, after any embargo periods have expired.
A common reason for rejecting an application is that a publisher's open access options are not compliant with a UK research funder's policy.
Learned and professional society publishers frequently fall into this category and we strongly recommend that you check the compliance of these journals with your funder's open access policy before submitting a paper .
You can use the Open access compliance section in Jisc’s open policy finder to check if your preferred journal is compliant.
If your work is funded by UKRI(RCUK) or the Wellcome Trust, you can also consult the Journal Checker Tool .
Please contact the open access team if you are unsure.
How to apply for funding to pay open access fees / article processing charges
Frequently asked questions about open access

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/applying-for-funding/publisher-memberships:
The Library has arranged open access memberships and agreements with several publishers for Imperial College London affiliated corresponding authors.
Most of the agreements will fully cover the open access fee.
An A-Z list of agreements and a search tool for journals included are below.
Search using journal title, ISSN or keyword.
If your paper does not have a Corresponding Author with an affiliation from Imperial College London you can use Jisc’s Transitional Agreement Look-Up tool to see if their organisation participates in a UK agreement that includes the journal you are publishing in.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/theses:
Your PhD, MPhil, MD(Res) or EngD thesis will be deposited in Spiral, Imperial's open access repository, and made available to the public.
It is important that you follow the guidance below when preparing your thesis for submission.
For further information please see Research Degrees
Seek permission to reproduce extracts from books, articles, images, figures, etc.
Reproducing published extracts, images, etc.
Seek permission to reproduce your own published papers, images, etc.
Reproducing your own published work
Choosing a Creative Commons licence
Selecting a licence
Request an embargo if you need to delay the publication of your thesis
Requesting an embargo
What to consider when publishing your thesis as a book or article
Publishing material from your thesis
Acknowlege other people's ideas and work
Plagiarism awareness
Make sure your students are aware of this guidance
Advice for supervisors

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/theses/reproducing-published-works:
When your thesis is deposited in Spiral and made available to the public, legally it will be viewed as published and you must get permission to reproduce any extracts, images, figures, etc.
for which you do not own the copyright (you can use works which are out of copyright without permission).
These are called third party copyright works.
Identify works where you do not own the copyright, including:
You don't need to seek permission w here:
You may use an extract of a third party work without permission provided it has already been made available to the public and is sufficiently acknowledged, see Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988, Section 30 and The Copyright and Rights in Performances (Quotation and Parody) Regulations 2014 .
How much you use is not defined in law, so you will need to decide if an author may object to your actions - obtain permission for anything more than a short quotation.
In the UK most work is protected for the life of the author plus 70 years.
You may already have permission through a licence (e.g.
Creative Commons), a publishing agreement, or terms and conditions of use (often found on a website) - check this includes making the work publicly available.
In all other cases, you must seek permission - if you do not, you are breaking copyright law and the copyright holder may ask you to remove your thesis from Spiral and/or ask for financial compensation.
Where you need to seek permission, identify the copyright holder - you may need to go to the original source.
Look for the copyright symbol © followed by the name of the author or publisher (e.g.
© 2012 IOP Publishing Ltd).
Journal and conference papers - at the bottom of the page or PDF
Books - on the reverse of the title page at the front of the book (look out for separate copyright information next to images)
Websites - at the bottom of the website or as part of the item description on a content sharing site e.g.
YouTube or Flickr
To find author contact details, try the WATCH Project or Society of Authors
If you can't trace the copyright holder it is important to assess the risk of reproducing the work - they may take legal action for unauthorised use and request financial compensation.
If you include the work, show evidence that you carried out a ‘good faith’ search for the author’s contact details and record this in your permission summary table (see Step 5).
If you don't have permission to reproduce a work, you must request it from the copyright holder.
If the copyright holder is a publisher, you can usually do this online on the article webpage or via Rightslink .
If you need to email or send a letter, use our Request to reproduce an extract from a third party's published work (Word) template.
Do not leave this to the end of your writing-up period as publishers can take a long time to reply via email or letter.
If you do not get a reply, contact them again after 4-6 weeks.
Keep a copy of all request letters and replies.
You are required to submit an appendix containing proof of permission, where this has been granted, and letters requesting permission, where no reply was received.
You can use the Permissions summary table for third party copyright works Word template.
If used, this template must accompany the original proof of permission(s) in your appendix.
If a publisher offers to charge you a fee to reproduce their content, and you do not wish to pay it, or if they refuse permission, you must not include the work in your thesis.
Instead, replace it with a reference or description and provide a link (URL) to the original work.
Where permission has been granted, cite and reference the extract and add a statement next to the content, e.g.
“Image reproduced with permission of the rights holder, Elsevier.”
The College requires a copyright statement to be included at the beginning of your thesis.
It is important as it tells readers what they may and may not do with the content of your thesis.
PhD students, registered for an Imperial College London Degree are allowed to choose a licence for their thesis from the six licences offered by Creative Commons.
Visit Selecting a Creative Commons Licence for more information about these licences and to select a copyright statement for your thesis.
Extracts include text or tables from books, journal articles, manuscripts, etc., and computer programs.
Seek permission to reproduce more than a short quotation from a literary work (as defined in the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 Section 3 ).
You may be able to reproduce an extract under fair dealing exceptions but how much you may copy is not legally defined and you will need to judge for yourself how likely it is that the copyright holder would object to your actions.
If in doubt seek permission.
Artistic works include images, figures, photographs or graphs.
You hold the copyright for any unpublished artistic works you create.
Seek permission to reproduce any other artistic work, including those on the internet, see Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 Section 4 .
Treat maps as artistic works.
Ordnance Survey maps
Ordnance Survey maps older than 50 years can be reproduced without permission.
Seek permission to reproduce more recent Ordnance Survey maps.
You may reproduce maps from Digimap (but not digital data) under the terms of our Digimap licence :
Google maps
Google allow their maps to be used non-commercially in books, research papers and other related publications so long as your use is fair, you abide by the terms of use and attribute them as the creator.
See Using Google Maps, Google Earth and Street View for more details.
Databases are either protected by copyright law as literary works or by database right.
Seek permission to reproduce substantial extracts of data unless they are offered for reuse under a Creative Commons licence , Open Government Licence or Open Data Commons licence .
Websites and web pages are protected by copyright in the same way as print materials, however in many cases there will be a licence which extends the usual permissions.
E-journal and e-book licences - seek permission to include a whole paper, whole figure, more than a short paragraph of text, etc.
- our licences do not permit content to be made public
Creative Commons - you may reproduce works offered under a Creative Commons licence - make sure you acknowledge the creator of the work and include a link to the licence.
Websites - check website terms and conditions - usually displayed at the bottom of the page.
Seek permission if your intended usage is not covered (the phrase ‘private non-commercial use’ does not cover reproduction in your thesis).

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/theses/reproducing-your-own-published-work:
Don't assume that you have the right to reproduce your own published papers, images, etc.
in your thesis.
Before you do, check which rights were transferred to the publisher at the time you signed the publishing agreement - look in the ‘rights retained’ section or search the publisher’s website for information on authors' rights.
Where the agreement is unclear or you do not have a copy, request permission either on article webpage or via Rightslink , using the article DOI or title etc.
Alternatively, you can use our Request to reproduce your own publication Word template.
Many publishers offer open access articles under a Creative Commons attribution licence which permits you to include a copy of the paper in your thesis.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/theses/requesting-an-embargo:
In some cases it may be necessary to delay the release of a thesis to the public by applying for an embargo.
The embargo period can be  either 6, 12, 18 or 24 months.
However, you can request to extend your embargo up to a further 24 months at a time (subsequent requests can be made up to the maximum embargo period of six years) by following the instructions below.
All embargo requests are subject to approval.
If you decide that your thesis should have an embargo, discuss this with your supervisor and select the required option in the Thesis Declaration tile within your Thesis Submission milestone in Postgradulate Research Milestones .
Reasons for requesting an embargo include:‌
For further information please contact the Assessment Records team
Requests for an extension of the original embargo period can be made to the Assessment Records .
Please ensure that your request is made 6-8 weeks before the end of your embargo.
The following information must be included with your request:
Details can then be forwarded to Assessment Records team or the open access team for consideration.
A statement from your supervisor or PI (Primary Investigator) must be included with your request.
If you are asked to remove your thesis from Spiral, please refer the requestor to the rapid take down policy .
Theses can be requested under the ' Freedom of Information Act 2000', for exemptions see Freedom of Information.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/theses/creating-a-pdfa-file-for-submitting-your-thesis:
Follow these steps to convert your Microsoft Word to PDF/A format.
Open your document in Word
Select File then Save As
Click More options and then change the save as type to PDF
Click the Options button that becomes available toward the bottom of the window.
Under PDF Options check the box for “ PDF/A compliant ” and click on OK
Click on Save
The document will open in Adobe Acrobat
Select File>Properties>Fonts and ensure that the Fonts are all embedded as shown below (Embedded Subset).
9.
Confirm that in Adobe you have a blue ribbon at the top of the window claiming PDF/A compliance
Follow these options to convert a Mac Word document to PDF/A
Option 1:
From the file menu, select Save As
Click on the file format dropdown and select PDF
Click on Export
Option 2:
From the File menu, select Print
Click on the PDF button in the lower-left corner of the print dialog box
Select Save as PDF
Select a location to save the file
Create a PDF/A from the PDF created
Open the PDF file
From the file menu, choose the Export option
Tick the PDF/A option and then press Save .
Please note : If you have created your thesis in Microsoft Word on an Apple Mac and you encounter a PDF/A compliance error when attempting to upload to Spiral, please try to create your PDF/A on a Windows machine rather than the Apple Mac before getting in touch for further guidance as this may resolve the problem.
Follow these steps to export your Open Office document as a PDF.
Select File and then Export as PDF from the drop-down menu
An options window will open
On the General tab make sure that Save as PDF/A-1 is ticked
Click on the Export button, give the export file a name and click on Save
There are 2 common ways of creating PDF files from (La)TeX documents.
use a device independent (.dvi) file and the dvipdf device driver
go directly from the .tex file to the .pdf file by means of pdf(la)tex
Since LaTeX is more commonly used, only the LaTex commands will be given here.
Although command line instructions are given, they also indicate the sequence followed by GUI interfaces.
Create your LaTeX document, filename.tex, with any text editor (avoid word processors as they put in stray characters).
At the terminal/command prompt, issue the command latex filename.tex to create filename.dvi.
At the terminal/command prompt, issue the command pdflatex file.dvi to create filename.pdf
Check that fonts are embedded (see below)
Create your LaTeX document, filename.tex, with any text editor (avoid word processors as they put in stray characters).
At the terminal/command prompt, issue the command pdflatex filename.tex to generate filename.pdf.
With both methods repeat step 2 as necessary to generate those parts (e.g.
table of contents, cross references) that are dependent on information, such as page number, from later parts of the document.
To have this information available for the next time through step 2, at least one additional file is generated containing the necessary information.
In most cases one repeat is sufficient.
Use Adobe reader to check that fonts have been embedded.
With the PDF file open, select File > Properties
In the Document Properties window that opens, click on the Fonts tab .
If the font has been embedded it will be noted in brackets following the name of the font.
The following images show the font tab for two PDF files from the same Microsoft Word document.
In the first image not all of the fonts have been embedded, in the second all fonts have been embedded.
All PDF viewers have specific fonts included.
The most frequently used of these fonts are known as the Base 14 fonts.
These fonts are:
To make the resulting PDF file as small as possible, by default, the Base 14 fonts are not embedded.
The requirement for submission of your thesis is that all fonts be embedded to ensure that online and print versions are identical.
To embed the Base 14 fonts, the parameter pdftexDownloadBase14 in updmap.cfg must be set to true.
With TeX Live 2008's default installation this parameter should be true.
If it is not the case with your installation, follow the instructions with the installation for changing the parameter as the change does more than just changing the value of the parameter in the updmap.cfg file.
Tip : Ensure that you have added the option pdfa to package hyperref .
This option adds some settings for greater compliance to PDF/A & also sets the /F key in link annotations which is a compliance requirement.
Save your thesis as a PDF (not a PDF/A)
Open Adobe Acrobat Pro and open your thesis PDF
Under the All tools menu select Use print production and then select Preflight
This will open a menu below (fig.1) and select the PDF Standards library (fig.2):
Fig 1.
Fig 2.
Select the option for Convert to PDF/A-3b and then press the Analyze and fix button.
This will automatically produce your PDF/A and will show results below (Fig.
3) highlight any issues:
Fig 3.
Your PDF/A will now be ready for upload if the green tick and No problems found notice is given.
If there are any problems found these can be identified by clicking on Show in Snap window (bottom left) and specific issues can be found.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/theses/selecting-a-creative-commons-licence:
PhD students, registered for an Imperial College London degree, are now permitted to choose from any of the Creative Commons Licences when publishing their thesis on Spiral.
If you don’t want to make a choice, publish your thesis using a Creative Commons Attribution NonCommercial Licence (CC BY-NC).
The following resources will help you select your preferred Creative Commons licence:
College’s Academic and examination regulations require all PhD students to include a copyright statement at the beginning of their thesis.
Now that PhD students can publish their thesis under any Creative Commons licence, there are six licence specific copyright statements, one for each Creative Commons licence.
You should select the copyright statement that matches your choice of Creative Commons licence.
For example: if you wish to publish your thesis with an Attribution-ShareAlike Licence then you should pick the copyright statement that includes the wording “Unless otherwise indicated, its contents are licensed under an Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0) ”.
You should insert the copyright statement at the beginning of the examination copy of your thesis.
See Submission checklist for Imperial College degrees‌ [pdf]
The copyright of this thesis rests with the author.
Unless otherwise indicated, its contents are licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International Licence (CC BY-NC).
Under this licence, you may copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format.
You may also create and distribute modified versions of the work.
This is on the condition that: you credit the author and do not use it, or any derivative works, for a commercial purpose.
When reusing or sharing this work, ensure you make the licence terms clear to others by naming the licence and linking to the licence text.
Where a work has been adapted, you should indicate that the work has been changed and describe those changes.
Please seek permission from the copyright holder for uses of this work that are not included in this licence or permitted under UK Copyright Law.
Unless otherwise indicated, its contents are licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Licence (CC BY).
Under this licence, you may copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format for both commercial and non-commercial purposes.
This on the condition that you credit the author.
Unless otherwise indicated, its contents are licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA).
This on the condition that: you credit the author and share any derivative works under the same licence.
Unless otherwise indicated, its contents are licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution NoDerivatives 4.0 International Licence (CC BY-ND).
This on the condition that; you credit the author and do not distribute modified versions of the work.
Unless otherwise indicated, its contents are licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution- NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International Licence (CC BY NC-SA).
This is on the condition that; you credit the author, do not use it for commercial purposes and share any derivative works under the same licence.
Unless otherwise indicated, its contents are licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-Non Commercial-No Derivatives 4.0 International Licence (CC BY-NC-ND).
Under this licence, you may copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format on the condition that; you credit the author, do not use it for commercial purposes and do not distribute modified versions of the work.
Choosing a Creative Commons Licence for your thesis can appear complicated.
This short video will describe the three steps involved: selecting the right Creative Commons licence for you, adding a matching copyright statement at the front of your thesis and selecting the same licence when you upload the final corrected version to Spiral.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/theses/publishing-material-from-your-thesis:
You retain the copyright in your thesis unless:
For details see Intellectual property
In principle, you may reproduce, or give others permission to reproduce, parts or the whole of your thesis but you must consider:
Discuss any of the above issues with your supervisor.
Publishing in a journal
Journals generally accept papers based on work already written up in a thesis.
Individual journal polices on what a journal considers to be prior publication can be found within the ‘information for authors’ section of the journal website.
The United Kingdom Council of Research Repositories (UKCoRR) have produced this Thesis prior publications spreadsheet on some of the publisher policies that you can use as guidance.
If a publisher is concerned that your thesis has already been published online, you may apply for an embargo .
Your paper should be a reworking of the material in your thesis and written to conform to the journal's style guide.
The course (publication section), offered by the Graduate School, offers helps and tips.
When quoting from your thesis or reusing figures, avoid self-plagiarism by citing and referencing any extracts copied or adapted from your thesis appropriately.
Publishing your whole thesis
If you intend to publish your thesis or are approached by a publisher, request a copy of the publishing agreement before signing it - make sure that publication is in your best interests and will not restrict your future use of the content.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/theses/advice-for-supervisors:
All theses submitted for examination after 1 March 2013 are automatically made open access in Spiral - they are freely available on the internet to read and share under a Creative Commons Licence.
PhD students, registered for an Imperial College London Degree are now allowed to choose a licence for their thesis from the six licences offered by Creative Commons.
Visit Selecting a Creative Commons Licence for more information about these licences and to view the accompanying copyright statements.
Depositing theses in Spiral:
Registry provides detailed information on thesis submission and vivas and academic and examination regulations .
It is important that you make your students aware of this guidance and check that they have obtained the necessary permissions to reproduce published works (their own and those of others).
You are strongly advised to introduce students to this advice as soon as possible after they start their PhD programme.
Students, with their supervisor’s support, can request an embargo to delay, or in extreme circumstances, prevent the public release of a thesis.
This may be necessary to protect future publications, a patent agreement, sensitive personal data, national security or honour a sponsorship contract.
Please contact the Graduate School or your librarian for further assistance.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/theses/masters-dissertations:
‌‌‌‌For a full list of departments with MScs and dissertations in Spiral, see Theses
The deposit of Master's dissertations is managed by departments and is not mandatory.
Administrators in each department are responsible for collating all dissertations as PDF files and for creating their bibliographic data.
ICT then upload the files and data to Spiral.
If your department would like to do this, please note:
For further assistance contact your librarian

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/theses/ukri-funded-students:
UKRI (all UK Research Councils) Research Council funded students include those fully funded by a UK Research Council student award, a CASE studentship or via a Research Council Centre for Doctoral Training (CDTs), partnership or grant funding.
As a doctoral student funded by a UK Research Council you must abide by:
To assist you we have summarised key UKRI open access and research data management requirements for the three mains outputs from your research award: your thesis, your research publications and your research data.
You should submit the final corrected version of your thesis to Spiral as soon as possible and at the latest 12 months after the awarding of your degree.
Any exceptions resulting in a delay greater than 12 months must be formally recorded by Research Degrees, either via your thesis declaration form or later by emailing research.degree@imperial.ac.uk .
Make sure you include a copyright statement at the beginning of your thesis.
As doctoral theses do not fall within the scope of UKRI’s open access policy, you may choose any Creative Commons Licence for your thesis (see Selecting a Creative Commons licence ).
Acknowledge your funding Research Council as specified in Research Information network’s report Acknowledgement of Funders in Scholarly Journal Articles (pdf) .
E.g.
This work was supported by the Medical Research Council [grant number xxxx].
Any peer-reviewed journal articles or conference proceedings you publish, that are an output of Research Council funding, must be made open access in accordance with the UKRI Open Access policy .
You can meet this requirement in one of two ways.
Firstly you can make a copy of the paper available in a research repository and secondly you can publish in a fully open access journal.
Not all journals offer open access and not all open access options are Research Council compliant.
Use the Open access compliance section of Jisc’s open policy finder to check before you submit a paper for publication .
You should only submit your article if:
a) You can archive your article compliantly in an open access repository (self-archiving)
b) You can publish your article compliantly with open access.
You should think about open access when your paper is accepted for publication.
Imperial expects researchers to upload the accepted manuscript for all of their peer-reviewed research papers to Spiral.
Use the Guide to depositing an accepted paper in Spiral to help you.
Answer ‘yes’ to the question about APC funding if you are publishing in a fully open access journal or Jisc’s open policy finder directs you to publish your article compliantly with open access .
Do not request funding for other fees such as colour and page charges.
Always get funding approval before agreeing to pay a publisher’s open access fee or article processing charge.
The Library manages Imperial’s RCUK Open Access Block Grant .
Its purpose is to assist Research Council funded researchers to make their papers open access.
As funds are limited, publication fees for fully open access journals are prioritised and researchers publishing in subscription journals are asked to self-archive whenever possible.
If you are funded by the Medical Research Council you must also upload your accepted manuscript to PubMed Central (see Depositing in PubMed Central and Europe PMC ) to meet the MRC open access policy.
You can chose to upload a copy of your accepted manuscript to a subject repository such as ArXiv if this is normal practice in your subject.
Visit Research funders' open access policies (RCUK tab) for a detailed description of the Research Councils open access requirements.
Use the Open access web pages to explore open access more generally.
Data commonly includes: digital images, transcripts of interviews, survey data and fieldwork observations.
It is the information from which you build new knowledge and are the facts that someone else can use to validate your research findings.
The Common principles on data policy applies to all data arising from research project funded by a Research Council, both staff and student awards.
It is in turn based upon the Concordat on Open Research Data (pdf) .
While there is variation within individual Research Council policies , all the policies include the following:
It is important to read the data management policy of your Research Council as it contains additional information that is specific to the subjects they fund.
What does my funder require?
Gives a summary of each funder's policy and provides a link to the full policy.
They typically state where you should deposit your data, when you must deposit your data by and for how long it should be preserved.
In addition to the Research Council requirements, all Imperial researchers should abide by Imperial’s Data management policy .
Researchers may place their data in a publicly available repository of their choice.
Shareable research data should available before or at the time of publication of your research findings.
If you have a Symplectic account you should also add information about your datasets to your Symplectic profile.
There is a video on the Training and resources page explaining how to deposit information about your dataset in Symplectic.
Use the Research Data Management web pages to improve your research data management skills and / or complete one of the Graduate School’s Digital literacies and research integrity courses on data management and writing research data management plans.
Research data management skills are valued by future employers and research funders.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/faq/ref-2029-open-access-policy:
We are awaiting guidance for the REF 2029 open access policy for outputs, and would currently advise anyone submitting a journal article or conference paper from 1 January 2021 to follow the REF 2021 open access policy guidance .
If you are funded by UKRI, Wellcome Trust, BHF, CRUK and/or NIHR, please visit Research funders’ open access policies .
If you have any questions regarding REF 2029 please contact Strategic Planning , your department research support staff or the Library's open access team at openaccess@imperial.ac.uk .
UKRI has stated in the UKRI Open Access Policy - explanation of policy changes (pdf) that any UKRI-funded output that is compliant with its new OA policy will meet any ‘future national research assessment open access policy without additional action from the author and/or its institution’.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/faq/what-is-open-access:
Open access publishing means making your research outputs available online, free of charge to individuals who wish to access and read it.
You can publish open access either by depositing your work in a repository such as Spiral or by paying an open access fee or article processing charge (APC) to a publisher for immediate open access on their website.
Open access articles published in journals are peer-reviewed.
ThinkCheckSubmit is a website that helps you to choose trusted journals for your research.
If it is an open access journal check the following:
Check with your journal.
Many publishers have hybrid ‘gold’ open access options, making your work open access immediately on publication.
This usually involves paying an open access fee or APC.
The Library does not provide general advice to authors on the location of where to publish research, instead we recommend authors ask fellow academics in their department for advice.
For authors with a particular interest publishing on open access, the Directory of Open Access Books can be searched by subject, language, and publisher.
If you are funded by one of the constitute research councils that make up UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) its Open Access Policy from 1 January 2024 includes a new open access requirement for monographs, book chapters and edited collections to be made open access within 12 months of publication via a publisher’s website, platform or repository, with a Creative Commons licence.
If you hold a grant from the Wellcome Trust and author or co-author original scholarly monographs and book chapters you must make it available from NCBI Bookshelf and Europe PMC as soon as possible.
Where an open access publishing fee has been charged, works must be available without embargo and licensed in ways which support their re-use.
CC BY is also strongly preferred by the Wellcome Trust.
Contact the Library’s Open Access team
Book a one-to-one with the Open Access team
Contact your subject Librarian
Research Gate and Academia.edu are social networking sites aimed at researchers.
They regularly encourage researchers to upload and share their latest research papers but just because you can, doesn’t mean that you should.
Read our guidance to using ResearchGate‌
Fully open access journals make all their published content open and freely available to any reader, usually under Creative Commons licences .
The majority charge an open access fee or article processing charge (APC), but there is no traditional subscription charge to pay.
Hybrid journals are ‘traditional’ subscription-only titles for which publishers now provide ‘gold’ open access publishing options at a charge.
Content in these journals will be a mix of freely available open content (if an open access fee or APC was paid for the article to be published) and subscriber-only content.
The author accepted manuscript (AAM).
You can search for the journal in Jisc’s open policy finder to find out your publisher’s policy.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/faq/depositing-your-work-in-spiral:
Depositing a paper in Spiral is quick and easy.
Please watch depositing in Spiral video .
There are also two guides to Depositing in Spiral depending on whether your work has just been accepted for publication or has already been published.
If you need more help, please get in touch with the Open Access team in the library.
Spiral is a REF-compliant research repository.
Once your paper has been accepted for publication, you are advised to deposit the accepted manuscript to Spiral via Symplectic Elements.
If your publisher requests an embargo to be applied to your paper, the Library’s Open Access team will check and apply all relevant embargoes.
Yes, if the version deposited on the preprint server is the accepted version, then you can add the link to the OA location field in Symplectic Elements.
Please send the following statement to the Open Access team to confirm the preprint is the accepted version
Imperial co-authors will receive an email notification when a relevant paper is Deposited.
It is good practice to ensure you add all Imperial co-authors when depositing on acceptance in Symplectic Elements.
An indefinite embargo has been applied to your accepted paper until the first online date of publication.
This means there is no public access to your paper until the embargo is manually removed.
The ‘request a copy’ function can be used to provide access during this time.
The Open Access team receives weekly updates on recently published journal articles and certain conference proceedings.
However, it may require additional time for the verification of publication dates for conference proceedings.
Please contact the Open Access team as soon as you know the publication date if you have deposited a conference paper, or the title of your paper has changed on publication .
Yes, but we would advise you to continue to use a preprint repository in your discipline, such as arXiv or bioRxiv, if you want to make a preprint openly available.
However, the version you should deposit in Spiral is the accepted manuscript (which is after the peer review process) as this is the version that is expected to be required for the next REF open access policy.
The Open Access team will check your publisher’s policy and set the appropriate embargo.
Embargoes in Spiral are automatically lifted when completed.
Please email the Open Access team with the updated file, including details of the paper or the Spiral handle (the URI link to the record) and we will replace the file on the Spiral record.
Authors should always check any publisher agreement that they have signed before posting to social networking sites like ResearchGate and Academia.edu.
If you want to know more about the pros and cons of posting on ResearchGate please see ResearchGate vs institutional repositories: which one should I use?
As the accepted manuscript (which has gone through the peer review process) is a new output, we would advise you to create a new Symplectic Record.
For instructions on how to deposit your paper on acceptance, please see Deposit on acceptance .
When an item in Spiral is under an embargo, users can still use the “Request a copy” button to send a request to the author for a copy.
One-to-one sharing of published articles is permitted by the exception Fair dealing in UK Copyright Law .
However, it is at the author’s discretion if requests are granted or not.
For help with copyright transfer and publishing contracts please contact the Open Access team including a link to any information you have or attaching a copy of your publisher’s contract.
If you receive a notification email that the version you uploaded cannot be deposited to Spiral, the reason for this will be included in the email.
If you are still unclear as to what the reason is, please contact the Open Access team .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/faq/using-symplectic:
See our video on How to deposit a file in Spiral via Symplectic .
If you are depositing your manuscript on acceptance and you also want to apply for a Article Processing Charge (APC) in Symplectic, please watch our video How to apply for APC funding or visit our Apply for Funding webpage.
If there is already a publication record (WoS or PubMed record etc) please see FAQ below ‘How do I add a manual record to an existing record?’
To add a manual record to an existing publication record like WoS, Scopus or PubMed, scrowl down to the end of the publication list and click on the + button
For synchronising your Symplectic to ORCID please see Synchronising Symplectic to ORCID: All Users
Symplectic discovers your research outputs by using identifiers such as ORCID.
If you have an ORCID identifier, make sure that it is synched to your Symplectic account.
See Synchronising Symplectic to ORCID: All Users
Symplectic also uses a name-based search by preloading your Search Settings with your name (usually your Surname and Initial and/or Surname and First name) but you can improve your search by adding any Name variants or Address terms to your settings.
Go to Menu > My Profile > Settings > Name-based Search
To add a delegate click on the Menu tab on the Home page.
Click on My Profile and then select Manage Delegates
The Research Office have produced a simple guide to explain how publication information can be exported from Symplectic Elements and uploaded into Researchfish to reduce the manual burden on individual PIs and their support teams.
How to add publications to Researchfish using Symplectic (pdf)
The Research Office has further information on Researchfish training and support.
To change a publication type, click on the pen icon
If you want to find out more about adding a publications list to your group website, contact your Faculty Web Officer .
Training grants with G codes are not imported to Symplectic Elements - if you wish to link an output to a training grant you can select the option to add this grant manually.
An administrator must assign you to an Organisational Structure (research group/ section/ cross faculty centres, etc.), before you will see the Organisational Structures heading on the linking page and in the left navigation.
If you don’t see the Organisation Structures heading or your groups on the linking screen, contact your Faculty Web Officer .
You can do this by following the instructions on How to import publications from bibtex
Contact your Faculty web officers or the Open Access team if you need further assistance.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/faq/imperial-profiles:
The Professional Web Pages (PWP) is being replaced by the new Imperial Profiles.
What you can do to keep up to date:
Have a look at the Imperial Profiles training course
For more information about the Imperial Profiles project
Copy and paste the following URL into a new web browser tab: https://profiles.imperial.ac.uk/abc
Replace ‘abc’ with the first part of your Imperial email address (everything before the '@' sign) and hit return
If your Imperial email address is c.hankin@imperial.ac.uk,
your Imperial Profiles URL will be https://profiles.imperial.ac.uk/c.hankin
Please see How to go into edit mode
Please see Changing your profile’s privacy level
You will need to update the college directory setting.
Please follow these steps
Yes, all staff including administrative and support staff will have access to publish an Imperial Profile.
Automatic redirects will be set up when the old PWP system is decommissioned.
Anyone trying to visit your old PWP URL will be directed to your new Imperial Profiles URL avoiding any loss of traffic.
Please contact your faculty representative who can help with the job title change request.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/faq/applying-for-oa-fees-article-processing-charges:
If you are funded by Research Councils UK (RCUK/UKRI), Wellcome Trust, Cancer Research UK, or British Heart Foundation the Open access fees or Article Processing Charges (APC) can be paid for via block grants managed by the Open Access team in the library.
Please see Applying for funding for more details.
If you are not funded by the funders mentioned above, you may be eligible for help with open access fees through publisher agreements and discounts .
Please watch Depositing in Spiral video for more details of how to apply.
You should apply for open access funding when your journal article or conference paper has been accepted for publication.
You will receive automated notification of acknowledgement of your application once submitted.
Applications are usually processed within 2-3 working days.
If your publisher has issued you with an invoice, please note that we cannot make any payments prior to a decision being made on your application.
Please contact the Open Access team for advice.
Please wait until you have received a decision regarding your open access funding application before requesting an invoice from your publisher .
The correct address is:
Accounts Payable Imperial College London Level 3 Sherfield Building London, SW7 2AZ United Kingdom
apinvoices@imperial.ac.uk
No, none of the open access funds cover these types of charges.
You will need to use an active research award or department account to cover any other publication costs.
Where possible, ask your publisher to invoice the open access fee separate from these other charges.
Yes, you may be eligible for help with open access fees through publisher agreements and discounts .
If your research is funded by RCUK/UKRI, Wellcome Trust, Cancer Research UK or British Heart Foundation you should comply with their open access policies, and we can charge any open access costs to those funds.
The REF open access policy requires that the accepted manuscript be deposited in a repository within three months of acceptance, regardless of whether the paper is due to be published open access.
If your publisher has told you there will be a charge to generate an invoice, please include this information in the APC Comments field.
Such costs are covered by the funds the Library holds.
Library Services does not provide advice to authors on the location of where to publish research, we recommend authors ask fellow academics in their department for advice.
For authors with a particular interest in publishing open access, the Directory of Open Access Books can be searched by subject, language, and publisher.
If you are funded by one of the research councils that make up UK Research and Innovation (UKRI), the UKRI Open Access Policy from 1 January 2024 includes a new open access requirement for monographs, book chapters and edited collections to be made open access within 12 months of publication via a publisher’s website, platform or repository, with a Creative Commons License.
For more information, see UKRI – monographs, book chapters, and edited collections .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/faq/preparing-your-phd-thesis-for-submission-to-spiral:
After the examination is complete and any required revisions have been approved, you should make sure that the final copy of your thesis is submitted to Registry via Spiral (Imperial’s open access repository) as soon as possible.
The University will not issue the result of the examination to successful candidates until it has received the final submission, and the examiners have confirmed that any amendments to the thesis required by the candidate have been made.
For further information on preparing your final thesis for submission to Spiral and creating your PDF file, please refer to this FAQs page.
Your final thesis must be in PDF/A format and all fonts used must be embedded within the PDF file.
Please do not include your signature in the thesis.
Theses submitted in any other format will not be accepted and may result in the award of the degree being delayed.
Please note that your submission will be checked by Research Degrees before being released to the Spiral team in the library, and your thesis will only be made publicly available upon expiry of any agreed embargo.
Bound copies of the final thesis, or electronic copies in any other format are no longer required.
You do not need to submit any additional forms at this stage, providing you have already submitted your Thesis Declaration Form.
You can search for Imperial theses via Library Search or browsing the PhD collections on Spiral , Imperial’s open access repository.
Under certain circumstances you can request an embargo on your thesis.
You can change your mind about which Creative Commons licence you have assigned to your thesis if you have not yet uploaded it to Spiral.
You must make sure the copyright statement at the front of your thesis matches the licence you choose.
Once you have uploaded the final version of your thesis to Spiral the licence cannot be changed.
See Reproducing your own published work
See Reproducing published extracts, images, figures, etc
See Publishing material from your thesis
Imperial’s Regulations for the award of the MPhil and the PhD state ‘A series of papers, whether published or otherwise, is not acceptable for submission as a thesis’.
However, research work ‘already published, or submitted for publication, at the time of submission of the thesis, either by the candidate alone or jointly with others,’ may be included in the body thesis if it is adapted to the style of a thesis (i.e., it is changed so that your thesis reads as a single and fully integrated whole).
To avoid self-plagiarism, cite the adapted paper at the beginning of the matching chapter with an accompanying reference in your reference list and treat quotes and figures from the paper as you would when reusing someone else’s work, i.e., cite and reference these in the text of the chapter.
For more detailed guidance on avoiding plagiarism and self-plagiarism read Plagiarism Issues in Theses , Plagiarism Awareness and refer back to the Graduate School plagiarism awareness course Plagiarism Awareness (Doctoral Students)
If you would like to include copies of your published papers for completeness and comparison, you can create an Appendix.
To be able to do this, you must first have the publisher’s permission to reproduce the paper in your thesis or permission via a Creative Commons Licence , if the paper was published on open access.
Preparing your thesis includes further advice on this topic.
Speak to your PhD supervisor and/or Director of Postgraduate Studies if you believe your department’s rules vary from this guidance.
You should not redraw a figure simply to side-step the need to acknowledge someone else’s work or to request permission to use it.
When you change someone else’s figure to better suit your needs, you must decide if you are adapting the work or redrawing it as a new work.
An adaption starts with the original figure and then elements are added, subtracted or replaced to create an adapted version.
When looking at the figure the similarity to the original figure is obvious and the changes could be described by someone looking at both figures.
When you redraw a figure, your aim is to create a new and original figure using some else’s figure as a guide and inspiration.
You start with a blank piece of paper and create your own visual explanation of the concept or data.
The right to adapt a copyrighted work belongs to the rightsholder.
You must therefore request permission to adapt another person’s figure and publish the adapted version online.
Conversely, there is no need to request permission when you redraw a figure because you have created a new and original figure for which you are the copyright holder.
When writing the figure caption for an adapted work always acknowledge the adaption and the original figure.
(e.g.
figure 1, Risk perception and behavioral change during epidemics: Comparing models of individual and collective learning )
Advanced Science's Copyright permissions: tips for authors covers reproduction, adaption and redrawing of figures in more detail and explains how to obtain permission.
After the examination is complete and any required revisions have been approved, you should make sure that the final copy of your thesis is submitted to Registry via Spiral (the University’s open access repository) as soon as possible.
The University will not issue the result of the examination to successful candidates until it has received the final submission and the examiners have confirmed that any amendments to the thesis required by the candidate have been made.
See Requesting an embargo
The University does not require you to sign the statement of originality and recommends that you do not include a signature in your thesis as it will publicly available on the internet and may be used fraudulently by others.
You are able to select a licence of your own choice - depending on the licence you choose, this will determine how your thesis is used.
What are these licences?
Selecting a creative common licence provides more information on the available licences.
Other people can copy, distribute and transmit your thesis, see the Spiral use licence .
Your thesis should be submitted in PDF/A format and all fonts used must be embedded within the PDF file.
See Creating your PDF/A for instructions for your operating system.
assessment.records@imperial.ac.uk
Preparing for Thesis Submission, Examination and Open Access Q&A
Publishing Open Access: Your Research and Thesis
ASK the Library
Plagiarism Awareness (Doctoral Students)
Copyright for Researchers (Online Course)
Intellectual property guidance
Intellectual Property (Online Course)

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/glossary:
Accepted author manuscript (AAM) – also known as a post-print.
The peer-reviewed, final version of an article prior to publication.
This is not the same as the publisher’s PDF .
Article processing charge (APC) – a publisher’s fee for covering publishing costs such as those associated with editorial and peer-review processes.
A consequence of payment of an APC is gold (immediate) open access to the research paper.
Date of acceptance – the date an article is accepted, after peer review, for publication by a journal.
Deposit – adding research output , such as an article, to a repository.
Discoverable – the article can be found by readers and search engines, usually facilitated through a bibliographic or metadata record associated with the full text.
Embargo – a period during which access to scholarly work is restricted to those who have paid for access.
Once the embargo period ends, an article can be deposited in a repository (if permitted by the publisher).
Gold open access – publishers make research articles immediately and freely available from the point of publication, and usually apply an article processing charge .
Green open access – the author makes a version of a research output freely available via an institutional or subject repository.
Publishers stipulate the version of manuscript that can be self-archived and the length of embargo period following publication before the paper is made open access.
Hybrid journal – A hybrid journal is a subscription journal that provides an author with the option to publish their article immediately open access (OA) via payment of an article processing charge (APC), which ensures the Version of Record (VOR) is published as OA on the journal website.
Institutional repository – an online archive of an institution’s scholarly outputs.
The collection can include publications in peer-reviewed journals, books and book-sections, technical reports, working papers, monographs, conference presentations, audio and visual materials or any other research content that has some scholarly value.
Imperial's institutional repository is Spiral .
Metadata – data that describes other data.
For items in open access repositories, this usually consists of a full bibliographic reference, abstract, keywords and similar information.
Mirror journals - open access versions of subscription journals with similar aims, scope, peer review processes, and policies.
They may be listed in DOAJ and have their own ISSN.
Mirror journals often have titles with an X in the suffix (refer to the 2022 Jülich list for specific titles).
They are considered 'hybrid' for open access funding purposes.
Open access – the online availability of scholarly work via the internet, free of charge to individuals who wish to access and read it.
Open access journal or fully open access journal - A journal who’s content is freely available online and where user rights and the terms of copyright are defined.
True open-access journals can be split into two categories: 1.
diamond or platinum open-access journals , which charge no additional publication, open access or article processing fees and 2.
gold open-access journals , which charge publication fees (also called article processing charges , APCs).
Open access licence – the licence outlines what a person may do with a third party copyright work.
An example of an open licence is a Creative Commons (CC) licence , which combines 4 basic elements: the attribution, the derivatives, the commercial use, and the ‘share-alike’ principle.
Output – a piece of research content, including articles, books, chapters, technical reports, working papers, monographs, conference presentations, or audio and visual materials.
It can also include research datasets.
Plan S – initiative for open access publishing.
Pre-print – the first draft of an article, before peer-review, possibly even before any contact with a publisher.
Publisher’s PDF – the final published version of an article, including the publisher’s copy-editing, proof corrections, layout, and typesetting.
Self-archiving – the process of depositing your research output to a repository along with bibliographic metadata.
At Imperial you can do this via Symplectic .
This process involves granting an open licence regarding access and reuse of your work.
Spiral – Imperial’s institutional repository .
Subject repository – an online archive of open access literature in particular fields e.g.
PubMed Central and arXiv.
Symplectic – the Current Research Information System (CRIS) used by Imperial to manage research metadata and deposit related publications to Spiral .
Transformative agreement – Transformative agreements (TAs), sometimes called transitional or “read and publish” agreements are contracts negotiated between institutions and publishers that transform the business model underlying scholarly publishing towards a fully open access model.
There are various different models and requirements for transformative agreements and Jisc have provided a guide to them on their Publisher information page.
The Library has arranged several Transformative Agreements with publishers .
Transformative Journal – Transformative journals are subscription/ hybrid journals that commit to transitioning to a fully open access journal .
The requirements for TJs have been set by UK higher education (HE) and research institutions and endorsed by the UUK Jisc content negotiation strategy group.
Coalition-S require that a Transformative Journal must gradually increase the share of Open Access content; and offset subscription income from payments for publishing services (to avoid double payments).
cOAlition S have provided some FAQs on TJs which may be of use.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/symplectic-spiral-relationship:
Spiral is Imperial’s open access research repository with over 100,000 items.
It runs on open-source software called DSpace .
Spiral is freely available to the public, and uses the Open Archives Initiative Protocol for Metadata Harvesting (OAI-PMH) which facilitates indexing by Google Scholar and open access content aggregators such as Core , Bielefeld Academic Search Engine (BASE) , OpenAIRE , the British Library’s doctoral theses EThOS service and many others.
Symplectic Elements is Imperial’s Current Research Information System which researchers use to maintain their research profiles such as grants and publications.
It is not a full-text repository.
Imperial researchers depositing their work in Spiral will use Symplectic.
The Library Services Open Access team will process their manuscript before it is made live in Spiral.
Researchers who wish to publish gold open access and pay for Article Processing Charges (APC) can also do this through Symplectic.
Researchers also maintain a list of their research publications via Symplectic.
This is displayed on their Imperial Profiles .
To make changes to records in Spiral, researchers will first need to update the Symplectic record then request an update to the same record in Spiral by emailing openaccess@imperial.ac.uk .
The “MyDSpace” button within Spiral is for administrators only and doctoral students who upload their theses.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/book-a-one-to-one-or-training-session:
Fill in the form on Ask to book a one to one consultation with the Open Access team .
We can offer to meet in person, online or by telephone.
If you have any difficulty using the form, please contact us directly at openaccess@imperial.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/open-access/our-team:
Email: openaccess@imperial.ac.uk
Phone: +44 (0)20 7594 2608
Send email +44 (0)207 594 7497
Central Library, Imperial College London, South Kensington Campus, London SW7 2AZ
Send email +44 (0) 20 7594 5244
Send email +44 (0) 207 594 8806
Central Library, Imperial College London, South Kensington Campus, London SW7 2AZ
Send email +44 (0)207 594 9114
Send email +44 (0) 207 594 9729
Send email +44 (0)20 7594 7017

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/publishing-with-spiral:
Spiral is Imperial’s open access research repository with over 90,000 items It is a place for authors to upload journal articles and monographs as well as research for rapid sharing
Introduction to Spiral
When preparing your report there are a number of things to consider These pages will help you prepare your document for Symplectic and disseminating via Spiral
How to prepare your report
Your DOI is your Digital Object Identifier It is a permanent link to your document
Receiving a DOI for your report
All documents in Spiral are freely available online without any access barriers, so potentially anyone in the world could be reading your research.
Read on for ways to demonstrate that readers are engaging with your research.
Discovering Impact
Follow this guide for instructions on how to upload your papers to Spiral
Guide to depositing a published paper in Spiral
If you need further help please feel free to email us
Email Us

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/publishing-with-spiral/intro-to-spiral:
Spiral is Imperial’s open access research repository and holds over 90,000 items.
As well as being a place for authors to upload journal articles and monographs; it can also be a home for any research that is not intended for journal publication, or research that authors wish to share more rapidly than journal publishing, or preprint platforms allow.
Spiral performs no peer review.
It is a platform to quickly publish research that authors consider appropriate to share without peer review or to share research ahead of peer review performed by a journal.
Authors may also wish to consider using a preprint server .
These types of documents are mostly reports, briefing papers or working papers.
They present some original research, data or expert opinion to be shared with readers.
Some examples include:
The Institute of Global Health Innovation produced this report, NHS Data: Maximising its impact on the health and wealth of the United Kingdom
Read the report on Spiral
The Faculty of Medicine have produced this report, Report 9: Impact of non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) to reduce COVID19 mortality and healthcare demand
The Institute for Molecular Science and Engineering have produced this report, Smart surfaces to tackle infection and antimicrobial resistance
Contact us via email
Institute of Global Health Innovation: “Publishing our NHS data report on Spiral was a really seamless process thanks to the team and it’s meant that we’ve been able to track its reach in ways we couldn’t before.
It’s been a huge gratification to see how many people have been downloading and sharing it, and we can share these figures with our stakeholders.”

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/publishing-with-spiral/how-to-prepare-your-report:
Faculty of Engineering: “ Being able to rapidly publish our Covid-19 work Regulations & exemptions during the COVID-19 pandemic for new medical technology, health services & data was essential in bringing technical insights quickly to a global community – at a time when even preprint arxives take up to a week to process files, we were published in a few.
The Sprial team was very efficient and we got a proper DOI to support the paper right away ”.
If you are wishing to disseminate a report, briefing paper or working paper; there are a couple of things to think about before uploading your document to Symplectic and disseminating via Spiral .
Help people to cite your report in their own work by providing a suggested citation in an easy-to-find location on the report itself.
You should also include a part of the citation for the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) which will be generated for your report when it is made live on Spiral.
Find out more advice on the DOI .
Here is an example of a report with a suggested citation :
Ghafur S, Fontana G, Halligan J, O'Shaughnessy J, Darzi A.
NHS data: Maximising its impact on the health and wealth of the United Kingdom.
Imperial College London (2020) doi: 10.25561/76409
Like journal articles, abstracts or a brief summary of the document are a useful way for users to establish what the report is about.
It also helps search engines find the document more easily.
This can be the executive summary or your main findings, but these can be quite long, so you could think about a shortened version to add to the Abstract field in the Symplectic record.
This will be visible in the Spiral record, like in the example below:
You should outline ownership of the work and what users of it can do with the report and under what conditions.
This is not to prevent reuse or sharing; it simply makes it clearer for readers if or how they are allowed to reuse or share the document.
You may want to consider applying a Creative Commons licence for your report, they are widely used across academic publishing.
For further information you can read our blogpost on Protecting your assets or contact the library Copyright and Licensing Manager .
Here is an example of a Creative Commons license applied to a document:
Imperial is a founding member of ORCID , a globally recognised researcher identity system.
If the authors of your report have ORCiD accounts, adding a link to the author’s ORCiD helps readers identify the author and find their other publications.
It also helps readers recognise the document as a scholarly output, because they will be used to seeing ORCiD in published journal articles.
The Grantham Institute’s recent report on energy systems used the author’s ORCiDs.
Authors can check their ORCiD number by searching the Registry on the ORCiD website .
The ORCiD icon image can be downloaded from the ORCiD website.
Please contact ORCiD at Imperial for any support.
Whilst Spiral is a repository for text items only, if your paper refers to items of research data, software or code we encourage you to include a statement that names the authors and location of the item, even if the data, software or code can’t be shared itself.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/publishing-with-spiral/get-a-doi:
Faculty of Medicine: “Since the emergence of the new coronavirus (COVID-19) in December 2019, the Imperial College COVID-19 Response Team has adopted a policy of immediately sharing research findings on the developing pandemic.
The Imperial College Open Access Library team has been incredibly responsive and professional providing guidance and assisting to ensure the immediate processing of reports submitted to Spiral from the team.
The team’s support is paramount for us to publish our pre-prints in a timely matter and enabling open science as part of the outbreak response amidst a global crisis.”
DOI stands for Digital Object Identifier.
It’s a permanent web address which will always link readers to the document.
For preserving research and ensuring access to it, a DOI is a much better option than just hosting a PDF on a website that could change or shutdown over time.
This can be especially relevant for temporary research group websites.
DOIs are used widely across academic publishing, you may have seen them on journal articles.
As well as providing permanent accessibility, it also encourages readers to cite the document properly and increases the chance that this citation might be picked up by services like Google Scholar .
DOIs are also useful because they can be tracked by services such as .
If a report’s DOI has been mentioned in social media, press or a policy document it will be recorded, and this can be useful to track the impact of your research .
Once the report is uploaded to Symplectic it will be sent to Spiral the same day.
However, DOIs are not generated automatically; the live, permanent DOI for the report will appear on Spiral at approximately 7pm every evening.
If you wish to obtain a DOI for the report before this (e.g.
the same day before 7pm) you can calculate the DOI from the notification email you will receive.
A DOI can be calculated by the collection prefix for reports in Spiral which is 10.25561 and then adding the number of its Spiral Handle (in bold below).
So, for example:
Spiral Handle: http://hdl.handle.net/10044/1/ 76744
will become
DOI: https://doi.org/ 10.25561 / 76744
If you then wish to place this on the report PDF, please send it to the OA Team directly and we will replace the file in Spiral to show the version with the DOI as a priority.
Please contact us to assist you with any queries.
Spiral is one of the largest generators of DOIs for research outputs in the UK, but it is still a work in progress, and we welcome feedback .
You can see the whole workflow as a PDF from submission to live in Spiral via our website.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/publishing-with-spiral/discovering-impact:
All documents in Spiral are freely available online without any access barriers, so potentially anyone in the world could be reading the research.
Read further for ways to demonstrate that readers are engaging with the research.
On the publication page, the ‘IRUS Total Downloads’ icon shows the all-time total number of downloads from this page.
It is updated weekly.
A month-level breakdown of the downloads for the past 12 months is available when clicking on the blue chart icon next to the title.
It is updated monthly.
How and where has the document been mentioned?
Using , you can track the times the document has been mentioned on social networking sites, news sources, Wikipedia, in policy documents and more.
For Altmetric to track mentions, when sharing the document, you must use the Spiral record in the hyperlink.
For example, Institute of Global Health Innovation’s tweet sharing their new report used a hyperlink to the Spiral record, rather than any other website hosting the page.
This allows Altmetric to identify the tweet associated with the report.
It is fine to use a bit.ly or another link shortener.
When Altmetric is successfully tracking activity, you will be able to see an overview of the activity in an icon that will display next to the title.
For a more detailed analysis of Altmetric activity, check our link to access the Altmetric Explorer and guidance to interpreting the data.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/symplectic:
Symplectic Elements is the research information management system that Imperial College London uses to detail the publications, funding, equipment and professional activities of our researchers and faculty members.
The information in Symplectic Elements is used to populate your Imperial Profile and showcase your research and collaborations.
Imperial also uses Symplectic and Spiral to ensure that researchers comply with the UK's Research Excellence Framework.
Add outputs to Symplectic and Spiral
Link Research outputs to other entities
Update your Imperial Profile
Add publications to Researchfish
User guides and contacts
Frequently asked questions

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/symplectic/link-research-outputs-to-other-entities:
Whenever possible you should create links between your research outputs in Symplectic Elements and the related grants (that funded the research), facilities/equipment (that were used during the research) and research groups (that the research relates to).
To do this, follow the prompt at the top of the home page and you will be taken to the new linking screen.
Alternatively you can navigate to the linking screen from any output.
Creating links in Symplectic user guide (pdf)
By default you will be shown grants from the Research Grants Module of ICIS for which you are an investigator.
It is also possible to search for any grant by name and create links to your outputs.
Studentships are not recorded in the Research Grants Module in ICIS, so will not appear in your profile automatically and will need to be added manually from your home tab.
You can link multiple publications together if they are the result of the same grant or research project.
You are shown publications that you have authored or co-authored, though you can also link to publications written by colleagues in your research group etc.
By default you’ll be shown the facilities you’re identified as a user of.
You can remove this filter and use the search option to identify and link to other facilities listed in Symplectic.
Being able to identify the outputs that resulted from use of a facility is valuable evidence to support funding bids to upgrade and improve facilities.
List of facilities
An administrator must have assigned you to an Organisational Structure (research group/network/centre), before you can link your publications to it.
Publications linked to an Organisational Structure can be displayed on the group’s website as a searchable and filterable list .
Find out how to link publications to research groups in Symplectic .
To find out more about adding a publication list to your group website, contact your Faculty Web Officer .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/symplectic/update-your-imperial-profile:
Symplectic Elements and Spiral are systems that work together to support individual academics and research staff in recording, reporting and showcasing their academic activities and outputs.
Some of this information is maintained in Symplectic.
Visit the following pages for further information:
Imperial Profiles guidance
Editing your Imperial Profile

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/symplectic/add-publications-to-researchfish:
Many funders (e.g.
Research Councils, Cancer Research UK, British Heart Foundation, NIHR) require PIs to enter research outcomes information into the Researchfish system.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/symplectic/user-guides-and-faculty-contacts:
For information on getting started with Symplectic and keeping your profile up to date, use the illustrated guides below.
For queries relating to your PWP please get in touch with the relevant Faculty contact(s) below.
For ICT support for Symplectic, such as logging in, please contact the ICT Service Desk .
For help with open access and your account, please get in touch with  the Open Access Team openaccess@imperial.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/orcid/symplectic-to-orcid-for-all-users:
Log in to your Symplectic Elements account and go to Menu > My Account > Settings > ORCID Settings .
Or click ORCID settings
Under Configure connection click on Register or Connect your ORCID iD .
Sign in to ORCID.
If you are asked to authorise Imperial College London, click on Authorize access .
In the Configure Connection box select the first option I permit Symplectic Elements to read from and write publication data to my ORCID account .
Selecting this option will authorise an automatic connection from Symplectic to ORCID, saving you time and administration updating both accounts.
If you do not want to authorise the automatic connection between Symplectic and ORCID, see Setting Symplectic and ORCID permissions .
In the pop-up box confirming your selection, click on OK.
The Manage which publications will be sent options will now appear.
These will permit you to choose which types of publications are sent from Symplectic to ORCID.
Review the options and descriptions offered.
Click on Run Sync and wait to see a pop-up box confirming synchronisation.
Wait to see a pop-up notification confirming synchronisation.
Now you can exit Symplectic and ORCID.
Within 48 hours your Symplectic account will be synchronised with your ORCID account, or not if you selected otherwise.
You can change these settings by revisiting ORCID settings in Symplectic.
Contact orcid@imperial.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/orcid/symplectic-and-orcid-permissions:
Under Configure connection you are presented with options to select under I permit Symplectic Elements to .
This option is selected by default and is the recommended option.
By leaving this option selected you will benefit from an automatic connection from Symplectic to ORCID, saving you time and administration updating both accounts.
You will also give Symplectic permission to read specific data in your ORCID account – DOIs and PubMed IDs - and use that to help search for your publications in external sources to feed into your Symplectic record.
Symplectic can also use your ORCID iD for automatic claiming of publications.
If you choose this option you will be given the following settings options which you can change at any time.
By choosing this option, you give Symplectic permission to read specific data in your ORCID account – DOIs and PubMed IDs - and use that to help search for your publications in external sources to feed into your Symplectic record.
Your ORCID iD can also be used for automatic claiming of publications in Symplectic.
You will not give Symplectic permission to send publication data to your ORCID account and you will have to independently manage your ORCID account.
By choosing this option, you give Symplectic permission to use your ORCID iD to automatically claim publications found in external sources.
You will not give Symplectic permission to send publication data to your ORCID account or to use data in your ORCID record to search for publications and you will have to independently manage your ORCID account.
You can change these settings or click on Revoke authorisation , which will set the permissions level to Option 3.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/orcid/maximise-your-visibility-with-orcid:
Awarded grants can be added by selecting DimensionsWizard under ‘Add funding’ > ‘Search & Link’.
You will then need to search for the grant by author name or grant name.
If you perform peer review for UKRI grants, follow the instructions on the UKRI website .
The peer review must be for UKRI or any of its constituent Research Councils (except Innovate UK) that is submitted in the Je-S system from 23 November 2020 onwards.
The ORCID Reviewer Recognition display will not compromise the anonymity or confidentiality of the grant peer review process and will only appear after the award decision has been made.
Use ‘trusted parties’ or ‘only me’ as your visibility setting.
‘Trusted parties’ means that only organisations you have given permission to (such as your employer) can see this data.
‘Only me’ means no one, including your employer, can see this data.
More information on privacy settings is available at the ORCID website.
You could:
Your iD number is publicly visible but all other information is under your individual control in visibility settings
Anyone who contributes to research and education within the College is encouraged to create and use an ORCID iD
Your ORCID iD can stay with you throughout your entire career and move with you between organisations

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/orcid/faq:
You have full control over your ORCID profile, what it contains and what is publicly visible.
Once you have registered, the minimum information visible will be your name and your ORCID iD.
However you can choose to make more information visible, such as your publications, education and employment history.
Your publication list will grow as ORCID locates articles from the sources you identify .
You can also create a manual record for anything that might not be imported automatically, for example from publishers that have not yet integrated with ORCID.
Also, you can add non-traditional research-related outputs , such as blog posts, podcasts , or videos.
For new works added to ORCID you can change the privacy settings from your Account Settings .
The visibility settings for your publications can be edited individually or all at once using the Bulk edit feature:
Yes, you can delete it at any time from your Account settings .
W e do, however, encourage you to keep your ORCID iD as increasing numbers of publishers are integrating the ORCID system into their submission systems, and funders are recommending the use of ORCID as a unique identifier for researchers.
The ORCID iD is a 16-digit number randomly assigned by the ORCID registry.
An example ORCID identifier would have the following structure: 0000-0001-5109-3700.
It can be expressed as a URL like this: http://orcid.org/0000-0001-5109-3700
When applying for a grant or submitting an article for publication with a funder or publisher that has integrated with the ORCID registry.
You can also add it to your CV, business cards or personal website.
If you have already joined ORCID please add your identifier to Symplectic (see Synchronising Symplectic to ORCID ).
We also encourage you to add your Imperial email address to your ORCID profile.
For staff included in the ORCID Project we sent information on your publications from Symplectic to ORCID.
We encourage you to make this information public in ORCID.
If you are a student or new member of staff creating an ORCID iD you can populate your profile by importing a BibTeX file.
ORCID can also import articles from Scopus, Europe PubMed Central and CrossRef, among others.
We are working with Symplectic so that ORCID automatically receives information from Symplectic too.
Your ORCID iD goes with you; it is not tied to a particular institution.
ORCID have a blog and a newsletter you can subscribe to for updates.
We will also do our best to tell you about important developments on the link between Symplectic and ORCID.
ORCID is a non-profit, community-led organisation.
Imperial College London is a member, like many other research organisations.
You can find out more about ORCID as an organisation, the funders who have integrated with the ORCID registry and all the other universities who have become ORCID members on the ORCID website .
The ORCID project at Imperial College London ran during 2014 and resulted in the creation of over 3000 ORCID iDs for academic staff.
You can find out more at The ORCID Project .
You can add your ORCID iD by going to ORCID settings .
Once you have added your ORCID iD , Symplecti c can read your ORCID record and add publications that you claimed there to your Symplecti c profile during regular trawling of data sources.
In some cases Symplectic only requested the right for temporary read access to your ORCID account.
If you have been affected you will see a reminder under Data source management to reconnect with ORCID.
Reconnecting will take care of this problem.
If you do not see the error message the connection works fine.
In rare cases it may be possible that ORCID users with certain special characters in their passwords, like exclamation marks, receive an error message when logging in to ORCID via Symplectic.
If you receive a "bad username/password" error or similar, simply open a new tab in your browser and log in via https://orcid.org/signin .
Please send any queries or feedback to orcid@imperial.ac.uk
‘Ignoring’ an ID - for example, a SCOPUS ID means that publications associated with the ID will come in as ’Pending’ articles.
Rejecting an ID means this ID is *not you*, but someone else.
Symplectic uses this confirmation to automatically reject publications.
You should therefore ‘Ignore’ any IDs, but reject those that are definitely *not you*.
If you accept a Scopus ID, then choose ‘Auto suggest publications’ so you are able to control the claiming of publications.
To access this option use ‘Manage’ to access the pop-up box – see below.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/bibliometrics:
Bibliometrics is a term used for the quantitative study of publications and can be applied to any type of research output, author or institution.
Bibliometrics should support peer review but never supplant it and should be used responsibly.
Bibliometric indicators (metrics associat e d with publications) are used for purposes such as research assessment , measuring impact and institutional rankings.
They may affect important decisions like hiring, promotion or resource allocation.
But they can be misused.
Therefore, i t is crucial to understand the different types of bibliometric in dicators and t heir limitations , to better promote fair, transparent and robust research evaluation processes.
This will help the Imperial research community to uphold Imperial’s five core values of
Understanding bibliometrics and its appropriate use also helps you align with the principles of initiatives like the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA).
By adopting responsible use of metrics beyond the journal impact factor and h-index, you will start to foster a positive research culture that recognises your efforts to embed transparency, equity, accessibility and reliability into your research rather than a reliance on the volume of journal articles.
These webpages equip you with the confidence and know-how to use metrics responsibly.
They explain what the field of bibliometrics is, the types of metrics and indicators, and the tools available at Imperial to help you understand the visibility, reach and impact of your publications beyond inappropriate measures like journal-based numbers.
For more information, contact bibliometrics@imperial.ac.uk.
Bibliometrics is the quantitative study of research outputs and can be applied to any type of research publication, author, or institution.
The terms ‘bibliometrics’, ‘quantitative data’, ‘indicators’, or ‘metrics’ are usually used interchangeably for the context.
Traditionally, it refers to the number of citations for a research output.
However, thanks to emerging technology in data collection, other quantitative data can be measured such as number of downloads, page views, social media or policy document mentions which are also known as alternative metrics or altmetrics (not to be confused with Altmetric).
Bibliometrics is traditionally used to measure research performance or demonstrate impact.
In different contexts, the metrics are sometimes used alongside expert peer review to assess publications.
It is also useful to understand publication, citation, and collaboration trends in academia.
Metrics are increasingly used in academia, and they are important in some cases.
However, inappropriate use may result in unintended consequences that would degrade trust in scholarship .
All metrics have limitations and biases.
Therefore, they should always be used responsibly by all parts of the research infrastructure and complement not supplant expert reviews in assessing research.
Imperial is committed to ensuring that our procedures for assessing the achievements of all staff are fair, transparent and robust and in 2015 undertook the Richardson review (PDF) , investigating the use of bibliometrics in staff performance assessment.
A formal commitment to not considering journal-based metrics (such as Journal Impact Factor) in recruitment and promotion decisions has been in place since 2017, when Imperial became a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) .
This has implications for the way that bibliometrics are used to evaluate research outputs at Imperial.
The Richardson review also acknowledges that the concept of responsible metrics must align with the five principles mentioned in ‘ The Metric Tide: Review of Metrics in Research Assessment ’, a report published by Research England ( robustness – basing metrics on the best possible data, humility – recognising that quantitative indicators should support not supplant qualitative assessment, transparency – keeping data collection and analysis processes transparent, diversity – reflecting a diversity of research and researcher career paths, and reflexivity – recognising the systemic effect of indicators and updating them where possible).
These frameworks mean that all decision-making processes requiring assessment of research performance (e.g.
recruitment, promotion or allocation of funding) should avoid the use of journal-based metrics, consider the limitations of metrics, and be aligned with DORA and the Metric Tide report’s principles.
Promoting and implementing responsible use of metrics will also uphold Imperial Values of Respect, Collaboration, Excellence, Integrity, and Innovation.
Learn about the fundamentals of metrics
Discover more about responsible use of metrics
Find out more about bibliometrics tools
Discover information about initatives and resources on responsible metrics
Learn more about the role of narrative CVs
Book a one to one with a member of the bibliometrics team

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/bibliometrics/basics-of-metrics:
Bibliometrics is the quantitative study of publications and can be applied to any type of research output, author, or institution
Metrics used in the academic context are usually classified as traditional and alternative metrics.
The following is not an exhaustive list of metrics and only shows mostly used ones.
Bear in mind that all metrics have their own strengths and weaknesses.
Therefore, they should be used with great care ( c heck the weaknesses of metrics below ) .
Traditional metrics are citation based.
Citation occurs when someone properly acknowledges another work in their paper.
Citation-based metrics refer to the number of times publications have been cited by other papers within a specific database.
Alternative metrics (aka altmetrics ) is an umbrella term for all metrics that are not measured with citation.
With the improvement o f digital platforms and data collection technologies, new ways to share research outputs and collect their usage are now available.
For example, t he view /download count of a publication in an institutional repository or mention of a journal article in a social media platform or a policy document can now be traced .
These indicators can be used to understand the impact of publications beyond traditional metrics by looking at applied, societal, economic or governmental uses of research outputs .
Although bibliometrics is extensively used in the scholarly world and offers valuable insights into public ations , it also has significant limitations that may impact research and the cultivation of a better research culture.
As a general rule, never fully trust indicators , always provide context when using them , and avoid relying on a single indicator to assess researchers, departments, or institutions.
Alternative metrics are still emerging and should be used with great care.
They may also have some limitations:
Because of their limitations, metrics should be used with caution and should not be considered the only way to assess impact.
Both quantitative and qualitative indicators should be used together to assess research performance.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/bibliometrics/responsible-use-of-metrics:
Metrics are widely and increasingly used in academia, and they hold significant importance in various contexts .
They can play an important role in job and funding applications, promotions, and institutional rankings.
Researchers may also be interested in monitoring the impact of their research and outputs through metrics.
However, inappropriate use of bibliometrics without considering their biases and weaknesses may result in degrading trust in scholarship and breaking the research culture.
For example, the Journal Impact Factor (JIF) has been used as a proxy for the quality of individual research outputs despite being originally designed to measure journal characteristics only rather than the quality of individual article s .
Similarly, using metrics to compare institutions or academics in different disciplines may create misleading results (check the limitations of metrics to find out more).
I t is always recommended that metrics be used responsibly .
Responsible use of metrics is an umbrella term covering a wide range of good practices suggested or adopted by research institutions and initiatives.
Its main aim is to acknowledge and highlight the weaknesses or biases of bibliometrics and to advocate for the appropriate use of them.
The following is not an exhaustive list but a very broad set of guidelines to help you get familiar with the responsible use of metrics.
Metrics should never replace expert peer review to assess research performance of individual s , department s , or institution s .
Indicators (where available) should support qualitative assessment in all areas where research assessment is required such as recruitment, promotion, funding allocation, and reward.
T he purpose of using metrics should be clearly and appropriately defined and contextualised in advance .
It is not good practice to monitor indicators without setting the appropriate question first.
Metrics can provide really useful responses only to well-considered questions.
When using bibliometrics, it is important to remember that all metrics and databases, whether traditional or alternative, will have weaknesses and biases.
Without properly considering the biases , the analysis is always at risk of being incomplete and flawed which may le ad to decisions with unintended consequences .
The use of title or impact factor of journals in assessing the quality of research and outcomes must be avoided.
Also, using indicators (such as h-index) to compare researchers is not a good practice because they do not consider individual circumstances or disciplinary differences .
Transparency is important when evaluating research.
Always be explicit in your analysis about the methods, criteria, databases, or analysis products used for the assessment .
T he value and impact of all research outputs (not only journal articles and conference proceedings) should be considered.
Contributions of a researcher, department or institution to research can be very diverse .
Journal articles and conference proceedings may be dominant output types in academia, but this is not the case for all disciplines.
Also, r ecognition should consider research outcomes whose impacts cannot be counted via traditional methods.
Responsible use of metrics applies to everyone with in the research infrastructure including researchers, managers, HR managers, head of departments , funders, publishers, data providers or even governments.
Each part must understand the limitations and proper use of metrics to foster a fair and inclusive assessment process.
When governing, managing, and assessing research and research outcomes by using quantitative indicators , the following dimensions should be considered as detailed in the Metric Tide Report :

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/bibliometrics/available-bibliometrics-tools:
There are increasing numbers of research analytic products that provide bibliometric data.
The following tools are available for Imperial staff and students:
Altme tric provides data about online attention to research publications.
It identifies mentions of research outputs o n social media, blog sites, policy documents, news outlets, or Wikipedia.
Dimensions is an article –level metadata, abstract, citations, and research grants database.
It provides basic metrics about research publications and helps you to see grants associated with research publications .
Overton is a database for policy documents and allows tracking mentions of research output s in policy documents.
The Scholarly Communications and Management Team offers different dashboards showing publications and metrics such as Research Outcomes and Spiral Reports Usage Statistics dashboards .
For more information, contact bibliom etrics@imperial.ac.uk .
SciVal is a research analytics product which uses data from the Scopus database.
It provides author, article, or journal-level metrics with different visualisations .
It allows benchmarking publications and other metrics against different universities , institutions or a set of other publications .
SciVal also helps to identify national or international collaborations of the institution.
Scopus is an abstract and citation database of research literature.
It gives basic citation information for each publication.
Web of Science i s another article metadata and citation database.
There are other tools available.
Whenever you use tools for bibliometrics analysis, we would recommend careful usage, and avoid those that do not have responsible use guidelines or principles on thei r web pages.
Note that each platform has its own strengths and weaknesses.
For more information or training requests , get in touch with bibliometrics@imperial.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/bibliometrics/initiatives-and-resources-on-responsible-metrics:
Responsible use of metrics is becoming increasingly important for institutions, funders, and even publishers.
Many initiatives and resources to support responsible metrics have appeared recently.
The following list covers main initiatives and resources but is not exhaustive:
San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) is a globally recognised initiative aiming to improve the ways in which research outputs are assessed.
It was developed in 2012 and signed by Imperial in 2017.
So, Imperial is committed to implement the principles of DORA (such as not to use journal based metrics in decision making).
Leiden Manifesto for Research Metrics sets out ten principles to guide research evaluation.
These principles shape most of the responsible use of metrics policies of many institutions.
The Metric Tide report was published by Research England (previously HEFCE) in 2015 investigating the role of quantitative metrics and how should they be used in a responsible way .
The report identifies five key principles in responsible use (r obustness, humility, transparency, diversity, and reflexivity).
CoARA is a global alliance dedicated to reforming assessment practices for research, researchers, an d institutions to maximise the quality and impact of research.
The Agreement on Reforming Research Assessment aims ‘ basing assessment primarily on qualitative judgement supported by responsible use of quantitative indicators’ .
The Barcelona Declaration on Open Research Information was drafted by a group of information experts .
The signatories of the declaration commit to take a lead in transforming how research information is used and produced.
It advocates that information for research evaluation should be ‘accessible and auditable by those being assessed ’.
Snowball Metrics is an initiative by research-intensive universities aiming to agree on methodologies of metrics to enable confident comparison.
Th is Forum is a platform consisting of UK HEIs to support the responsible use of research metrics in higher education institutions and across the research community in the UK.
This guide is released by DORA explaining the use of several indicators used in research assessment.
It is a toolkit to make researchers and evaluators to better understand and use citations, web metrics, and alternative metrics responsibly in the research assessment.
This guide ‘designed to help those who use SciVal to source and apply bibliometrics in academic institutions’ .
This guide aims to explain how to use Altmetric responsibly in research assessment by explaining its strengths and weaknesses.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/bibliometrics/narrative-cvs:
As part of efforts to improve research culture, many research organisations and funders are committed to reforming research assessment.
Part of this is no longer using journal-based metrics to evaluate publications and broadening the understanding of the outputs, skills and experiences that are valued in research.
Whilst different funders will use their own templates, a narrative CV is essentially a CV format in an application that prompts written descriptions of contributions and achievements that reflect a broad range of skills and experiences.
This is a change from metrics-based CVs that are primarily publication lists with employment and education history with little context.
UKRI , the parent organisation of the UK Research Councils, has defined four core modules of their narrative CV model and are piloting it in funds across the Councils.
Applications to UKRI funds that use the Resume for Research & Innovation (R4RI) CV model might be asked to demonstrate experience or skills relating to any of the modules or themes below.
Many of the organisations adopting this model are committed to not using journal-based metrics in assessment and the narrative CV style will not ask for publication lists.
Applicants may choose to include publications in their written responses, but you should focus on articulating the process and impact of the research.
Do not rely on journal names, Journal Impact Factors or other metrics like the h-index to indicate the quality of the research.
If the funder is a signatory of DORA , then the application guidance may prohibit including journal Impact Factors or their reviewers will be instructed to disregard them.
Funders including Swiss National Science Foundation and Luxembourg National Research Foundation have indicated that applicants will be able to include their ORCID for the panel to consult if they wish to.
Maintaining an updated ORCID is important for this.
Register for an ORCID and update it with your bio and works .
Imperial staff may particularly benefit from synchronising their ORCID with Symplectic - this will mean you can control the publications that appear in both Symplectic and ORCID with a single administration.
Always refer to the application guidance for the specific fund you are applying to.
The University of Glasgow has created a short (25 min) online course to support researchers making a narrative CV format application.
If you are a final year PhD student or a staff member applying for a fellowship you can also attend the Early Career Research Institute (ECRI) training workshop of Fellowship CVs and book a one-to-one session to have your application reviewed.
Attend a Using Publication Metrics Responsibly course where you will learn about the limitations of traditional metrics and how research organisations and funders are experimenting with new models research assessment.
ECRI students can book via Inkpath or all other staff are welcome to attend by emailing Yusuf Ozkan y.ozkan@imperial.ac.uk to register interest for the next session.
If English is not your first language you can also get the support of the Centre for Academic English.
Imperial is committed to a supportive, inclusive and ambitious research culture and you can find more about Imperial’s Research Strategy on the Research Culture Webpages .
The Imperial Open Research page will lead you to information on:
You might find useful information about research engagement with broader society at the Engagement and Enterprise teams.
As well as UKRI other funders that have already or are intending to adopt a narrative CV model include Alzheimer’s Research, British Heart Foundation, Cancer Research UK, Dutch Research Council, Health Research Board, Leverhulme Trust, Luxembourg National Research Fund, Medical Research Foundation, NIHR, Royal Academy of Engineering, Science Foundation Ireland, Swiss National Science Foundation, Wellcome and Wellcome Sanger Institute.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/bibliometrics/book-a-one-to-one:
The Bibliometrics Service offer one-to-one advice for staff and students.
These are informal meetings to discuss anything relating to bibliometrics and citations.
These appointments can also be used to help answer a specific question you may have regarding the way your research is evaluated or how you can use bibliometrics to demonstrate the value of your publications.
To request an appointment please fill out the form below or contact us at bibliometrics@imperial.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/scholarly-communication/training-and-events:
The Scholarly Communications Team host a number of training sessions, webinars, courses, events, games, and workshops throughout the year.
They are in a variety of formats and cover many topics within scholarly communications.
Here you will find information about upcoming events.
We aim to keep this page updated with the latest event at the top of the page for your convenience.
You can also find information about some past events that the team have hosted.
If you haven't found what you are looking for here please contact the relevant team members to request bespoke training sessions to meet your needs:
This Copyright for Researchers course aims to convey copyright essentials to Imperial PhD students.
It is focused on UK law only.
The structure of the course reflects your research lifecycle and aims to provide clarity on copyright issues you will encounter at each of the stages of the lifecycle.
This course will equip you with a working knowledge of copyright and licensing so that in your career as a researcher you use and can share information in a copyright safe way.
Duration: Approximately 3 hours Format: Self-paced online Blackboard course
On completion of this workshop you will be able to:
To self-enrol onto the course, please follow the instructions: Ensuring Integrity: Copyright (all academic years)
In this session we will explore your thesis being made open access in Spiral as required by Imperial, the exemptions available and the benefits of open access more generally.
This session is not for credit and will not count towards the attendance requirement.
To book your place please visit the following: Early Career Researcher Institute (ECRI): The Open Access Q&A
In this course, you will learn about the principles, practices and benefits of Open Research.
We will then focus on publishing methods, peer review systems and innovative open models.
We will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of the different models and the practical steps you need to take before posting a preprint or submitting to an open peer review journal.
We will discuss how you can use preprints responsibly and explore the future of Open Research.
After completing this workshop, you will be better able to:
Please register via the Early Career Researcher Institute (ECRI) Open Research: Preprints and Peer Review
Research publishing models are changing.
Authors are increasingly choosing to share preprints ahead of the sometimes-lengthy wait for journal publication and funders are responding with new preprint policies for immediate access to results.
There are also new types of peer review available that offer different levels of confidentiality and transparency to authors, reviewers and readers.
In this course you will learn about traditional publishing methods as well as these innovative new models.
We will discuss the benefits and disadvantages of the different models and all the practical steps that you need to consider before posting a preprint or submitting to an open, transparent or post-publication peer review journal.
This course is aimed at doctoral students but all staff and students are welcome to register.
Doctoral students can register through the ECRI: Preprints and Open Peer Review .
This workshop provides an insight into preparing your thesis to be made Open Access (OA) and the benefits of open access more generally.
This workshop will provide you with a general introduction to the topic, with specific reference to your PhD thesis, and related research outputs that may arise from PhD study.
You will be introduced to:
The course will cover Imperial's new Research Publications Open Access Policy, which allows authors at Imperial to make peer-reviewed journal articles and conference proceedings available on an open access basis without post-publication embargoes.
The course will also cover UKRI’s and other funder's open access policies.
Please note this course was previously named ‘Introduction to Making Your Thesis Open Access’
To book your place please visit Early Career researcher Institute (ECRI): Publishing Open Access: Your Research and Thesis .
For more information or any questions please email the Open Access team.
Research data is increasingly a first-class research output, and a little bit of planning will enable you to take advantage of this shift.
This course will highlight key considerations for managing research data to help you minimize the risk of data loss, maintain data reliability and accuracy, ensure that your data are findable, accessible, and reusable, and facilitate data sharing with colleagues and the wider research community.
Visit the Early Career Researcher Institute (ECRI): Research Data Management webpage to book your place.
For more information or any questions please email the Research Data Management Team .
Research data is a key research asset and planning how to manage data outputs is increasingly becoming a requirement of applying for grants and funding.
Having a data management plan will help you manage costs and responsibilities, keep your data safe and secure during the project and prepare your data for archiving and (where appropriate) sharing at the end of the project.
The webinar is designed to accompany the Early Career Researcher Institute (ECRI): Research Data Management workshop .
Prior attendance of that workshop is not mandatory but is recommended.
Visit the Early Career Researcher Institute (ECRI): Research Data Management Plans webpage to book your place.
Thursday 30 January 2025 10:00 - 11:30, MS Teams
Publishing research is a key step towards achieving impact within and beyond academia.
This course will explain how traditional publication metrics including the Journal Impact Factor and the h-index, and alternative publication metrics (altmetrics) are calculated and explore biases & weaknesses of each metric.
We will then discuss responsible use of publication metric initiatives and how organisations are adopting these for assessing research.
Lastly, the course will explore how these metrics relate to demonstrating your research impact
Please note that this course was previously called ‘Bibliometrics and demonstrating academic i mpact.'
Please register via the Early Career Researcher Institute (ECRI) Using Publication Metrics Responsibly .
The open access team offers one to one consultations on open access related topics.
You can book a one to one if you need support with open access and the REF, paying for open access from your Wellcome or RCUK grant, using Symplectic, options for open access, making your research open access, or require any other advice about open access publishing.
Pictured: Kim Blake (L), Open Access Assistant, provides a one-to-one to Alexandra Williams (R), Centre Support Manager, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering.
To be confirmed, MS Teams
Doctoral students can register through the Graduate School: Preprints and Open Peer Review .
Friday 17 May 2024 10:00 - 11:30, MS Teams
To book your place please visit Publishing Open Access: Your Research and Thesis .
Tuesday 07 May 2024 10:00 - 12:00, MS Teams
In recent years, new technology has enabled us to:
Visit the Graduate School: Research Data Management webpage to book your place.
For more information or any questions please email the Research Data Management team .
Tuesday 21 May 2024 10:00 - 11:30, MS Teams
The webinar is designed to accompany the Graduate School: Research Data Management workshop.
Visit the Graduate School: Research Data Management Plans webpage to book your place.
Tuesday 04 June 2024 10:00 - 11:30, MS Teams
Please register via the Graduate School Using Publication Metrics Responsibly .
In this session we will cover the basics of organising and managing research data that will help you now and in the future.
Whether you have created the data yourself or are reusing data from existing resources, making sure research data are well managed can help prevent data loss, ensure research transparency and reproducibility, and enable data sharing and reuse.
To book your place visit the Library Workshops page and see Introduction to research data management .
For more information or any questions please email the Research Data Management team .
This session will explore how your thesis can be made Open Access in Spiral as required by Imperial, the exemptions available and the benefits of Open Access more generally.
Please select a date and book on via Inkpath using your Imperial Single-Sign-On.
Members of the Open Access team delivered an overview and Q&A session on Open Access and the processes and policies at Imperial, for staff from the Research Impact Management Office.
To arrange a similar session for your team or department please contact us .
Thursday 28 November 2024, MS Teams
This training session aimed at researchers new to Imperial included an introduction to open research, and its principles, practices and benefits.
It situated research data management (RDM) and open access (OA) within the context of open research, and gave further details on RDM and OA policies and procedures, including data management plans, funder and institutional policies, information about depositing papers in Imperial’s repository Spiral, open access funding available at Imperial, and advice on using Symplectic Elements.
A similar session currently runs approximately twice a year.
Please email Ruth Hibbert if you would like to ask about future sessions, or receive a recording of the most recent session.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service:
Advice and courses on research design and methodology
We support researchers across Imperial who need statistical expertise for their research projects.
Our services help with the design, analysis, and interpretation of the statistical aspects of your project.
Our experience covers a diverse range of disciplines, including engineering, medicine, and social sciences.
We also provide statistical consulting services to public and commercial organisations.
The Statistical Advisory Service is available to help with advice, support and practical help in carrying out research, writing grant applications and providing specialised research training.
We offer short courses in statistics and statistical software for STATA, R, SPSS and MATLAB.
Explore here
- Grant applications and Power Calculations - Data analysis and model building - Study and questionnaire Design - One-to-one Tutoring for statistical software
Book a consultation
A quick guide to help you prepare your data before the main analysis work.
Follow the guidleine to format your data correctly.
Follow here
For general queries contact stathelp@imperial.ac.uk / +44 (0)20 7594 1754

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/about:
The Statistical Advisory Service is part of the Faculty of Medicine and resides in the School Of Public Health.
The primary goal of The Statistical Advisory Service is to help staff and postgraduate students of Imperial College with their research.
The unit also provides statistical help to public bodies and private companies on a commercial basis.
To contact us for statistical advice, please complete the and ‘SUBMIT’ (for PC users) or send by e-mail to stathelp@imperial.ac.uk .
Most consultations take up to 8 weeks for first meeting.
The consultation is approximately one hour.
The remit of SAS is wide - for example: offering help with statistics, methodology, and grant applications.
We also provide Short Courses in statistics and statistical software.
The service is part of Imperial College London, ensuring that clients can take advantage of the staff's research expertise.
The service provided can be paid for on an hourly, or daily, basis.
If you are planning a project requiring extensive data analysis or continuing support, you need to request funds for statistical assistance in your research budget (SAS is included on InfoEd as a FEC charged-out facility).
Send email
Send email +44 (0)20 7594 1754
Send email 020 7594 1754

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/about/josepheliahoo:
Department: Statistical Advisory Service, Imperial College London
Position: SAS Manager and Statistical Consultant
Email: j.eliahoo@imperial.ac.uk
Research: Medical statistics, Primary care Epidemiology, Clinical Trials.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/about/krupashukla:
Position: SAS Course Tutor and Unit Coordinator
Email: k.shukla@imperial.ac.uk
Subject area: Medical statistics
Skills: R, MATLAB
Krupa Shukla holds a Master of Science (MSc) in Statistics and an undergraduate degree in Education (BEd).
She has several years of corporate experience in sectors including software development and ICT training.
She has been working as an R and MATLAB tutor at Statistical Advisory Service unit, Imperial College London since September 2018, and also assists the statistician consultant for a range of research projects.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses:
Our training courses are designed for those who need to perform data or statistical analysis using various statistical software.
All our courses are hands-on computer based courses.
They range from introductory to the more advanced and specialised.
Some knowledge of the Windows environment is assumed.
The courses are aimed at participants from any subject area.
We offer Early Bird Rate for the courses.
A special 10% discounted rate for those who book early (up to 2 weeks before the session runs).
Please visit the individual course page for course content and dates.
For course content queries, please contact the relevant course tutor.
For  group/block bookings, charity pricing and course queries, please contact stathelp@imperial.ac.uk .
Please refer to our Cancellation Policy .
There are also courses for statisticians and users of statistics provided by the Royal Statistical Society .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses/stata-courses:
Stata is an interacti ve data management and statistical analysis program, which has become very popular among researchers in most disciplines.
Stata is a user-friendly statistical tools with internet capabilities.
The software provides a broad range of easy to use menu-driven statistical functions.
We currently run 5 different STATA courses:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses/stata-courses/intro-to-stata:
Stata is an interactive data management and statistical analysis program, which has become very popular among researchers in most disciplines.
The programme provides a broad range of statistics.
It is very user-friendly and also has internet capabilities.
This is a 1 day practical workshop, firstly familiarising participants with Stata, and progressing from data entry and presentation, to 1 and 2 sample tests, one-way ANOVA and simple linear regression.
Course Tutor: Joseph Eliahoo
This course has been approved by the Royal College of Physicians for 6 CPD credits .
Early Bird rate is available for up to 2 weeks before the session runs.
For group/block bookings, charity pricing and course queries, please contact stathelp@imperial.ac.uk .
* Please refer to Cancellation Policy before registering
Please CLICK HERE to be redirected to the registration forms and booking links.
Participants may indicate in-class or Online participation.
If Delivery mode is ONLINE ONLY, this will be confirmed 3 weeks prior to the course date.
Final details will be sent a week prior to the course date.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses/stata-courses/data-stata:
This is a 2 day PC based workshop which will go through basic statistical methods with further emphasis on data management.
Firstly familiarising participants with STATA, and progressing from data entry and presentation, to one and two sample tests, one-way ANOVA and simple linear regression.
This course has been approved by the Royal College of Physicians for 12 CPD credits .
Early Bird rate i s available for up to 2 weeks before the session runs.
Click here for Cancellation Policy

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses/stata-courses/stata-model:
Course Tutor: Joseph Eliahoo
Course Outline:
This one day course following on from the Introduction to Statistics Using Stata and Data Management & Statistical Analysis Using Stata courses presents more advanced statistical techniques.
Entry requirements: Have attended the Introduction to Statistics using STATA course or the Data Management and Statistical Analysis using STATA course.
Otherwise, at least some familiarity with statistics and the Stata software.
This course can also be attended jointly with the Logistic Regression and Meta-analysis using STATA course at a discounted price.
This course has been approved by the Royal College of Physicians for 6 CPD credits .
Early-bird is available for up to 2 weeks before the session runs.
Statistical Modelling and Logistic Regression using STATA
Joint registration Statistical Modelling and Logistic Regression using STATA
If delivery mode is ONLINE ONLY, this will be confirmed 3 weeks prior to the course date.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses/stata-courses/logistic-stata:
This is a 1 day course following on from the Introduction to Statistics Using Stata and Data Management & Statistical Analysis Using Stata courses.
This course presents more advanced statistical techniques such as Logistic regression, Diagnostic tests and ROC curves.
It also provides an introduction to Survival Analysis and Cox proportional hazards regression.
Entry requirements: You should have attended the Introduction to Statistics using STATA course or the Data Management and Statistical Analysis using STATA course.
Otherwise, you should have at least some familiarity with statistics and the Stata software.
You should also have attended the Statistical Modelling Using Stata (Continuous Outcomes) course.
* Please refer Cancellation Policy before registering

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses/stata-courses/system-stata:
This is a 1 day course following on from the Introduction to Statistics Using Stata, Data Management & Statistical Analysis Using Stata, Statistical Modelling Using Stata (Continuous Outcomes) and Logistic Regression & Survival Analysis Using Stata courses.
This course goes through the process of a systematic review and presents more advanced techniques such as fixed and random-effects meta-analysis.
It also provides explanations of various plots that are presented as well as introducing meta-regression.
Preferably you should have also attended the Statistical Modelling using STATA (Continuous Outcomes) course and the Logistic Regression and Survival Analysis using STATA course.
Contact us on stathelp@imperial.ac.uk for any queries

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses/r-courses:
R is a free software environment for statistical computing and graphics.
It compiles and runs on a wide variety of UNIX platforms, Windows and MacOS.
R is mainly command driven.
A programming language designed for statistical analysis and this gives it great flexibility.
The R language allows the user, for instance, to program a series of commands to pre-process and manipulate data and then analyse that data before tailoring, presenting and plotting the results.
It allows the user to program “loops” to successively repeat the same analysis on different variables or data sets.
We currently run the following courses in R:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses/r-courses/r-intro:
A one-day command based course, not related to any specific area of research.
This program will go through the basics in R including types of objects, subsetting from data and data input and output methods.
For an extended Introductory R course, we offer a two-days course Foundations in R : Firstly introducing participants to the basics of R, prior to progressing to the use of widely popular tidyverse package for data management and manipulation and data visualisation using ggplot2 package.
For a more in depth course on programming explore: Introduction to Programming using R .
Course Tutor: Krupa Shukla
Entry requirements: No experience or previous knowledge to R is required to attend this course.
Wednesday 01 October 2025
Wednesday 06 May 2026 - ONLINE
Exact details will be sent a week prior to the course date.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses/r-courses/r-prog:
The purpose of this course is to learn how to build a program from scratch: issues to be considered before writing a code and basic steps a programmer should follow to successfully find a solution.
We will first present an overview of R tools focusing on those that will be more useful when programming.
We will show some techniques that can be used in several situations.
Entry Requirements: Some familiarity with R is required to attend this course.
Alternatively, you should have attended Introduction to R or Foundations in R course.
EARLY BIRD RATE
£297.00: Imperial College only.
£414.00: External rate.
STANDARD RATE
£330.00: Imperial College only.
£460.00: External rate
The course will run face-to-face with an option to join via Microsoft Teams.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses/r-courses/foundations-in-r:
R packages are pre-written code to find a solution to problem.
R packages shared by other R users allows the user to find efficient solution to problem with ease.
Not related to any specific area of research, this two-days command-based workshop will go through basics of R with further emphasis on data management and manipulation.
Firstly introducing participants with R, a command-driven language for statistical analysis, then progressing from data entry to data management and manipulation using the widely popular “tidyverse” package, finally, visualisation of data using the ggplot2 package.
No experience or previous knowledge to R is required to attend this course.
For a more in depth course on programming explore: Introduction to Programming using R
This course has been approved by the Royal College of Physicians for 12 CPD credits .
Imperial College Students : £400 (Early-bird fees: £360)
External Students : £520 (Early-bird fees: £468)
Imperial College Staff : £680 (Early-bird fees: £612)
External Fees : £920 (Early-bird fees: £828)
The course may be switched to online in unforeseen circumstances.
This will be confirmed 3 weeks before the course date.
Class joining details will be sent a week prior to the course date.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses/r-courses/intro-to-stats-r:
Not related to any specific area of research.
This is a 1 day practical PC-based workshop, covering graphs and summaries, descriptive statistics then progressing to 1 and 2 sample tests, one-way ANOVA and simple linear regression.
Entry requirements: Participants from any background can attend the course.
Some familiarity with R is required to attend this course.
This course has been approved by the Royal College of Physicians for 6 CPD credits .
The course may be switched to Online ONLY in unforeseen circumstances.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses/r-courses/statistical-modelling-using-r:
Following on from the Introduction to Statistics using R course, this two-days PC based workshop will go through advanced statistical modelling and regression methods for continuous and categorical outcomes.
CPD Credits: 12 CPD Credits approved by The Royal College of Physicians
Entry Requirements: Participants from any background can attend the course.
Some familiarity with R and statistics is required to attend this course.
Alternatively, you should have attended Introduction to R or Foundations in R and Introduction to Statistics using R course.
E arly Bird rate is available for up to 2 weeks before the session runs.
External : £920 (Early-bird fees: £828

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses/spss-courses:
The training courses outlined below are designed for those who need to perform data or statistical analysis using SPSS for Windows.
These are hands-on computer based courses.
Examples are taken from medical and health related research but are not of a specialised nature.
These sessions are aimed at participants from any subject area.
We currently run 4 different SPSS courses:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses/spss-courses/intro-to-spss:
A 1 day practical PC-based workshop, firstly familiarising participants with SPSS, and progressing from data entry and presentation, to 1 and 2 sample tests, one-way ANOVA and simple linear regression.
We also offer an on-line course based on the Introduction to Statistics Using SPSS and Data Management & Statistical Analysis Using SPSS courses: On-Line Course For Introductory Statistics Using SPSS .
The courses will be run online via Microsoft Teams from 9:30am to 4:30pm on the dates mentioned.
Exact details will be sent a week before the course date.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses/spss-courses/data-spss:
A two-days practical PC-based workshop which will go through basic statistical methods with further emphasis on data management.
Firstly familiarising participants with SPSS, and progressing from data entry and presentation, to one and two sample tests, one-way ANOVA and simple linear regression.
Course Tutor: Joseph Eliahoo.
Details will be sent a week before the course date.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses/spss-courses/stat-mod-spss:
A two-days practical PC-based workshop, following on from the introduction, presenting more advanced statistical techniques such as ANOVA, ANCOVA, Multiple Regression, Logistic Regression, ROC Curves and Survival analysis.
The main focus is on the statistical method: choosing the one that is appropriate for your data followed by the model specification and interpretation of the results.
This course has been approved by the Royal College of Physicians for 12 CPD credits.
Entry requirements: S ome familiarity with statistics and SPSS, to at least the level of Introduction to Statistics using SPSS or Data Management and Statistical Analysis using SPSS .
Two-way Analysis of Variance (Two-way ANOVA)
- interpreting interactions
Multiple linear regression
- including stepwise selection methods and regression diagnostics
Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA)
Logistic regression
- Odds ratios, Likelihood ratio test, Hosmer-Lemeshow test, Diagnostic tests and ROC curves
Survival analysis
- Life tables, Kaplan-Meier survival graphs, Log-rank test and Tarone-Ware test, Cox proportional hazards regression and Diagnostics for proportional hazards

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses/spss-courses/on-line-spss:
This VLE course is based on our Introduction to Statistics Using SPSS and Data Management & Statistical Analysis Using SPSS courses.
Please note that you do not need to have attended the Introduction course in order to access the on-line course.
You also need no prior SPSS experience.
The existing Introduction course materials were revised and extended to include different subject areas.
The walkthroughs show how to do certain tasks in SPSS software.
The walkthroughs can be followed while going through the theory.
There are 37 guided walkthroughs.
The resource includes 76 exercises at different levels of complexity.
Subject areas include agriculture, automotive, biology, education, environment and health science.
Most of the exercises have a self assessment quiz.
Please note that you will require your own SPSS software to be able to take the course.
The students are enrolled to the VLE where you will have one-month unlimited access to all materials plus Tutor support.
Any queries can be posted at any time in the Discussion section in which the Tutor or any fellow student can respond.
Alternatively, a private message can be posted to the Tutor (Mail section in Blackboard VLE).
£280 : Imperial College only
£440 : External rate
* Previous SPSS course participants are eligible for discounted rate for registration.
Please get in touch at stathelp@imperial.ac.uk
Please CLICK HERE to register to the course.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses/matlab-courses:
MATLAB ( Mat rix Lab oratory) is a multi-paradigm numerical computing environment and fourth-generation programming language.
Developed by MathWorks, MATLAB allows matrix manipulations, plotting of functions and data, implementation of algorithms, creation of user interfaces.
MatLab also offers environment to interface with programs written in other languages, including C, C++, Java, Fortran and Python.
We currently run 2 MATLAB courses:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses/matlab-courses/matlab-intro:
This is a practical PC-based workshop runs twice a year.
For those wishing to learn a friendly, versatile and interactive software system.
The use of a matrix as a basic element makes computing in Matlab very efficient.
This course will introduce you to some of the many useful Matlab features, focusing on the one's which are most useful for programming before moving on to the more in-depth course on Introduction to Programming Using Matlab .
There are plenty of examples, but they are not of a specialized nature.
This course is aimed at first-time users.
Early Bird rate is available for up to 4 weeks before the session runs.
Contact us on stathelp@imperial.ac.uk for any queries.
This course will be delivered via Microsoft Teams.
Details will be sent a week prior to the course date.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses/matlab-courses/matlab-prog:
This is a practical PC-based course, introducing the principal building blocks used in Matlab programs and gets you started on programming.
It is not orientated to any specific area of research.
This course focuses on a “back to basics” approach to teach how to program in a procedural manner, thus making programming accessible to anyone.
Entry requirements: Some knowledge of Matlab is essential.
Previous exposure to programming would be beneficial or should have attended Introduction to Matlab .
Details will be sent a week prior to the course date

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/courses/course-changecancellation-policy:
Please note that we may change the delivery mode for some courses.
Participants will be notified 3 weeks prior to the course date about any changes in mode of delivery.
It is recommended that participants do not book travel and accommodation until 3 weeks prior to the course date.
The Statistical Advisory Service will not be liable for any losses (including travel and accommodation costs) as a result of change.
Please note that some courses may be cancelled or postponed.
We reserve the right to:
For cancelled courses, the participants will be given at least one week’s notice with an option of transferring to the next course date or having a full refund of the fees.
The Statistical Advisory Service will not be liable for any losses (including travel and accommodation costs) as a result of cancellation of courses.
To cancel your place on the course, you should notify the Statistical Advisory Service as soon as possible by emailing stathelp@imperial.ac.uk .
All cancellations must be received in writing.
All refunds will be subject to an administration fee.
Refunds shall be processed as soon as possible and may take up to 2 weeks for monies to be transferred.
Any refunds shall be credited to the original method of payment.
For original payment via invoices, a credit Memo will be raised and sent to the company .
There will be no refund of course fees for non-attendance without prior written notification.
There will be no refund of course fees once the course files have been shared with the participants.
There will no refunds of the course fees once the participants have started the Online (VLE) course.
The following charges will apply for any cancellations:
Any requests for transfer to the next session must be received in writing.
The following charges will apply for transfers:
# Revised August 2023

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/consult:
Our one-to-one consultations provide tailored statistical guidance to support your research.
Whether you need advice on study design, data analysis, or interpreting results, our experienced statisticians are here to help you ensure the success of your project.
To request statistical advice,
Please note: Incomplete forms or incorrect information will delay processing.
We strongly recommend seeking statistical support during the early stages of your project, ideally during the planning phase.
This ensures that your study is properly designed, and that the cost of statistical advice can be factored into any grant applications.
Timely consultations help prevent common design or analysis issues later in your project.
PhD students are advised to attend their first consultation with their supervisors to ensure alignment of expectations and project objectives.
During the consultation, our expert statisticians can assist with:
Please note, our consultations are focused on providing statistical advice.
If your analysis requires advanced methodologies, we recommend pursuing additional training in statistics.
The SAS offers a range of training courses to develop your skills, from introductory to advanced levels.
To make the most of your consultation, please ensure you bring the following:
Your initial consultation will typically last one hour.
This meeting provides an opportunity to discuss your project in depth and outline your statistical challenges.
Please note that we do not offer statistical advice over the phone, and data should not be sent via email in place of a consultation.
To ensure we have adequate time to provide thorough support, please book your consultation well in advance of any project deadlines.
Discuss your timeline with the consultant during the meeting to plan accordingly.
We offer flexible payment options based on the level of support you require.
Services can be charged on an hourly or daily basis, depending on the scope of your project.
Payment Options:
For more information on pricing and available packages, please contact us at stathelp@imperial.ac.uk or discuss payment options during your consultation.
For more details on co-authorship and proper recognition of contributions, please refer to our Statistician's Contribution page.
For further specialized support, please refer to the following contacts based on the stage and nature of your project:
For projects at the Design Stage : Contact the NIHR Research Support Service (RSS) for expert advice and guidance on study design.
For Clinical Trials Projects (Design Stage) : Contact Dr Claire Smit h at the Imperial Clinical Trials Unit for assistance with the design and planning of clinical trials.
For further inquiries, please contact us at stathelp@imperial.ac.uk .
We look forward to assisting you in your research journey.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/consult/data-prep:
To ensure a smooth and efficient consultation, it’s important to provide your data in a format that allows for quick and accurate analysis.
Properly prepared data saves time and helps us focus on delivering high-quality statistical support.
Follow the guidelines below to format your data correctly before your consultation.
Rows and columns :
Variable names :
One value per cell :
Text values :
Handling missing data :
Providing data in the correct format helps us analyze it efficiently and reduces additional work required to reformat or clean the dataset.
Time spent reorganizing data may increase consultation costs.
By following these guidelines, you help us focus on the core statistical analysis, saving you both time and resources.
For further questions or clarification on data preparation, please contact us at stathelp@imperial.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/stats-advice-service/consult/statisticians-contribution:
Collaboration with a statistician often plays a critical role in the success of your research.
If the statistician has made a substantial intellectual or scientific contribution to your project, appropriate recognition through co-authorship on resulting publications is expected.
Co-authorship guidelines:
Plagiarism and intellectual Integrity:
Failing to acknowledge the intellectual contributions of others, including statisticians, is a form of plagiarism.
According to the World Association of Medical Editors (WAME), plagiarism is defined as:
Plagiarism is considered scientific misconduct and must be addressed accordingly.
Always ensure that contributions from all collaborators, including statisticians, are properly recognized to maintain the integrity of your work.
For more information on recognising statistician's  contribution, please contact us at stathelp@imperial.ac.uk or discuss the recognition of our work during your consultation.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office:
Organised into specialist teams, JRO staff facilitate the management of research grants, contracts and EU projects in the Faculty of Medicine, and clinical studies in Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust.
If you are a new starter in the College, we can help you prepare grant applications and requests for research-related contracts, with guidance on costings, submission procedures, preferred terms and in-kind contributions.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/about-us:
The Joint Research Office was set up in 2009 by combining the Research Services team in the Faculty of Medicine with the R&D support team in Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust (ICHT) under one umbrella to offer a comprehensive research support service for both College and Trust staff.
In 2011 the specialist grants and contracts functions were formed into customer-facing teams.
The JRO consists of satellite offices across the campuses delivering a range of support services to all researchers across the Trust and College to facilitate:
The JRO has a responsibility to stakeholders to facilitate world-class research within the Trust and College.
The JRO works within AHSC-wide research policies to implement this responsibility.
Route maps and step-by-step descriptions of what we do
Contact details for our staff and teams

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/about-us/processes:
See below for details of processes in the Joint Research Office.
The Joint Research Office has compiled a draft JRO process map (pdf) to show how we manage applications for grants and requests for agreements related to research projects.
The map is split into three sections and is supported by links to further information on the JRO website:
To comply with the College Ethics Code, Faculty Approval requires that a Relationship Review be carried out to assess ethical issues and any reputational risk to the College before approval is given to research proposals.
When conducting a relationship review, Faculty Research Services check organisations have a mission or strategy which is consistent with the College’s.
Where more than one organisation is involved (eg collaborative partners and sub-contractors) the reputational risk of each should be considered.
The JRO Contracts teams carry out a relationship review of any organisation new to the College.
Reputational risk due diligence process map (pdf)
Relationship Review FORM (Word)
Relationship Review summary (Word) ‌
Ethics Code RS Operational Guidelines (Word) - Oct 2019
Trace the route taken by applications through pre-award costing and submission, to post-award administration.
Five-day rule and more
The Contracts teams deal with many types of research-related agreements, funded and non-funded, on behalf of the College and ICH NHS Trust.
The process of negotiation

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/about-us/jro-contacts:
Cost centres: WBCN, WBDT, WBID, WBNN, WBPP,& WBZA.
Individuals cover all cost centres unless indicated.
Grants Manager Radmir Selmani r.selmani@imperial.ac.uk
Proposal Coordinator Breon De Soyza b.de-soyza@imperial.ac.uk
Proposal Officer Philip Bagnall p.bagnall@imperial.ac.uk
Cost centres: WCIA, WCMA Individuals cover all cost centres unless indicated.
Proposal Coordinator Carmen Ungureanu c.ungureanu@imperial.ac.uk
Proposal Officer Mumine Kizilkaya m.kizilkaya@imperial.ac.uk
Grants Officer Debbie Fitton d.fitton@imperial.ac.uk
Cost centres: WDAI, WDII, WDMM, WDPI, WDSS, WDVC, WDVM Individuals cover all cost centres unless indicated.
Proposal Coordinator Ebrima Trawally e.trawally@imperial.ac.uk
Grants Coordinator David Farrell WDAI, WDII, WDVC, & WDVM d.farrell@imperial.ac.uk Akposeba Mukoro WDMM, WDPI, & WDSS a.mukoro@imperial.ac.uk
Contracts Negotiator Position vacant
Proposal Officer Hasina Gibbs h.gibbs@imperial.ac.uk
Cost centres: WHCC, WHCF, WHCM, WHCP, WHCS, WHCV, WHRD, WHRG, WHRL, WHRR, WHZZ Individuals cover all cost centres unless indicated.
Grants Coordinator David Farrell WHCM, WHCV, & WHCS d.farrell@imperial.ac.uk
Tracey Bernard-Small WHRD, WHRG, WHRL, WHRR, WHZZ t.s.bernard@imperial.ac.uk
Akposeba Mukoro WHCC, WHCF, & WHCP a.mukoro@imperial.ac.uk
Contracts Negotiator Position Vacant
Grants Officers Craig Tharpe WHRG, WHRL, WHRR, & WHZZ c.tharpe@imperial.ac.uk
Teena Sivanandan WHCC, WHCF, WHCP, & WHRD t.sivanandan@imperial.ac.uk
Serena Sobotie WHCM, WHCS & WHCV s.sobotie@imperial.ac.uk
Cost centres: WIIH, WIII, WIIS Individuals cover all cost centres unless indicated.
Grants Coordinator Debbie Tucker WIIH d.tucker@imperial.ac.uk
Danielle Lowther WIII & WIIS d.l.lowther@imperial.ac.uk
Proposal Officers Mumine Kizilkaya m.kizilkaya@imperial.ac.uk
Grants Officer Eimear O' Rourke WIIH e.o-rourke@imperial.ac.uk Tanya Montrose WIII & WIIS t.montrose@imperial.ac.uk
Cost centres: WPAA, WPCA, WPEA, WPER, WPGI, WPIA, WPPA Individuals cover all cost centres unless indicated.
Contracts Manager Contracts Manager Dimitra Chormova d.chormova@imperial.ac.uk WPIA - Infectious Disease Epidemiology
Contracts Manager Reena Sharma reena.sharma1@imperial.ac.uk All apart from WPIA
Proposal Coordinator Grace Roberson WPAA, WPEA, WPER, WPGI g.roberson@imperial.ac.uk
Proposal Coordinator Ebrima Trawally WPCA, WPIA, WPPA e.trawally@imperial.ac.uk
Grant Coordinator Lara Adeyinka WPAA, WPCA, WPEA, WPER, & WPGI o.adeyinka@imperial.ac.uk Aisha Begum WPIA a.begum@imperial.ac.uk Huma Hussain WPPA huma.hussain@imperial.ac.uk
Contracts Negotiator Position Vacant (Works with Dimitra) Jesse Mpolesha (Works with Reena) j.mpolesha@imperial.ac.uk
Proposal Officer Farishta Yousuf WPAA, WPEA, WPER, WPGI f.yousuf@imperial.ac.uk Hasina Gibbs WPCA, WPIA, WPPA h.gibbs@imperial.ac.uk
WPAA, WPCA, WPEA, WPER, & WPGI t.qaiyum@imperial.ac.uk
Gaston Tshiota WPIA g.tshiota@imperial.ac.uk Deborah Fitton WPPA d.fitton@imperial.ac.uk
Cost centres: WRDH, WRDN, WRDP, WREC, WREE, WREM, WRIB, WROC, WROG Individuals cover all cost centres unless indicated.
WRDH, WRDP, WROC, WROG, WROP, WRZA,  WRIB
Proposal Coordinator Grace Roberson g.roberson@imperial.ac.uk
Grants Coordinator
Huma Hussain huma.hussain@imperial.ac.uk WRDH, WREC, WREE, WREM, WROC, WROG Aisha Begum a.begum@imperial.ac.uk WRDN, WRDP, WRIB
Contracts Negotiators Jesse Mpolesha (Works with Reena) j.mpolesha@imperial.ac.uk
Proposal Officers Farishta Yousuf f.yousuf@imperial.ac.uk
Grants Officer Debbie Fitton d.fitton@imperial.ac.uk WRDH Dilshan Senanayake WREC, WREE, WREM, WRIB, WROC, & WROG d.senanayake@imperial.ac.uk Gaston Tshiota WRDN & WRDP g.tshiota@imperial.ac.uk
Cost centres: WSAA, WSCA, WSCC, WSGG, WSGN, WSGO, WSGP, WSGX, WSSC, WSST, WSSU, WSSV, WSSY, WSSO Individuals cover all cost centres unless indicated.
Grants Coordinators Danielle Lowther WSAA, WSCA, & WSCC d.l.lowther@imperial.ac.uk
Emily Hue WSGG, WSGN, WSGO, WSGP, WSGX, WSSC, WSST, WSSU, WSSV, WSSY, WSSO e.hue@imperial.ac.uk
Grants Officers Tanya Montrose WSAA, WSCA, & WSCC t.montrose@imperial.ac.uk Ayse Kizilkaya WSGG, WSGN, WSGO, WSGP, WSGX, WSSC, WSST, WSSU, WSSV, WSSY, WSSO a.kizilkaya@imperial.ac.uk
This fixed-term team supports the post-award teams (see above) with closing accounts and account reviews:
Research Grants Coordinator Marc Craw marc.craw@imperial.ac.uk
Research Grants Coordinator (part-time) Bal Singh b.singh@imperial.ac.uk
Research Grants Officer Sofia Goole s.goole@imperial.ac.uk
Dan Nicholls Technical Support Coordinator dan.nicholls@imperial.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/grants:
The JRO provides management support for research projects funded through the College, working closely with numerous departments across the Faculty of Medicine and external parties.
Most operational management for research projects within the Faculty of Medicine is performed by the grants teams .
The JRO process map (pdf) outlines the main steps taken in dealing with grants applications.
The three main stages are:
Due to the volume of applications we ask that academics submit applications five working days prior to the funding deadline, to allow the JRO to check applications thoroughly.
Benefits of five-day-rule
The EU grants team handles EU matters for the Faculty of Medicine, and can help with costing applications and completing timesheets.
More on EU

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/grants/preaward:
Refer to the guidance pages provided by the Research Office whenever preparing and costing proposals using Worktribe.
The Joint Research Office offers support throughout the application process.
Use the links to the right or those below to find guidance in the following areas:
Always alert us to a new proposal at the earliest opportunity.
Information on creating a proposal in Worktribe and notifying JRO Pre-award to start working with a bid liaison.
Read more on Initiating a proposal
Guidance on costing and pricing a proposal within the Faculty of Medicine.
Read more on costing and pricing a proposal
Guidance on submitting a proposal into Worktribe for approval, the five-day rule and approval processes.
Read more on review, approval and authorisation

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/grants/preaward/initiate-a-proposal:
All proposals for external research funding are developed on and internally approved using the Worktribe system.
Proposals are prepared and costed by trained Superusers within the Departments.
The Joint Research Office Pre-award team supports all Faculty of Medicine research proposal submissions with expert advice and support on costing and funder terms and conditions.
Proposals must be submitted on Worktribe for financial assessment and authorisation by the Joint Research Office prior to submission to a funder.
The Research Office pages provide comprehensive guidance on preparing and costing a proposal.
When preparing a research proposal within the Faculty of Medicine please follow the steps below.
Applicants will need to make sure that the project is eligible for research funding.
You will need to:
Due to the volume of applications received and the number of considerations required to ensure the best quality applications are submitted to the funders, we ask all academics to liaise with their section administration as early as possible, and in line with their Departmental timescales, to start to build up their application and costing on Worktribe.
There are a number of deadlines you need to be aware of including:
These are in place to allow sufficient time for JRO Pre-award to conduct their financial assessment and raise any queries, for Departments to be able to respond to those queries, and time for any budget amendments required to be made and re-approved by all parties, where necessary.
An application budget should be submitted into Worktribe workflow and reach JRO Pre-award for financial assessment a minimum of five working days prior to the funder deadline.
We recommend that academics plan to submit applications that require institutional approval via a funding portal 48 hours prior to the funding deadline.
As soon as Departments are aware of a proposal in development a Worktribe record for the application should be created.
This includes any instances where JRO Pre-award support is required prior to budget creation, for example, an Expression of Interest requiring institutional authorisation.
You'll need to include some initial information to create the record.
Worktribe has mandatory fields required to create a new Project record on Worktribe: Project Title, Project Dates, Project Type, Project Activity Type, Funder, Project Lead (PI) and Lead Org Unit (Section) .
In addition you will need to populate the following fields so that the Faculty can identify the proposal:
JRO Pre-Award use Worktribe dashboard searches to identify any Faculty of Medicine bids that have reached JRO approval stage, and any bids with a funder deadline set within a specified date range, normally within 21 days.
After creation of the Worktribe record, Departments should notify JRO Pre-award of the proposal.
The minimum detail required is a link to the Worktribe record and the Worktribe fields required for initial setup.
The Faculty Proposal Development Tracker has an email template that captures the relevant data from Worktribe to be included in the email to the Pre-award central mailbox.
Upon receipt of the above information, the bid will be assigned to relevant member of the JRO Pre award team, using the Pre-award Liaison field within the Worktribe record.
At notification stage the Pre-award liaison will review the funding opportunity to confirm that it meets the Imperial's requirements for the classification of research, and identify any key funder terms and conditions for the funding call.
If the funder's terms and conditions lie outside the Imperial's preferred terms, the application is sent to JRO Contracts for review; applications which fall within preferred terms continue to the Department for costing.
Your Pre-award liaison can offer operational support and expert advice and guidance on Pre-Award processes and funder terms and conditions.
Conversations should commence between the PI, section administration and JRO Pre-award at the earliest possible stage to ensure the necessary due diligence, governance and compliance has been considered in line with the funders' call conditions and university policies prior to the final submission to the funder.
Any proposal submitted into Workflow for review without prior notification will be assigned a Pre-award liaison at bid approval stage and will be reviewed based on the information provided in the Worktribe.
This ensures that all proposals submitted into Workflow are reviewed once received.
Please note that additional time may be required by JRO Pre-award to conduct initial background checks on the funder terms and conditions, particularly for new funders or unique funding opportunities.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/grants/preaward/develop-cost-and-price-a-proposal:
All Research Projects at the College are required to be costed using the Full Economic Cost methodology.
Departments can contact their JRO pre-award liaison for expert advice and support on specific queries related to the bid.
Detailed guidance on preparing and costing a proposal can be found on the Research Office pages:
All proposals for external research funding are costed and priced on Worktribe using university-agreed funder scheme templates.
For more information on pricing, go to Imperial's Pricing Policy.
For the Faculty's pricing methodology for industrial-funded awards, speak to JRO Pre-award for details on the FoM Pricing Policy for Industry Funded Research.
All clinical research involving NHS sites, staff, patients or NHS data must be reviewed and assessed for costs by the relevant NHS Trust involved in the study.
When preparing a clinical study please consider the following questions:
If the answer to any of the above questions is Yes this requires an authorised costing from the NHS Trusts that you are working with.
ICHT consists of the following hospitals: Charing Cross, Hammersmith, Queen Charlotte & Chelsea, St Mary’s and Western Eye Hospital.
Trust costs must be obtained from the ICH Trust Team using their Non-commercial costing tool for all applications.
Please email imperial.admin_trustresearchcontracts@nhs.net to obtain this as early as possible in your application process.
The title of your email should include Non-commercial costing request and the P-code of the proposal.
Once the non-commercial costing has been created by one of the ICH Trust Team, it will be approved by the relevant Divisional Research Manager (DRM) for each clinical division and returned to the requestor.
All Imperial College London-sponsored studies funded by a non-commercial organisation with NHS Trust costs will require a SoECAT (Schedule of Events Cost Attribution Template), if:
Some funders, namely research councils, require the completion of the SoECAT even if there are no NHS costs in the application.
Authorisation is required from an AcoRD specialist in section 12 of the Study Information on page 1 of the SoECAT.
The internal process for the SoECAT in the Faculty of Medicine can be found by clicking on the SoECAT Process Map.pdf (212KB) .
Please allow 20 days review time for approval and sign off by an AcoRD specialist.
Please be aware that the SoECAT is not a costing tool and the relevant NHS costs still need to be obtained from any NHS trusts involved in the study.
Costs to be included in the proposal must be taken from the ICHT non-commercial costing template.
Where there is use of NHS resources, the applicant should complete as much of the "Study Information" on page 1 before seeking advice from the Trust team at imperial.admin_trustresearchcontracts@nhs.net
Internal Review SoECAT Process .
Before RBHT authorise SoECATs as single site and where ICL are Sponsor, RBHT require confirmation that the Sponsor has been involved in the completion process as per national guidance:
Funder guidance is available on completion of SoECATs on the NIHR SoECAT Guidance pages and on the IRAS guidance pages.
MRC and Wellcome Trust are the other main funders that require SoECATs for clinical research.
However, the list of funders can be expanded to include any of the Association of Medical Research Charities (AMRC) members (such as Alzheimer's Research UK, Alzheimer's Society and British Heart Foundation, Cancer Research UK).
To check if the medical charity you are applying to is a member p lease c heck the AMRC funder directory.
The Worktribe costing created by the PI/Dept must show each of the NHS Trust costs.
In most cases NHS costs are categorised under Professional Fees and subsequently set up under 162132 or 162137 on ICIS dependent on whether VAT should be included in their costs.
For further information please refer to the Research Office guidance on Research Partners vs Professional Fees .
A detailed breakdown of Trust costs must be attached to Worktribe for record, along with a completed SoECAT.
Further guidance and Training for SoECATs can be found on the JRO webpag e
Central Biomedical Services (CBS) provides and operates animal research facilities for the biomedical research community working to 'leading practice' guidelines, recognising that good laboratory animal welfare is an essential component of good laboratory animal technology and science.
The multi-campus CBS facilities can accommodate a variety of species at various levels of discipline, including a full barrier unit, containment level 3 suites and quarantine facilities.
Skilled and dedicated members of staff are able to provide professional help and advice.
Before commencing work within a CBS facility you must discuss your requirements with the Site Manager at the appropriate campus and be fully conversant with local rules and regulations.
Please click on the Central Biomedical Services (CBS) link to access the CBS Costing Tool and CBS Notification Form.
The Clinical Data Systems team aims to provide Investigators and Clinical Trial Teams across Imperial College with a comprehensive service to support the collection, management and analysis of data from clinical trials.
Please click on the Clinical Data Systems link to go directly to their website.
Please follow the ‌ Clinical Data Systems - PDF (140k) guidance, as this applies to the Departments and JRO to ensure the costs are correctly added to InfoEd at the pre-award stage and the Clinical Data Systems costs are correctly transferred at post award stage.
N.B.
There is an exception for H2020 projects, and any other funders who also want to see an auditable trail of costs incurred.
This is because not all costs under H2020 can be recovered and therefore there needs to be a clear auditable trail of itemised Clinical Data Systems purchases on the subprojects set up.
Research England provides government funding known as “Quality-Related” (QR) funding which depends on factors such as quality of research and volume of research income.
Additional support is also provided via the “Charity Support Fund” for eligible charitable income (referred to as C-stream) and the “Business Support Element” for industry collaborations.
Funder Group Guidance and C-Stream eligibility can be found in the Application Process on the Research Office webpage.
‌
Each Research Council provides an Industrial CASE studentship and more information about these applications can be found on the relevant research council website from the link provided.
The process for CASE awards in the Faculty of Medicine is as follows:
Proposals should be submitted via the Joint electronic Submission (Je-S) system ; however, these DO NOT need to be supported by a Worktribe proposal because CASE studentships DO NOT go through the Joint Research Office (JRO) under the P-code research ledger.
Instead, notification should be sent by email to the department’s relevant finance manager, cc’d to faculty finance (Simon Passey), at least 5 working days prior to the submission deadline .
Proposals will appear in the JeS submitter pool along with ALL other research proposals administered by the JRO, so it is imperative the department finance manager and faculty finance (Simon Passey) are notified of this submission.
Once awarded, the department administration will need to request two new GL codes - a G code for the RCUK funding and an N code for the Industrial top-up.
The CASE agreement is negotiated and signed off by the JRO Contracts team ( Agreements managed by JRO ).

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/grants/preaward/review-approval-and-submission:
When a proposal is ready for review, it must be submitted into Worktribe workflow for formal financial assessment and approval.
JRO Pre-award will identify via Worktribe dashboards any proposals that are ready for review using the Worktribe Bid Approval status; there is no requirement to email the JRO pre-award liaison to initiate this process.
Users should highlight any relevant information to approvers by adding a summary note in the comments section on the Worktribe proposal.
This is particularly important for any non-standard funding applications where the nature of the funding call or any specific requirements are not clear.
This helps all approvers to identify what they are being asked to review.
The requirements for review are:
The Faculty of Medicine has two Departmental level approvals prior to JRO Pre-award review stage, typically a Divisional or Research Manager approval, followed by a Department Manager or Head of Department approval.
High value bids also require approval by the Director of Research Strategy prior to JRO assessment stage.
Departments should allow sufficient time to secure Departmental level approvals prior to JRO financial assessment.
The JRO Pre-award liaison will review the application and costings information to ensure that the proposal is financially viable and assess whether any revisions are necessary.
This is only possible if the JRO Pre-award team are given sufficient time to support the application.
If revisions are required, JRO Pre-award will liaise with the PI and/or Department.
The earlier the submission of an application the more time the JRO and Dept can work in partnership to resolve any potential issues which arise.
An application budget should be submitted into Worktribe workflow and reach JRO Pre-award for financial assessment a minimum of five working days prior to the funder deadline .
The five-day submission rule is in place to allow sufficient time for JRO Pre-award to conduct their financial assessment and raise any queries, for Departments to be able to respond to those queries, and time for any budget amendments required to be made and re-approved by all parties, where necessary.
This also allows JRO Pre-award to resource and prioritise in advance as they will be in receipt of multiple applications per week.
Once a costing has approved on Worktribe, the application can be submitted to the funding body for consideration.
If not approved, the application will be withdrawn.
Please click the Approval and authorisation link for detailed information regarding Faculty Approval, University authorisation, processing time and documentation required.
Many of the larger funding bodies use electronic portals systems and the process typically involves a two- or three-step authorisation before a proposal is received by the funder (Academic > Head of Department > JRO > Funder).
Some funder portals are registered under a central contact from the Research Office, but JRO Pre-award will act as the submitter for any applications that go through electronic portals.
Due to the volume of applications within the Faculty we recommend that academics plan to submit applications that require institutional approval via a funding portal 48 hours prior to the funding deadline , to the benefit of all parties.
This ensures there is sufficient time to secure approvals where there is more than one authorised signatory required.
JRO Pre-award requires time to undertake the final checks on the portal submission and to resolve any outstanding queries.
This also reduces the risk that the proposal is not submitted due to either funder system issues or lack of notification that a bid has been submitted into a funder portal.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/grants/award:
Grants Route – non-commercial agreement received directly from the funder via their portal; or electronically via email; or via the Research Office; or direct from academic and department.
The PI should notify the JRO if the application was declined also, not just awarded.
Otherwise, it will remain as submitted on InfoEd for up to 9 months before the InfoEd Admin team contact the PI.
This often means the stats are recorded in a different financial year.
For awards which do not meet the College’s Preferred Terms and Conditions Policy ROP-05 [pdf] , projects are sent to the relevant JRO Contracts team for review.
Otherwise, the project can progress to post‐award activation.
Link: JRO Contracts teams

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/grants/postaward:
Post-award administration covers a multitude of services which are undertaken by JRO Grants, working alongside academics and departmental staff, including:
Project closure
Upon receipt of awards which hold budgets for subcontractors or partners the JRO Contracts teams must be informed immediately to negotiate and create the relevant agreement.
JRO Grants teams can activate funding for a project once notification of the award has been received, and associated research funding contracts have been signed.
JRO Grants teams set up the new project on ICIS.
JRO Grants handles the administration of the account during the life of the project.
There are most commonly 4 types of HR forms which will be sent from the depts to the JRO for review and approved within the parameters of the award/project before being submitted by the Dept to HR for processing (excluding HR18 forms which are processed in the JRO via Labour Distribution - please see opposite in how to complete HR18s correctly) Please click on ‌ to access and understand the different types.
To ensure ample time is given throughout the process by all parties involved, please follow the attached HR Forms Timetable PDF guidance.
Submission of HR Forms to the JRO by 15th of each month will help with this.
Please ensure all HR18s are completed properly for GL codes and POETA codes using the correct cells as indicated in the examples below:
‌ HR18 Template - Example 1 HR18 Template - Example 2
Departmental administrators raise POs.
Raising Purchase Orders
Purchase Orders for research partner collaboration agreements and sub-contract agreements on P-codes, will be rasied by the JRO Grants Team.
These are agreements which have been negotiated and executed by the JRO Contracts team.
Raising Purchase Orders for Subcontracts and Partners (pdf) within the Faculty of Medicine.
In all instances, please follow the Timesheet Guidance on the Research Office webpage.
Each month Department Admin will receive a Timesheets Due Report, as part of the Post Award Management (PAM) reports, which lists all funders who require timesheets completed.
Timesheets should be collated and sent to the JRO on a monthly basis (or at least a quarterly basis as minimum), as indicated by the guidance in the attached Timesheets Due Report .
To ensure the timesheets are completed correctly first time, please use the Timesheets Checklist (pdf) to minimise errors.
Please also view the list of Timesheet Common Errors (pdf) ‌‌ received in the JRO.
Incorrect timesheets will be returned to the department to correct and resubmit.
Please be aware of funder reporting deadlines as timesheets not submitted in time will not have staff costs claimed, which will affect department, faculty and college cashflow.
Please send all timesheets for each funder who requires them to fomtimesheets@imperial.ac.uk
Please be reminded it is the funders who have applied these rules for timesheets as an auditable trail, not the College or Research Offices.
The timesheet methodology applied to these projects is the most sustainable and risk-averse way of recording time, which will correctly charge costs to each individual project.
Therefore, failure to complete timesheets may result in the department having to cover these costs if not submitted or disallowed by the funder.
OID – Organisational Information Document mNCA – Model Agreement for Non-Commercial Research
The Organisation Information Document is a document that provides information on participating NHS/HSC organisations in the UK.
It is required as part of the UK Local Information Pack for both commercial and non-commercial research.
An outline Organisational Information Document for each site type should be completed as part of your submission.
All college sponsored studies funded by a non-commercial organisation with NHS Trust costs will require a SoECAT and Organisational Information Document (OID) .
For SoECAT (Schedule of Events Cost Attribution Template) – click link.
For guidance on the above and the ICHT Funding Letter / Other Trusts Funding Letter, please follow the guidance below in this order:
All OIDs, mNCAs and Trust funding letters must include the name and email address of the dept contact and to be sent to the ICHT mailboxes below, and must be accompanied by a Purchase Order which matches the document.
Divisional Research Managers in Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust can be found by clicking on Clinical Divisions .
Trust JRO can be contacted via imperial.admin_trustresearchcontracts@nhs.net
Trust JRO Finance Team can be contacted via imperial.jroinvoices@nhs.net
.
Dashboard reporting uses Oracle Business Intelligence Enterprise Edition (OBIEE) also known as Imperial College Analytics (ICA).
They give detailed information on awards, projects and proposals per faculty.
Amongst other things they provide an easy-to-use tool to monitor expenditure against budgets.
List of Projects tab - Transaction Lists can be downloaded from the “List of Projects” report by searching for the Project Number; click on the Project Number in the returned data below and select “Project Transaction Detail”.
In the next window, click on Project Number and select “Transaction detail – line by line”.
Exception Reports tab - There are 6 exception reports in this area each monitoring spend for a particular category -
Balance Management Report tab - This report shows project budgets, expenditure, commitments and remaining balance in conjunction with the remaining number of months.
Other reports are available in the drop down selections such as “Project Summary”; “Potentially Ineligible Spend”; “%Credit Project” and “Commitment Detail”.
Commitments at Final Claim (pdf) - The general rule of thumb is not to claim commitments, as claiming commitments which do not materialise is fraudulent, especially if income is received based on actual expenditure.
Please view the process.
Commitments on old D cost centres no longer need to be cleared.
To close an award on ICIS, the Budget = Revenue = Expenditure = Income received.
Also = GL List of Balances.
Before you start this process, the following must be adhered to:
Please view the 'Approach to Clearing Balances in the FoM Research Portfolio' for the faculty’s approach in reducing the overall portfolio of awards.
The JRO Grants teams will close the award/project in relation to their own internal procedures under the FEC & non-FEC guidance.
Managing Projects - Award Closure

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/grants/euprojects:
If you have any queries regarding an ongoing H2020 and Horizon Europe grant, or the costing of an Horizon Europe (HEu - UKRI underwrite) application to the EU Commission, please contact the JRO team that works with your department : JRO Contacts .
For funding and contractual issues, please contact our colleagues in the Research Office EU Team .
EU projects are subject to audits at certain thresholds.
Please click Audit for more information.
As per the Grants (pre-award) section , at the pre-award stage the EU JRO Grants team work with PIs and department administrators to prepare grant applications for submission to the European Commission and/or Coordinator for the project, often against very tight deadlines.
The EU JRO team will use a Grant application checklist to ensure all the necessary considerations have been made prior to final submission.
The H2020 Common Errors Pre-Award are often spotted on applications and are here to help minimise the errors at application stage.
Some CEC submissions are in two stages; please click on the Two Stage Application Process (pdf) which explains the process.
For information on H2020 pre-award Golden Rules , please check Golden Rules for main funders (pre-award) .
For information on H2020 post-award Golden Rules , please check Golden Rules for main funders (post-award) .
Please contact the EU JRO Team for costing templates.
The college’s stance is that Imperial should only act as Coordinator in exceptional circumstances and where there are strategic research benefits for both the Faculty and the College as a whole.
The reason for this is that there are considerable financial & reputational risks and administrative costs to the College associated with coordinating a multi-party project when compared to participating as a partner.
Therefore, please read these considerations before making your decision about taking on the role of coordinator:
Coordinating on H2020 - Project Management Considerations (pdf)
Coordinator Proposal Submission - H2020 notes for Imperial researchers (pdf) ‌
Departmental approval is also imperative to ensure the project is in line with the college/faculty/dept strategic aims.
Therefore, please discuss this with your departmental manager and head of department as early as possible.
InfoEd approval will also be required within 5 days of the deadline to confirm the department are happy with the costs being submitted.
It is highly recommended that preparation and contact is made with the appropriate project management team at least 10 weeks prior to the deadline for a truly solid bid (preferably 6 months for really large projects).
The Research Impact Management Office (RIMO) is a team within the Enterprise division that provides bespoke impact management services to Imperial’s academics and their research grants.
RIMO become collaborators and are costed onto the research proposal to lead on work packages in project, communications, dissemination, and innovation management.
For academics who are putting together a research bid and interested in such research support, please visit RIMO’s webpage .
The RIMO team works on large collaborative research programmes that are mostly funded by EU funding bodies and the UK government.
However, they are not prescriptive and can explore other funding opportunities with you.
If you would like support for a large-scale project that is funded by the private sector, Imperial Projects may be able to help you.
Contact Imperial Consultants to find out more.
Please consult the Research Office section on staff recruitment and students for information relating to PhD students on European Commission research projects .
In all instances, please follow the college's Timesheet Guidance on the Research Office webpage.
All H2020 timesheets to be sent to eujrotsheets@imperial.ac.uk , containing the following in the title: Acronym , P-number , Period , Name of Person .
Please ensure signed hardcopies are retained by your section admin to ensure integrity in keeping with the CEC audit requirements.
Failure to do so will result in costs being rejected by the CEC up to 7 years after the end date of the project.
Each month all Section and Dept Admin will receive a Timesheet Due Report (pdf) - 130KB of all funders who require timesheets completed.
These should be collated and sent to the JRO on a monthly basis (or at least a quarterly basis as minimum).
Please use the Timesheets Checklist (pdf) to minimise errors.
Please also view the list of Timesheet Common Errors (pdf) received in the JRO.
Please be aware of funder reporting deadlines so a speedy return will be very much appreciated.
PLEASE NOTE: If an academic/researcher/technician/clinician etc is working on a CEC project as well as another funder who requires timesheets, please could you ensure their time on the NIH and/or Research Council or Innovate UK award is recorded on separate rows on the timesheet, named under the “Funding Source” and sent to the EU JRO Timesheets mailbox ( eujrotsheets@imperial.ac.uk ).

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/grants/training:
Click link for training video on PI Time and Clinical Staff
This session was held on 12th Nov 2020 and included:
The presentation slides from the session are shown here: PI Time and Clinical Staff (Slides) .
Click link for training video on Equipment and Facilities Charge Out
This session was held in Dec 2020 and included:
The presentation slides from the session are shown here: Equipment and Facilities Charge Out (Slides) .
Click link for training video on General InfoEd Queries .
The session was held in March 2021 and included guidance on:
The presentation slides from the session are shown here: General Queries at Pre-Award
Click link for training video on SoECAT .
The session was held in May 2021 and included guidance on:
The presentation slides from the session are shown here: SoECAT Grant Costing Workshop Slides

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/contracts:
JRO contracts teams are ready to help you with your agreement needs.
Three JRO contracts teams are responsible for managing more than twenty types of agreement.
Some types of agreement are handled outside the JRO by specialist teams around the College.
How can you be sure that your project counts as research?
College Contracts teams operate within the framework of the College's terms and conditions.
What we need from you to start the contracts process in the most efficient way.
What is involved in negotiating agreements?

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/contracts/agreementsjro:
The JRO agrees terms which are fit for purpose and obtains the authorised signatures on the following types of agreements.
There are dozens of contract and agreement types available, covering all the needs and eventualities of the research community.
The lists below provide a brief description of each agreement, with links to further comprehensive details on the Research Office site where applicable.
Material Transfer Agreement (MTA) In / Out

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/contracts/agreementsnotjro:
A number of agreements are not dealt with in JRO Contracts, and the following teams should be contacted for advice:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/contracts/researchuniversity:
The Frascati Manual is the internationally recognised methodology for collecting and using R&D statistics.
It defines research as follows:
The term R&D covers three activities: basic research, applied research and experimental development.
The College is required to ensure only appropriate activity is classified as ‘research’ in their statutory returns as defined by ‘Frascati’, and that such activity meets the requirements set out by the Charity Commission in its definition of ‘Charitable Research ’ .
For further information about the Frascati Definition of Research, please consult the Research Office's standard application process , under develop research plan and establish resources .
UK Universities receive significant public funding through the Higher Education Funding Councils and are expected to carry out research which is for the public benefit .
The College receives support for research based on the outputs of its research and a key income stream results from the annual return or expenditure shown through the research ledger.
Imperial College London is a registered charity which brings with it similar responsibilities.
Key requirements for an activity to be classified as research are around the retention of Intellectual Property (IP) the right to publish (academic freedom).
If the activity being undertaken has no public benefit then it is classified as the provision of a service .
This activity cannot be returned as research expenditure to HEFCE and so will not attract support.
In addition the provision of a service may be subject to VAT.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/contracts/collegetac:
College Contracts teams are charged with negotiating within the framework of the College's terms and conditions.
The College Preferred Terms and Conditions (T&C) for Research reflect the preferred contractual terms for each of the key parameters in a research contract eg Publication, IP, Payment terms etc).
The Preferred T&C  are designed to maximise the benefit to the College in terms of research outcomes and to protect the academic freedom of the research investigator and to minimise financial and reputational risk.
Click the link for further information about the Preferred Terms and Conditions and the relationship to IP and academic freedom.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/contracts/contractprocess:
The JRO process map (pdf) outlines the main steps taken in dealing with requests for contracts.
The main stages are:
Further guidance on the contract negotiation process is provided by the Research Office.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/contracts/requestcontract:
To enable JRO Contracts teams to get to work promptly on a contract request, certain key pieces of information are required.
See below for brief checklists of what is likely to be required for different contract types:
A contract request form is currently in development, which will help gather information at a single point of application.
Please be prepared to supply the following information:
Please be prepared to supply the following information, depending on the type of contract required:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/icht-studies:
The Joint Research Office (JRO) also manages contracts, funding and study set-up for all clinical research studies which take place within Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust (ICHT).
A dedicated ICHT R&D team is responsible for negotiating and authorising research-related contracts and grants for all such studies, including those sponsored by commercial or non-commercial organisations (including Imperial College London).
Contact our team for informal advice on the following areas :
For a list of ICHT contacts click "JRO Contacts" in the "About us" menu bar above.
FoM Costs Centres and Section Name v ICHT Directorates can be found in the Charts & Responsibilities section.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/resources:
The following resources are available:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/resources/newstarters:
For Grants and Contracts Processes , please click on this link to see how we manage applications for grants and requests for agreements related to research projects.
The links below outline the services we offer:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/resources/faqs:
The following FAQs cover issues commonly raised with the JRO and are split into different categories relating to: applications , the award process , post-award and s taffing .
To discuss the feasibility and process of submitting a grant application, please contact your Departmental Administrator.
(Go to JRO teams )
Your Departmental Research Manager should be able to assist you; otherwise, the College has an enterprise-wide account on ResearchResearch.
See the Research Office to search opportunities [new window].
Most online submission systems have an approval route which requires the agreement from your Head of Department and the College (via the JRO).
Due to the volume of applications within the Faculty we ask that academics submit applications five working days prior to the funding deadline to allow this approval and submission to be completed.
Consult the supporting documents and resources for further information on links to guidance prepared by funders and funders’ online submission systems.
Grants will be set up on the Oracle ICIS as soon as possible but there are often a number of steps that must be completed by all parties before the grant can be activated.
If you are unsure if the activity is research, please contact your Departmental Administrator.
A definition of research can be found in the Research Support glossary .
Alternatively, consult our terms and definitions .
Timesheet requirements differ depending upon the work activity and funder.
Please visit the Research Office resources for more information.
Expenditure charged to grants should be as close to the applied for costs as possible, although we are aware that these sometimes change.
Please see the Golden Rules of the College's largest funders, or speak to the relevant JRO team .
Maternity leave is managed in differing ways depending upon grant funder.
We recommend you speak to your Departmental Administrator and JRO administrator to discuss.
The majority of research grants do not cover redundancy but you should contact your JRO administrator to discuss.
FEC is a methodology for costing grant proposals which commenced in 2005.
For more information please visit the Research Office's costing page .
We endeavour to approve staff appointments in 5 working days but due to the nature of research grants, this may be longer.
Where this does occur, we will ensure to communicate the delay.
[Go to HR Forms , new window]

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/resources/glossary:
This page provides a quick reference guide for acronyms and terms commonly used in relation to research governance and health and social care research.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/resources/links:
All links will open in a new browser window.
We cannot accept responsibility for the content of these sites.
If you cannot find a particular link then please contact us so that we may help.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/hrs:
The Healthcare Research Studies web pages provide guidance and resources to help investigators meet benchmark targets set by the NIHR.
A combination of process maps, task outlines, checklists and recommended contacts will help researchers negotiate a path through a complex system of submissions and approvals.

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/hrs/maps:
The maps provide an overview of the process governing healthcare research studies, and link to other parts of this site.
(Please note that these maps are subject to amendments, following changes introduced by the HRA.)
The map most relevant to your study is determined by the sponsor:

New sentences found on https://imperial.ac.uk/research-and-innovation/support-for-staff/joint-research-office/hrs/maps/iclmap:
Contact the Research Governance and Integrity Team ( RGIT ) for