# Site: https://www.kcl.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 500
# --------

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk:
Browser does not support script.
If you have an offer from King's, find out more about confirmation and your next steps on our web pages.
Over 180 courses to choose from
Study a Masters degree
Research degrees and opportunities
Information for international students
As a King’s student, you have exclusive access to an unparalleled range of activities to enjoy around your studies and enrich your experience.
These extracurricular activities are a great way to meet new people, develop skills, gain experience and make a difference.
View all news
Genetic testing of IVF-created embryos could help more women over 35 have a baby in less time, a…
People guess that 40% of graduates wouldn't go to university if they could choose again, when the…
A groundbreaking cancer drug could enhance how patients respond to chemotherapy even in…
View all events
10 September 2025 13:00
Join us for the Better Health & Care Summit, a…
13 September 2025 10:00
Explore Visual and Embodied Methodologies against…
1 October 2025 18:00
In-person event hosted by King's Business School
3 October 2025 12:00
We're kicking off this year's 'Judges in Dialogue'…
On campus or online
Connecting King's and London
Education, research and service through culture
+44 (0)20 7836 5454
King's College London
Strand
London
WC2R 2LS
United Kingdom

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study:
With over 180 courses to choose from, discover our range of undergraduate degrees.
Discover our range of postgraduate taught courses and explore your options.
Find out more about our postgraduate research courses and how to apply.
The King's International Foundation Programme is a one-year specialist academic preparation course designed for ambitious international students who want to study an undergraduate degree in the UK.
Established in 2009, King’s Summer Programmes began with 55 students and since that time we have welcomed over 10,000 students from across the globe onto our summer programmes.
Learn the academic and English skills you need to succeed in your degree with our Pre-sessional or Prepare for Postgraduate programmes.
King's campuses are centrally located in one of the world's most exciting cities.
Our partnerships across the capital offer our students unique work and learning opportunities.
Find out about our custom-made training programmes.
Study flexibly online, without taking a career break.
Discover King’s range of open enrolment short courses for professionals.
Study one of our 27 language courses during an evening or on a Saturday.
Study at London's most central university, ranked top 5 in the UK in the QS World University Rankings 2026.
Find out more about our global presence and read testimonials by students from your region.
Learn how to apply to King's degree courses, and find out more about English language preparation.
Discover the range of opportunities you can get involved in at King's.
Take a guided tour of our campuses in-person or virtually online.
Make new friends, have fun and be part of the vibrant student community.
We support students in building a platform for lifelong success.
Whether they are in the Discover, Focus or Action phase of their career journey, we are here to help.
Libraries & Collections is a key division within the Directorate of Students and Education at King’s College London.
Find out about the support and facilities on campus to enhance your studies.
Sign up for information about our courses, events, applying and more.
Chat to current students and staff to find out about life at King's.
Questions about studying at King's?
We're here to help.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
Find out more about King's and our undergraduate courses pre-application.
Guidance on what to do after you've applied.
Your next steps as an offer holder.
Sign up for event updates and for information out our courses and applying.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught:
Find out more about King's and our postgraduate courses pre-application.
Get in touch about studying at King's or about your offer.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research:
King's College London is a world-leading university, dedicated to the advancement of knowledge, learning and society.
Our postgraduate research opportunities enable candidates to pursue their specific research area, alongside academics who are leading the way in their field.
Depending on the area of research candidates can either choose to study for a PhD through submitting a proposal, applying for a studentship or working on specific research projects.
Explore our research areas below.
Explore your course of interest and find out more about studying at King's.
Find out how we support the next generation of research leaders and equip them for key roles in public service and industry.
Discover the range of funding opportunities available for postgraduate research students.
King's Language Centre offers 27 language courses ranging from beginner to near-native.
Art, food, music, shopping – you'll never find yourself with nothing to do in the world's most vibrant city.
Explore our residences to find out about your accommodation options and how to apply.
During your time at King's College London, a range of academic and personal support and guidance is available to you.
Get a feel for life at King's by touring our campuses in-person or virtually online.
Download our postgraduate guide to discover more about our research...

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/international:
Rated as one of the best student cities in the world (QS Best Student Cities 2026), London will be an integral part of your student life, with four of our five campuses located in the heart of the city, alongside the stunning River Thames.
Discover our webpages to learn more about applying to King's as an international student.
Listen to student testimonials from your region, watch webinars, learn about our student community, and find out about our student support available, including visa & immigration, accommodation, fees & funding and more.
in the UK
in Europe
best university in the world
Find out more about applying to King's as a student from Africa.
Find out more about applying to King's as a student from Australasia.
Find out more about applying to King's as a student from Canada.
Find out more about applying to King's as a student from East Asia.
Find out more about applying to King's as a student from Europe.
Information for Mexican, Latin and Central American, & Caribbean students.
Find out more about applying to King's as a student from South Asia.
Find out more about applying to King's as a student from Southeast Asia.
Find out about applying as a student from Turkey, Central Asia & the...
Find out more about applying to King's as a student from the USA.
Got a question?
Chat to a current King's student from your region.
Find out about our one-year specialist academic preparation programme designed for prospective undergraduate international students.
Discover more about the visa and student support available to you at King's.
Discover places to visit and explore across the capital.
Find out about tuition fees and what funding options are available to you.
Explore our residences and find out how to apply.
Download our undergraduate prospectus to discover our courses.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/abroad-opportunities:
Whether you are a King's student looking to add an international element to your degree, or a student at an overseas university wishing to study abroad for a semester or year in London, the Global Mobility team are here to help.
Our webpages contain a wealth of information on our opportunities – start your journey here!
Discover what options and destinations are available to King's students.
Information for incoming students wanting to study in London.
How to contact King's if you're interested in studying abroad.
Information for King's students & staff (King's log in required).
Discover your accommodation options and explore our residences.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/social-mobility:
Our university has a clear strategic vision: to make the world a better place.
However, the opportunity for a great education is not distributed fairly.
We want to change this.
We work with underrepresented students and their supporters, empowering them to access and succeed in higher education because social mobility is necessary to redress social inequality.
Our work removes barriers to success throughout a student’s educational journey.
Our actions help to create a world in which a young person’s destination is not limited by their start in life.
Read more about the actions of our Social Mobility & Widening Participation and Student Transition & Outcomes departments below:
Who our Social Mobility & Widening Participation teams work with.
Find out more about our teams and how to contact us.
Find out more about our projects for prospective students.
Discover our events for new widening participation students joining King's.
Find out what opportunities & support is available to you as a King's...
For supporters of children attending non-selective state schools.
Find out more about widening participation opportunities for King's Staff.
King’s is committed to providing equal opportunities for applicants.
Find out more about tuition fees, scholarships and other financial help.
The privacy notice linked below is intended to supplement the information that you have already been given in connection with your engagement with a particular service, facility, event or initiative run by the Widening Participation Department.
Research and evaluation to enhance social mobility and student success
Find out how King’s is creating meaningful impact to build a better world

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/visit:
Home to the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience.
The Faculty of Life Sciences & Medicine, Faculty of Dentistry, Oral & Craniofacial Sciences, and the Institute of Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience are based at the riverside Guy's Campus, next to the Shard.
Located near Waterloo Campus and home of continuing medical and dental teaching, as well as a museum dedicated to Florence Nightingale.
Located on the north bank of the River Thames, the Strand Campus houses King's College London's arts and sciences faculties.
Waterloo campus is home of the Florence Nightingale Faculty of Nursing & Midwifery and facilities for other faculties

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/international-foundation:
With our team of highly-qualified and experienced teachers, you can be sure that you are taking the best first step towards studying in the UK.
The King's International Foundation Programme is a one-year specialist academic preparation programme designed for ambitious international students who want to study an undergraduate degree in the UK.
Please note that UK students typically do not qualify for this programme.
Tailored pathways develop your subject knowledge, introduce you to UK higher education and enhance your academic English.
We also offer an extended option comprising five weeks' intensive online English language preparation for those who need a language boost before joining the substantive King's International Foundation Programme.
As a King’s student from day one, you can access all our facilities, activities and support.
You will also have a personal tutor for guidance and support with your studies and degree application.
Important update: The application deadline has been extended until 31 July.
Pathways and module combinations may close before the deadline if capacity is reached.
We recommend submitting your application as soon as possible.
Find out more about King's Foundations and how we prepare students to succeed at university.
Take a look at our newly updated programme, available for students joining us from 2025.
Everything you need to know before applying directly to King's.
Leads to health sciences or chemistry degrees.
Progress to traditional sciences, technology or engineering.
Go on to study arts, culture, politics, digital media or law.
Prepare for business, maths and economics degrees.
Discover what it's like to be a King's Foundations student
Take a look at the various ways we'll help you settle into student life
Learn more about life as a King's student
Find out more about our specialist one-year foundation course
See how we help students prepare to succeed at university
Take a closer look at our four foundation pathways, updated for 2025
Everything you need to know about how to apply to the Programme directly
Get a digital copy of our brochure for more information about the Programme
Find out more about our scholarships, fees and key dates

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/language-centre:
Go to…
Languages taught
Collaborations
Resources
Contact us
We offer high-quality language teaching through short courses , private tuition and bespoke corporate training .
Lessons are held at our central London campuses in Strand and Waterloo and also online.
Whether you are a King's student or just someone looking to pick up a new language, we have different services on offer to suit your needs.
We teach a wide range of languages in our evening and Saturday courses, from Spanish to Farsi, Gujarati, British Sign Language and beyond.
All levels are welcome, whether you’re a beginner or almost fluent.
Click on your chosen language below to see which courses are available.
Our goal is to develop your intercultural competency as well as your language skills.
That’s why  our teachers are all fluent speakers; they bring their own personal experience of not just the language but what it’s actually like to live there and be part of the society.
"Learning a language has lifelong benefits as it is a continuous process.
When you study a new language, you also gain a new understanding of your own culture as you see it through a new liminal perspective."
Dr Ana De Medeiros, Director of King's Language Centre
All language students get access to the Language Resources Centre and its wealth of benefits.
Highlights include free speaking practice with native speakers, complimentary Press Reader membership to read local publications, and access to the Centre, where you can borrow textbooks, dictionaries, laptops and more.
Plus, with access to our campus-wide WiFi, you can prepare for your lessons from any of our libraries.
Our Evening & Saturday Language Courses are open to all.
We have 26+ languages available to study from beginner to near-fluent speaker.
If you are a King's undergraduate or postgraduate student, you may be able to take a language module for free as part of your degree.
Bespoke language tuition is available for 1-to-1, small groups and corporate partnerships, designed in line with the clients' specific requirements.
Jemma talks to us about her experience learning Arabic.
Eniola talks to us about her French language learning experience.
Matt talks about his Italian language learning.
Dara talks to us about her Russian language learning experience.
1 July 2025
Speakers debated the possibility of achieving true multilingualism in universities at the latest…
9 September 2024
Funding is supporting projects to create positive change on global issues
26 July 2023
Over the course of 10 workshops, lecturers from the School of Education, Communication & Society…
8 June 2023
The latest news from the Decolonising Language Teaching project.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/professional-education:
Open the door to lifelong learning at King’s.
You have the potential to transform your organisation.
Unlock that potential with Professional Education at King's.
Whether you’re moving into a more senior role or looking to make more of an impact where you are now, we’ll help you grow as an individual, leading a team or as part of a team.
King’s supports your ambitions with flexible courses, world-leading facilities and a central London location.
Courses for enhancing your performance and that of your organisation
Transform your workforce, transform your organisation
Discover our wide range of CPD courses
Take control of your education with microcredentials
Our courses reflect the complex world you operate in
Solving today’s legal challenges
Various specialisms supporting health professionals
World leading professional education with real world contexts
Helping governments and organisations shape policy
Make rapid and meaningful career progress
UK University
professional education participants
international clients from twenty-three countries
Discover more about the professional education team
Meet the professional education team
Discover the state-of-the-art facilities at Melbourne House
Join our LinkedIn community of professionals

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/summer/index.aspx:
Summer Programmes lead the way in innovative short courses in international education.
Drawing on our expertise and research, we offer a broad curriculum of modules in Business, Law, Arts & Humanities, Social Sciences & Public Policy, Life Sciences & Medicine, and Psychology & Neuroscience.
Our Pre-University Summer School for students aged 16 and 17 is a rare opportunity to prepare you for study at university and get a deeper understanding of subject areas of your choice.
Meet with like-minded students from around the world and get a taste of the life on campus at King’s in the heart of London’s iconic landmarks, museums and parks.
The Undergraduate Summer School focuses on experiential research-based teaching through workshops, seminars and lectures tailored for undergraduate students currently studying at other universities.
Our students benefit from study and research facilities across our five campuses with access to classrooms, lecture theatres, libraries, medical and science labs, computer rooms, museums and recreational facilities.
Make the most of your summer by studying at one of the world’s top universities.
Explore a subject area of your choice and make friends from around the world.
Applications for our Summer School programmes have now closed.
Session 1: 30 June - 4 July 2025 Session 2: 7 - 11 July 2025 Session 3: 14 - 18 July 2025 Session 4: 21 - 25 July 2025
Session 1: 30 June - 11 July 2025 Session 2: 14 - 25 July 2025
30 June - 25 July 2025
30 June - 8 August 2025
9 May 2025
Discover our Pre-University Summer School
Find out more about our Undergraduate Summer School
Are you interested in working with us?
King's Summer Programmes work with selected partners.
Find out more about the experience of being a Summer student at King's
Information on how to apply for King's undergraduate and pre-university programmes.
Register your interest to receive the latest news and events about the Summer Schools.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/accommodation/index.aspx:
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
Residences
Living with us
*Limited availability remaining for UGs
Find out more about residential life
Learn about our exclusive postgraduate social programme
The accommodation portal has now reopened for all student groups.
Please bear in mind that availability for undergraduates is very limited.
Therefore we advise exploring other accommodation options as well.
To help you stay prepared, you can find some resources to help you with your search using the link below.
Discover our range of undergraduate residences and how to book.
Explore our postgraduate options, including postgraduate-only halls, and our exclusive GradPlus programme.
View and compare all residences.
Over 6,000 undergraduate and postgraduate students join King’s Residences each year.
Our residences are the perfect place to live and learn through life experiences while you’re studying.
In your home away from home, you’ll develop strategies to manage life’s challenges and use those skills to thrive long after you’ve left your accommodation.
While you’re here, we’ll help you grow your individuality, resilience and experience sharing, through programs like ResiLife and GradPlus.
King’s vision for 2029 is to make the world a better place.
King’s Residences will deliver that by providing a safe, service-driven, and inclusive residential community, where independent living encourages non-academic learning: giving you a better student experience for success at King’s and beyond.
Our central London residences are close to campus, come with an accommodation guarantee for first year undergraduates and all postgraduates, and couldn't be simpler to book.
Here are just a few reasons to choose King's Residences:
•	No need for a guarantor •	Fantastic, central London locations •	All utility bills included •	Free access to gyms*
All you need to do is follow a few easy steps to book your accommodation with us.
Visit our 'How to Apply' pages for details.
*Dependent on location
We offer a wide range of residences for undergraduate and postgraduate students throughout central London.
Our residences are comfortable and safe, with facilities and services to suit all budgets and lifestyles.
In addition, all new undergraduate students on a 40-week contract and all postgraduate students are guaranteed accommodation with us if they book before the guarantee deadline.
Before you make a booking, explore our residences page to fully understand the location, room fees, and facilities available at each residence.
Check out all of our residence tours on each of the residence pages to help you make your choice.
Led by a Residence Manager, all of our residences operate 24/7/365 and we count on the support of Residences Welfare Leads, Community Facilitators, and front-of-house teams.
Together they provide the day-to-day assistance and community building initiatives that will help you settle and thrive.
Welcome home!
Learn about our rent-capped affordability scheme for undergraduates.
Find out what life is like in King's Residences.
If you have a disability, health concern or specific requirements, apply for King's accommodation…
Explore our range of residences to suit all budgets and lifestyles.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/students/news.aspx:
Find answers to common questions and support topics
22 August 2025
15 August 2025
14 August 2025
8 August 2025
7 August 2025
31 July 2025
15 July 2025
10 July 2025
9 July 2025
20 June 2025
19 June 2025

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/student-life:
Find information on a wide range of topics and contact us with questions
View and update your information, and complete essential tasks
Access essential resources and get updates on the go
See your timetables for teaching, learning and assessments
Access online learning for your studies and other courses
Find out about our extensive resources and facilities
Guidance to help you do your best in exams and assessments
Log in to access practical resources for postgraduate research students
Get support for academic literacy and skills for study
In-depth guidance is available for you if you're an international student
Helping you maintain your wellbeing during your studies
In-person and online support for your mental health
Building a community where everyone at King’s belongs.
We're here to help with advice, guidance and advocacy
Support for you if you're disabled, from adjustments to funding guidance
Your specialist GP surgery in the heart of campus
All the latest updates for our student community
Your home for KCLSU events, student groups, news and much more
Find out what events are happening across King’s
Extracurricular initiatives and events for you to get involved in
Learn about the careers opportunities and support available to you
A one-stop shop for sharing and discovering volunteering opportunities
Supporting your entrepreneurial thinking, skills and action
Choose your own adventure and spend time abroad during your time at King's
Learn more about our notable alumni, recent graduates and networking events
Everything you need to know as a new student at King's
Key dates for study and university closure
All you need to know about our campus facilities
Comprehensive information on your fees, payment and more
Learn more about our IT teams and services
Academic regulations, policies and procedures
Policies, procedures, training, reporting and support services.
Confirm your student status, prove your results and more
All you need to know about graduation, from ceremonies to certificates

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/smhw:
King’s is committed to supporting your health and wellbeing.
We understand that wellbeing can mean different things to each person and at different times, which is why we have a range of services to support you depending on your needs.
If you need help now you can call Student Services on (+44) 020 7848 1234 from 08.00–18.00, Monday to Friday, or log a case using our online system.
Visit our crisis support page for help outside of these times or if you need urgent support.
Going to university is an exciting, life-changing step for a new student.
It can also be a time of worry for parents and carers as you offer advice and support.
Visit our information page for answers to some of your questions about studying at King’s and to find out what a student can expect when they join us.
Adjusting to life at university can pose many challenges.
We have resources to help you if you are concerned that a student in your life is struggling.
If you are worried about a King’s student you can call Student Services on (+44) 020 7848 1234 from 08.00–18.00, Monday to Friday, or log a case using our online system.
Visit our crisis support page for help outside of these times or if a student needs urgent support.
King's commitment to mental health and wellbeing
Research to support developments in student mental health and wellbeing
Find out more about support available for our students
King’s is committed to prioritising the welfare and wellbeing of staff

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sport:
Gyms
Physical activity
Health and wellbeing
Apply now
Find out more about the King’s Sport & Wellness Centre
Les Mills+ offers free on demand workouts for all in the King’s Community
Two gyms, one membership.
Join us at King's Sport London Bridge and Strand Gym.
Our weekly social sport and physical activity programme available to all students and staff.
Sync your fitness tracker app or wearable and earn points for rewards across King's.
Exercise therapy for King's community members suffering from mental or physical health issues.
A social space for the King's Community that offers free weekly wellness sessions.
Sessions include: -Behaviour Change / Sports Psychology -Physiotherapy Consultations -Sports Massage and much more!
If you have any feedback or complaints about King's Sport that you would like to direct to the Estates & Facilities department, email the contact below.
16 August 2025
King’s Sport & Wellness to refurbish London Bridge Gym
9 April 2025
King’s Sport & Wellness introduces returnable coffee cups at Honor Oak Sports Ground to reduce…
15 September 2025
Curious about what King’s Sport & Wellness has to offer?
Join our online chat to hear about our…
18 September 2025
To mark National Fitness Day on 18 September,  we’re giving our users the chance to unlock a…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/index.aspx:
Libraries
Collections
Further support
About
For in-depth library information tailored to different subjects, includes Getting Started sections
Locations and floor plans of the campus libraries, Special Collections and Archives
Current opening hours for all King's libraries
Find library answers with FAQs and a Live Chat service with a Librarian on our LibAnswers pages
.
King's College London Archives and the Liddell Hart Centre for Military Archives.
The Foyle Special Collections Library houses some 200,000 printed works, as well as maps, slides,…
Highlights of the College's uniquely rich and growing collections

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/careers:
Welcome back - explore how we support you
Find out about our careers support for students and researchers.
Find out about our careers support for King's graduates.
Find out how to share our support with students.
Find out more about our users and how we work with employers and external...
Find out how to use our King's CareerConnect platform.
Explore our memberships, accreditations, commitments and policies.
Discover extracurricular activities and events.
Have a query or need support?
Get in touch with our team.
Follow us on social media to stay up to date with careers events, skills workshops, career opportunities and top tips.
You'll also meet members of our team and see how students are using our services.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/it/index.aspx:
Find out more about how we can support you during your studies
Learn more about the benefits of being a student or employee at King's.
Explore a range of IT Services that are offered at King's.
Contact our expert tech analysts via the IT Service Desk available 24/7, 365 days a year.
The IT equipment you need to work and teach remotely - guidance and resources.
Everything you need to know about Microsoft Office 365 and more (internal).
Information and enrolment on the Student Essential Digital Skills Programme
LinkedIn Learning video resources for King's staff and students.
Evaluate your training needs,  book courses and workshops, record your progress across a range of…
The purpose of the Digital Education department is to improve the digital experience for staff and…
FutureLearn are offering KCL staff and students completely free access to a collection of short…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research:
Research is core to King’s, what we do, what we care about and how we educate.
Our enquiry-driven research delivers transformative insights with the power to advance and accelerate global progress.
We work across disciplines and collaborate with partners so that our research changes practice and influences understanding at home and abroad.
UK Ranking: 6th among UK universities.
Our research environment received a perfect score (REF 2021).
Nursing ranked 1st place in QS World University Rankings 2025.
King's latest research and innovation news.
Read about the impact King’s has on the world's greatest challenges.
How our research expertise is transforming the world around us.
Investigating the impact of personalised nutrition programs.
Equipping clinicians with advanced computer-assisted tissue analysis.
Pioneering next-generation cell therapies for hard-to-treat cancers.
Our nine Faculties are at the cutting edge of world-leading research.
Learn about King's research strategy and ambitions.
Tackling global issues, adding value to society and the economy.
The Research Excellence Framework assesses research in UK.
Our research culture and world-class research support services.
Cutting-edge facilities, technical services and technology platforms.
Explore research funding opportunities at King's.
Strengthening research collaborations.
Enhancing the quality, relevance, and impact of King’s research to society.
Addressing urgent global challenges to shape a better world.
Advancing connections across the sciences to inspire solutions.
Collaborating for economic and social impact.
King's maintains REF 2021 position for research excellence and power.
Showcasing researcher biographies and research group profiles.
Guidance and advice on protecting the UK’s intellectual property.
Developing the next generation of researchers.
Find out how we support the next generation of research leaders.
Advice and information on navigating a clinical academic career.
We tackle unsolved problems and push the boundaries of human knowledge.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/explore:
Research Centres and Interest Groups bring researchers together across multiple disciplines to accelerate research for scholarship, innovation and impact.
Cross-Faculty Institutes and themes connect and develop our research across major disciplinary research challenges and support links with the public sector, industry, and third sector.
Collaboration is at the core of research excellence.
Our major cross-Faculty academic and clinical research partnerships are a vital part of our research approach.
Demonstrating the breadth and diversity of King’s research
How the arts and humanities can answer society’s big questions
Our work spans the disciplines of management, business, economics & finance
Scientific and clinical research, advancing treatments and therapies
Translation and adoption of research innovation into clinical practice
Applied clinical and health research, improving patient outcomes and care
Translating scientific insights to interventions, to benefit patients
Helping to shape policy and practice nationally and internationally
Advancing scholarship on social, ethical and political issues of our time
Understanding our universe at all scales to change it for the better

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/impact:
At King’s, we define impact as the demonstrable contribution that excellent research makes to society and the economy, or benefit to individuals, organisations and nations.
This occurs in many ways – through creating and sharing new knowledge and innovation; inventing ground-breaking new products, companies and jobs; developing new and improving existing public services and policy; enhancing quality of life and health; and many more.
Our research stimulates creative possibilities by exploring our understanding of identity, cultures and society.
In doing so, we help local, national and international communities lead healthier and happier lives and make the planet safer, fairer, and cleaner by influencing policy and practice.
Responding to urgent global challenges to deliver positive change
Find out more about KEF at King's
Mobilising King’s research and expertise to respond to the climate crisis
Find out more about the economic impact of King's research
Addressing business and societal challenges
Exploring the role of law in solving today’s global problems
Over the past decade, King’s researchers have navigated the delicate but...
Cigarettes kill over half of their long-term users.
The World Health...
October 2022 marks the 10th anniversary of Julia Gillard’s famous speech...
The origin, or 'provenance' of data is important to gaining trust in...

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/research-environment:
By providing the best environment, support and networks for our community, from postgraduate research students to senior academics, King's College London enables the delivery of research excellence.
We are committed to advancing a positive research culture which focuses not just on research outcomes but on how we conduct our research – within an inclusive environment in which all staff can prosper.
Discover research support services at every step of our researchers' careers from student to professor, and at every stage of their research project lifecycle, from application development to commercialisation.
And discover how we support our research community to thrive, through our core values of fairness, inclusivity, collegiality, respect and appreciation.
Enabling researchers to achieve research excellence.
Committed to providing the best environment to carry out your research
Libraries & Collections support on managing data, open access & copyrights
We work across disciplines to ensure global research impact.
Celebrating and sharing public engagement practices
Dedicated research development support for each of the academic Faculties.
Support for researchers applying or negotiating for research funding.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/funding:
King's is committed to providing funding to support new partnerships, inspiring projects and research of strategic value.
We offer extensive postgraduate research studentships, scholarships and funding opportunities.
We have a vibrant community of post-doctoral and Early Career Researchers, and welcome outstanding applicants to external Fellowship schemes.
Other examples of our funding include King’s Together, which provides initial support to develop multi and inter-disciplinary projects into innovative, externally-funded research across strategic areas, and funds to accelerate the translation of our research for innovation and impact.
Discover Doctoral Opportunities & Funding at King's
Discover our range of postgraduate research funding opportunities.
Funding opportunities for prospective doctoral students with Home Student...
Supporting the development of multi and inter disciplinary projects
Fully funded awards; this includes tuition fees, stipend and bench fee
Join a dynamic community of postdoctoral and early career researchers
King's is part of many Doctoral Training Partnerships and Centres
Offering PhD Research studentships across Science & Health faculties
Funding opportunities for international postgraduate researchers at King's
Hands-on experience of research during the summer holidays
Find out more about Vacation Scholarships across King's College London
Discover funding opportunities open to UK academics

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/facilities:
King’s College London has a world-class range of research facilities, technical services and technology platforms for imaging, biological and medical sciences, physical and materials sciences and digital technologies.
Staff and students benefit from free access to some of these facilities and many of our facilities are available to external researchers and collaborators on a fee-for-access basis.
King's offers bespoke services including work on collaborative R&D projects, training or advice on experimental design and support with data analysis and interpretation.
If you'd like to know more about using any of our research facilities, you can find contact details and further information via our facilities directory below.
King's College London has a world-class range of research facilities,...
Specialist research facilities provide essential technology and equipment...
Providing the tools and expertise to characterise molecules from proteins...
Providing world class imaging infrastructure from atomic to whole body...
Providing instrumentation and expertise to characterise the composition...
Providing the tools and expertise to characterise cells in a wide range...
King's has specialist research facilities providing essential technology...
Genetic Analysis and Manipulation
A multidisciplinary enterprise operating at the forefront of science and...
Euro BioImaging UK Node Announced

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/partnerships:
King’s looks outwards and strongly values its local, national and international research partnerships.
External collaborations are a key part of many of our leading research programmes, our multidisciplinary institutes and centres of excellence.
This page presents King’s major corporate relationships with key London and national partners, each of which connects with several faculties.
Our many other research partnerships are shown on the pages of our departments, institutes, and centres.
Our large doctoral training programmes are built on partnerships with other leading universities and with research institutes, offering our students access to a range of networks across the research landscape.
An Academic Health Sciences Centre for London
King’s is one of three founding universities in the Francis Crick Institute
Developing new technologies to tackle important health research challenges
King’s is part of the London Hub of Health Data Research UK
We offer a streamlined service for commercial sponsors wishing to conduct...
Collaborate with King's on a research project in London.
King's has over 300 partnership agreements with leading institutions...
Your gateway to innovation at King’s
Explore licensing and investment opportunities from King’s researchers.
Get support with initiating collaborations with King’s.
Our students are offered a wider range of research projects and learning opportunities, while also building new networks of connections across the research landscape.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/doctoralcollege:
Do you want to:
If the answer is yes, then join us at King’s!
Doctoral students are automatically members of King’s Doctoral College – from the moment you enrol and for two years after you leave.
Get in touch to find out more.
1.
Research partners in the NHS, business, industry and cultural sector.
2.
State-of-the-art clinical, physical and digital research infrastructure.
3.
A diverse, vibrant international community.
4.
The highest submission & completion rates in the Russell Group.
5.
Extensive career support, curated by a team of dedicated careers consultants.
6.
Our broad portfolio of leadership, entrepreneurial and developmental training opportunities.
Dr Lienkie Diedericks tells us about her experiences as a PhD student at...
Virginia Fernandez tells us about her experiences of being a postgraduate...
Gabriele La Malfa is a third year PhD student working on a project...
Postgraduate student Hannah Deasy discusses the importance of time...
Final year PhD student, Jie Tang, tells us about her experiences as a...
Lina shares her experiences of her part-time PhD in public policy and...
Dr Maísa Edwards shares her experiences of her Joint International...
Sanchika Campbell shares her experiences of engaging local communities in...
We are delighted to announce the winners of the 2024 King’s Supervisory...
Biological sciences, environmental sciences and physical sciences at...
We are pleased to announce the winners of this years King's Doctoral...

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/faculties-departments.aspx:
The Faculty of Arts & Humanities, established in 1989 in its present form, is one of the most prestigious faculties of its kind, ranked in the top six in Europe (QS World University Rankings, 2018).
We offer a wide range of traditional and contemporary subjects, ranging from ancient languages and philosophy to film studies and music, and from digital humanities to culture, media and creative industries.
Since 1989, King’s Business School has grown into a leading management institution – and one of the largest in London.
We’ve appeared in the top 10 for business and management studies three years in a row.
We’re a friendly, diverse community committed to the highest quality teaching and research.
People from over 80 countries come here to study with us, and we’re proud of the varied perspectives they bring to our School.
One of the world’s centres of excellence for dental education, oral and craniofacial scientific research, and oral healthcare provision, ranked 1st globally for dentistry in the QS World University Rankings 2020.
In collaboration with our London teaching hospital partners – Guy’s, King’s College and St Thomas’ – we train dental professionals at all levels, and undertake and actively promote world-class scientific, clinical and translational research focused around three key areas.
The Dickson Poon School of Law is one of the oldest law schools in England and recognised globally as one of the best in the world.
Our staff and students are engaged in teaching and research that addresses some of the greatest challenges of our time and we have a diverse student body from around the globe.
The School is based in Somerset House East Wing.
King’s Faculty of Life Sciences & Medicine is one of the largest and most successful centres for research and education in the UK.
Our schools of education deliver a comprehensive education and training portfolio, including undergraduate health and a suite of related BSc programmes in Biomedical Sciences.
This vibrant Faculty boasts a long tradition of world-leading research and teaching in physics, mathematics, chemistry, computer science and engineering.
Descended from the Nightingale Training School (est.
1860), we teach our students to give the best possible care and we research the issues impacting on the health of everyone, everywhere.
With over 70 years of sustained excellence, the IoPPN is a world leader in the research, teaching and study of psychiatry, psychology and neuroscience.
Consistently ranked 5th in the UK for social sciences(Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2014–18) and located at the heart of one of the world’s true global cities, our interdisciplinary approach provides us with a unique view across the past, present and future.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/artshums/index.aspx:
Study with us
Research
Providing research, partnerships and funding opportunities
Professor Abigail Williams will be joining King’s effective from 2026
Professor Carpenter finds document at Harvard Law School
King’s Arts & Humanities 17th in 2025 QS Rankings
Taking on some of the most pressing problems in order to help us create better digital futures and live well with technology.
When the notion of 'culture' has become the site of so much polarising debate, how do we keep talking beyond boundaries?
Bringing together students, staff and alumni at King’s with our cultural partners and community, to engage with arts and culture.
Our courses provide you with the skills and attributes employers are looking for and society needs.
Internationally recognised research offering interdisciplinary collaboration, social impact and ground-breaking research.
Collaborating with many of London’s foremost cultural institutions and with celebrated universities all over the world.
We create digital tools to explore academic research in new ways.
This multi-disciplinary team of thirteen full-time members works across the university and broader education sector — offering a high quality digital research service for academic projects across all disciplines.
26 August 2025
Dr Rosa Andújar, Senior Lecturer in Liberal Arts in the Department of Interdisciplinary Humanities,…
18 August 2025
Study offers many parallels with modern austerity and welfare reform
16 September 2025
Learn more about King's Volunteering and how you can give back your time to causes that are…
17 September 2025
Learn more about the degree programmes on offer at King's.
Download or view a prospectus in PDF format.
Receive email updates about our courses, events, fees and funding, studying in London, how to apply and more.
Sign up
27 November 2023, 00:00
Book a 1:1 coffee chat with us at King's Business…
22 May 2025, 15:00
Don't miss the chance to book a one-to-one,…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/business/index.aspx:
About us
Executive education
Executive MBA
Partnerships
The International Business Analytics and Management BSc will be a double degree award from two leading European management institutions
The Global Institute for Women’s Leadership is now part of King’s Business School with Professor Heejung Chung as Director
Dr Gabriela Gutierrez-Huerter O's work informed the British Standard Institution's standard on addressing modern slavery
At King’s, an Executive MBA is an investment in everyone’s future
Our undergraduate courses explore modern business, organisational management theory, economics and accounting.
A contemporary approach to education, engaging with business, finance, marketing, entrepreneurship and policy.
We offer a range of open courses and custom-made training programmes for private and public-sector organisations
Dr Ylva Baeckström’s research highlights how gender stereotypes affect…
Decisions should be made for people based on a…
Explore the impact of our ground-breaking research and see how we achieve real results
Our departments research and engage with students, scholars and practitioners around seven core…
Our research centres focus on the worlds of sustainable business, financial technologies, business…
Explore our research projects which investigate current issues
24 students from a widening participation background access paid opportunities to explore their…
11 August 2025
We are delighted to announce the winners of the Centre for Sustainable Business Seed Fund, now in…
The programme is designed to strengthen the skills of experienced professionals
27 November 2023
Book a 1:1 coffee chat with us at King's Business School.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/dentistry/index.aspx:
Our connections
Find out more about Dentistry, Oral & Craniofacial Sciences
Read about some of the career pathways of our staff at the faculty
Explore our new 2025 programme for overseas students
Evidence-based dental education with early clinical experience.
Our students are exposed to a rich breadth of skills and knowledge in a diverse clinical environment.
Speciality training, distance learning and part-time on campus courses that combine research-led teaching and sophisticated clinical care
World-class basic, clinical and translational research - plus outstanding PhD opportunities with one of the leading centres for oral, craniofacial and dental research
13 August 2025
Toothpaste made from your own hair may offer a sustainable and clinically effective way to protect…
5 August 2025
Travel.
Learn.
Connect.
In summer 2025, King’s College London proudly partnered with the Ivoclar…
16 July 2025
King’s College London researchers have been awarded a prestigious £2.6 million Programme Grant from…
Discover how our researchers are tackling disease and improving health for people around the world
Discover key research by group and subject
Find out how our research impacts society and makes the world a better place
Information on the simulation technology available at the Faculty of Dentistry, Oral & Craniofacial…
Find out how the faculty works with its clinical NHS partners
Discover the international connections the faculty has established around the world
How our past dental students and staff connect with each other, and current students and staff
Find out how we work with industry and other partners to improve oral health
DentAlliance a global strategic partnership formed on 23 October 2020.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/law/index.aspx:
Research & expertise
Law in practice
News & comment
Events
Read our impact case studies
Online and on-campus courses for legal professionals
Discover our work across AI and technology in law
King's Legal Clinic is a free to use advice-only legal service based in The Dickson Poon School of…
The Professional Law Institute brings together a number of initiatives focusing on legal education…
International links and opportunities for staff and students.
29 July 2025
Dr Leslie-Anne Duvic-Paoli’s research helped inform the International Court of Justice (ICJ)…
21 July 2025
‘The Promise’ aims to creatively portray findings of King’s Legal Clinic research on the Windrush…
03 September 2025
Join us for the third faculty alumni Pub Quiz at The Vault!
12 September 2025
Book Launch of 'Immoral Traffic: An Ethnography of Law, NGOs, and the Governance of Prostitution in…
Browse profiles of our academic staff and discover more about their work.
Find out about our research and its impact on society.
Find out more about our research projects confronting some of the world's major challenges.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/lsm/index.aspx:
Centre for Education
Research & Impact
Learn about our research and its impact on the world
Courses and opportunities for Undergraduate study
Courses and opportunities at a Postgraduate level
Read about our latest discoveries
Our thriving student community consists of more than 5,000 students who are supported by over 500 leading scientists and educators.
We deliver a wide range of courses for talented aspiring clinicians and health professionals in partnership with our NHS partners, including Guy’s, King’s College and St Thomas’ Hospitals.
Our undergraduate students are supported by world-renowned scientists and educators.
Benefit from our globally acclaimed research in a wide range of basic, applied and clinical…
Research is at the very core of what we do and how we educate students.
We are strategically aligned to King’s Health Partners, bringing together academics and clinicians who are committed to ensuring efficient translation and adoption of research innovation into daily clinical practice.
As a Faculty, we are proudly ranked 11th in the world for Life Sciences & Medicine, 26th in the world for Anatomy and Physiology and 31st in the world for Pharmacy and Pharmacology (QS World Rankings 2025).
In the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF2021) submission 93 per cent of our research overall was deemed either ‘world leading’ (4*) or ‘internationally excellent’ (3*) - for the full story on our REF2021 results please read this article .
From postgraduate research students to senior academics, our community collectively and…
The Research Interest Groups bring together thematic knowledge and expertise from across the Faculty…
In line with the King’s Vision 2029, in FoLSM, we are striving to build an inclusive community where our students, staff and visitors feel welcomed and valued and where people’s experiences and outcomes are equitable across groups.
As a faculty dedicated to delivering world leading education and research in the biomedical and health sciences, we have a responsibility to ensure that our work is accessible and benefits all societal groups in the UK and globally.
We are working hard to create a positive work environment, fostering employee engagement, and…
These Awards provide an opportunity to celebrate and value the diverse contributions of staff across…
Click on one of the links below to discover how our teaching and research departments are structured.
Find out about the academic areas we cover and delve into our research.
Supporting excellence and innovation in education.
The Faculty of Life Sciences & Medicine takes a closer look at a number of prominent subjects in…
The Guy's, King's College and St Thomas' Hospitals (GKT) Gazette is the world's oldest hospital…
A university partnership and collaborative research initiative between two of Europe's leading…
A world-leading collaboration between the Southern University of Science & Technology and King's…
During the summer, a group of 15 young participants from the Baytree Centre attended an Insight Day…
An AI tool could help cardiologists identify and target cells that trigger arrhythmia in patients…
25 August 2025
21 August 2025
King’s will play a central role in supporting anti-doping efforts at the Women’s Rugby World Cup…
04 September 2025
Our first seminar for this term will be presented by doctoral students Emily Gillings and Aleksandra…
05 September 2025
The official launch meeting of the Research Interest Group on Safe and Sustainable Diets for a…
10 September 2025
Join us for the Better Health & Care Summit, a half-day event exploring how we can scale inclusive,…
We invite all researchers affiliated or interested in ageing resilience to attend this seminar…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/nmes/index.aspx:
Collaborate
Outreach
Explore postgraduate research at King’s
See how our researchers are improving lives
Discover new research and student success stories
Our experts can enhance your offering - see how!
See how King's Chemistry is shaping the future of our world.
Discover how Engineering is equipping our students for success in an ever-changing world.
Visit Informatics, the cutting-edge place to study and research computer science.
Discover the world-leading Mathematics department, a place of scientific tradition.
Meet our Physics department, where academics with international reputations advance research.
Space-based solar power could help Europe reach net-zero by 2050 by reducing the need for land-based…
The Inaugural Lecture Series from the Faculty of Natural, Mathematical & Engineering Sciences (NMES)…
Discover our research in the Faculty of Natural, Mathematical & Engineering Sciences.
Bringing together researchers from different subjects to create truly interdisciplinary work.
We have the expertise, facilities and talent to help you innovate and achieve your goals.
A world-leading centre on science and technology for decarbonising our world
Transforming our understanding of life through the innovative power of physical science
CUSP applies data science and visual analytics to challenges in and for London
Training future research leaders in Mechanobiology across a broad range of biological themes.
BiPAS is a multi-disciplinary PhD training programme in biological physics.
Training a new generation of experts in safe and trusted AI methods.
We promote innovation, impact creation, and knowledge and technology transfer, enabling a thriving ecosystem of research partnerships and collaborations with industry, the public sector, and the arts and cultural institutes.
We offer multiple approaches to engagement, including consultancy, collaborative projects with industry and public organisations, executive education, student projects co-designed and co-supervised by our external partners and student-led start-ups.
Opportunities for collaboration
Find out more about studying in the Faculty of Natural, Mathematical & Engineering Sciences.
Find out more about going on a placement, or offering placements to students.
Discover our outreach activities in the Faculty of Natural, Mathematical & Engineering Sciences.
The NMES Graduate School is home to the faculty's community of postgraduate researchers, who play a vital role in furthering our world-leading research and teaching in chemistry, engineering, informatics, mathematics and physics.
From training and funding opportunities, to career development and campus events, the Graduate School offers a comprehensive range of services that meet the diverse needs and interests of our research students, supporting them to achieve their academic and professional goals.
NMES Graduate school key information, guidance and links for prospective applicants
Find out more about the Faculty of Natural, Mathematical & Engineering Sciences, King's College…
The NMES Faculty's vision for equality, diversity and inclusion
Meet the Faculty of Natural, Mathematical & Engineering Sciences.
Interdisciplinary science is fundamental to solving global challenges.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/nmpc/index.aspx:
Departments & institutes
Connections
Pre-registration
Practice Learning
Nursing at King’s ranked #1 in the world
Find out the latest news from the Faculty
What to know before applying
Discover our new Masters programme
Cross-university initiative sets new vision for health and care
How to strengthen healthcare systems during a pandemic
Students from the Faculty of Nursing, Midwifery & Palliative Care met the Secretary of State for…
Zoe Moula will use her time to explore how the arts can  bridge human and planetary health by…
23 July 2025
Professor Stephen Bremner will join the Faculty on 22 September 2025 from Brighton and Sussex…
Join us for this webinar that explores innovative approaches to supporting people living with or at…
Our pre-registration undergraduate and postgraduate courses prepare you for a rewarding career in…
Our postgraduate courses support you to balance your career and education, and further your…
Undertake postgraduate research in the Faculty of Nursing, Midwifery & Palliative Care at King's…
We are a community of over 250 staff and 2,800 students.
Find out about the talented people in our…
Our research seeks to improve the healthcare experience and outcomes for patients and those…
We have close connections with local and international healthcare organisations, education…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/ioppn/index.aspx:
Diversity & inclusion
Most people do not experience severe withdrawal
Award will enable study of silent nociceptors in arthritis pain
UK government unveils anticipated ten-year Plan for improving England’s…
Sir Simon Wessely awarded honour for services to mental health
Find out about IoPPN's world leading research and impact, and why we are ranked as one of the top…
Our ground-breaking research makes a real difference in understanding, preventing and treating…
View all our research groups and centres here at the IoPPN and learn more about some of the unique…
Take a look at the exciting courses in psychology and neuroscience at the IoPPN
Take the next step in your career by joining a community of thriving postgraduate scholars and learn…
World-class facilities, fantastic support networks and training opportunities are just some of the…
We offer a number of interactive, distance learning courses which are delivered 100% online
27 August 2025
The World Association of Social Psychiatry awarded the 2025 Pelicier Prize to Emeritus Professor…
New research from the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience (IoPPN) at King’s College…
A new report from the King’s Centre for Military Health Research (KCMHR) has explored the outcomes…
Guest speaker, Professor Martin Dorahy, will present the history, aetiology and phenomenology of…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sspp/index.aspx:
Two former students win in the 2025 King’s Distinguished Alumni Awards
Read more about the Prime Minister and other speakers at Bush House
Geography moves up ten places in global QS rankings
Dr Andreza Aruska de Souza Santos reflects on the 10 years since the Paris Agreement, delving into…
Pía Madanes Quintanilla explores why the US's foreign policy should have a feminist…
Lucas Peixoto Pinheiro da Silva examines Brazil’s deepening economic ties with China…
The presence of generative AI in students’ lives is not temporary.
It is not a…
Dr Bence Nemeth outlines how European nations have responded to the US becoming a…
Prof.
Jenny Driscoll, Professor of Children's Rights, talks about her role in these…
A new study reveals how Western men use Thailand’s Muay Thai fighting scene to perform masculinity,…
Government policies that encourage property speculation are a key driver behind boom and bust house…
A new academic study has revealed that when it comes to import tariffs on clothing, it is it is as…
Undergraduate courses in the Faculty of Social Science & Public Policy.
Postgraduate courses in the Faculty of Social Science & Public Policy.
Study for a PhD in the Faculty.
Our expert academic staff lead research on key challenges across society, the economy and…
Explore our world-leading research, across our schools and the Policy Institute at King's.
Explore our staff and their research interests.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/about:
King’s College London is a world-renowned university that delivers exceptional education and world-leading research.
We're committed to creating positive and sustainable change in our local and global communities through outstanding education, impactful research, and genuine service to society.
Our Strategic Vision 2029 outlines our ambitious plans as we approach our 200th anniversary in 2029.
We focus on five key areas:

1.
Educating future leaders and change-makers
2.
Challenging ideas and driving change through research
3.
Giving back to society through meaningful service
4.
Working with our local communities in London
5.
Fostering global citizens with an international perspective.
King's was founded in 1829 but our roots reach back to the 12th century.
Our senior leadership, Professional Services and faculties and departments.
King’s Vision 2029 sets out our ambition to make the world a better place.
Job vacancies across research, teaching and professional services.
King’s was founded in 1829 and is made up of five campuses across London.
We have more than 42,000 students and over 185,000 alumni from all over the world and have 14 Nobel Laureates.
Our annual research income is £257m and we are 6th in the world for research ‘power’ (2021 Research Excellence Framework).
We are ranked 31st in the world (QS World University Rankings 2026) and 36th in the world (Times Higher Education World Rankings 2025).
We are also ranked 33rd in the world in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings that measure universities against the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
100% of the electricity we purchase directly comes from UK wind energy (since October 2017).
King's target is to be net zero carbon by 2025.
Our students become critical thinkers who can lead and change the world.
Research is core to what we do, what we care about and how we educate.
We're committed to social impact and change, both locally and globally.
Our mission is to ensure that our research, education and commitment to service result in positive change and value for people, planet and society.
Our community has identified five urgent global challenges to focus our attention as we deepen our partnerships on local, national and global levels.
Read our latest news stories from across the arts, sciences and health.
We’re investing to inspire the very best learning, teaching and research.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/about/history.aspx:
Founded within the tradition of the Church of England by the Duke of Wellington and King George IV, who granted our royal charter in 1829, King's has a proud history of inspiring and supporting those who seek to solve the world's most pressing problems.
From research that led to the discovery of the structure of DNA and informing air pollution awareness and policy to developing life-changing therapies and making maths education available to underrepresented groups – these are some of the ways that we continue to have a transformational impact on society.
We have a long and distinguished international reputation in the humanities, law, science, psychiatry, medicine, dentistry, nursing, and the social sciences.
Fourteen people from King’s and its associated institutions have been awarded the Nobel Prize , including Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu for his role in South Africa’s anti-apartheid campaign, and Professor Michael Levitt for his joint work in developing multiscale models for complex chemical systems.
Notable alumni include British sprinter and world-record holder Dina Asher-Smith , biophysicist Dr.
Rosalind Franklin , famous for her work in X-ray spectroscopy, and acclaimed children’s writer Sir Michael Morpurgo .
The Duke of Wellington, victor of the Battle of Waterloo and Prime Minister, chaired the public meeting that launched King's on 21 June 1828.
Early in 1829 the Earl of Winchilsea publicly challenged Wellington about his simultaneous support for the Anglican King's College and the Roman Catholic Relief Act.
The result was a duel in Battersea Fields on 21 March.
Shots were fired but no-one was hurt.
When the University of London was established in 1836, King’s became one of its two founding colleges.
Over time, it has grown and developed through many mergers, including those with Chelsea and Queen Elizabeth Colleges in 1985, with the Institute of Psychiatry in 1997 and with the United Medical and Dental Schools of Guy’s and St Thomas’ Hospitals in 1998.
These mergers brought institutions with their own distinguished reputations and traditions.
The Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience is closely associated with the South London and Maudsley NHS Trust, which includes the famous Bethlem Hospital dating from the 13th century.
Medicine has been formally taught at St Thomas’ Hospital since the 16th century and at Guy’s since the early 18th century.
The Florence Nightingale Faculty of Nursing, Midwifery & Palliative Care descends directly from the world’s first professional school of nursing, founded by Florence Nightingale in 1860.
King’s has enjoyed financial and academic autonomy since 1994, while remaining part of the University of London.
Since 2008, it has awarded its own degrees.
King’s vision is to make the world a better place and today, we seek to define the university of the future.
Many academics are researchers working within and influencing their industries, giving students access to the latest thinking within a contemporary context.
Our four Thames-side campuses in central London, and at Denmark Hill, place us at the centre of leading global conversations in policy, government, law, culture, religion, business and medicine.
But we’re also truly part of the boroughs we live in.
We use our expertise to identify challenges affecting our communities and collaborate with them to address local issues, examples that can then be used across the UK and throughout the world.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/about/strategy:
Vision 2029 builds upon our history of service to society and takes us to our 200th anniversary in 2029.
It sets out our ambition to broaden the base of King’s.
To extend our reach and expand access.
To deliver an extraordinary student experience.
And to strengthen how well we work together.
We have developed new areas of outstanding quality and built on our existing areas of strength.
We have strengthened partnerships in London and with our home boroughs.
And we have shaped equitable global collaborations that respond to society’s challenges.
In the years ahead, we will continue to advance our world-leading education, supporting our students to achieve their potential.
We will uncover insights and develop solutions to accelerate global progress.
We will serve the needs of society, delivering tangible impact locally, nationally and globally.
We’re now in the next stage of our journey towards our 200th anniversary.
King’s Strategy 2026 maps our priorities for the years ahead.
World-class education for an increasingly diverse student body
Supporting our staff to develop their potential
Building on our strong foundations to ensure sustainable excellence
Using our expertise as a force for good
Rapidly scaling our response to the climate emergency
Making a positive difference with our local communities
Building equitable alliances and partnerships around the world

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/about/strategy/learning-and-teaching:
For almost 200 years King's has been at the cutting edge of research-enhanced teaching, educating our students to become critical thinkers who can lead and change the world.
King’s graduates are distinguished not just by their knowledge but by their wisdom, character, service ethic and global mindset.
We strive for every King’s student to achieve their potential through world-class, inclusive, research-enhanced teaching, outstanding and accessible physical and digital learning environments and personalised student journeys.
King's Vision 2029 sets out that a King’s education is about more than achieving a good degree classification: it enables students to develop their intellectual curiosity and passion for learning and contribute to real-world social, environmental and economic impacts.
By removing barriers to students' success and developing their perseverance and personal wellbeing, inclusion and respect are championed and integrated into the King's student experience as institutional and personal values.
During their time at King’s, students learn how to effectively navigate their lives and careers after university, as highly employable and sought-after graduates.
Empowering underrepresented students in higher education
Research and evaluation to help enhance social mobility and student success
Specialist support for students from underrepresented backgrounds
A whole-university approach to student mental health and wellbeing
Delivering a transformative King’s education
Assessing the quality of teaching at Higher Education providers in England
Recognising, rewarding and celebrating impact
Student-led nominations towards staff who have made a real difference
Managing quality assurance matters
Enhancing the learning and teaching environment at King’s.
Working with local partners to develop distinctive learning opportunities
Education programmes developed in collaboration with University partners
Providing expert language tuition in the heart of London
Online master's programmes and short courses
Our free short courses, known as Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs)
Find out more about student engagement internships
Supporting the adoption and integration of generative AI.
Improving the digital experience for staff and students

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/about/our-people:
Professor Shitij Kapur is the Vice-Chancellor & President of King’s College London.
He returned to lead King’s in June 2021, following more than four years at the University of Melbourne, where he was Dean and Assistant Vice Chancellor (Health) for the Faculty of Medicine, Dentistry and Health Sciences and interim Deputy Vice Chancellor (International).
Lord Stevens of Birmingham Kt.
took up the appointment of Chair of King’s College Council on 1 January 2025.
Lord Stevens has had a distinguished career in public service in the UK and internationally.
Senior Vice President (Academic)
Senior Vice President (Health & Life Sciences)
Senior Vice President (Operations)/Chief Operating Officer
Vice President (Finance) & Chief Financial Officer
Vice President (Education & Student Success)
Vice President (International, Engagement & Service)
Vice President (Research & Innovation)
Vice President (People & Talent)/Chief People Officer
Executive Dean, Faculty of Life Sciences & Medicine
Executive Dean, The Dickson Poon School of Law
Executive Dean, Faculty of Natural, Mathematical & Engineering Sciences
Executive Dean, Faculty of Social Science & Public Policy
Executive Dean, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience
Executive Dean (Interim), Faculty of Nursing, Midwifery & Palliative Care
Executive Dean, Faculty of Arts & Humanities (Interim)
Executive Dean, Faculty of Dentistry, Oral & Craniofacial Sciences
Executive Dean, King’s Business School
The Revd Dr Ellen Clark-King, the Dean of King's College London, is responsible for overseeing the spiritual development and welfare of all students and staff.
The Dean's Office is the first point of contact for any queries about religious provision at King's and is home to the Associate of King's College London (AKC), Chaplaincy and the Chapel Choir.
The University's senior leadership structure.
Our academic faculties, schools and departments.
Services that support our students and staff.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/jobs:
King’s College London provides a dynamic habitat for individuals looking to expand their career prospects.
Whether you are interested in research, teaching or professional services, King’s has a range of job and career opportunities available.
With its world-leading position in education and research as well as its commitment to service, King’s is dedicated to improving the lives of people around the globe while supporting individual growth through an inspiring work environment.
As such, it’s no surprise that many top professionals, researchers, and scientists have chosen to develop their careers at King’s over the years – join them now and take your career to new heights!
We believe in the power of education to create a better future.
We enable the efficient operation and delivery of core services.
If you’re on the lookout for job opportunities at King’s, then our jobs search page is your one-stop destination to search for vacancies across all King’s campuses.
We have an extensive list of current vacancies across various departments and roles at King’s.
The search page is designed to be user-friendly, allowing you to filter your search based on faculty, job category and other relevant criteria.
King’s is investing in the highest calibre of talent across all levels to...
Society faces an increasing need for nursing, midwifery, and palliative...
One of the most prestigious arts and humanities faculties in the country.
All our internal vacancies are published in HR digital services.
King’s staff with access to HR digital services should apply by this route as the system will recognise you as a member of King’s.
You don’t need to register a new account.
For internal candidates who do not have a HR digital services log on – all internal vacancies can be accessed via the external job board and will be clearly marked as internal.
Affiliates and students without access to HR digital services should apply through the external King’s jobs website.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/about/partnerships:
King's works in partnership with our local London communities to improve access to education, support the development of thriving local economies, solve problems such as air pollution and health inequality and develop opportunities for creative collaboration.
Our staff, students and alumni work closely with local charities, schools and voluntary organisations and we know that these partnerships add value to research, education and to the communities around us.
It is King’s ambition to engage and work collaboratively in every region of the world through the development of equitable partnerships with like-minded institutions, membership in university networks, and engagement with key regional and national stakeholders.
Our engagement with the world provides diverse and enriching educational experiences for our students, as well as fosters and supports joint research that addresses global challenges and contributes to the prosperity of local and global communities.
It is how we channel our creativity to further knowledge and understanding, challenge convention and deliver impact.
Collaboration is a key feature of research at King's, featuring local, national and international partnerships which facilitate pioneering research that crosses disciplines and changes paradigms.
King's is based in London, but our reach is global.
We are working with partners outside of the UK in the healthcare, finance, education, science and tech industries.
From our joint work with Nanjing Vocational Health College in China to our collaboration with Afreximbank in Abuja, Nigeria, our partnerships seek to broaden our impact, strengthen relationships and expand opportunities for communities across the world.
King’s works with partners across health, academia and governments to strengthen health care in Somaliland, Sierra Leone, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Zambia.
King's College London is your trusted partner of choice in sourcing and developing global talent.
Explore our employer engagement opportunities to help you develop plans for recruiting and developing talent from King's.
King's commitment to social impact and societal change builds on our long history of active engagement with the world and its most challenging problems.
Our volunteering partnerships connect students and staff with charities, community interest companies, social enterprises and organisations with clear social missions to help make a difference.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/about/governance-policies-and-procedures:
The governance structure and procedures of King’s College London ensures transparent and effective governance of the University, true to both our values and external regulatory requirements.
The following sections contain information on our governance structure, including:
The Council ensures the University operates effectively and sustainably.
The Council is supported by a number of standing committees.
Policies, regulations and documents that determine the governance of...
Our Charters and Statutes, regulations, financial information and more.
The latest financial statements for King's and how our income is invested.
How the Vice-Chancellor & President's remuneration is calculated and...
Guidance on raising concerns or complaints with King's.
We aim to embed equality, diversity and inclusion into everything we do.
King's has a strong commitment to the values of freedom of expression.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/professional-services:
King's is dedicated to the advancement of knowledge, learning & understanding in the service of society.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/about/governance-policies-and-procedures/diversity-inclusivity.aspx:
We want our policies, practices and processes to empower individuals to be able to contribute fully.
As an employer and educator, King’s recognises its legal duties as well as the moral imperative to promote diversity and inclusion within the campus community and to provide a safe and healthy environment for work and study where staff, students and other members of the King’s community are treated with dignity, courtesy and respect.
Our dedicated Diversity & Inclusion team not only ensures that King’s meets and upholds its legal obligations in regard to equality and anti-discrimination law, but also makes positive interventions to embed the ethos diversity and inclusion into policy, processes and everyday practice, working to eliminate barriers to participation and success.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/about/governance-policies-and-procedures/financial-information:
The university is committed to providing transparency and clarity on its finances and how the income we earn is used to further King’s services and ambitions.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 July 2024 show an extraordinary surplus of £327m for the year.
Of this, £323m related to the change in the financial position of the Universities Superannuation Scheme (USS).
As USS is no longer in deficit, King’s does not have to show the value of contributions in the future to the USS deficit.
This is a non-cash movement and has no impact on our budgeting.
Removing the effect of the USS movement, King’s income increased by £40m (+3%) to £1,270m and our expenditure increased £109m (+9%) to £1,266m – leaving an operating surplus of £4m.
We usually then take out the income received as donations, which would produce a true deficit on operations of £19m.
The combination of a 3% increase in income and a 9% increase in expenditure explains the relative decline in our financial results compared with 2022-23.
Our financial strategy is to earn operating surpluses that will grow over time, to be able to invest in our academic future for the benefit of our students and colleagues and to maintain and enhance our physical and digital infrastructure.
Our financial target for the current financial year is a higher surplus than 2023–24.
Our recruitment of students in 2023 was below our plans and meant that tuition fee income was £40m below our target.
While this reflected the experience of many other universities, it represented a significant income shock.
The 2024 student recruitment was considerably stronger, and we believe that we will be very close to our financial income targets for tuition fees.
Research income reached £257m in 2023–24, an increase of 9% on 2022–23.
We were successfully awarded £293m in new grants and contracts, a £13m increase on the previous year.
This growth continues the trends of the last three years and offers positive signs for the future.
Relative income contributions from different activities:
Expenditure increased by £109m or 9%.
The main reason was an increase of over 10% in the costs of salaries and wages – reflecting the higher national pay award, King’s decision to increase the London Weighting by £1,000 and an increase of around 4% in staff numbers.
King’s has built up a substantial endowment fund from generous philanthropic gifts over our long history.
We seek to generate income from the fund to support current expenditures in line with the donor’s intentions, and also maintain the real value of the funds, so that the annual income stream can be maintained in the future.
The University invests its endowments in managed funds run by professional investors and not directly into individual companies.
In 2023-24, our Endowment Asset investments increased by £24m, from £301m to £325m.
King’s maintains and regularly reviews our ethical investment policy, which was most recently updated on 18 November 2024.
King’s specifically invests in funds that proactively screen to avoid controversial and unethical sectors and industries – like tobacco, controversial weapons and fossil fuels.
The university invests in funds that actively target positive social and green investments.
How the Vice-Chancellor & President's remuneration is calculated and structured.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/impact:
For over 200 years, King’s has been dedicated to serving the needs and aspirations of society.
Our commitment to service ensures our education, research, partnerships and operations deliver social change and create lasting value for people, the planet and society.
From improving access to justice and pioneering new treatments for life-threatening illnesses, to understanding and addressing the root causes of inequality, we bring together our communities and stakeholders to actively support efforts that build a better future for all.
To unite our ambitions and drive global progress, we have identified five Impact Priorities that focus our expertise and efforts.
One we safeguard and steward with urgency
Through pioneering advancements in prevention, medicine and healthcare
So that access and attainment are not defined by background
To strengthen resilience and forge pathways to sanctuary
Designing a future that empowers us to live well with technology
Through a strong culture of civic engagement, we work hand-in-hand with communities in London and across the world to address challenges, support inclusion, amplify underrepresented voices, and contribute to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
This commitment is delivered through flagship initiatives such as King’s Volunteering and the King’s Sanctuary Programme, as well as through our strategic partnerships with a wide range of local and international organisations and academic institutions.
These initiatives not only connect students and staff with opportunities to make a difference, but also provide the skills and networks to become compassionate leaders, active citizens and global changemakers during their time at King’s and beyond.
Strengthening local connections and partnerships with our home boroughs
Acting together for power, social justice and the common good
Find opportunities and build connections to make a difference
Creating positive opportunities for forcibly displaced people
Supporting the global effort to build a better future for people and planet
A King’s education is about more than achieving a good degree classification: it enables students to contribute to social, environmental and economic prosperity.
From community engaged learning to global exchange and summer skills development, we help students become critical thinkers who can transform the societies in which they live.
Our Social Mobility & Widening Participation department helps to remove barriers to success throughout a student’s educational journey, creating a world in which a young person’s destination is not limited by their start in life.
Build skills and connections to make an impact at King’s and beyond
Expanding opportunities through global partnerships
As one of the UK’s leading research universities, King’s collaborates across disciplines and sectors to develop solutions to society’s most complex challenges.
We do this by creating and sharing knowledge and innovations, inventing ground-breaking new products, improving public services, enhancing health and quality of life, and much more.
In doing so, we help local, national and international communities lead healthier and happier lives and make the planet safer, fairer and cleaner by influencing policy and practice.
Our research tackles global issues and adds value to the UK economy
Explore 'Our Divided Planet' in news, comments, events and podcasts
We are rapidly scaling our response to the climate emergency.
We're doing this through transformative multidisciplinary research and by embedding sustainability into our teaching, partnerships, impact and operations.
The climate crisis calls for a fundamental shift in our societies and economies.
It will mean new paradigms for decision-making, leadership, education, research and innovation.
We are harnessing our connections and expertise to influence climate action and enable just and fair transitions to net zero.
Research, education and action across King’s
Transformative targets for environmental sustainability
Learn more about how you can join in and take action
We offer a range of funding and training opportunities designed to equip our community and partners with the resources, skills and guidance needed to tackle some of the world’s most urgent challenges.
At the heart of these efforts is the One King’s Impact Fund, which supports innovative ideas and helps scale existing projects across research, education and service that align with King’s Impact Priorities.
Complementing this, King’s Impact Changemakers offers a vibrant community for connection, collaboration and personal growth through events, workshops and shared learning.
These programmes are guided by the King’s Impact Leaders Board, a diverse group of experts who offer mentorship, provide cross-sector insights and bolster our ambitions for societal impact.
Funding to support projects that align with King's Impact Priorities
Find out more about the projects supported by the One King's Impact Fund.
A coalition of students, staff and partners dedicated to change
Integrated solutions shaped by academic and professional expertise
Making a difference through ground-breaking research and education

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/kingsvenues:
With many of our buildings close to the River Thames, King’s Venues offers an exciting choice of over 200 unique spaces for every type of event in both modern and period settings.
These include:
Steeped in a history that goes back 180 years, with up to date facilities and equipment, each of the King’s Venues is special and can be adapted, equipped and matched to purpose.
King’s Venues are available for:
Interested in using King's Venues for your event?
Get in touch to discuss...
People internal to King's can enquire via the following Helix...
Commercial filming and photo shoots can be arranged with Location...
King's Venues services
Affordable accommodation in the heart of London.
King's Venues hospitality food menu
King's Venues hospitality drinks menu
Historical buildings with modern event facilities.
Bush House offers state of the art event space in the heart of London.
Conveniently located next to London Bridge Station.
King's Waterloo venues are close to London’s South Bank Centre and...
Teaching centre with lecture theatres, classrooms and meeting space.
Situated in Camberwell, in the London Borough of Southwark.
Central London location, overlooking the River Thames.
A unique and creative venue offering state of the art facilities.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/alumni/index.aspx:
Networks
News & Features
Read the latest Issue.
See how you can give back to your alumni community.
Subscribe to hear about the latest news, events and alumni opportunities.
King's Connect: The gateway to your global alumni community for careers, mentoring, networking and advice.
Giving is at the heart of what we do at King's.
Find out how you can help give back, and make a difference to those in need.
Get involved by sharing your time, expertise, and connections to help make a difference to King's community.
Your alumni magazine.
Welcome to your global alumni community.
At King's, we value our alumni immensely.
We want you to keep in touch with us, wherever you are in the world.
With that in mind, we invite you to explore our website to find out about all the ways that you can stay involved with your university, and meet other like-minded alumni.
Read our latest news and alumni stories, browse our extensive list of events and exclusive benefits, traverse the ways you can give back to King’s, and discover much more.
A collection of up-to-date research and initiatives that would not be possible without the power of…
The King's Experts Series is a series of webinars exclusively for King's alumni.
Each month, you'll…
Our How to...
webinars welcome our brilliant alumni community to share their expertise with the next…
20 August 2025
‘Service to society’ is the founding principle of King’s College London.
And, every year, members of…
24 July 2025
Dylan Huw (BA Liberal Arts with a Major in Film Studies, 2014-2017) has been selected by Arts…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/clearing/confirmation:
UCAS has some excellent guidance on steps you can take to prepare for the release of your exam results.
You can see which exam results come to us directly from UCAS, as well as knowing what to expect when you log on to UCAS Hub.
If you have any questions about your offer conditions make sure that you contact the Admissions Office through King's Apply .
The results embargo is a period of time set by UCAS in the run up to the SQA and A-Level Results Days.
It is placed to ensure confirmations or results aren’t miscommunicated to students or advisors.
It means that we are not able to discuss applications made via UCAS so fewer communications are made during this time.
This page details which results are sent directly to King's.
Note that some students who do not quite meet the conditions of their offer may sometimes need to wait until mid-August for a final decision from King's.
If you have any questions please contact us through King's Apply .
On Thursday 14 August 2025 many of you will receive your exam results.
Here's what you should do on A-level results day:
We ask that you avoid calling us during Clearing on Thursday 14 August and Friday 15 August 2025 unless you have an urgent question, so that we are able to assist other students.
For many applicants, exam results will be sent by exam boards directly to UCAS, who will send them directly to King's.
This means that you don't need to notify us of your results, unless specifically asked.
However others may need to ensure that they send evidence of their final results to King's directly.
Please note that certified translations may also be required if your results are not in English, though we will accept your official results without translations wherever possible.
Evidence should be submitted by attaching a scanned copy of your document to a King’s Apply message and submitting this to the Admissions Office for review.
If you’re in any doubt as to how we’re receiving your exam results, we advise that you speak with your school/college as soon as possible and submit scans of any paper copies of your results in the meantime.
King's won't be able to tell you your grades.
Your exam results should be sent to your school or college, or you should follow any other instructions you have been given by your exam boards.
If UCAS is not sending us your results, you must send them to King's by the deadline stated in your offer letter.
If you believe there may be a delay in providing your results you should inform us via King's Apply as soon as possible.
If we do not have your results by this time and you meet your conditions after this date then we cannot guarantee that we will be able to offer you a place on your course this September.
It is very important that you ensure that you have provided evidence that you have met all the conditions of your offer.
Evidence should be submitted by attaching a scanned copy of your document to a King’s Apply message and submitting this to the Admissions Office.
We will only be able to confirm your offer once you have done so.
If you haven't met your offer conditions, you can still send your results in.
We are able, for some courses, to still confirm applicants who have not met the conditions of their offer, and we are unable to make a final decision until we can see evidence of the results you received.
Please send us a scan of your official results through King's Apply.
We are only able to accept cashed in A-level results.
Please contact your school or college to discuss cashing in your grades and receiving the final results.
King's will receive some results directly from UCAS, but not all results.
Below is a list of qualifications and whether we receive the results.
Yes.
No, only partial results.
You will need to scan and send us an official copy of your confirmed results through King's Apply, including: Confirmation of the award (naming your Access Diploma subject) and a breakdown by Unit & Level of your Credits and Grading (Pass/Merit/Distinction).
Yes (though module results will need to be sent to us separately through King’s Apply where this is an offer condition).
If you have completed your degree this year and do not yet have an official degree certificate, please send your completed electronic transcript to the King's Apply portal or admissions-query@kcl.ac.uk through a secure verification service such as Gradintel via the awarding institution.
Please note - if you have sent this to the admissions-query inbox, send a message on King's Apply notifying the Admissions team of this.
No, please scan and send us your official results through King's Apply .
King's will have these results.
Yes, though we may also have access to your results from IBO – please contact us if you’re at all unsure.
If not included on this list, you will need to scan your certificates and/or transcripts and send them directly through King's Apply.
If you are unsure what you are required to send, please send us a message as soon as possible.
If you have not met the conditions of your offer, your place on your chosen course is not guaranteed.
In some circumstances, however, we may still be able to offer a place to applicants who were very close to meeting their offer.
Please read the following carefully:
You should check UCAS Hub to check your offer status on Thursday 14 August 2025, and go to your school/college to collect your exam results.
King's will have sent a decision to UCAS ready for you on Thursday wherever possible.
Remember, if you see that your place has been confirmed on UCAS Hub, you do not need to call/contact King’s to confirm your offer.
UCAS Hub will say something like: 'Congratulations!
Your place at King’s College London to study [course name] has been confirmed.
'We'll send you further information about enrolment and starting with us in September.
Thanks for helping to keep our telephone lines free for others.
You must meet the exact terms of your offer in order to take up your place on the programme (e.g.
if your offer was AAB, you are not considered to have met your offer if your grades are A*AC).
If you were very close to meeting the conditions of your offer, your application may have been given further consideration - please note though that our decision will take into account the results of other applicants and the number of spaces available on the course.
King’s will notify UCAS of our final decision and you will be able to see this on UCAS Hub on Thursday 14 August 2025.
If you had an offer to study at King’s and did not meet your offer conditions but you are planning to appeal your results, as you would still like to come to King’s, you can get in touch with us on our confirmation line for King’s offer holders only, which will be available in August on our Clearing webpages.
You must meet the exact conditions of your offer - in one test sitting - in order to take up your place on the course.
Please be aware that changes to government legislation mean that we have to be very strict on applicants meeting our English language requirements.
No English language test results that are below the College minimum will be considered.
If you are having any part of your exams remarked, please inform the Admissions Office through the King's Apply system immediately.
You will need to ensure that all change of results forms are submitted to the Admissions Office through King's Apply by 31 August 2025 for consideration.
Unfortunately we are not always able to offer even academically strong applicants the course they initially applied for.
In some of these cases we are able to identify another course at King’s that we believe they would be more suited to – perhaps based on interests raised in their personal statement, or the subjects they are currently studying.
In this case, you would receive what we call an alternative offer, where we offer you a place on a course different from the one you originally applied to.
You can find out more information about the offered course by searching for it on our website, and we would recommend reading this information before responding to your offer.
It is important to note that you will not be able to switch back to your original course after accepting an alternative offer, so you should only accept this offer if you are interested in the offered course.
There is a limited timeframe for you to accept the alternative offer, the deadline is indicated when you log in to UCAS Hub and you can contact UCAS if you are unsure.
The next key steps will be getting your email address, completing online enrolment and attending campus registration.
King's will send you details about these next steps by email in the weeks before you start your course so please make sure your contact details in UCAS and King's Apply are updated.
In the meantime you can see our Welcome to King's webpages which will be the key place to look for all the information you need to have a great start at King's.
We ask that you avoid calling us on Thursday 14 August and Friday 15 August 2025, unless you have an urgent question, so that we are able to assist other students.
You need to hold an unconditional offer in order to be issued a CAS number for a student visa.
Please make sure that you have entered your passport information and indicated that you will require a visa on your UCAS application.
If you have completed these steps and now hold an unconditional offer and have paid your deposit, the Admissions Office will produce your CAS number.
This will be visible through the King's Apply system when complete in a new tab called "Your Visa".
Please be aware that the CAS number is only valid for six months from the date of issue and therefore we are only able to issue these six months before the start of your course.
View more guidance on making your student visa application.
Full details of campus registration sessions and specific induction sessions for your course/department/faculty will be made available as soon as they are confirmed.
Please note: dates may vary between courses.
Check your enrolment schedule on the Welcome to King's webpages carefully for campus registration times, and check your course handbook once you have arrived to confirm details of your term dates, reading weeks, and any key exam dates.
Your department or course will provide full details at your induction session.
See the Disability Support & Inclusion webpages for contact details and guidance.
You do not need to pay your tuition fees before - or at - campus registration.
If you are paying tuition fees yourself, the College will invoice you for your tuition fees after you have registered on your course.
Your invoice will detail deadlines and payment methods.
Find out about Clearing at King's.
Your frequently asked questions answered.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/kings-edge/index.aspx:
Explore our bank of recordings available 24/7
Undertake our King’s Skills for the Future assessment
Your one-stop shop for new graduates
King's Experience gives you formal recognition for activities that you do alongside your degree.…
The Student Opportunity Fund supports King's students in undertaking projects or attending…
Get involved in more King's Edge events this academic year!
Explore a diverse array of hands-on activities, workshops and awards designed to enrich student…
The research award is a great way to spend the summer and keep engaged with the university.
As well as learning about research in preparation for future projects or an academic career.
It is a great opportunity for students to do something meaningful during the summer that actually makes a difference!
Discover the Associate of King's College London (AKC) and how you can enrol.
Your home for KCLSU events, student groups, news and much more.
The Home of Sport & Wellness at King's College London.
King's Sport & Wellness delivers a range of…
Learn a language with our short courses, private tuition and bespoke corporate training.
Lessons…
20 May 2025
Julia Soldrzynski, a law student at King’s College London, leveraged the Student Opportunity Fund to…
15 April 2025
King's students shortlisted in multiple categories for this year's targetjobs Undergraduate of the…
28 March 2025
Trisha Gupta, a postgraduate English Literature student, used the Student Opportunity Fund to attend…
As a former foundation student, Arya Gonullu became a PALS Leader to mentor others navigating maths,…
Digital Essentials : Getting started and the King's Digital Essentials Programme
Improve your employability skills and enhance your CV Expand your knowledge in areas you are interested in but aren't necessarily directly related to your degree programme Expand your professional and personal networks, improving your job prospects If you complete an award, you will receive a digital certificate and LinkedIn accreditation Awards also feature on your Higher Education Achievement Record (HEAR), the official transcript of your accomplishments at university
Develop your entrepreneurial mindset and enhance your future, whatever that might hold - and it goes…
Engaging with some of the most pressing problems of the 21st century
Bringing together students, staff and alumni at King's who engage with arts and culture
DigiEd aim to ensure that all students are equipped for success by working in partnership with…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/entrepreneurship/scale-your-venture/start-ups.aspx:
Get started
Learn Entrepreneurial Skills
Develop your idea
Scale your venture
Could you create a fairer healthcare system?
Reimagine education?
Transform the way we work, travel and communicate?
Or leverage technology to create a more sustainable future?
Change like this starts with someone like you.
We welcome ambitious founders who are committed to changing the status quo for the better.
Have a bold and brilliant solution to a widespread and pressing problem?
We want to hear from you!
Our community is at the heart of the accelerator.
Fellow founders will hold you accountable, positively challenge you, connect you to their networks and support you when the journey gets tough!
Working alongside other ventures going through a similar experience is truly valuable.
Founders are more likely to achieve long-term success, when they're surrounded by people with whom they can share their learnings and accomplishments with.
King's Start-up Accelerator provides a vast network of investors, alumni and specialists, both in residence and externally.
It's an exciting place to be and I think it's close to unparalleled.
Applications for the King's Start-up Accelerator are now closed.
Register your interest to stay updated with the next application window.
We launched our platform Blitzo in the first month of joining the accelerator.
Our first customer was a fellow founder.
Four months in we have 4X our customer base and signed our first business-to-business partnership deals.
The chance to tap into King’s Investor Network is incredibly appealing.
It’s not just about finding funding but connecting with people who genuinely understand and support what we’re trying to build.
The programme’s emphasis on building connections and working closely with other entrepreneurs creates an environment where ideas can flourish and partnerships can form organically.
The collaborative atmosphere encourages us to share experiences, tackle challenges together, and celebrate successes as a team.
My co-founder and I wouldn't have been able to get this far without the 'culture of nurture' at the Entrepreneurship Institute.
It's one thing to teach people how to scale, which is common amongst other accelerators, but here the focus on resilience, peer-to-peer support and guidance both personally and professionally has been immense.
If you're a King's member of staff or a researcher, and have a venture that is related to medical devices and healthcare technologies, check out the King's MedTech Accelerator .

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/volunteering/index.aspx:
Visit the King’s Volunteering online platform to browse opportunities
Get involved and attend an upcoming event
Staff at King’s get up to 21 hours per year to volunteer
Help us to demonstrate our collective social impact
Find out how King’s can help you become a trustee or governor
Information for community organisations
King’s Volunteering is your one-stop shop for discovering opportunities and building connections with people and organisations that are driving positive change in our local, national and international communities.
From one-off events to regular volunteering opportunities, there's something for everyone.
Whether you are passionate about the environment, education or mental health, King’s Volunteering can connect you with an organisation and a cause that's right for you.
We all have our reasons to volunteer, whether it’s advocating for a social issue, gaining new skills, improving our wellbeing or meeting new people.
Whatever your motivation, sign up to King’s Volunteering to connect , discover and make a difference.
Find out about volunteering with KCLSU and get support with launching your own project.
Volunteering opportunities while working at King's
Information for community organisations looking to partner with King's
Explore the latest opportunities at King's Volunteering online.
Find out how you can log your hours and earn rewards.
Get rewards for volunteering.
Volunteering is an active, deliberate pursuit, and can take many different forms.
Each volunteer chooses an activity they want to do, motivated by the difference they want to make, to make the world a better place.
A volunteer might not consider themselves to be a volunteer.
Volunteering can involve anything from doing shopping for a neighbour, being a trustee or coaching a sports team, preserving natural green spaces, to acting with others to help tackle issues from climate change and racism to food and fuel poverty.
This diversity has often made ‘volunteering’ a tricky thing to define.
At King’s, we see a broad range of service in action, and at King’s Volunteering, we focus on activities that support our local, national and international communities.
Volunteers can find their own activities or use the King’s Volunteering platform to find a role that suits them.
Any and all volunteering that supports a charity or community group can be logged on the King's Volunteering platform which provides a verified record of volunteering activities and may qualify for inclusion on a student's Higher Education Achievement Report (HEAR) when they graduate.
Volunteering might be structured and organised through a, community group or charity.
It may be more self-directed or spontaneous, like litter picking, or the plethora of mutual aid witnessed during the height of the Covid-19 pandemic.
It may be a regular activity, a one-off, or anything in-between.
At King’s Volunteering, we support a range of volunteering activities, that usually fit into one of four types:
Everyone employed by King’s can choose to spend up to three days or 21 hours per year doing voluntary work for another organisation or volunteering scheme, regardless of the role you have at King’s.
The time you can take to volunteer is pro-rated if you work here part-time.
If you have used your Service Time this year, please let us know by completing this online form.
Visit the Service Time intranet page.
Reverend Sarah Farrow is Vice Dean and Chaplain to the St Thomas' & Waterloo Campuses.
She took part…
Peter Bishai is the Campus Technical Manager (FoLSM/IoPPN) at Denmark Hill Campus.
He spends a lot…
Dr Anna Rebmann is a Lecturer in Social Entrepreneurship at King's Business School.
Outside of work,…
Head of Volunteering (Maternity Cover)
Head of Volunteering
Belonging, Engagement & Volunteering Project Officer
Engagement Manager (King's Volunteering)
volunteer@kcl.ac.uk
King’s College London brought together students, staff and community partners to celebrate the…
24 September 2025
Discover the history, heritage and volunteer opportunities at St Mary le Strand with King’s…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/explore/research-strategy:
It’s how we channel our creativity.
How we further knowledge and understanding.
How we challenge convention.
And how we deliver impact.
Through our research we save and improve lives.
We enhance the economy.
We advance discussion and debate.
And we shape policy and the cultural landscape.
By providing a supportive and collaborative environment for our community – from postgraduate research students to senior academics – our research is informed by and responds to the needs of society.
For the next stage of our development, we are:
We are investing in research and education growth in natural sciences and engineering.
This will be complimented by extra support for interdisciplinary connections across AI and digital technology, the physical sciences of life and net zero technologies.
New technologies will change how we generate and apply knowledge in every part of society and the economy.
We are drawing together our AI research and education in our Institute for Artificial Intelligence , and our new Digital Futures Institute is exploring how we can live better with technologies.
We will continue investing in new multidisciplinary research approaches, facilities and applications across all of our faculties.
This will enable us to build closer links with users and policy makers, supporting the development of a much wider base of digital and AI innovation expertise.
We are rapidly scaling scale our response to the climate emergency with new programmes and centres of excellence, including the Net Zero Centre and Centre for Sustainable Business .
Our research will explore solutions for climate change mitigation, adaptation and health impacts, with particular emphasis on multidisciplinary research focused on large scale social and economic transitions.
Discover our ambitions for climate and sustainability .
We are further developing our innovation hubs in advanced therapies, healthcare engineering and AI, and mental health and neuroscience to draw together major investments from industry, government and charities.
Built on long-term collaboration with King’s Health Partners, this will speed the path from research to patient benefit.
We will also implement multidisciplinary approaches to UK and global public health needs across our faculties, from basic sciences to humanities.
Building on our track record in converting our research into marketable products, Innovation@King's will deliver unified support and planning across commercial partnerships and translational and applied research.
Empowering our Research community
Discover research and innovation at King's
Learn about King's strategy and ambitions

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news:
Government policies that encourage property speculation are a key driver behind boom and bust house price cycles, according to a...
A new academic study has revealed that when it comes to import tariffs on clothing, it is it is as often as not men, not women,...
Space-based solar power could help Europe reach net-zero by 2050 by reducing the need for land-based renewable energy.
Omega fatty acids could protect against Alzheimer’s disease in women, new research has found.
A study led by researchers from King’s College London and Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust has found that the Basophil...
Taiwan's future remains precarious due to intensifying geopolitical tensions, internal vulnerabilities, and strategic...
The UN Refugee Agency reports that across the world, over 100 million people are now forcibly displaced and these numbers continue to grow.
By 2050, more than...
In this Spotlight on Arts & Humanities, we detail the project that details what connects people across millennia — the search...
Dr Ylva Baeckström’s research highlights how gender stereotypes affect women, both as consumers of financial advice and as...
For people living at home with advanced illness, health can worsen rapidly and unpredictably.
This makes it essential that they...
As part of our Spotlight on Arts & Humanities series we delve into the Making Sense of Visual Art — a project led by classicist,...
Type 2 diabetes is among one of the foremost challenges facing policymakers in Thailand.
It accounts for considerable death,...
In the latest Spotlight on Arts & Humanities, we look at how a project from the Department of Classics is helping preserve world...
Providing information and resources for journalists and media professionals.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/genetic-testing-of-ivf-embryos-helps-women-over-35-conceive-faster:
Genetic testing of IVF-created embryos could help more women over 35 have a baby in less time, a clinical trial by researchers from King’s, King’s College Hospital, and King’s Fertility has found.
Published today in the Journal of Clinical Medicine , this is the first randomised controlled trial worldwide to focus exclusively on women aged 35–42, a group at higher risk of producing embryos with chromosomal abnormalities.
The trial looked at the use of Preimplantation genetic testing for aneuploidy (PGT-A) to check embryos for chromosomal abnormalities before transfer.
Older women are more likely to produce embryos with the wrong number of chromosomes, which can lead to difficulties conceiving, and increases the risk of miscarriage.
Current NICE guidance does not currently recommend routine use of PGT-A, driving women to pursue this test privately or skip it altogether.
This guidance is based on previous evidence from studies which had a young average age of participants where the rate of aneuploidy, abnormal number of chromosomes in a cell, is lower.
The study also broke new ground by including mosaic embryos, those containing both normal and abnormal cells, which are frequently encountered in IVF but rarely included in research.
The pilot study of 100 women undergoing fertility treatment at King’s Fertility was aimed to fill the evidence gap by focusing on older patients, and assessing the feasibility of conducting a multi-centre randomised controlled trial that explores the test’s impact on pregnancy and live birth rates in women aged 35-42.
Both the clinical treatment and embryology procedures for the study were carried out at King’s Fertility.
The unblinded trial was conducted from June 2021 to June 2023.
There were 50 patients in the PGT-A group and 50 patients in the control group.
The study showed that the PGT-A test showed a higher cumulative live birth rate after up to three embryo transfers with 72% in the PGT-A group versus 52% in the control group.
Women in the PGT-A group achieved pregnancy in fewer transfers, reducing the time to conception, an important factor for women of advanced reproductive age.
Whilst this is a pilot study and the difference did not reach statistical significance due to the small sample size, the trend suggests a potential benefit that warrants investigation in a larger, multi-centre trial.
The number of women starting their family above the age of 35 is increasing and women in this age group are more likely to create embryos with the wrong number of chromosomes.
This increases the risk of unsuccessful implantation and miscarriages.
Our findings suggest that targeted use of PGT-A in this age group could help more women have a baby sooner, while also reducing the emotional toll of repeated unsuccessful cycles.
Lead author Dr Sesh Sunkara, from the School of Life Course & Population Sciences and King's Fertility, said: "By focusing exclusively on women aged 35–42 and including mosaic embryos, we have addressed questions that previous studies have not adequately explored.
While larger multi-centre trials are needed to confirm these findings, improving treatment efficiency with a shorter time to achieving pregnancy and live birth could reduce the physical and emotional burden of IVF for women of advanced reproductive age.”
Dr Ippokratis Sarris, Director of King’s Fertility and co-author of the study, said: “This research is a testament to the dedication and expertise of the team at King’s Fertility.
Not only were all patients recruited and treated here, but the embryology work was also carried out by our laboratory staff.
We are proud to have led this pioneering trial, which addresses one of the most important questions in IVF treatment for women over 35, and we look forward to building on these findings in larger, multi-centre studies.”
Clinical Senior Lecturer
Director of King’s Fertility
Professor of Fetal Medicine

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/public-hugely-overestimate-graduate-regret-while-underestimating-economic-value-of-universities-and-being-wrong-on-tuition-fees-new-study:
People guess that 40% of graduates wouldn't go to university if they could choose again, when the reality is just 8%
The public hugely overestimate how many graduates regret going to university and significantly under estimate the importance of higher education to the UK economy, according to a study into perceptions of the sector which also reveals widespread misunderstandings about tuition fees, student loans and the financial returns from a university education.
The research, by the Policy Institute at King’s College London and the Higher Education Policy Institute, reveals the public vastly overestimate graduate dissatisfaction:
At the same time, the public underestimate the economic scale of the higher education sector:
And people are very wrong about what’s happened to tuition fees:
Strikingly, it is young graduates who are most likely to show signs of misunderstanding how student loans work:
The research, which is based on a nationally representative survey of 2,082 adults aged 18+ in the UK carried out with Focaldata, examines the public’s understanding and views of UK higher education, revealing significant gaps between perception and reality across key aspects of the sector.
Professor Bobby Duffy , Director of the Policy Institute at King’s College London, said:
“These surveys of misperceptions are not meant to be general knowledge quizzes – we don’t expect the public to have a detailed understanding of the university sector; they have many more directly important things to focus on.
“Instead what they do is send signals about how we really feel about an issue, which will be based on what we hear from the media, social media, politicians and our general conversations with friends and family.
“And the standout finding for me is the huge overestimation of the sense of regret about going to university among graduates: only 8% of graduates say they wouldn’t go if they could choose again, but the average public guess is 40%.
“This will be driven by vivid, individual stories of graduate regret and the generally negative background noise about the declining value of a degree.
It has parallels with misperceptions of immigration, which we also measure in the study, where people hugely overestimate the proportion of immigrants who are asylum seekers and the proportion of overseas students who claim asylum once they are here, because of the vivid stories of boat crossings that dominate headlines.
“It also illustrates the challenge of shifting these misperceptions and getting this more positive message across – it’s extremely difficult to first get pubic attention, and then cut through the noise of individual negative stories that are much more likely to stick in our minds.
“But the sector needs to take these findings to bolster its own confidence and developing concerted communications of the reality, which is more positive than so many think.”
Nick Hillman , Director of the Higher Education Policy Institute, said:
“People who work in higher education often complain that the role UK universities play is misunderstood.
But these results reveal for the first time just how poor an understanding many members of the public have about higher education institutions today.
“Universities are bigger in terms of income and employment and more successful in terms of student outcomes than the public often recognise.
However, it would be absurd to blame the voters for this major misunderstanding.
“Those of us who work in the higher education sector have not done a good enough job of telling people the true role of universities in modern Britain.
We should start correcting that record by inviting more people onto more campuses more often.”
Study details Fieldwork for this report was conducted via Focaldata's in-house platform, with API integration to an online panel network.
We surveyed a nationally representative sample of 2,082 adults aged 18+ across the UK, with data weighted by age, gender, region, ethnicity and education status.
Fieldwork took place between 25 and 30 June 2025.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/new-cancer-drug-boosts-effectiveness-of-chemotherapy:
A groundbreaking cancer drug could enhance how patients respond to chemotherapy even in treatment-resistant tumours.
The drug works by disarming a key defence mechanism that tumours use to protect themselves from treatment.
In preclinical models, it has already shown promise in making chemotherapy-resistant cancers more responsive to therapy.
Chemotherapy is one of the most widely used cancer treatments, but it doesn't always work as effectively as hoped.
One major reason is that a specific group of the body’s own immune cells act as a barrier around tumours.
These white blood cells known as macrophages surround the blood vessels inside tumours and act like gatekeepers, blocking helpful immune cells from entering and doing their job in supporting the responses to chemotherapy.
The King’s College London scientists, who have launched a spinout company Aethox Therapeutics , found that these macrophages make a protein called heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), which helps shield the tumour from the immune system and block the effects of chemotherapy.
The new drug, KCL-HO-1i, targets this protein.
Professor James Arnold, Head of Tumour Immunology Group, King’s College London, said: “ We discovered that these macrophages in cancer play a key role in blocking chemotherapy.
By targeting the enzyme they produce using KCL-HO-1i, we were able to help beneficial immune cells and chemotherapy drugs become significantly more effective.
In laboratory models, even chemotherapy-resistant tumours became responsive to treatment, which is a really exciting step forward.”
Unlike many cancer treatments that require hospital visits, KCL-HO1i is designed to be taken at home as a tablet between chemotherapy sessions.
This makes it easier for patients to incorporate into their treatment plans without adding extra hospital burdens.
In early tests using mouse models of breast cancer, supported by funding by Cancer Research UK and Medical Research Council (MRC), the drug made tumours more responsive to a range of commonly used chemotherapies.
These promising results suggest it could be used across a wide variety of cancer types and chemotherapy treatments.
The researchers hope that with funding, clinical trials on breast and other cancers could begin within two years.
Professor James Spicer, Professor of Experimental Cancer Medicine, King’s College London, said: "Chemotherapy remains a key part of treatment for many patients with cancer, but too often it is not as effective or long-lasting as we might like.
This research has identified a key reason for these limitations, and discovered a drug that we are keen to test in the clinic alongside established chemotherapy drugs".
This breakthrough is the result of a multidisciplinary collaboration between researchers including Professors James Arnold, James Spicer, and Miraz Rahman and their research teams at King’s College London.
If human trials are successful, KCL-HO-1i could become a valuable companion drug to existing cancer therapies – helping more patients to benefit from the treatments that are already available and reduce the need for more aggressive cancer therapies in the future.
Tanya Hollands, Research Information Manager at Cancer Research UK, added: “Researchers are increasingly learning how to make better use of existing cancer treatments, whether it’s using them differently or in combination with new medicines, like this work suggests.
Using combination therapies can help bring improved treatment options to patients more quickly, safely and affordably, because some components of the treatment have already been tested and used in the clinic.
While early stage, it’s exciting to see this potential new way to disarm cancer’s ability to avoid detection by the immune system with a new drug, while also boosting the effectiveness of chemotherapy, and we look forward to seeing how this work progresses.”
This study was funded by the Medical Research Council (MRC) with support from Cancer Research UK.
Media contact: Annie Slinn, annie.slinn@kcl.ac.uk
Professor and Head of Tumour Immunology Group
Professor of Experimental Cancer Medicine
Professor of Medicinal Chemistry

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/events:
Join us for this webinar that explores innovative approaches to supporting people living with or at risk of type 2 and...
Pippa Hockton; Carolin Hess

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/events/better-health-care-summit:
10 September 2025 13:00 to 17:30
Coin Street Conference Centre, London
Join us for the Better Health & Care Summit , a half-day event exploring how we can scale inclusive, sustainable and community-based approaches to health and care.
This year will spotlight the careforce, frugal innovation and community themes of the Better Health & Care Hub, with discussions on:
The 10-Year NHS Plan and what it means for health and care
New polling insights on the experiences and needs of informal carers
Project showcases featuring creative research and solutions from across King’s
Expect an interactive agenda with expert panels, roundtable discussions and a networking reception on the Coin Street rooftop (weather permitting).
Further programme details will be published shortly.
This event is open to all but will be of most interest to researchers, practitioners, policymakers, community partners and those interested in improving and shaping the future of health and care.
Whether you’re new to the Hub or already connected, this is a great opportunity to learn more and get involved.
The Better Health & Care Hub is a world-leading, interdisciplinary hub for research and education at King's College London, dedicated to transforming health and care on a global scale.
It focuses on improving care and equity through three core themes:
Led by the Florence Nightingale Faculty of Nursing, Midwifery & Palliative Care, in collaboration with the Faculty of Social Science & Public Policy and the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, and bolstered by strategic partnerships with NHS, social care, community, patient-led, charitable and international organisations, our hub harnesses interdisciplinary expertise.
Together, we aim to accelerate high-quality growth in research, education and impact all focused on improving the quality, equality and value of health and care worldwide.
X | Bluesky | LinkedIn | YouTube
Director of Better Health & Care Hub
Professor of Health and Social Care
Vice Dean (Research & Impact) and Head of Division, Methodologies
Initiative will address the rising tide of inequity, multimorbidity, and complex conditions.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/events/veminism-symposium:
13 September 2025 10:00 to 18:30
Science Gallery London, Guy’s Campus, London
The Visual and Embodied Methodologies network (VEM) is a network and research project based at King’s College London.
The current project is called VEM for Understanding Intersectional Gendered Violence, aiming to consolidate and embed visual and embodied methodologies (VEM) as an established and widely recognised research practice and methodological approach within the social sciences.
Our day-long Veminisms Symposium, on the 13th September 2025, showcases and debates how Visual and Embodied Methodologies can help us understand and resist intersectional gendered violence across a continuum of different types of violence, from sexual harassment to intimate partner violence, state and institutional violence, war and genocide.
As the project has developed in a highly collaborative manner, research participants and groups will showcase the creative outputs they have produced over the two years of project work.
The creative work will be accompanied by thematic panel discussions that sees social scientists in debate with activists, artists, and project participants.
This symposium is open to all and free to attend.
Food and refreshments will be provided throughout the day.
Registration is required
Speakers include:
VEM Team - Jelke Boesten, Cathy McIlwaine, Rachel Kerr, Suzanne Hall, Tiffany Fairey and Phoebe Martin
Arts Cabinet - with Svetlana Sequeira Costa, and artists Wilma Woolf and Balindile ka Ngcobo
Hey, Sis.
- with Shelby Bootle
Migrants in Action - with Renata Peppl and Carolina Cal
Louise Wallwein
Jane Thakoordin
The project 'Intersectional Gendered Violence' (2023-2025) seeks to understand how Visual and Embodied Methods (VEM) can be used to enhance our understandings of gendered violence, from sexual harassment to state violence, war, and genocide.
Associate Dean Doctoral Studies
Vice Dean (Research), Faculty of Social Sciences and Public Policy
Professor of War and Society
Director of Engagement
Senior Research Fellow
Research Associate

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/events/money-historical-and-contemporary-perspectives:
01 October 2025 18:00 to 20:15
Bush House, Strand Campus, London
Over the course of history, money has relied on trust.
Mario Pisani argues that trust is a function of the capacity of state institutions to safeguard the value of money.
Fundamentally, this is because traditionally the safest assets have been those that give you a claim on the state itself: state-issued money, central bank assets, or government securities.
He explores how central banks and treasuries have through history directly or indirectly underpinned trust in money.
Rhys Bidder looks at these debates from a contemporary perspective – acknowledging that many novel forms of money are currently emerging, stimulated in part by the advent of blockchain.
While technological advances may be new, trust in central banks and in governments’ fiscal rectitude continue to be key – not only in the context of CBDC and tokenized deposits, but also, perhaps less obviously, in the case of stablecoins.
Mario Pisani is a Trustee of the Royal Mint Museum.
He is also a Visiting Professor at the King’s College London where he teaches 'The Treasury and an introduction to Economic History – in partnership with HM Treasury’.
He is also on the Council of the Society of Professional Economists and chairs the Treasury History Network.
Rhys Bidder is Deputy Director of the Qatar Centre for Global Banking and Finance at King’s Business School.
Rhys spent several years as an economist at the San Francisco Fed and is currently a research affiliate of the Central Bank of Ireland.
He also is an advisor at Chainlink Labs and has taught at several universities, including Oxford, Cambridge and Warwick.
Rhys’ work has focused on bank intermediation and asset pricing, with recent emphasis on central bank digital currencies.
His research has been published in leading academic journals including the Journal of Monetary Economics, the American Economic Review and the Journal of Economic Theory.
In partnership with the Society for Professional Economists.
Deputy Director of the Qatar Centre for Global Banking & Finance

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/events/judges-in-dialogue-intellectual-property-law:
03 October 2025 12:00 to 15:00
Strand Campus, London
We are starting our ‘Judges in Dialogue’ series this academic year with a panel dedicated to intellectual property law.
Judge Spineanu-Matei from the Court of Justice of the European Union and Lord Justice Arnold from the Court of Appeal of England and Wales will be debating current issues of common EU-UK interest around trade marks.
This event is part of our Jean Monnet Centre of Excellence on the Next Generation of EU-UK relations .
Octavia Spineanu-Matei obtained her law degree in 1990 and started her professional career as a judge at one of the district courts in Bucharest on 1 January 1991.
From 1996 to 1999, she was a judge at the Tribunal of the same city and from 1999 to 2005, she served at the Court of Appeal Bucharest; she was the president of the civil section in both courts from 1997 to 2003.
She was appointed as a judge at the High Court of Cassation and Justice of Romania – Civil and Intellectual Property Section in 2006.
From 2006 to 2016, Ms.
Spineanu-Matei served also as an External Member of the Enlarged Board of Appeal of the European Patent Office in Munich, Germany.
Since 1997, she dedicated herself to both the initial and the continuous training of Romanian judges and prosecutors at the National Institute of the Magistracy where she was a member of the Scientific Council and then, from 2011 to 2016, a director.
Octavia Spineanu-Matei was appointed as a judge at the General Court of the European Union on 19 September 2016.
She served at the General Court for five years before being appointed as a judge at the Court of Justice on 7 October 2021.
Richard Arnold read Chemistry at the University of Oxford before being called to the Bar of England and Wales in 1985.
He specialised in intellectual property law and became a QC in 2000.
He was a Judge of the High Court, Chancery Division from October 2008 to September 2019 and Judge in Charge of the Patents Court from April 2013 to September 2019.
He has been an External Member of the Enlarged Board of Appeal of the European Patent Office since March 2016.
He has been a Judge of the Court of Appeal since October 2019.
He is the author of Performers’ Rights (6 th ed, Sweet & Maxwell, 2021), the editor of the Halsbury’s Laws of England title Trade Marks and Trade Names (5 th ed, Butterworths, 2014), an editor of Dicey, Morris and Collins on The Conflict of Laws (16 th ed, Sweet & Maxwell, 2022) and has published numerous articles.
Phillip Johnson is [or will be soon] a Professor of Law at King's College London.
He has published extensively on intellectual property law and is the editor of the Intellectual Property Quarter .
He also sits as an Appointed Person hearing trade mark appeals from the Intellectual Property Office.
Join us after for a light lunch prior to the event which will then be followed by coffee.
To keep updated with the Centre of European Law's latest events you can subscribe to their mailing list which can be found here .
Chair of European Law

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/london/index:
Creating work and learning opportunities across the capital
Responding to the city’s diverse challenges
Working with our home boroughs of Lambeth, Southwark and Westminster
King’s Vision 2029 sets out our ambition to be a civic university at the heart of London, working in partnership to contribute to the success of the city in which we make our home.
Through London, students connect their learning with real-world challenges while developing new insights, networks and skills.
Drawing on the lived experience of Londoners as partners in the co-creation of new knowledge, we develop life-changing ideas with local impact and global relevance.
Deepening our connections with our home boroughs of Lambeth, Southwark and Westminster, and collaborating with the city's businesses, policymakers, universities and further education institutions, we make a positive difference to our local communities.
londonengagement@kcl.ac.uk
Local partnerships strengthen learning opportunities for King's students
Research collaborations help address London's challenges and opportunities
Developing collaborative approaches to shared challenges
Local connections create new knowledge with transnational impact
Enhance our impact by working with university partners
Read about the impact King's has on the world's greatest challenges.
Serving the needs and aspirations of society and building a better world.
Building equitable alliances and partnerships around the world.
A pioneering work experience project, My Life SC1ence, is helping make jobs in London’s life…
11 July 2025
King's celebrates the next cohort of our Parliamentary Research Interns at an event in Parliament
2 July 2025
Vice-Chancellor and President of King’s College London, Professor Shitij Kapur, has been appointed…
Representing the voice of the higher education sector in London
Researchers and policymakers working together for a better London for everyone
Maximising the impact of civic universities in their place

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/cultural/index:
Serving & connecting
’Quantum Untangled’, presented by King’s Culture, will reveal the power…
An exhibition in The Curiosity Cabinet
‘Imaging Peace’ a new outdoor exhibition featuring global community peace…
King’s Imaging Peace photography project asks ’what does peace look like to…
25 June 2025
'Quantum Untangled', presented by King’s Culture, will reveal the power quantum possesses to…
3 June 2025
Hyperemesis Gravidarum (HG) is a severe pregnancy illness affecting women of all ages and…
1 April 2025
Shown for the first time, a bespoke jewellery piece in Waymarkers depicts the strength of community…
Supporting, inspiring, applying and showcasing King's research through partnerships
Find out more about cultural activities and opportunities for Students across King's
Resources and programmes to support the cultural sector in engaging with King's

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/student-experience:
From the moment you join King’s as a student, you’ll also become part of one of the best student cities in the world* with our campuses making us the most central university in London.
With world-class teaching facilities, a cosmopolitan student community and historic architecture, there’s so much to explore.
Get a feel for life at King's by exploring our webpages below, watching our student videos, and joining one of our guided campus tours either in person or virtually online.
*QS Best Student Cities 2026
Ranked the number 1 student city in the world, find out everything London has to offer
Check out our King’s Student Union where you can join a range of societies, and our King’s Food outlets, where you can grab a bite to eat and relax with friends.
From community events, workshops, classes and campus gyms, find out how you can get involved.
Get experience and exposure to different types of work which will provide you with valuable workplace skills, experience and confidence.
Living expenses will depend on your choices and although London can be expensive, there are opportunities to get the best out of London on a limited budget.
Explore our teaching rooms, social spaces and campus highlights, all while learning more about university life at King's.
Find out more about the wellbeing support and guidance at King's
During your time at King's, a range of academic and personal support and...
Learn key academic skills with our two-week preparatory programme.
Learn the academic and language skills you need to succeed in your degree.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/new-students:
Congratulations on achieving your place at King’s!
Whatever you have chosen to study, this page will direct you to the key information to support your journey, such as Student Services Online, where you can find answers to common questions and support topics.
You can also find a link to the Welcome to King’s video channel below where you can watch bitesize videos introducing you to different teams at the University.
We wish you all the best and congratulations again!
We are proud to welcome international students from all over the world here at King’s.
Studying in a new country can feel disorienting at first, so we've put together the resources and guidance below to help you settle into our diverse and welcoming community.
As part of Welcome to King’s, check out International Student Welcome.
Join us for a range of online and in-person activities to help you settle in, meet fellow international students and discover more of London.
To find out more about what you can expect, watch the video below.
Your journey at King’s begins!
Explore the links below for all the information you need before you arrive.
You've arrived at King’s!
Where to begin?
There’s plenty of resources below to get you started.
Starting to settle into life at King’s now?
The links below will help support you in your first few weeks.
The best way to get started and plan for Welcome is to download the Welcome to King’s app, providing essential information about your first few weeks at King’s.
On the app, you’ll be able to book campus tours, a slot to collect your student ID card and all Welcome events including the Welcome Hub.
You’ll also be able to find out more information about your faculty and your induction.
Make sure to enable push notifications on the app to keep track of the timings and locations of the events you’re attending, so you don’t miss anything!
For more information on the Welcome to King’s app and to find out how to download it, watch the video and click the links below.
Want to know what it's really like to be a student at King's?
Register with Unibuddy below and ask our students the questions you really want answered.
You can chat to our Welcome Ambassadors to find out more about the Welcome to King’s App, what Welcome Events are on offer, or if you have any questions about starting your journey at King’s.
Student Services Online is the fastest way for you to find the answers to your questions about our student services.
We have hundreds of articles on a range of topics and if you can’t find the answer you need, then you can contact our friendly and helpful Student Services team via bespoke enquiry forms.
There is also a dedicated New Students section with information and answers to common queries for starting at King’s.
Find out more by watching this video or clicking the link below:
Read more about King’s Accommodation from King's College London...
King’s is right at the heart of London.
Check our top picks for places to...
Outlook web app
Access your student records

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/terms:
"College" means King’s College London, a university with charitable status, established under royal charter and having its registered office at Strand, London WC2R 2LS, United Kingdom;
By accessing this website you accept and agree to the following terms and conditions: College gives no warranty as to the accuracy of the information or guidance for any specific purpose.
The information and guidance contained on the website does not constitute legal or professional advice.
All implied warranties and conditions are excluded, to the maximum extent permitted by law.
The College is in no way responsible or liable for any damage or loss whatsoever arising from viewing or downloading information from this website and from the use of, or reliance on, the information and guidance on this website, although this does not affect claims in respect of death or personal injury caused by negligence.
Any links to third parties websites are provided for convenience only.
College has no control over such websites and accepts no liability for their content.
College reserves the right at all times to vary, change, alter, amend or remove any of these terms.
By browsing the website you accept that you are bound by the current terms and conditions and notices, and we therefore recommend that you check these each time you revisit the site.
You must not use this website, and/or any interactive facilities which are available through it to:
While College tries to make this website available 24 hours a day, it reserves the right to suspend or withdraw access, without notice, to either the whole or part of the website, for any reason.
King's has made every effort to ensure that the course information provided is both helpful and accurate as at the date of publication.
However, some changes, for example to courses, facilities or fees may become necessary due to legitimate staffing, financial, regulatory and academic reasons.
King's will endeavour at all times to keep any changes to a minimum and to keep students informed appropriately.
For this reason, it is particularly important that you should check the website for updates or contact King's using the contact details contained on our website.
King's dealings and contracts with students and prospective students do not create a contract or other legally binding relationship between King's and anyone else, for example parents, guardians or sponsors.
Use of the online prospectus is also subject to the general Terms and Conditions of Use of the College's website, laid out on this page.
This site and its content are protected by copyright.
The content of this website may be viewed, printed or downloaded for personal, non-commercial use only.
It is not to be modified, reproduced, transmitted, published or otherwise made available in whole or in part without the prior written consent of the King’s College London.
In no event shall any user of this website use the name or logo of King’s College London or any of its trademarks, other than with the express written consent of an authorised representative of King’s College London.
Any complaint made about any material available on King’s website or information relating to the College contained on external Internet sites will be addressed as soon as possible.
These terms and condition represent the entire agreement between the parties in regard to the use of the website.
The College in its sole discretion is entitled to alter or amend the website and the terms and conditions without notice.
Information contained on the website may be subject to conditions and/or disclaimers as indicated.
English law governs these terms and your use of this website and you submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/terms/privacy:
This is King’s College London’s core privacy notice.
It explains the university’s approach to collecting and using personal information (any information which relates to or identifies an individual) about people we interact with.
It also supplements more specific information you may have been given (a privacy notice or statement) when engaging with a service, facility, event or initiative run by the university.
For example, you may have followed a link here because you signed up to attend an event aimed at prospective students or members of the public.
The information below is the same for all the university’s activities where personal information is collected, so we thought it would be helpful to have it in one place that you can refer to and revisit whenever you need.
Individual university services may have their own privacy notices with further information about how they use your personal information.
For more detailed information about our main processing activities, see the following notices.
We are King’s College London, one of the top 40 universities in the world and the fourth oldest university in England.
We provide world-class teaching and cutting-edge research.
Further information can be found in the About King’s section of our website.
Our Student’s Union ( KCLSU ) is a separate legal entity so they have their own responsibility when it comes to collecting and using personal information.
You may have already been told about the specific purposes for which we are processing your personal information, as well as the ‘legal’ or ‘lawful’ basis for that processing (the justification under current data protection legislation).
More about ‘legal’/’lawful’ basis:
We can only process (collect, use, store etc) your personal information if one of the following applies:
We will generally use your personal information to provide you with the services, products or information you have requested from us.
We may need to share your information with our service providers for these purposes, but we will ensure that appropriate contracts with these parties are in place and they only process your information in accordance with our instructions and data protection legislation.
If we need to transfer any information to a country not recognised as providing equivalent protection, we will use additional safeguards approved by UK or EU regulators.
By law, you have certain rights over your personal information:
To make a request for any of the above, please see our Data Subject Rights page.
If you make contact directly with the university or through one of our service providers, you may be asked to opt-in to receive marketing communications.
This is done at the point where your personal information is first collected.
Where the University meets the requirements , we may send you information about our commercial activities including events, products, and services relevant to you under the 'soft opt-in' exception.
We send business to business marketing emails or texts to companies (“corporate subscribers”) under the lawful basis of ‘legitimate interest’.
Within any marketing communications, you will be provided with a simple and transparent way to unsubscribe.
Any changes you request to how your personal information is processed for the purposes of marketing and/or the provision of service updates will be acted on promptly.
If you proceed to enrol as a student at King's College London, the email address that you registered an interest with will be overwritten by your new King's email address for the duration of your study.
This means that all internal communications from King's will be sent to that email address and enables you to utilise King's self-service student enquiry centre.
If you do not wish for this to happen, please contact us to opt out.
Cookies are text files, which identify a user's computer to our servers.
Cookies in themselves do not identify the individual user, just the computer used.
Our website uses cookies for collecting user information which may include IP address, operating system and browser information.
We use persistent cookies to track returning visitors.
They expire after 12 months and enable us to compare website traffic from month to month.
To see more about our cookies, see the cookie use page.
Information on controlling or rejecting cookies is available from several websites, such as http://www.aboutcookies.org .
Most browsers allow you to refuse cookies – see the help section of your browser’s toolbar for further information.
Unless stated otherwise in a privacy notice, we will keep your information based on the periods or criteria specified in the university’s Records and Data Retention Schedule .
We keep our privacy notice under regular review and we will place any updates on this web page.
This privacy notice was last updated on 14 July 2023.
To contact us about our privacy notice or information we hold about you, please write to the university’s Data Protection Officer, Olenka Cogias:
If you do not feel we have dealt with your request appropriately, you can complain to the Information Commissioner’s Office .
To contact us about our Privacy Notice or information we hold about you, please write to the university's Data Protection Officer, Olenka Cogias.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/policyhub/modern-slavery-act-transparency-statement:
King’s College London is committed to ensuring that mechanisms are in place to be an ethical employer and contractor of goods and services.
This statement is produced under the university's obligation to publish an annual ‘Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement' in accordance with the provisions of Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sitehelp/accessibility:
This accessibility statement applies to the King's College London website (www.kcl.ac.uk).
Please note: the content of this document is limited to the main corporate website hosted on the Contensis CMS platform and accessed via www.kcl.ac.uk.
Other websites and portals have their own accessibility statements.
This website is run by King’s College London and we want as many people as possible to be able to use, read and understand its content.
This means that on pages in the new templates you should be able to:
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
We know some parts of the King's College London website are not fully accessible.
The website includes three different website templates.
This means that some pages are not as accessible as others.
The lists below show the different types of pages and the ones that may not be fully accessible to website users.
These pages are being rebuilt and this work will be completed by December 2026.
These pages are not yet compliant with accessibility regulations and users may have issues accessing them.
These pages include:
These pages are being updated to implement a new styling and to ensure these pages comply with the accessibility regulations.
This work will be completed by August 2025.
Users may have issues accessing some of these pages.
All new pages are WCAG 2.2 compliant and therefore should be accessible to users.
Please email diversity@kcl.ac.uk if:
We will consider your request and get back to you in seven days.
If you need to escalate your issue further, contact the Director of Culture & Talent via diversity@kcl.ac.uk .
You can expect an acknowledgement of your issue within seven days and a full reply within 14 days.
If your complaint raises complex issues that cannot be answered within 14 days, we will keep you informed of progress until we can fully respond.
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS).
King’s College London is committed to making its website accessible in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2 AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
The number of pages impacted by these issues and the WCAG criteria they relate to are included below.
Issues of accessibility identified are being addressed through coding updates or training for content editors.
In the legacy codebase, including the homepage and faculties, if the user has zoomed the page above 200% and activates the menu, the focus order fails to take the open menu into account and is "trapped" inside the page.
Some internet users are physically unable to use a mouse; others may find it easier to navigate with a keyboard or keyboard alternative.Focus indicators help keyboard users tell which item on a page is receiving input from the keyboard.
It appears as a visual marker — like an outline or a highlight — that moves with the keyboard focus.
This means that some carousels, for example on the homepage, have elements that don't show a focus with keyboard.
Screen readers will ignore any content with a presentation role.
If this includes focusable sub-elements, these will not be announced to the user, who might miss out on important information.
An example is the homepage carousel where the mobile and desktop views are conflicting causing users with screen readers and keyboard navigators to incorrectly focus on them.
This means that some images have not got the alternative descriptions correctly added meaning screen readers are unable to relay the information to users.
A heading is considered "empty" if there is no text for a screen reader to relay to the user.
In certain page templates, users can create tables to show tabular data.
Users should merge cells to avoid empty headings.While sighted visitors may be able to use visual cues to scan tables for information, people using screen readers can only do this if cells and headers are marked up correctly in the code.
Many of these issues are caused by a legacy calendar plugin on events pages.
This code is being phased out to remove the issue.
Some legacy elements, such as the accommodation pages, use buttons to sort the lists.
These have not been correctly coded, which means screen readers are unable to relay context to the user.
Some legacy elements, such as accommodation pages, use buttons to sort the lists.
Content has been set to 'hidden' to hide from screen readers but is still available via focus order, which means users of pages with legacy carousels, such as the homepage, are confused by links they are unable to see or hear.
Some tables added by users have cells incorrectly labelled for content or headings, which will result in a confusing experience for users who are unable to make a visual association between the cells.
Colour contrast on text to background is not sufficient for users with sight impairments to view the content.
Visitors with low vision may not be able to access information if text is clipped (cut off) when scaled up to 200% or higher.
This relates to some scrollable controls such as "quick links" that are not accessible to users without a mouse to navigate.
If two or more links on a page have the same link text but go to different locations, this can be a problem for users who are unable to see the visual context of the link.
Links should always have a text alternative in order to support users who are blind or have low vision accessing the content.
The accessible name of any interactive element should contain its visible text label.
Using two different names for a single page element can create a confusing user experience for assistive technology users.
Interactive elements, like buttons or links, should be large enough or be positioned so they can easily be clicked or tapped by users.
This error could mean that some users may be unable to select specific content as there isn't enough space around them.
Inline or iframes should have a title that summarises the visual content to help screen reader users understand the frame's purpose on the page.
Buttons should have a text label to support visitors using assistive technology understand the role the button performs.
Every form element should have a descriptive text label.
A label may already be visible on the page but to be accessible, that label needs to be associated with the form element in the HTML.
This helps visitors using screen readers to understand what information is required, while also making it easier for speech-input users to control the form element.
King's uses a lot of third party forms that require the university to speak to the vendor to upgrade their package or move away to a new service.
If there are two or more inline frames or iframes added to a page, they should all have unique descriptions to help users understand the content if they are unable to visually identify this.
A number of iframes, such as embedded video, may have the same generic title, which needs localising to the content.
At this time, we have not made any disproportionate burden claims.
The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our services.
Any PDFs or Word documents that are essential to providing our services are being checked to ensure they meet accessibility regulations.
Any new PDFs or Word documents we publish will meet accessibility standards.
We do not plan to add captions to live video streams because live video is exempt from meeting the accessibility regulations.
King’s College London is committed to fixing or providing alternatives for all issues that we are made aware of or are identified by our internal testing and auditing processes.
Activities to improve the accessibility of this website are as follows:
This statement was prepared on 3 September 2019.
It was last reviewed on 8 July 2024.
This website was last tested on 26 June 2024 against WCAG 2.2 AA standard.
The test was carried out by King's IT directorate using the Siteimprove accessibility checker, Lighthouse, BrowserStack accessibility, and local tools such as operating system accessibility tools.
We tested:
Siteimprove is a scanning tool so will scan all pages under the domain it can find.
The report is then filtered by URL to departments and faculties.
Individual templates and elements are tested by the development team during build or editing.
For more information or assistance, please contact Equality, Diversity & Inclusion via our email address or our enquiry form.
Accessibility statements for the main King's websites and applications.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sitehelp/cookie:
Cookies are managed on the website via a third-party tool called OneTrust.
Listed below are all the cookies used on the site grouped by their type.
You can change your cookie settings at any time by visiting the manage cookies screen.
Remember, you will need to clear site cookies after any change.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/ciel:
At the Centre for International Education and Languages (CIEL), we provide language learning and education courses for students, universities and external partners.
We bring together three key areas – King’s Foundations , King’s Language Centre and King’s Summer Programmes – to deliver high-quality, integrated support for our whole community.
Each year, we help thousands of students, staff, alumni and professionals to succeed.
With our support, our community are able to meet their personal, study and career goals.
We offer a wide range of programmes designed to help both students and professionals thrive.
Whether you're preparing for undergraduate study, enhancing your language skills or seeking professional development, we have the right course for you.
King’s International Foundation Programme is a one-year foundation course that helps ambitious international students find the right pathway and combination of modules to progress to undergraduate study.
There are four pathways to choose from, each carefully designed to prepare students for specific areas of study:
Our pre-sessional English courses help students improve their English language skills to prepare for a degree at King’s.
Our English courses teach both the academic and English Language skills needed to succeed at university.
They are a highly respected alternative to retaking external English tests.
Our academic skills programme teaches core academic language and literacy skills.
Students learn about academic writing, academic integrity and independent learning.
The programme is delivered to all King’s students.
It is accompanied by resources, in-person workshops and one-to-one appointments.
King’s Language Centre is the largest in the UK and offers courses in 29 languages.
We welcome language learners at every level, from total beginners to near-fluent speakers.
Our Language Centre runs a wide range of different courses to suit the needs of both learners within and outside of King’s.
We offer language courses for King’s students studying at both undergraduate and postgraduate level.
Many undergraduate degrees allow students to study optional language modules as part of their course.
Postgraduate students can also apply to study one postgraduate-only, non-assessed language course for free, if they aren’t taking any languages as part of their course.
Our evening and Saturday language courses are open to all.
This includes King’s students, staff and alumni, as well as members of other universities, professionals and the general public.
We offer both in-person and online classes to suit learners from all over the UK and beyond.
We are experienced providers of private language tuition for small groups.
We work with you to understand your needs and design courses that help you meet your goals.
We also work with organisations and private companies to deliver bespoke corporate language training .
We've taught clients from many sectors including the City, the Foreign Commonwealth & Development Office, media, education and fashion.
King’s Summer Programmes are short courses held over the summer months.
They cover a range of topics within Business, Law, Arts & Humanities, Social Sciences & Public Policy, Life Sciences & Medicine and Psychology & Neuroscience.
Our pre-university summer school is for students aged 16 and above.
It is a rare opportunity for school students to learn what it’s like to study at university.
Students attending our pre-university summer school will deepen their understanding of specific subject areas.
It’s also a chance for them to meet students from across the world and get a taste of what life is like on our campuses in the heart of London.
Our undergraduate summer school is designed for undergraduate students who have completed at least one year of study.
The programme gives students the opportunity to experience research-based teaching in a subject area of their choice.
There is a huge range of subject-specific courses to choose from.
They include: International Commercial Law, English Language & Culture, Biomedical Engineering and many more.
We work with our partners both inside and outside of King’s to create tailored, bespoke courses .
Our team of experts have developed many personalised summer programmes and work around the needs of organisations and their students to design high quality, unique experiences.
We support 12,000 students and professionals each year through our various programmes and courses.
We help our whole community reach their academic, professional and personal goals.
Our foundation programmes offer a clear pathway to academic success.
They prepare students for life at one of the world’s leading universities.
A significant number of our foundation students progress to undergraduate study at King’s.
We’ve also extended our impact beyond the King’s community.
We provide language tuition to students and professionals at other top institutions, such as London Business School and Courtauld Institute of Art.
Our work plays a central role in contributing to the success of King’s diverse student body and advancing King’s commitment to international education and collaboration.
Whether you are a prospective student, a university partner or a company seeking tailored language solutions, CIEL is here to help you achieve your goals.
Explore our programmes and discover how King’s can be the gateway to your future success.
Get in touch to find out how we can help.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/student-life/wellbeing:
Our team are available to support students’ wellbeing needs throughout their time at King’s.
The Wellbeing team uses a Solution-Focused Coaching model which empowers students to support themselves.
Our Advisors work with students to identify their challenges and to find the best routes through these.
This can be by introducing students to new coping tools, giving information on specialist services and introducing students to relevant support groups.
When students work with an Advisor they are offered a safe environment to explore the challenges they are facing.
Then, the Advisor works with the student to determine which opportunities are best to take forwards and helps students to create an action plan tailored to their needs.
Some examples of wellbeing areas our team can work with students on:
Meet the Wellbeing Team and book an appointment
Wellbeing appointments are 40 minute 1-2-1 meetings which can be in-person or online via Teams.
All our advisors are Mental Health First Aid trained and operate through a Coaching and Mentoring framework.
Advisors are connected to faculties, so if your challenges relate to your programme you may wish to select your appointed advisor.
If your needs are not directly related to your programme, you can book with any available advisor.
You can take a look at our advisors profiles and book an appointment via the link above.
The Student Wellbeing Team, here to support you.
Our King’s support services operate Monday to Friday, 09:00 – 17:00.
If it is outside of these times or you need urgent support, please visit our crisis support page for further information.
Take time out from your studies by joining us at our Hubs on Tuesdays and Thursdays during term-time on campus.
Enjoy an activity, meet fellow students and connect with our Wellbeing Ambassadors and Campus Conversation volunteers.
The Student Wellbeing Team and KCLSU Advice will be there to answer any questions you have about support options.
Find out when, where and what's on by clicking the link below.
Our King’s Pyramid of Support illustrates our four levels of support services.
You may find that you interact with different levels throughout your time at King’s.
At Level One, you can find services to help you to improve your personal wellbeing, from King’s Sport to our Student Societies.
These Level One services are designed to help you to thrive and improve your overall wellbeing.
As you move up through the Pyramid, our services offer more distinct and specialised support.
The Wellbeing Hub offers activities, events, resources and more to help...
King’s Sport and Wellness supports you to reflect on your physical health...
Our Student Wellbeing resources help you to learn more about the...
Keep up to date with all the events happening around campus to help you...

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/prospective:
Explore the range of subjects and courses on offer at King's and find out about the entry requirements, tuition fees and more.
Join one of our on campus or online events to get a taste of your course and speak to current students to find out more about life at King's.
Find out how to apply to undergraduate courses and check our UK, international and English language entry requirements.
Discover more about King's and what it's like to study here at one of our undergraduate events.
During our on-campus and online events you'll have the opportunity to explore different subject areas, discover more about our campuses, learn about student support, meet King's staff and current currents, and get your questions answered.
Find out more about our events and how to register on our webpages below.
Find out about undergraduate tuition fees for our courses and the funding options available to you.
King's Language Centre offers 27 language courses ranging from beginner to near-native level.
Discover the range of academic and personal support and guidance available to you.
If you're a parent or carer, find support information on our parents webpages.
Discover the world and travel to one of our partner universities, or spend a year or semester in the heart of London.
Explore our courses, tour our campuses and more at one of our events.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/how-to-apply/post-application:
We know waiting for a decision on your application can be an anxious time.
We hope some of the guidance here will help answer some of the questions you may have while waiting to hear back from King's.
When your application reaches King's, you will receive an email confirming receipt, and giving you log in details to King's Apply , our admissions portal.
If you apply through UCAS , please do not register an account; we will create an account for you.
For applicants who apply by the UCAS deadline, we aim to communicate all our decisions by the UCAS decision deadline in May, in accordance with the UCAS deadline.
You might hear from us sooner about your application, especially if we have any questions for you, or if we would like to invite you to interview.
Wherever possible, we aim to provide a final decision within 11 weeks of application receipt (for applications received after 29th August 2024).
However, for our most competitive courses this may take longer as we will be making assessments across all applications received.
This is known as a 'gathered field' process.
If the course you have applied to falls within this category, this will be detailed on the online prospectus.
Where assessment involves additional steps, such as an interview, the outcome may take slightly longer.
This will be detailed on our online prospectus should it be an entry requirement of your chosen course.
We will strive to keep you updated throughout the application process.
You can check the status of your application at any stage using King's Apply, and you will receive an update by email if anything changes or if we send you a message.
You can view the average turnaround time in weeks for each Faculty below:
You will receive a notification through King's Apply with full details.
You will also be able to put any questions about the interview to the team through this platform.
You will receive a notification through King's Apply and UCAS Hub with full details.
We are only able to discuss your application with anyone other than yourself if you have given us express written permission to do so.
When you apply through UCAS, you have the opportunity to nominate a 'proxy' who can discuss your application with us - we can only talk to this person or yourself.
King's Apply is King's online admissions system, which helps support you through the application process.
It will also be the main method by which you will communicate with the admissions team once you have applied through UCAS.
All applicants to King's can use King's Apply, but how you start using the system depends on which course you are applying to and how you submit your application.
If you applied through UCAS then you will be given access to the UCAS hub which will allow you to check for official decisions from all of the institutions you have applied to, and respond to any offers.
King's Apply does not replace UCAS Hub, but provides lots of useful features for King's applicants to use, and will be your main method of communication with the Admissions team.
Usually, our systems will email you with your login details for King's Apply within a few days of receiving your UCAS application.
If you haven't received this, check your junk or spam folders as a first step.
To submit a Pre-sessional application, you will need to log in to your King’s Apply account and select the “New Application” option.
Your Pre-sessional application will then sit alongside your Undergraduate application on your King’s Apply homepage.
To submit a King’s International Foundation application, you should create your own King's Apply account and use this to submit your application.
Once submitted, King's Apply will allow you to track your application and submit additional documents.
King's Apply will be your main method of communication with the Admissions team.
You should create your own King's Apply account and use this to submit your application.
Once submitted, King's Apply which will allow you to track your application and submit additional documents.
To retrieve your password, please go to King's Apply and underneath the ‘Login’ button you will see ‘Forgotten password?.’ Following this link will take you through to a password retrieval process.
You a password reset link will be sent to you by email and will be active for 48 hours.
If you’re having other difficulties with the password retrieval function, please follow the instructions in the password reset link.
Please make sure to include your full name, your date of birth and your student number/UCAS Personal I.D.
number (if applicable) in your email.
Please also ensure that you contact us from the same email address that you used when applying (this would be your King's Apply username), as we won’t be able to send any login details to a third party.
Once you have logged in to King's Apply, please click through to the course that you are trying to access (the links will be under the section called ‘Current applications’).
Then, from the menu on the right, select: ‘View and Send Messages’ use this to create a new message or to upload a document or attachment.
This will go directly to the team within the Admissions Office who have responsibility for processing your application.
Then, from the menu on the right, select: 'View and Send Messages'.
Clicking this will take you to any new or old messages that you’ve received from the admissions team at King’s, which you can click on to read or respond to.
Then, from the menu on the right, select: ‘View and Send Messages’.
Use this to create a new message, and upload a document to attach to this message.
If you’re working from a Mac, please add file types to your file names (i.e.
add .doc for Microsoft Word-type files, .pdf for all PDFs and .jpg for images).
If you have an image file that is over 3MB, you may want to try either reducing the resolution of your scan (as long as any writing is still legible) or splitting the file into multiple pages (Page 1, Page 2 etc.)
Uploading your documents this way is the most efficient way of getting this documents considered in your application as it will be received directly by the admissions team that has responsibility for processing your application.
Please contact our King's Advisors for help.
If you have submitted the application form, please send a message through the King's Apply portal.
The message should clearly detail where the mistake is.
For example, if the referee contact details are incorrect, the message should make clear that the mistake concerns the 'References' section.
You should then bring attention to the incorrect information and provide the correct information in the same message.
The admissions team will endeavour to assess your application based on this corrected information.
If your contact details change after you have submitted your UCAS application then please update these on UCAS Hub in the first instance.
UCAS will then send an update to our systems within a few days.
You can see further guidance on the UCAS website.
If your application has been submitted and is under consideration, you should not send any additional documentation.
The Admissions Office will contact you through King’s Apply if they need further documents to assess your application.
All information relating to your application should be sent to Admissions.
Please do not send documents to academic departments as applications are processed centrally.
Documents can be submitted online via King’s Apply.
This is the quickest and easiest way to contact the teams.
Find out all you need to know about the application process.
Learn everything you need to know about applying to King's College London.
Next steps once you receive King's decision on your application.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/offer-holders:
Congratulations on your offer to study at King's!
There’s so much to look forward to as you continue your journey to King’s and we’ve put together some useful information and guidance below to help you with your next steps.
Keep an eye on these webpages as we'll be updating them over the coming months with further information about your course and ways in which you can connect with us online and in-person at one of our events.
Discover the next steps to your offer holder journey:
in the UK for Graduate Employability
student city in the world
“ London is renowned for its cultural diversity and King’s embodies that perfectly.
The array of inclusive societies, departments, and support structures here welcomed me with open arms ”
Meet with staff and current students online or in-person.
Learn more about your course by visiting your subject hub.
Find out more about your accommodation options at King's.
Find out information for your region on our international hub.
Learn more about your offer with King's International Foundation.
Prepare for your degree at King's and learn academic and language skills.
Help and support information for parents, carers & supporters.
Join our Unibuddy Community for offer holders starting in 2025.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/prospective:
Discover the many ways a postgraduate taught degree from King’s College London can help you achieve your academic and professional goals by participating in our events.
Join us  online at our postgraduate taught virtual open events.
Book your place:
Join one of our campus tours or online postgraduate events to find out more about our courses, how to apply and life at King's.
Read our step-by-step guide to submitting an application, and find out more about funding and scholarships.
Find out about postgraduate tuition fees for our courses and the funding options available to you.
Discover the range of academic and personal support and guidance available to you as a King's student.
King's offers 27 language courses from beginner to near-native level.
Explore our courses, take a campus tour and experience King's.
Download our postgraduate guide to discover why you should choose King's.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/how-to-apply/post-application:
If you have not yet applied to King’s, please see our How to apply: postgraduate taught courses and How to apply: postgraduate research courses webpages.
When you submit your application to King's via King’s Apply, you will receive an email from noreplyap@kcl.ac.uk confirming submission.
You will also be able to see your application is submitted on your account’s homepage.
If you applied for PGCE/QTS course – (teacher training for secondary education), you will need to apply via Department for Education (DfE) Apply .
Usually, we will email you with your login details for King's Apply within a few days of receiving your PGCE application from DfE Apply.
King's Apply does not replace DfE Apply but provides lots of useful features for King's applicants to use, and will be your main method of communication with our Admissions Office.
Usually, our systems will email you with your login details for King's Apply within a few days of receiving your PGCE application from DfE Apply.
Depending on the time of year, it may also take longer to process applications, particularly around deadline periods.
Please ensure that your online application form is as complete as possible at the time of submission to avoid unnecessary delays and ask your referee(s) to be ready to submit a reference promptly.
Please also be aware there can be other factors that result in it taking longer for you to receive a final decision, for example, if you apply to a course where an interview is required, obtaining necessary approvals for funding or your application is sent to the department for review.
You will receive emails from noreplyap@kcl.ac.uk notifying you to check your King’s Apply account whenever there are an updates or messages sent to you.
We strongly encourage you to save this as a contact so any emails do not go in to your junk/spam folders.
When a decision has been made, you will be emailed to log in to your King’s Apply account.
The decision will be in the 'Application status' box on the 'Application overview' screen.
For postgraduate taught courses: You can view the average turnaround time in weeks for each faculty below, as of 29 August 2024.
Courses may vary within these timeframes:
For postgraduate taught courses: Many of our postgraduate taught courses do not hold interviews.
If they do interview applicants:
For postgraduate research courses: It is the responsibility of the faculty to have transparent selection procedures in place in order to accept students onto postgraduate research courses.
Following an initial screening, a decision will be made to make an application unsuccessful or to be progressed to an interview before an offer can be made.
If you are contacted regarding an interview, this will be via email (outside of King’s Apply) and could be face-to-face or, for some international students, by another communication method as deemed appropriate by the faculty.
The decision will be in the 'Application Status' box on the Application Overview screen.
You may wish to consider taking a King’s Pre-sessional course , which will provide you with academic and language skills, and, for those who receive a conditional offer, is an alternative route to taking an external English language test to meet an English language condition.
These take place in the summer before the new academic year.
To submit a Pre-sessional application, you will need to log in to your King’s Apply account and select the 'New Application' option.
Your Pre-sessional application will then sit alongside your postgraduate application on your King’s Apply homepage.
Contact the Admissions team by sending us a message via your King’s Apply account.
We ask that you select the most relevant message category if you have more than one query, rather than sending multiple messages, except in the case of CAS/Visa messages as these will be directed to our Visa Compliance team.
Please note during busy periods there may be a delay in responding to you, but we will reply to you as soon as we can.
If there are delays in processing your application, we will aim to keep you updated.
You can send us a message via your King’s Apply account to query the status of your application using the “Application status/update” message category.
If we have not responded to your message, this does not mean we are not assessing your application in the meantime, and you do not need to send a further follow message unless you have a new query.
We will contact you if we need further information to assess your application and provide you with a decision as soon as possible.
Once you have logged into King's Apply, please click through to the course that you are trying to access (the links will be under the section called ‘Current applications’).
If you receive a message, you will be notified via email to check your King’s Apply account.
Clicking into the same section: ‘View and Send messages’ will take you to any new or old messages that you’ve received from the admissions team at King’s, which you can click on to read and respond to.
Your application on King’s Apply is specific to a course, mode of study (full-time/part-time) and year of entry.
Follow our key dates and deadlines* for the application process:
*Dates and deadlines relate to September entry.
For information on how use King's Apply, please go to our How to apply: postgraduate taught courses and How to apply postgraduate research courses webpages.
You can find a summary of the reason your application was unsuccessful through King's Apply portal.
For further detailed feedback, please send a formal request through King's Apply and the Admissions Office will be able to give you further advice.
Further details of feedback and appeal procedures can be found on our policy webpage .
Congratulations on receiving an offer!
We hope you will accept your offer.
We have a few dedicated webpages for our offer holders:
University academic regulations do not permit you to study a course with us while also actively studying on another course at another university (except for Study Abroad students) or at King's (except for the AKC, those intercalating from an MBBS/BDS if approved by the respective Deans of Education, or those on a MD or PhD course to study a PGCert only).
If you are currently taking qualifications elsewhere - including distance learning courses - and you are successful in receiving an offer for study at King's, you will be asked to provide evidence at registration that you have completed any previous studies or that you have interrupted/suspended your other study.
Further details can be found in the King’s Academic Manual (2.15-2.18 under “Registration” in the 2024/5 version).
King's College London asks our offer holders to pay a deposit when accepting their offer to study for most of our postgraduate taught courses; this is beneficial for the university in relation to student numbers and resource planning.
There are limited places available on our courses and a high number of qualified applicants.
By paying the deposit, you secure your place and demonstrate your commitment to enrol at King’s provided you meet any conditions of an offer.
If you apply and are successful in obtaining an offer, you can accept your offer and pay your deposit on your King's Apply account.
If you experience difficulties paying, please contact the Admissions Office who can advise you.
A deposit will not be required where an offer holder can provide official evidence that they will be fully funded for the course at King's, however, this evidence must be provided to the Admissions Office before the deadline to accept your offer.
The deposit is considered a partial payment towards your tuition fee upon enrolment.
Please note, deposits do not apply to postgraduate research courses.
Tuition fees for your course can be found by using out course finder webpage, find your course entry, and then see the 'Fees & Funding' tab.
The fees listed on the course page are for the first year of a course only - if your course is more than one year in duration and continues into subsequent years, the fees for those years may differ.
Some courses (e.g.
part-time) last more than a single year and it is therefore likely that tuition fees for your course will increase annually, reflecting the changes in costs of delivering your course and any changes in government policy or regulation.
King’s reserves the right to increase fees annually.
Tuition fee increases may only sometimes apply to self-funding overseas fees status students, but not to home fee status students as fees are subject to a cap imposed by regulatory requirements.
Where such increases are necessary, King's will publish the new fees on its website not less than 3 months’ notice before the start of the academic year to which the fee increase is intended to apply.
Any tuition fee increase for current students shall not exceed a 6% (six percent) increase (or in accordance with the preceding November’s rate of CPI if higher) on the previous academic year's tuition fee for the course in question, subject at all times to the tuition fees not exceeding any cap imposed by Government from time to time.
Please see King’s Terms & Conditions for students for more information.
You will be sent an invoice for your first year’s tuition fees after you have enrolled on the course.
For most courses, you can pay your year's tuition fees in one or two equal instalments.
Please see Credit Control’s Student Fees – When to pay fees webpage for further information.
All our funding opportunities can be found on our King’s Funding Database .
You would need to consider funding as soon as possible as deadlines are usually early in the year around February time.
When you submit your application, King's Apply will use the details you provided at the point of applying (e.g.
nationality, country of residence, length of time in the UK etc.) to give you a provisional fee status.
This will be reviewed during the assessment process.
If you receive an offer, you will see the fee status within your offer letter.
You can contact us via message if you think it is incorrect at this stage.
Please review the categories for home fee status on the website of UK Council of International Student Affairs .
If we are unsure of your fee status, you may be asked to complete a detailed Fee Status Questionnaire or provide documentation to give further details of your circumstances in order for us to make a full assessment.
Make sure that you have told the Admissions Office that you will need a visa by ticking the box on the application form titled “International student: Will you require a visa to study in the UK?”.
Please make sure that you have recorded the necessary details from your passport.
We will only start the CAS number process for an offer holder whose offer is unconditional and has been firmly accepted.
How to apply for a taught postgraduate course at King's.
Information on accepting your offer, applying for a visa and more.
Read our guide to find out how to apply and more.
Information for postgraduate research offer holders

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/offer-holders:
“ King’s offers a strong sense of community and a vibrant student life, making it a stimulating place to learn and grow.
”
Learn more about your course on our subject offer holder pages.
Your accommodation options at King's as a postgraduate offer holder.
Experience what it's like living as a student in London.
Develop key academic skills and build connections before you start your postgraduate course with our two week on-campus preparatory programme.
Designed to help you get the best start in your studies, our 'Prepare for Postgraduate' programme is open to overseas and home students looking to improve and develop their academic writing, literacy, critical analysis, and communication skills, and meet new students.
Find out more on our webpage below.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/how-to-apply:
As a research student, you experience connections with world-leading researchers and research projects to stimulate your academic development.
Please see our research & innovation webpages for more information on our research activities.
The three main routes of entry to a research degree are listed below.
Please ensure you read this in conjunction with any specific guidance provided via the relevant webpage for your course, which you can find using our postgraduate course finder .
In the Sciences and Health Sciences , supervisors usually devise projects, attract funding and advertise them.
You can find out more information about funding opportunities, scholarships and studentships on our funding database .
If you require further information or wish to discuss the project in more detail, you should contact the named individual advertising the project.
In the Arts, Humanities, Social Sciences and Global Institutes you are often expected to devise your own research project.
This is best done in conjunction with a potential supervisor so you should ensure that staff at King’s are undertaking research in the field that interests you.
You can identify potential supervisors with interests in common with your own via the ‘staff and groups’ section on the relevant webpage for your course, which you can find using our postgraduate course finder .
If you are sure they are the right person to supervise you, contact them directly, copying your correspondence to the relevant admissions office.
If you need help in devising a research project but are unsure who might be the best person to supervise it, the King's research portal can give you a more detailed understanding of the range of expertise of specific academics and research activity at King's.
After you have chosen a course, read the entry requirements on the webpage relating to your course (which you can find using our postgraduate course finder ) to find out if you fulfil or are expected to fulfil the minimum entry requirements, including English language requirements if relevant.
The page also contains information on any specific application procedures for your course.
It is important that you consider the availability of finances to cover both the tuition fees and living expenses.
Details are shown under the ‘Fees and funding’ tab of the web page for your course.
Check the funding details on the relevant webpage for your course, which you can find using our postgraduate course finder .
Additional funding opportunities at King’s and advice on other sources of funding can also be found on our postgraduate funding pages.
Don't forget to check deadlines carefully!
To submit a formal application, please register on our online application system King's Apply .
If you have applied to King's previously, including via UCAS, you should already have an account.
If are unable to access the online postgraduate application form, please contact our King's Advisors for advice.
Please ensure that you send in all relevant documentation with your online application, as otherwise delays will occur in processing your application.
Usually this includes:
A personal statement
A research proposal and/or project approval form
Transcripts of your previous qualifications (with official English translations if not originally in English)
An academic reference.
Please note you may be required to obtain a second academic reference at the request of the department
Any English language qualifications that you have (if your first language is not English).
Some courses require specific additional documents to be submitted with the application, such as a sample of previous academic writing.
Please check the ‘Entry requirement’ section in the course's entry on the postgraduate course finder for further details.
Please note that some research degrees will offer up to four entry points (September, January, April and July).
Please check our online prospectus for details.
Using King's Apply you can:
Track the status of your application
See if you've been invited to interview
View your offer details
Upload supporting documents, such as English language test results
Contact us about your application.
King’s aims to make decisions on applications within 6-8 weeks, though some programmes operate a ‘gathered field’ process and may therefore take longer, as indicted on the relevant course page.
Depending on the time of year it may also take longer to process applications, particularly around deadline periods.
Please ensure that your online application form is as complete as possible at the time of submission to avoid unnecessary delays, and ask your referees to be ready to submit a reference promptly.
Find out more about entry requirements for our postgraduate courses.
King's offers an extensive range of postgraduate-level qualifications.
Find out what support is available for disabled applicants.
Find out about visiting research or experience students at King's.
Funding opportunities for international research students.
Find out the meaning of terms to help you navigate the application process.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/funding:
King's Doctoral College helps secure funding for students interested in postgraduate research by providing advice on and administering a range of funding opportunities, scholarships, and studentships.
Please note we are not able to advise on funding for master's programmes, please see the Postgraduate Taught Fees & Funding webpages for advice for these programmes.
For a comprehensive look at all the funding opportunities available to postgraduate research students, current and prospective students can search and view all available funding at King's College London on our funding opportunities database via the link below:
Discover our postgraduate research scholarships and studentships.
Find out more about King's full range of funding opportunities.
The Alternative Guide to Postgraduate Funding is all about alternative sources of funding, especially charities or trusts which make awards (fees, maintenance, research costs) to any student regardless of subject, or nationality.
King's College London holds a licence to the Guide, so it's free for current and prospective students.
You can create an account at the external link below using your @kcl.ac.uk email address.
If you are a prospective student who has applied to the university, please email doctoral-college@kcl.ac.uk with your King's admissions ID number to get an access PIN.
Information for applicants with a disability.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/summer/applying:
Prospective students and their parents/guardians can access the full Pre-University Summer School 2025 Guidance here .
Prospective students can access the full Undergraduate Summer School 2025 Guidance here .
King’s Undergraduate Summer School accepts a limited number of students via inbound summer exchange agreements with partner institutions.
Only students who have been nominated for an exchange place by their institution can apply via this route.
If you are not sure that you are eligible, please contact your study abroad office directly and they will advise you.
Prospective Exchange students can access their specific application guidelines here: Exchange Application Guidelines 2025
Overseas students who will be studying in the UK for 6 months or less, can do so on a Standard Visitor visa or ETA (electronic travel authorization).
Please click here for information .
Following payment of programme fees via the eStore, confirmation of their place will be sent out to applicants.
This will be a digital confirmation/visa support letter showing they have secured a place to study at King’s College London, and this can be used as part of the application for a Standard Visitor visa.
We recommend that all students coming from overseas (including those not requiring a visa) show their confirmation/visa support letter along with their passport at UK immigration to ensure they enter the country correctly.
If you have any concerns or need advice, please get in contact with the Visa Advice team .
Please find below links to the Terms and Conditions and other relevant policies and documents:
You will need to arrange your own transfer from the airport to your housing.
All of London's airports are easily accessible by train, tube or taxi.
Here are some suggestions, but there are plenty of options for all budgets for each airport:
You can take Elizabeth Line of the London Underground from Heathrow Airport all the way into central London.
It is the cheapest mode of transport from the airport.
If you don’t want to take the tube you can also book a ticket for the Heathrow Express.
It takes 15 minutes and arrives at Paddington Station.
Once here you can take public transport to your accommodation.
Another cheap option would be to take a coach from the airport.
National Express take you straight from Heathrow to Victoria Coach Station, which is in central London.
If you want a train that takes you directly to Victoria Station, then the Gatwick Express is the option for you.
You are also able to take a standard train to either Victoria, London Bridge or St Pancras.
You can also take a coach from this airport, and it is one of the cheapest options.
From here you can take the Stansted Express straight to Liverpool Street Station, which roughly takes about 45 minutes.
You are also able to take coaches from this airport.
There are a number of different coach companies that you can book a ticket with, but please be aware that travel times will be longer than a train.
Here is a list of useful websites and apps to plan your journey in London:

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/pre-sessional:
Prepare for success in your King’s degree with our Pre-sessional courses.
Our innovative Pre-sessional courses provide you with the academic and language skills you need to succeed in your chosen degree and offer an alternative route to retaking an external English test.
There are different course lengths (16, 11 and 6 weeks) to help you meet your offer conditions and we have on-campus, online and blended study options.
We also have a separate Pre-sessional pathway for undergraduate students to support you in starting your UK Higher Education at Bachelor’s level.
If you are a postgraduate student, you will join a stream related to your subject area and will study with classmates joining your faculty.
Whichever pathway you take, our team of experienced and highly qualified tutors will give you the very best start in your academic studies.
98% of students met the conditions to progress to their chosen degree at King's in 2023 and our Pre-sessional programme satisfaction has been above 95% for the past three years.
Information Sessions are scheduled so that you can learn more about our Pre-Sessional courses - sign up here.
Click here to find out more about Undergraduate Pre-Sessionals
Click here to find out more about Postgraduate Pre-Sessionals
Mohammad, a former 16-week Pre-sessional course student found the prospect of studying a Pre-sessional course daunting but says he found the influence of diversity and cultural exchange was really significant in enhancing his way of thinking.
The course taught him a lot of skills such as commitment and how to unleash the potential inside you, as well as improving more traditional skills such as reading, writing and taking notes.
Our Pre-sessional calculator can help you decide which course is right for you.
Get to know our team of tutors and staff.
This page includes important information about deadlines and visa

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/prepare-for-postgraduate:
Our two-week preparatory programme is designed to help you get the best start in your postgraduate studies at King’s.
Whether you are returning to higher education after a period of work, travel or family commitments, or entering UK higher education for the first time, Prepare for Postgraduate (PfP) will equip you with the knowledge and skills to make the most of your studies from day one.
As well as developing key academic skills, you will learn what is expected of students at postgraduate level and how to successfully navigate King’s systems and online platforms.
You will also have the opportunity to engage with students from different backgrounds, preparing you to thrive in an international environment.
Discover London, immerse yourself in King’s academic life, and establish meaningful connections with other students, setting the foundation for lasting networks even before your degree starts.
To learn more about Prepare for Postgraduate sign up for our Information Sessions here
Course type: Preparation
Delivery mode: Classroom
Duration: 2 weeks
Application status: Open
Start date: Monday 8 September 2025
Application deadlines: Overseas applicants - 24 July 2025 (23:59 UK time) Home applicants - 17 August 2025 (23:59 UK time)
The course will cover the following key academic skills:
academic writing; including appropriate style, structuring your work and referencing sources
academic literacy; dealing with academic papers and lectures
information literacy; using reading lists and research databases
communicating effectively; participating in seminars and presentations
critical analysis; demonstrating this in your work
assessment literacy; understanding academic criteria, expectations and tutor feedback
Prepare for Postgraduate (PfP) is a two-week, full-time intensive programme which combines daily on-campus classes with structured, independent study.
You will learn through a combination of the following:
group classes, lectures and tutorials
guided online lesson preparation
group and individual tasks
You will have a personal tutor who will provide feedback on your work and support you in developing your skills.
There is no formal assessment for this programme, however you will complete written and spoken tasks to practise and enhance your skills.
You will also take part in a group project, which is a common assessment type on postgraduate degrees at King's College London.
You will have a weekly tutorial in which you will discuss your current skills with your tutor and how to develop these further.
You need to hold an unconditional offer to study for a postgraduate degree at King's.
You must have met any English language requirements for your chosen degree, if applicable.
£1,950
You can apply for Prepare for Postgraduate through our online application portal King's Apply .
Please note, you do not have to complete a personal statement to apply for the Prepare for Postgraduate course.
Please just write the name of your main degree programme in this box.
Our first application deadline is on 9 March 2025 (23:59 UK time).
The final application deadlines for this programme are:
Overseas applicants - 20 July 2025 (23:59 UK time)
Home applicants - 17 August 2025 (23:59 UK time)
After the first application deadline, if the programme becomes full before the final deadlines stated above, we will close the programme to further applications.
We are offering up to nine scholarships, each worth £950, for students enrolling on the King’s Prepare for Postgraduate (PfP) programme in 2025.
One scholarship will be awarded per faculty to eligible students who hold an offer for postgraduate study (PGT or PGR) at King’s College London for the 2025/26 academic year.
To apply, candidates must complete the application form and submit a one-minute video titled ‘How the Prepare for Postgraduate programme at King’s will support me in my academic and professional goals’ by 9am BST on Monday, 7 July 2025.
Please note - your scholarship entry will not be considered unless you have already applied for the Prepare for Postgraduate course.
Videos will be assessed by a panel of King’s staff, and successful applicants will be contacted by Monday, 14 July 2025.
The £950 scholarship will be deducted from the tuition fee of the PfP programme, reducing the cost to the student to £1,000.
It is not a cash award and is non-transferable to other programmes.
Please read our Terms and Conditions for further details and eligibility criteria: King’s Prepare for Postgraduate Scholarships Terms and Conditions 2025 .
Application form

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/london/studying-in-london:
King’s partnerships across the capital ensure our students can experience unique work and learning opportunities.
Leveraging our central London location, we have created distinctive modules, internships and work placements together with entrepreneurial and social mobility opportunities to ensure our students can take full advantage of studying in a global capital.
Through these experiences, our students develop the skills and networks that will strengthen their future careers, while offering the organisations that they work with new insights, analysis and perspectives.
As a student, I feel so fortunate to be able to live in London.
It’s important that we take advantage of what students at other universities do not have at their fingertips.
london@kcl.ac.uk
Ranked the number one student city in the world, King's campuses are centrally located in one of the world's most exciting cities.
Discover extracurricular opportunities at King's
Supporting students on your career and employability journey
Opportunities to volunteer with local charities and community groups
Empowering entrepreneurial ideas and innovation
Engaging students with cultural opportunities across London
Offering innovative collaborations with local communities
Student support for local businesses and entrepreneurs
Part-time internships in the House of Lords
A free to use legal advice service run by The Dickson Poon School of Law
Connecting socially driven King's students with local charities
A free after-school maths programme for sixth-form students
A 12-hour tour of London's most innovative entrepreneurial hot spots
Drawing upon King's cultural connections across London to develop students' skills
Students combine innovative research with real life challenges in London
An innovative collaborative partnership with the Black Cultural Archives in Brixton
Prestigious award for essay on "Why London needs levelling up too"

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/campus-tours:
King’s is pleased to offer guided campus tours of four of our five campuses.
Delivered by current students, you'll explore our teaching rooms, social spaces and campus highlights, all while learning more about university life at King's.
Don't forget to check out more information about your visit as you book your tickets.
You can also explore campus online at one of our virtual campus tours running all year around.
Please select which campus to visit based on your faculty of interest.
Not sure which faculty?
Find more information here .
Please be advised that we do not offer private campus tours or tours outside of our schedule.
We are offering virtual tours of our Strand & Bush House and Guy's campuses so you can explore King's from your very own home.
After the tours, a live panel of student ambassadors will be ready to answer any questions you have about life on campus.
Book your place here.
We look forward to meeting you online.
Days: Monday, Wednesday, Friday (excl UK Bank Holidays)
Time: 14:30 - 15:30
Book your tickets here
For questions about campus tours, please take a moment to check out the FAQs section below.
Days: Monday, Wednesday, Friday (excl UK Bank Holidays)
Days: Last Wednesday of the month.
Time: 14:30 - 15:15
Days: Monday, Wednesday (excl UK Bank Holidays)
Time: 16:00 - 16:30
Explore central London with these seven routes that take you around and between our five campuses.
There's no need to book, just click below and start your journey!
These tours are best enjoyed during weekends or outside of our normal campus tour hours.
Please note, we do have maximum capacities on our campus tours to ensure the safety of students, staff and visitors on campus.
If the tour you wish to attend is fully booked, please continue to check our pages for any ticket returns through cancellations.
If you are no longer able to attend a tour you have booked, please cancel your place directly via your ticket as this will allow others to book their place.
Our campus tours run all year round and we stagger the release of our tickets on a monthly basis.
Tickets are released at the start of the month prior.
Please note, we are unable to offer private tours, tours on the weekend or UK Bank Holidays.
For school group visits to our campuses, please email schools.liaison@kcl.ac.uk and we will review your request.
Unfortunately, we are unable to show our residences on our daily campus tours.
Instead, for tours of our accommodation, please contact the residences directly and the local teams will do their best to arrange a visit where possible.
You can also watch virtual accommodation tours on the King's Residences webpages.
Unfortunately, it is not possible to include visits to specific departments as part of our daily campus tours.
If you had questions relating to your application, please contact a King's Advisor .
For more information, you can email us at campus.tours@kcl.ac.uk .
Discover our postgraduate research courses.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/new-students/experience-london:
Our picks of the best museums, concerts, performances and galleries...
Whether you're hunting for bargains or going all-out on some retail...
From Wimbledon and Lord's to Wembley, our guide to London's iconic...
From restaurants to markets, street food to cafés.
Here are our picks for...
Almost half of London is public green space.
Here are our favourite parks...
London is integrated into the learning experience for our students

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/online:
Wherever you are, King’s provides leading online master’s programmes that unlock potential and open the door to your future.
Our flexible programmes offer students worldwide access to education from a top-ranking UK university.
Whether you live abroad, work full-time, or are unable to attend in-person classes, through our online programmes you’ll receive a high-quality education, equivalent to any on-campus course.
All you need is a reliable internet connection and a desire to learn.
One of the UK’s top 5 Arts & Humanities faculties (Times Higher Education rankings 2024).
The globally acclaimed Faculty of Life Sciences & Medicine is ranked within the top 10 worldwide for Clinical, Pre-Clinical and Health (Times Higher Education rankings 2023)
Join our internationally renowned scientists working across traditional subject boundaries, leading cutting-edge research, and tackling global challenges.
The Faculty of Social Science & Public Policy (SSPP) conducts world-leading social and political research and education in Europe.
With 95% of research being ranked as ‘world leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’, study with a globally recognised faculty that has an impact on people’s lives.
Study with the world-renowned Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience (IoPPN) who are at the forefront of global mental health research helping to inform policy, prevention, treatment and care around the world.
The triple-crown accredited King’s Business School is among the 1% of business schools globally to hold AACSB, EQUIS and AMBA accreditation.
The acclaimed Dickson Poon School of Law is one of England’s oldest and most well-connected law schools.
King's College London offers a number of online short courses.
View a full list of available courses…
What is it like to study online with King's?
Our student support team are here for you every step of the way.
All students can access the service…
Contact King's Digital for information about King's online courses and studying online with King's.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/short-courses:
Professional Education at King’s offers a range of professional short courses that meet the specific learning needs and objectives.
We offer face-to-face and online options, both featuring immersive teaching and practical insights.
Taught by world-leading academics, our courses are designed to deepen specialist knowledge or build skills in a whole new area.
Search our list of professional development and executive education courses, covering Health; Business, Law and Government; Digital & Science; and many other subjects, to find the course that’s right for you.
Ranked 1st globally for Nursing (QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025), with Europe's largest dental faculty and a leading centre for mental health and neuroscience research, your training will stay current with the latest practices.
Building expertise for exceptional patient care
Specialist courses for medical professionals
Expertise in mental health & neurological support
World-leading dental training and facilities for dental practitioners with LonDEC
Our courses are accessible and actionable, filled with cutting-edge content that bridges the gap between theory and practice.
Navigate a complex world with our courses
Develop impactful legal expertise
Shaping policy for governments and organisations
Innovative education for real-world challenges
We are a hub for internationally renowned scientists working across traditional subject boundaries to answer fundamental questions about the universe.
Harness technology to drive business success
Insightful courses for a successful career
Master data analysis and interpretation
Flexible professional short courses
Sharpen skills and accelerate your development
Understand our world
Build knowledge and skills at your own pace

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/student-experience/kclsu:
King’s College London Students’ Union or KCLSU , is our award-winning independent students’ union and has over 400 societies, sports and other student activity groups for you to join.
As a King's student you'll automatically become a member of KCLSU, and membership is free.
Whether you’ve been doing it for years or feel like trying something new, there are an enormous variety of opportunities where you can get involved, make new friends, have fun and be part of the student community.
You can even create your own student activity group!
Activity group themes include:
Discover King's full range of societies on our KCLSU activity groups webpage.
King's College London Student Union ( KCLSU ) offers a range of social areas for you to eat,  drink and relax during your time at university, all at student friendly prices.
Take a look at our available social spaces on-campus below:
Visit The Union Shop on the Strand Campus to pick up some King's branded clothes, stationery, gifts, accessories and special foods.
Students looking for part-time work in any KCLSU venue or shop can check the vacancies page .
Our KCLSU offers a number of ways you can help to make a change through volunteering and fundraising, campaigning or participating in student elections.
Whether it's helping with sustainability and conservation projects, running social activities in a hospital, or campaigning for change, KCLSU can help support and fund members to help make a difference.
Find out more about what opportunities are available on the KCLSU Make Change webpage .
KCLSU supports students throughout their time at King’s, helping them to develop skills, voice their opinions, and offer advice and support when it is needed.
Below are a few ways in which KCLSU can help support you during your time at King's.
Starting university can be daunting, however KCLSU offers a range of activities, events and resources to help boost your wellbeing and help you make new friends.
KCLSU offers a peer support group, delivered by students for students, to help create student-only spaces for socialising, offer peer mentoring for new students, and weekly in-person activities and student skills workshops all free of charge.
Find out more on the the KCLSU wellbeing webpage .
As well as offering a range of social activities, KCLSU also offers free, confidential and impartial advice on both academic and non-academic related issues, to help support students on their university journey.
Find out more about KCLSU's support services on their help & advice webpage.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/student-experience/facilities-and-support:
At King's, you will have access to student spaces and facilities tailored to your needs.
King’s libraries at all the main campuses provide key services and resources that support teaching, learning and research.
Information on specific disciplines can be found in the Library Subject Guides.
The library service holds 900,000 hard copy books, 345,000 ebooks and 36,000 journal titles.
Libraries provide a range of working environments including computer rooms, silent study rooms and spaces for group work.
King’s students also have access to the Senate House Library (University of London) .
Learn more about this and the regional and national access schemes King’s participates in on our libraries page .
Postgraduate only workspaces are available at the libraries based near the Strand Campus and on the Waterloo and Guy's campuses.
IT services at King's provide:
King's treasury of five million archival items and nearly 300,000 special collection books is of international significance both as a scholarly resource and as part of our cultural heritage.
Professional archivists and rare book librarians advise on materials available for specific research and provide methodological guidance.
Holdings in the archive include:
King's core research facilities provide access to essential technology and equipment to enhance the research conducted by King's scientists.
These include the:
There are also smaller facilities including the:
King's is committed to ensuring that all research with human participants is conducted with integrity and according to generally accepted ethical principles.
The ethics application process at King’s is designed to assist staff and students in identifying ethical issues and how they might be best addressed.
The Research Ethics Office is able to provide support via online resources, expert advice to those applying for ethical approval within the College and training in research ethics for staff and students.
Explore King's campuses.
King's is right in the heart of the capital.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/register-your-interest:
What are the courses like at King's?
Is it the right university for you?
Get a glimpse into life at King's College London by registering your interest below.
You'll receive helpful information via email about King's, the courses you are interested in, reminders about upcoming events that are relevant to you and more.
Discover our range of undergraduate courses and find out more about life...
Explore our postgraduate taught courses and discover more about life at...

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/unibuddy:
Register with Unibuddy today and ask our current students the questions you really want answered.
Meet our ambassadors below and start chatting online!
You can also chat to King’s staff to find out more about the course you’re interested, how to apply or if you have any questions about your offer.
Discover our undergraduate courses and more about life at King's.
Discover our range of postgraduate taught courses and more about applying.
Explore our postgraduate research courses and more about applying.
View our range of online short courses.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/contact-us:
King's advisors are on hand to answer any questions you may have about the application process, entry requirements and more to make sure you have the information you need and guide you through your next steps to study at King’s.
Please provide your name, contact details and (if known) your course(s) of interest to help us provide you with the best service.
Get in touch with us via the details below:
*Please note the + should be replaced by the exit code relevant to your country, which is normally 00.
View a full list of country exit codes .
Submit your enquiry
King's advisors are on hand to answer any questions you may have about your offer and to make sure you have the information you need to guide you through your next steps to study at King’s.
Please provide your name, contact details and the course you hold an offer for to help us provide you with the best service.
Here’s a full list of country exit codes: https://www.howtocallabroad.com/codes.html
Keep connected with King's on social media.
Take part in regular Q&A's with current students and King's staff and learn more about life at King's.
You'll also find out about the latest news and events from our community.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sitehelp:
We are currently involved in a major project to improve the design and usability of the College website.
This includes moving to new templates that work on all devices and support all access needed.
During this time you will find content in different styles as we do the work.
More information on the progress will be added here as the project develops.
The Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) Accessibility Regulations 2018 came into force on 23 September 2018 and require King’s College London to ensure that all its digital content (websites, intranets, online documents and applications) comply with the WCAG 2.1AA Accessibility Standards.
See our current accessibility statements
We know that every student at King's College London is capable of great things.
The Wellbeing Service is new to King’s College London and is here to help you fulfil your potential by educating and empowering you to optimise your physical and mental wellbeing, so you can perform at your highest level.
Find out more about the Wellbeing service .

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/areas:
King’s Admissions Office is committed to the principles of our Fair...

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/visiting-research-students:
Visiting Research Students should be current postgraduate research (PGR) students at another Higher Education institution either in the UK or internationally, who have a viable programme of research, for which study in London is necessary and relevant.
Visiting Research Experience Students should be current postgraduate taught (PGT) or undergraduate (UG) students at another Higher Education institution either in the UK or internationally, who wish to undertake their research experience at King’s.
The policy for Visiting Research Experience Students can be found on our policy hub webpage , which details further eligibility criteria on the arrangements.
Both Visiting Research and Visiting Research Experience Students should identify a supervisor who is an academic member of staff at King’s and will personally support their application.
Please note that applications will only be accepted from students who have arranged with a potential supervisor that they can visit King's.
Students should apply using King's Apply at least 8 weeks before their proposed start date.
Following this, please complete the following sections of the application form:
The letter should confirm:
Any speculative applications where a supervisor at King’s not been identified will be withdrawn.
Students should allow 6 weeks for applications to be processed.
Current postgraduate taught (PGT) or undergraduate (UG) students visiting as Visiting Research Experience Students
Current postgraduate research (PGR) students visiting as Visiting Research Students
Applicable to all students:
All Visiting Research and Visiting Research Experience Students should be able to communicate effectively in English (reading, writing, speaking and listening) and be able to do so in an academic environment.
You should provide any certification of your competence in English as part of your application e.g.
previous English Language tests, previous study.
The level of English language you are required to demonstrate for a visiting research or research experience programme is dependent on your length of stay and visa requirements:
Accepted tests:
Please read all of the below information carefully as there are a number of English language tests we can accept to meet our English language requirements.
If a test you have completed is not listed below, unfortunately we are unable to accept it as meeting our English language requirements.
The tests below must have been taken two years of your visit start date in order to be valid.
All elements of the test results must be demonstrated in one test to be valid (i.e.
we cannot take a combination of your scores across two tests).
IELTS (Academic) OR IELTS (Online): 5.5 overall with a minimum of 5.5 in each skill
TOEFL iBT ( Institution code: 0394) OR OR TOEFL iBT Home Edition OR TOEFL iBT Paper Edition.
Please note that we do not accept the TOEFL Paper-delivered Test: 72 overall with a minimum of 17 in writing and listening, 18 in reading and 20 in speaking
Pearson Test of English (Academic): We also accept Pearson Test of English (Academic) for UKVI.
We do not accept Pearson Test of English (Academic) Online 59 overall, with a minimum of 54 in each communicative skill
Cambridge Certificate of Proficiency in English (CPE) / Cambridge C2 Proficiency: 169 overall with a minimum of 160 in each skill
Cambridge Advanced Certificate (CAE) / Cambridge C1 Advanced: 169 overall with a minimum of 160 in each skill
Trinity College London Integrated Skills in English (ISE): Level III (ISEIII) with pass in each skill
If you require a visa to enter and study in the UK for your visit, please see below:
For students who require a visa to enter and study in the UK but are not required to apply under the Student Visa route (i.e.
your visit is up to six months in length) and you are made an offer without an English language condition, your offer will have to be updated to include an English language condition if you wish to apply for a Student Visa.
As a result, it is advisable that you send a King’s Apply message immediately after you submit your application if you wish to apply for a Student Visa rather than a standard Visitor visa.
We are required to monitor the continuing engagement of all students on a Student Visa; given the short nature of the visit, options for this monitoring are being considered.
For further information about applying for a Student Visa, please go to our Visa & International Student Advice team's webpage.
Visiting Research Students and Visiting Research Experience Students must not enter the UK on an Academic Visitor visa or a Business Visitor visa.
Guidance will be provided to make clear that the Academic Visitor visa is not appropriate because, to qualify for this visa, a visitor must have obtained their doctorate.
Some of the research and research experience non-award programmes will require students to obtain ATAS clearance before they can enrol on their visit.
Further information can be found on our ATAS webpage .
If your visit will require you to obtain ATAS clearance, the Admissions Office will inform you in your offer letter.
You will not be able to enrol before you have obtained the necessary ATAS clearance, where this is applicable to your research or research experience.
As a visiting research or visiting research experience student at King’s, you will need to enrol with King’s so that you can be provided with an email address, access to all appropriate facilities and support services including the King's Doctoral College and KCLSU .
We will only be able to enrol students who have been made an unconditional offer and this offer has been accepted via King’s Apply .
Programme Availability
DBS or Occupational Health Clearance
If your student requires DBS or Occupational Health clearance for their visit, please contact the relevant faculty professional services team.
Queries
Please contact the relevant Senior Admissions Officer for your department if you have any questions regarding Visiting Research or Visiting Research Experience Students.
Discover our postgraduate research courses and research expertise.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/accommodation/residences:
University of London offers a wide range of accommodation, ideally located in central London.
Accommodation options for guests and staff
Housing Advice including private sector options from the University of London
KCL Advice & Guidance can help you to consider your housing options and guide you on when and where to look.
Find out how to book your room following four easy steps
Explore your options as a postgraduate student

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/researchsupport/index.aspx:
Open access

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-research/prospectus:
Discover why you should choose King's for your next step.
Access a downloadable copy of our postgraduate prospectus by completing the form below.
Discover the range of postgraduate research courses on offer at King's.
Discover more about student life at King's

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/international/region/africa:
King's has a long history of welcoming around 570 students from countries such as South Africa, Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana, Tanzania and more each year across all levels of study.
Our students contribute to a vibrant international community situated in the centre of one of the most exciting cities in the world, making King's a preferred destination for African students.
King’s welcomes a wide range of qualifications for Undergraduate admissions, including A-Levels and the International Baccalaureate, All applications, including transfers, are made through UCAS .
Please note that specific subject requirements may apply and are noted under the Entry Requirements section of the online course page.
Students undertaking national high school qualifications that are not accepted for direct Undergraduate entry can apply for the International Foundation Course .
Please check the online prospectuses for pathway options, specific entry and English language requirements .
Further information on applying to Undergraduate programmes at King’s can be found on our how to apply webpages.
Please note: students completing King’s International Foundation Programme will not be able to progress onto our Dentistry programmes.
Postgraduate applications are made through our website via our King’s Apply Portal .
Your academics are based on the final GPA listed on your undergraduate transcript.
Each of our postgraduate programme pages identifies the specific GPA needed by programme, please visit our online course pages for guidance.
Please note that specific subject requirements may apply and are noted under the Entry Requirements section of the programme page.
Hear what our students and alumni from Africa think about studying at King’s, what they enjoy most about their course, and what advice they would give prospective African students thinking of studying at King's.
Find out what our African student Mariama says about his experience whilst studying at King’s
“ I found out about King’s College London from the African Leadership Centre and the Conflict Security and Development Group under the War Studies department at King’s.
“ 'I am a final year international student from Nigeria currently studying International Politics here at King’s.
Discover more about studying at King's, from how to apply, course information, accommodation, studying in London and much more by attending one of our events, or by watching our recorded webinars on our on-demand open day hub:
Joining a club or society is a great way to meet like-minded people and make new friends.
Whilst at King's you'll have the opportunity to join hundreds of clubs and societies relevant to you and your interests, including the below:
Some applicants from overseas choose to apply to us via study abroad agencies.
King’s has a working relationship with a number of such reputable agencies and partners, a list of which from the region can be found below.
Applications received via agencies and partners are treated in exactly the same manner as applications received directly, and there is no advantage or disadvantage either way in terms of admission.
Zimbabwe

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/international/region/australasia:
King’s has a long history of welcoming around 180 students from countries such as Australia, New Zealand and Papua New Guinea each year across all levels of study, contributing to a vibrant international community situated in the centre of one of the most exciting cities in the world, and making King’s a preferred destination for Australasian students.
King’s welcomes a wide range of qualifications for Undergraduate admissions, including A-Levels, International Baccalaureate, Australian ATAR/OP and New Zealand NCEA Level 3.
All applications, including transfers, are made through UCAS .
Whilst at King's you'll have the opportunity to join hundreds of clubs and societies relevant to you and your interests:

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/international/region/canada:
King's has a long history of welcoming around 150 students from Canada each year across all levels of study, contributing to a vibrant international community situated in the centre of one of the most exciting cities in the world and making King's a preferred destination for Canadian students.
Read about what our current Canadian students and alumni think about studying at King’s, what they enjoy most about their course, and what advice they would give prospective students who are thinking of studying at King's.
“ I wanted the experience of living in London and the opportunities that would come from living and working in the UK.
Discover more about studying at King's, from how to apply, course information, accommodation, studying in London and much more by attending one of our London events, or by watching our recorded webinars on our on-demand open day hub:
King’s has a working relationship with a number of such reputable agencies.
Applications received via agencies are treated in exactly the same manner as applications received directly, and there is no advantage or disadvantage either way in terms of admission.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/international/region/east-asia:
King's has a long history of welcoming students from East Asia, with over 7,000 students from Mainland China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan, South Korea and Mongolia across all levels of study, contributing to a vibrant international community situated in the centre of one of the most exciting cities in the world, and making King's a preferred destination for East Asian students.
King’s welcomes a wide range of qualifications for Undergraduate admissions, including A Levels, International Baccalaureate and HKDSE.
Please note that specific subject requirements may apply and are noted under the Entry Requirements section of the programme page .
Listen to what our East Asian students and alumni think about studying at King’s, what they enjoy most about their course, and what advice they would give prospective East Asian students who are thinking of studying at King's.
Find out what our Chinese student Huan says about his student experience whilst studying at King’s.
Hear from Xinyun, Education Management (MA) student as they share their top tips for International students at King’s
Hear from our former student, Chenyue on their top tips for writing a personal statement and check out their vlog here
“ King's world-leading research facilities and various seminars will be the opportunities and stimulations to boost your interests.
“ The courses offered in MSC International Marketing are very comprehensive, and the degree contains a broad range of modules regard to multiple marketing strategies.
Meet the King's College London team by attending events in your country.
Where you can speak with a King's Representative to learn about studying in the UK along with learning about your programmes of interest.
King’s has a working relationship with a number of such reputable agencies, a list of which from the region can be found below.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/international/region/europe:
King's has a long history of welcoming around 1290 students from countries such as France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Russia, Belgium and more each year across all levels of study, contributing to a vibrant international community situated in the centre of one of the most exciting cities in the world, and making King's a preferred destination for European students.
King’s welcomes a wide range of qualifications for Undergraduate admissions, including A-Levels and the International Baccalaureate.
Further information on applying to Undergraduate programmes at King’s can be found on our how to apply webpage.
Please check the online page for pathway options, specific entry and English language requirements .
Hear what our students and alumni from Europe think about studying at King’s, what they enjoy most about their course, and what advice they would give prospective European students who are thinking of studying at King's.
Watch our video to find out what our German student Marvin says about his experiences whilst studying at King's.
Hear from Sean as he shares her top tips for writing a personal statement
Hear from one of our students as they explore the Hidden Gems: Activities Near King's College London Campus
“ I chose King’s because it offered an international relations course that stood out and immediately grabbed my interest by the wide variation of modules you could choose from.
In particular as the modules offer a deeper understanding of current affairs and of how the world functions.
“ I was born and raised in a global and active city – Paris.
It was during high school that my desire to study abroad was born.
Discover more about studying at King's, from how to apply, course information, accommodation, studying in London and much more by attending one of our events, or by watching our recorded webinars on our on-demand open day hub .
Italy

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/international/region/mexico-latin-and-central-america-and-caribbean:
King's has a long history of welcoming around 160 students from countries such as Brazil, Bolivia, Chile, Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, Argentina, El Salvador, Honduras, Costa Rica, Panama, Jamaica, Trinidad, Barbados, Mexico and more each year across all levels of study.
Our students contribute to a vibrant international community situated in the centre of one of the most exciting cities in the world, making King's a preferred destination for students from Mexico, Latin and Central America, and Caribbean.
Mexican students not studying International Baccalaureate courses or A levels will also be required to complete the International Foundation Course .
Read what our current students and alumni from this region think about studying at King’s, what they enjoy most about their course, and what advice they would give prospective students who are thinking of studying at King's.
“ At King's I met amazing people, from the baristas at the cafeteria to guest speakers.
Everyone gave me important lectures to apply in my future career.
“ Living in London is exciting, and studying at the heart of the city gave me the opportunity to enjoy all that London offers.
“ I had the privilege to be taught by leading researchers on the subject and, more importantly, was put in front of recent knowledge on HRM and Industrial Relations ”
“ The Dickson Poon School of Law from King’s College London played an integral part of my formation and education.
Whilst at King's you'll have the opportunity to join hundreds of clubs and societies relevant to you and your interests, including the below.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/international/region/south-asia:
King's has a long history of welcoming around 740 students from Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Maldives, Nepal, and Pakistan each year across all levels of study.
Our students contribute to a vibrant international community situated in the centre of one of the most exciting cities in the world, making King's a preferred destination for South Asian students.
Additionally, we have 2 in country advisors based in New Delhi and Mumbai, India.
Apart from India, all other countries need to complete the International Foundation Course and achieve a level of English as requested by the course.
Please check whether your national certificate is accepted as otherwise you may need to complete the International Foundation Course and achieve a level of English as requested by the course.
Hear what our students and alumni from South Asia think about studying at King’s, what they enjoy most about their course, and what advice they would give prospective South Asian students who are thinking of studying at King's.
Find out more about our Economics student Manan , as he shares his journey of moving from India to London.
Find out more about Erum's top tips on writing a personal statement
Find out what our student Hamza says about his experience whilst studying at King’s.
Hamza, an International Foundation Programme (Mathematics and Physics) student from Pakistan, talks about his experiences at King's.
“ Choosing a university to study at is always a difficult choice to make.
However, for me the choice of studying at King’s College London was one that came naturally.
Of all the various factors that influenced my decision, I chose King’s primarily because of its renowned academic reputation as being one of the best institutions in the UK, as well as in the world.
“ Having completed immense background research before applying for Biomedical Engineering at King’s, I knew I was in for a life changing experience when I received my acceptance letter.
Not only did the teaching quality for all my modules exceed my already high expectations, but even beyond my degree, being a King’s student allowed me many distinct opportunities for academic and personal growth.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/international/region/southeast-asia:
King’s has a long history of welcoming around 1,600 students from Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia, Vietnam, Cambodia, Myanmar, Philippines, and Brunei each year across all levels of study, contributing to a vibrant international community situated in the centre of one of the most exciting cities in the world, and making Kings a preferred destination for Southeast Asian students.
Hear what our students and alumni from Southeast Asia think about studying at King’s, what they enjoy most about their course, and what advice they would give prospective Southeast Asian students who are thinking of studying at King's.
Find out more about our Biomedical Engineering student Riya , as she shares her journey of moving from Singapore to London.
Find out what our Malaysian student Aaron says about his experience whilst studying at King’s.
“ At 18, I knew I wanted to study business.
At the same time, I was not sure which stream within business I would be interested in.
As such, I wanted as much flexibility in terms of career choice and as wide of an exposure to different areas of business as possible.
“ Central to the King’s experience is its impeccable academic courses.
During my first year, students had a chance to visit a hospital and community pharmacy each.
I personally was most fascinated with a class we had every fortnight where we were tasked with performing a pharmacist’s daily duties, such as verifying prescriptions and printing out drug labels.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/international/region/turkey-and-the-middle-east:
King's has a long history of welcoming around  830 students from countries such as UAE, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Kuwait, Oman, Iran, Iraq, Morocco, Qatar, Egypt, Lebanon, Kazakhstan and more each year across all levels of study.
Our students contribute to a vibrant international community situated in the centre of one of the most exciting cities in the world, making King's a preferred destination for Turkish & Middle Eastern students.
Students undertaking national high school qualifications that are not accepted for direct Undergraduate entry can apply.
Hear what our students and alumni from Turkey and the Middle East think about studying at King’s, what they enjoy most about their course, and what advice they would give prospective Turkish & Middle Eastern students who are thinking of studying at King's.
Find out what Marta from Dubai says about her experience while studying at King’s.
“ My name is Husain Dawani and I am a Bahraini undergraduate student reading Politics, Philosophy and Law at The Dickson Poon School of Law.
“ I've always been told that university is going to be the best time of my life.
“ King's College London has been the institution of my choice ever since I started paying earnest attention to where I wanted my undergraduate studies to be.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/international/region/usa:
Kings has a long history of welcoming around 590 students from the USA each year across all levels of study, contributing to a vibrant international community situated in the centre of one of the most exciting cities in the world, and making King's a preferred destination for students from the USA.
King’s accepts undergraduate qualifications such as AP, Honors/Dual Enrolment Class, SAT, and ACT using the following codes for US students:
ACT Code: 6789
Collegeboard Code: 7884
Each of our undergraduate programme pages identifies the specific scores you will need to achieve in your qualifications.
You can find out more about specific USA entry requirements on our webpages.
Each of our postgraduate course pages identifies the specific GPA needed by programme, so please visit our online course pages for guidance.
Find out more about Early Modern English Literature student, Trisha, as she shares her journey of moving from USA to London.
Listen below to what our US students and alumni think about studying at King’s, what they enjoy most about their course, and what advice they would give prospective students from the USA who are thinking of studying at King's.
Joana, a International Marketing MSc alumni from the USA, talks about her experiences at King's.
In-person events - meet King's College London at the QS Master's fairs to learn more about our exceptional programmes, how to apply and the student experience in London.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/student-life/visa:
We offer visa advice and guidance to students who are thinking of coming to King’s, those who already have an offer to study with us and current King's students.
Our team help you navigate the UK visa landscape by providing advice on getting a student visa, changing a visa and managing other personal circumstances that may impact your visa status.
We also offer advice about visa options after you have completed your studies.
Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA).
Find out more on Student Services Online.
What to do next if you’ve had a visa application refused.
Find out more in our interactive guide.
Our contact details for phone, email and face-to-face appointments.
Enrolled students can come to a campus drop-ins.
Please bear in mind that these are quick sessions that might need further follow-up.
Mondays, 13.00–15.00
Wednesdays, 13.00–15.00

Drop-in sessions take place in the Strand Student Centre on Floor 4, Bush House North West.
If you prefer to speak to us over the phone, please call us on the number below.
Please ensure you have your Student ID ready, as your adviser will ask for this at the start of the call.
Please note these calls are usually for a maximum of 15 minutes.
Our number is (+44) (0)20 7848 7001.
Our phone service is available at the following times when King's is open (UK time):

Tuesdays, 13.00–15.00
Thursday, 13:00-15:00
Fridays,  09.00–11.00
If you would prefer a written response, you can contact the Visa & International Student Advice team by email.
Quick Queries for new Students
From 15th to 26th September advisers will be located next to ID card collection on Strand campus to support new students with quick queries.
If you need more detailed support, advisers will let you know and ensure you are booked in for a confidential appointment.
15 th – 26 th September 25
Monday to Friday 10am – 12noon
Bush House (South) room 2.05 (next to ID Card collection)
Our Q&A sessions are a chance for you to ask quick questions to one of our advisers.
These are open group sessions, so other students may be on the call too.
You can ask your question by raising your hand and speaking, or by using the chat.
Feel free to stay for the whole session or just join to ask your question and leave afterward.
All workshops and events are only for students who intend to study at King's or are already enrolled with us.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/parents:
We realise that applying to university will be an exciting, life-changing step for a young person.
King’s has created these webpages to help you in supporting your student during their time with us and on their student journey.
You may be a parent, carer or supporter of a King’s prospective or current student, and we understand that there may be times when you wish to get in touch with us about their wellbeing, available support or see how they are getting on.
We have outlined on our webpages below what information we are able to share with you, together with key sources of support for our students at King’s.
Find out more about the support we offer our students at King's, and sign up to our parents, carers & supporters newsletter by using the link below.
King’s is committed to creating a welcoming, inclusive and safe environment for all members of our community.
This means protecting our students, staff and visitors both on our campuses and in our digital spaces from the following unacceptable behaviours:

- bullying
- harassment
- sexual misconduct, and
- restriction of free speech or academic freedom.
Find our more about our approach to preventing and addressing bullying, harassment and sexual misconduct.
Application support for parents, carers & supporters.
How we support students settling in, key dates and the student journey.
What to do if you are worried about the safety & wellbeing of your student.
Information about wellbeing, mental health, safety on campus and more.
Sign up to find out more about the support we offer our students.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/events/series/virtual-campus-tours:
We are offering virtual tours of four of our five campuses:
Home to: Arts & Humanities; King's Business School; Dickson Poon School of Law; Natural, Mathematical & Engineering Sciences; Social Science & Public Policy.
Home to: Biomedical & Life Sciences; Dentistry, Oral & Craniofacial Sciences; Nursing, Midwifery & Palliative Care; Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience (undergraduate).
Home to: Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience (postgraduate courses and undergraduate course Neuroscience and Psychology BSc).
Suitable for students interested in: Chemistry; Midwifery; Nursing; Nutrition & Dietetics; Pharmaceutical Sciences; Physics (Physics labs only); Psychology & Criminology.
After the tour, a live panel of student ambassadors will be ready to answer any questions you have about life on campus.
Explore our undergraduate and postgraduate events to learn more about applying to King's.
Or browse our extensive collection of recorded talks on our undergraduate and postgraduate on-demand open day hubs.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/student-experience/london:
Ranked as one of the best student cities in the world (QS Best Student Cities 2026), London has so much to offer.
Here you'll find tips and advice from our current students on exploring the city, how to tour our campuses, and more about the exciting opportunities available to you as a student studying in London.
Our student's have put together their top tips on how to make the most of living in London.
Read their blog posts below to hear about their experiences.
Get a feel for life at King's by taking a student-led guided tour of our campuses in person, or if you're unable to make it to London, tour our campuses virtually online.
View our campus tours webpage for further information on how to book.
Discover more about shopping, sports, food, green spaces and more around London on our 'Experience life in London' webpages below:
You can also find out about upcoming events and attractions taking place in London on the TimeOut website .
With an array of transport options available, it's easy to travel to and from our campuses via the underground, bus, and train.
Find out more about travelling in and around London on the Transport For London website.
Want to know the best way to get from A to B?
Citymapper is a journey planner app that can help you find the quickest transport routes around London.
Find out more on the Citymapper webpage.
The Student Oyster Photocard can give you a 30 per cent discount on travel within London on trains, underground, buses and the Docklands Light Railway.
Find out more about the Student Oyster Photocard on our webpage.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/events:
Visit our on-demand open day hub to discover a range of recorded sessions online, from subject talks to student life panels, which you can watch at your own leisure.
Book your place at one of our 5 campus tours to explore the facilities, teaching spaces and our central London location in person.
Our next undergraduate open days will be in Spring/Summer 2025.
To stay up to date, register your interest below.
Discover more about King's at our on campus and online open days.
Join us at our undergraduate Study at King's online events.
Explore undergraduate life and study all at your own leisure.
Can't join us in London?
Take a virtual tour of our campuses instead!

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/events:
Join us online and explore the opportunities available at King's.
Watch online sessions at your own leisure.
Explore our postgraduate courses on offer at King's.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/fees-and-funding:
Explore the range of financial assistance that may be available to you including loans, bursaries, scholarships, grants and more.
Find out information about the latest undergraduate tuition fees for classroom-based, lab-based and MPharm courses at King's.
Funding your studies at university can be daunting, but with a little help from our experienced staff, you can see what options are available to you.
Find out what scholarships, bursaries and other funding opportunities are available to King's students by searching through our funding database.
Our database offers funding opportunities for UK and international students across a range of subjects, with opportunities available for both current and prospective King's students.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/postgraduate-taught/fees-and-funding:
View postgraduate tuition fees for taught and research courses at King's for the coming year of study.
Discover the options available to you for funding your studies including loans, scholarships, bursaries and more.
Find out more about living expenses, working whilst you study and other important information on funding your studies.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study-legacy/funding:
To find out about the funding opportunities available to students at King's, please search our funding database for information on funding opportunities which you may be eligible to apply to.
Number of records: 62
Bursary.
United Kingdom.
The College will be offering up to 83 first year bursaries of £9,000 to students starting in 2025-26.
2025/26
31 July 2026
Tuition fee.
Living cost.
CONICYT.
Chile.
Fee discount for Chilean ANID/CONICYT Scholars who enroll on postgraduate programmes at King's College London.
Ask for more information
UK Foreign & Commonwealth Office.
Chevening Scholarships are fully-funded awards that enable outstanding emerging leaders from all over the world to pursue one-year master’s degrees in the UK.
Date passed.
Lebanon.
King’s College London is pleased to announce the CMA CGM Excellence Fund for Education.
COLFUTURO.
Colombia.
COLFUTURO is a joint public and private sector initiative aimed at facilitating the access of Colombian professionals to further education abroad.
Bangladesh.
Belize.
Botswana.
Cameroon.
Dominica.
Eswatini.
Fiji.
Gabon.
The Gambia.
Ghana.
Grenada.
Guyana.
India.
Jamaica.
Kenya.
Kiribati.
Lesotho.
Malawi.
Malaysia.
Maldives.
Mauritius.
Montserrat.
Mozambique.
Namibia.
Nauru.
Nigeria.
Pakistan.
Papua New Guinea.
Rwanda.
St.
Helena.
Lucia.
Vincent & the Grenadines.
Samoa.
Sierra Leone.
Solomon Islands.
South Africa.
Sri Lanka.
Tanzania.
Togo.
Tonga.
Tuvalu.
Uganda.
Vanuatu.
Zambia.
Commonwealth Master’s Scholarships are for candidates from eligible low and middle income Commonwealth countries, to undertake full-time taught Master’s study at a UK university.
Stipend.
Bench Fees / Research Training & Support Grant.
Anguilla.
Antigua & Barbuda.
Australia.
Bahamas.
Barbados.
Bermuda.
British Virgin Islands.
Brunei Darussalam.
Canada.
Cayman Islands.
Cyprus.
Falkland Islands.
Gibraltar.
Malta.
New Zealand.
Seychelles.
Singapore.
St Kitts and Nevis.
Trinidad and Tobago.
Turks and Caicos Islands.
Commonwealth PhD Scholarships support candidates from high income countries for full-time doctoral study at King's College London.
Commonwealth PhD Scholarships are for candidates from least developed countries and vulnerable states in the Commonwealth, for full-time doctoral study at a UK university.
Study costs.
Research Training & Support Grant.
Commonwealth Split-site Scholarships allow PhD students from low and middle income countries,  in the Commonwealth, to conduct research at Kings College for 12 months.
National Council of Science & Technology of the United Mexican States, CONACYT..
Mexico.
Postgraduate scholarships to promote, develop and strengthen the relationship between Mexico & the United Kingdom.
2023/24

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/student-experience/living-expenses:
London is one of the most exciting and rewarding cities to live in in the world!
It is much cheaper to experience living in London as a student with the large range of discounts available on almost everything, from public transport to theatre tickets.
Your living expenses will depend on your choices and although London can be expensive, there are opportunities to get the best out of London on a limited budget.
You need to ensure that you have sufficient funds for your fees and that you have enough money for accommodation, food, travel, books and other living expenses.
The information below is intended as a guide only, as living costs will vary depending on your individual circumstances and lifestyle.
As a broad estimate of the funds needed to live to a reasonable standard in London, we currently estimate that students should allow approximately £1,734 per month for living costs, in addition to tuition fees.
Living expenses will depend on the type of accommodation you are staying in.
Price increases and unexpected expenditure should also be taken into account.
Students arranging initial short-term accommodation on arrival in London need to budget for this too.
You may also wish to consider additional initial arrival costs such as accommodation deposits, utensils, clothing, etc.
At King's, our student advisers are on hand to offer you free confidential and practical advice.
If you are experiencing problems with your funding or are worried that you will not have enough money to cover all your costs, King's Money & Housing Advice can help you to manage your money and review your budget.
You can contact the advice team via email or telephone, details can be found on the Money & Housing Advice contact webpage .
King's Money & Housing Advice also have a team of trained Student Money Mentors to who provide peer support to students on money matters.
They can help you to make the most of your money, whatever your budget.
King’s have also teamed up with Blackbullion , a personal finance app made specifically for students to offer you free online resources about budgeting, saving and investing.
If you are a new student, you can register with Blackbullion before you enrol using the code NEWTOKINGs .
You can update your account with your King’s email address once you have enrolled which will allow you to access all of the activities and tools.
Prospective students considering King’s can set up a temporary registration using the code MONEYSMARTER with any other email account which will help you to prepare for coming to university.
By using the UK Government's student finance calculator you can find out what funding is available to you as a Home or EU student.
If you are an international student, you can take a look at the British Council's Study UK webpages for more useful guidance.
London may be known as an expensive city to live in, but one of the perks of being a student is that your student ID card gives you access to a range of discounts.
This guide will walk you through some of the places where you can get great student offers for cultural sights, entertainment, and food on and around campus.
TOTUM, powered by NUS Extra, provides fantastic student discounts!
TOTUM allows you to get the most from your student discounts.
Available to you will be offers and discounts from KCLSU, local, national and international business, and useful geo reminders when you’re near by a great offer.
Find out more on how to apply for the TOTUM card.
UNiDAYS and Student Beans have loads of discounts and offers for everything from restaurants to phone plans.
It’s easy and free to sign up and verify your student status.
Before making any big purchases, going shopping, or even ordering a takeaway it’s a good idea to check and see what discounts are available.
Read more about the best student discounts around campus, blog written by a current student.
There are loads of ways to save money and still enjoy the vibrant culture of the London.
Top tips to save money whilst living in London:
Find out more information on tips on managing your money during your studies.
International students requiring a visa to study in the UK are required to demonstrate that they are able to meet the total costs of their study.
It is your responsibility to ensure that you have sufficient funds in place to cover all your expenses before you arrive.
UK Visa and Immigration (UKVI) requires students to have a budget of at least £1,334 per month in addition to tuition fees.
In order to apply for a Tier 4 visa, you will need to show that you have £1,334 for each month of your course, up to nine months.
For example if you will be enrolled on a course lasting nine months or more, the maximum amount that you will need is £12,006.
Find out more about the money you need for your student visa on the UK Government website .
As part of visa requirements, if you are a non-EEA student you must ensure that you have sufficient funds for tuition fees and living costs for the full duration of your course.
Travelling around London on public transport can quickly become an expensive business but there are ways to reduce costs.
Find out more about the Student Oyster Photocard can be found on our website.
Information on travel fares can be found on the Transport for London website .
Find out about funding options for postgraduate students.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/prospectus:
Discover why you should choose King's for your undergraduate degree.
At present we are unable to post copies of our 2026 Undergraduate Guide, however you can access a downloadable copy by completing the form below.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/abroad-outgoing:
Leaving university with 'just a degree' is no longer the expectation.
No matter what your subject of study, or the level at which you are studying it, you want to get the most out of your time at university and studying abroad is one significant and potentially transformative  experience available.
You may be thinking about your employment prospects; you may not have been able to finance a gap year and feel you missed out on the chance to travel; you may be seeking to see your chosen subject of study in a new light and from a different perspective; you may be wanting to improve your language learning: whatever your reason, studying abroad could be the thing for you.
Find out more about study abroad opportunities through our below webpages.
Information about how to apply to the Study Abroad scheme at King's.
Discover more about study abroad funding and tuition fees.
Read about our student's study abroad experiences on our King's blog.
There are several different routes students can take to make sure that they are globally mobile during their time at King's.
Whilst a typical study abroad experience might include semester or year long studying at a partner university overseas, there are many other options to gain an international, educational experience as part of your degree, including through shorter term opportunities such as summer school and study tour programmes, medical electives and internships.
Participating in King's College London's study abroad programme could be a significant and memorable experience to carry with you for the future.
You can expect to experience diversity and different lifestyles, gain intercultural communication skills, increase your independence and adaptability and maybe even see life and learning in a new way.
Discover King's range of study abroad options on our webpages below.
Discover King's study abroad destinations.
Explore our exchange, non-exchange and widening participation experiences.
Studying abroad as a widening participation student at King's.
Current King's students are invited to join us at our annual Go Global event to learn more about our study abroad opportunities.
Our Go Global event series consists of a mixture of in-person and online briefings, and is a great opportunity to learn more about how to apply, and to learn more about other students experiences.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/abroad/study-in-london:
Study in London
How to apply
Pre-arrival support
King's is one of the UK's most historic and prestigious universities.
With a forward thinking vision and state-of-the-art facilities, King's is renowned for excellence in both its innovative teaching and pioneering research.
Based in the heart of central London, and spread across five London campuses, King's is one of the largest multi-faculty institutions in the UK.
King's has a particularly distinguished reputation in the humanities, law, the sciences (including a wide range of health areas such as psychiatry, medicine, nursing and dentistry) and social sciences including War Studies.
It has played a major role in many of the advances that have shaped modern life, such as the discovery of the structure of DNA and research that led to the development of radio, television, mobile phones and radar.
It is the largest centre for the education of healthcare professionals in Europe and no university has more Medical Research Council Centres.
A research-led university, part of the famed Russell Group, King's has an outstanding reputation for providing world-class teaching and cutting-edge research.
The university is in the top ten UK universities for research "power" and Impact according to the 2021 Research Excellence Framework (REF).
91 per cent of our research has been deemed 3* and 4*, meaning that it is regarded as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’.
King's College London is the fourth oldest university in England, has more than 34,000 students (of whom around 15,000 are postgraduate students) and we are currently ranked 31st best university in the world according to the 2026 QS World University Rankings.
The Global Mobility Office, based on the Strand campus near Covent Garden in London, is a team of friendly, professional staff engaged in international education.
We look forward to seeing you in London in the future for the 'King's experience'.
Since January 2015, King's has been a Generation Study Abroad Commitment Partner, supporting efforts to increase the number of US students who study abroad.
You can find out more about Generation Study Abroad by checking out the Institute of International Education's webpages.
For general enquiries about studying abroad at King’s, module queries, questions about orientation, or if you’re just not sure where best to direct your question
studyabroad@kcl.ac.uk
Find out how to apply to study abroad at King's College London.
Browse hundreds of modules available to Study Abroad students.
Application deadlines and semester dates for students

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/abroad-opportunities/contact-us:
The Global Mobility team (who arrange studying abroad at King's) are a collaborative team of ten professional services staff working to create mobility opportunities for students at King's and worldwide.
As part of the Students and Education Directorate, we identify, promote and facilitate opportunities for students to be globally mobile, to study abroad and partake in overseas traineeships.
We work with both incoming students from overseas institutions and King's outgoing students, including those participating in bilateral agreements and the Erasmus+ programme.
We work with academic departments, Schools and Faculties at King's to develop, promote and manage quality opportunities for King's students.
We also initiate and maintain links with Higher Education institutions overseas and more recently, have developed opportunities for more staff to be internationally mobile.
Contact details for specific members of our team can be found on our Global Mobility team webpage .
If you are an incoming student studying at King's, please contact us using the below details: Email studyabroad@kcl.ac.uk
If you have already applied please message the Study Abroad Admissions team via the Kings Apply portal .
If you are a prospective applicant and have not yet applied, please use the Student Services Online enquiry form.
The study abroad tutor is an academic member of staff within a department whose role it is to provide guidance to both incoming and outgoing study abroad students.
Commonly, one member of staff acts as both incoming and outgoing tutor, or the role may be separated, with a different staff member responsible for each distinct group.
Working closely with the Global Mobility Office, the study abroad tutor network not only provides vital academic support to participating students, but also plays an important role in creating and maintaining relationships with partner institutions.
Find out who your study abroad tutor is, and how to contact them on our internal study abroad tutor page (King's log in credentials required).
Please contact our exchange partnership officer via: exchange@kcl.ac.uk
Other partnership enquiries, unrelated to student exchanges, should be directed to the Global Engagement team.
You can contact a specific member of staff on our Global Mobility staff webpage .
Should you wish to send the Global Mobility team partnership documentation, transcripts, promotional materials or other related documents, please use the following address: Global Mobility Office, King's College London, 4th Floor, Bush House South East, Strand, London WC2R 1AE, UK.
Facebook - Facebook.com/KCLStudyAbroad
X - @KCLStudyAbroad
Instagram - @KCLStudyAbroad
Study abroad student blog
Contact a specific member of the Global Mobility team

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/social-mobility/access-participation-plan:
Our university is committed to promoting fair access and participation for students and to address educational inequality.
Our Access & Participation Plan sets out our ambition to achieve these commitments including strategic measures, investment and targets to hold ourselves accountable.
Our current plan covers 2020-25.
It sets out our mission, aims and objectives, with what we will do to improve equality of opportunity for underrepresented groups at different stages of their educational journey.
You can read an accessible, plain English summary of our Access & Participation Plan here.
In August 2024 the Office for Students approved our Access & Participation Plan covering the period 2025-26 - 2028-29.
You can read this here.
You can read an accessible, plain English summary here .
Read more about Access & Participation Plans on the OfS website.
Previous plans can also be found here.
All English universities wishing to charge fees above the basic level must have an Access & Participation plan that sets out how they will improve equality of opportunity for underrepresented groups to access, succeed in and progress from higher education.
The plan must be approved by the Office for Students (OfS) in accordance with the Higher Education and Research Act 2017.
These plans include: the provider’s ambition for change and how it plans to achieve that change, details of current access targets and other access, success, and progression measures, plus investment plans and financial support available to students to deliver the plan.
We have conducted a self-assessment and set objectives and targets to close gaps between groups in access, student success and progression.
The OfS also consider the groups below as underrepresented in higher education:
In our self-assessment we analysed rates and gaps in access, student success (continuation in study and degree attainment) and progression in terms of employment and postgraduate study.
The groups we looked at covered all of the above, plus any differences in male/female rates and the interaction between gender, ethnicity and socioeconomic background using the area-based measures above.
We regularly review and monitor these rates as part of our annual reporting.
The plan that applies to you is based on the academic year you started your current studies with us.
All plans can be viewed on the Office for Students' website .
We have undertaken a broad range of activities to address educational inequality and promote fair Access & Participation for all underrepresented groups.
The main contact for enquiries relating to the King’s College London Access & Participation Plan is Michael Bennett, Associate Director of Social Mobility & Widening Participation: michael.j.bennett@kcl.ac.uk .
Discover more about Social Mobility & Widening Participation at King's.
The organisations we work collaboratively with.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/governancezone/governancelegal/Widening-Participation-Strategy:
King's College London produces a wide range of corporate documents to ensure that the University is effectively managed in accordance with its Charter and Statutes, legal requirements and standards of best practice.
Policy Hub is a central repository for policies, procedures and other key documents which determine the governance of the University.
Further corporate information can be found on our Governance pages .
Please visit our policy updates page to stay up to date with policy developments at King's.
For Policy Hub queries, please email governancezone@kcl.ac.uk .
Policy and procedure outlining the process for handling concerns related to academic misconduct.
Academic regulations ensure the academic integrity of the University and form the framework for the student academic experience, including learning, teaching and assessment.
Regulation to assist academic staff in reaching and maintaining required standards of performance.
Regulation setting out the procedure to be followed when the standards of conduct expected by the university are not met.
Regulation pertaining to dismissal of academic staff on grounds not covered by other specific regulations.
Regulation to provide academic staff with access to a fair procedure for addressing grievances relating to their employment.
Regulation pertaining to probation procedures for academic staff.
Regulation pertaining to redundancy procedures for members of academic staff.
Policy and guidelines outlining provisions for academic study leave.
Statements outlining the University's approach to accessibility of online content in support of equality, diversity and inclusion policies.
Policy and guidance on the process for interviewing applicants to the University.
Policy outlining University processes to ensure fair, transparent and consistent admissions practices.
Policy outlining the provisions for adoption leave and pay and surrogacy arrangements.
Policy outlining how applicants to the University can make a complaint regarding the University's admissions processes or services.
Policy outlining King's College London's stance on applicant misconduct.
Details of newly approved and recently updated documents on Policy Hub.
Academic regulations, policies and procedures applicable to all King's College London students.
Royal charter granted to King's College London.
Framework for the development of university policies and procedures.
Guidance on document types within Policy Hub.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/social-mobility/who-we-work-with:
At King’s we recognise that not everyone has the same educational journey.
Our social mobility and widening participation projects are designed to support students who need to overcome more challenges to achieve their educational aspirations.
Through collaborating with organisations we are able to work with even more prospective students and their supporters to support their aspirations to access higher education.
Find out more about the eligibility we use, groups we prioritise and partners we work with below.
Our selection criteria for projects.
How we prioritise identified underrepresented ethnicities in our projects.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/social-mobility/meet-the-teams:
Find out more about the teams working on Social Mobility at King’s by emailing us at outreach@kcl.ac.uk
Michael Bennett (he/him)
Effy Garcia (she/her)
Luke Chapman (he/him)
Mansor Rezaian (he/him)
Nafeesa Mistry (she/her)
Vacant
Mariana Werdine (she/her)
Eleanor Milne (she/her)
Eleanor Taylor (she her)
Nima Mukherjee (she/her)
Jake Featherstone (he/him)
Aniqa Rob (she/her)
Charlotte Mannix-Pole (she/her)
Dean Allotey (he/him)
Shakeela Simpson-Watson (she/her)
Hannah Williams (she/her)
Kate Atkins (she/her)
Kirsty McLaren (she/they)
Zack Hurst (he/him)
Chris Lyon (he/him)
Ellen Davies (she/her)
Madeleine Kirkham (she/her)
Katherine Sela
Nadia Chechlinska
Patrycja Holubik (she/her)
Su Morris (she/her)
Victor De Franceschi (he/him)
Lizzie Simpson (she/her)
Thomas Masterman
Rosanna Ayton (she/her)
Chinelo Bennett (she/her)
Arcadia Woods (she/her) (maternity cover provided by Susanna Davies)
Susanna Davies (she/her) (secondment cover provided by Thea Jean (she/her)
Sia Tehfeh (she/her)
Leeonnie Hayles
Tamara Kwofie (she/her)
Rochelle Smith (she/her)
Lazara Morgan (she/her)
Fahmida Ahmed (she/her)
Sakinah Drief (she/her)
Victoria Summergill (she/her)
Lottricia Millet (she/her)

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/social-mobility/projects/prospective-students:
Projects for children younger than 11 years old attending primary school.
For 11-14 year olds attending non-selective state schools.
For 14-16 year olds completing their GCSE’s at non-selective state schools.
For 16-18 year olds completing A Levels or equivalent.
King's provides support to students who have spent any time in care.
For students who have lost contact and support from their families.
Find out about pre-entry and on-course support for forced migrant students.
Find out how King's support students with caring responsibilities.
King’s welcomes applications from mature students.
King's Widening & Participation Data Protection statement.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/social-mobility/before-you-start-with-us:
We host a welcome event at the start of the first term where care-experienced and estranged students can meet other care-experienced or estranged students.
If you are verified as care-experienced and or estranged by King’s, you will be contacted with your personal invite to these events.
We host a welcome event at the start of term where students who have come to King’s via one of our Widening Participation projects can get to know other students.
The event supports students to:
- Build stronger peer relationships
- Feel a sense of belonging and connection to King’s
- Get practical skills around time management, confidence, financial management, setting realistic expectations and acknowledging the challenges of university
- Get specific and relevant information about studying with us and the support on offer
- Get well-being related support
Find out about our King's student union's buddy scheme.
Information for mature students.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/social-mobility/projects/current-students:
Play a vital role to deliver our widening participation activities.
Explore projects available to current King's students.
A new programme for current undergraduate students to enhance their...
A unique opportunity for a diverse group of 100 students, reflective of...
All Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught students are allocated a...
Find out how our King's student union promotes good wellbeing.
Student groups can apply for up to £500 to help fund their own projects.
Careers support for UK students from underrepresented backgrounds.
How King's staff and students support our communities.
Read about the support we offer and how to get verified at King's.
Read about the support we offer to forced migrant students
Conversations about Race is a programme created by King’s College London in partnership with Citizens UK that employs community organising techniques to facilitate students and staff from all backgrounds to discuss race and the impact it has on Higher Education today.
These sessions will support attendees to embed anti-racism in their daily lives and faculties, and support learning on issues related to race and race equality, as well as offering opportunities for participants to share personal experiences.
There will also be sessions for action planning that will contribute to faculty commitments around race.
All students are paid the KLB Living Wage for sessions they attend and work they contribute to.
If you're a King's student, you can find out more about Conversations about Race on our intranet page below.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/social-mobility/student-supporters:
Support for students who attend non-selective state schools.
Projects for teachers in non-selective state schools.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/social-mobility/staff-community:
How our King’s staff champion social mobility in their work.
Our What Works team conducts research to understand the key Higher Education social mobility issues  and uses that evidence to construct and trial interventions.
King's staff can access these research summaries, reports and briefings via the intranet links below.
The department also creates summaries of theory and research that support our key themes such as the importance of students' sense of belonging.
Social Mobility & Widening Participation projects.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/how-to-apply/contextualised-admissions:
At King’s we don’t just use your grades to assess your application.
We recognise that not everyone has the same educational journey and that some students have overcome significant challenges to achieve their grades.
If you have experienced certain barriers which make it harder for you to achieve a course’s standard entry requirements, we will take this into consideration.
We use the information you provide on your UCAS application to determine if you are eligible for a contextual offer.
This means the process is mostly automatic, and you may not need to do anything extra.
If you are care experienced it’s important that you tick the care experienced box as part of your UCAS application .
You can find the care experience question in the ‘Diversity and inclusion’ section of your UCAS hub.
If you are estranged from your family , have a history of forced migration , have unpaid caring responsibilities , or have been in receipt of Free School Meals (FSM) 1 you can let us know by selecting the relevant status in the ‘More about you’ section of your UCAS hub.
Once your UCAS application has been submitted, you will receive a message asking you to submit supporting evidence via the King’s Apply portal.
If you would like to get ahead and learn more about eligibility and the documents you’ll need, please click on the links above.
Please note that contextual admissions are only available to UK based students applying for an undergraduate degree.
Contextual offers are made to applicants who may have experienced barriers that have impeded their academic progress 2 .
Please note that an offer is not guaranteed.
Applicants must meet at least one of the criteria outlined below to be considered for a contextual offer.
Have successfully completed King’s College London’s Social Mobility and Widening Participation programme K+
AND/OR
Have been in receipt of Free School Meals (FSM)
Have the following experience:
Care-Experienced/Care Leaver or Estranged
Additional consideration is given to applications from students who may have experienced barriers that have impeded their academic progress.
The outcome of this process may be:
Please note that an offer is not guaranteed
Applicants must meet at least one of the criteria below for their application to be given additional consideration:
Have successfully completed a qualifying King’s College London Widening Participation programme
Have attended the following school:
King’s College London Maths School
Have taken part in a qualifying course delivered by the following organisation:
IntoUniversity
Forced displacement (sometimes referred to as forced migration )
Young Adult Carer
The information displayed on this page applies to those applying for September 2026 entry.
Some of our undergraduate courses have GCSE requirements, which can be found on the course webpage .
To be eligible for a course, you must still meet these GCSE requirements.
Some of our undergraduate courses also have A-level (or equivalent) subject requirements.
To be eligible for a programme, applicants must meet these subject requirements at the level specified on the course webpage .
1 Free School Meals data is provided by UCAS and verified by the Department for Education.
However, we encourage applicants to self-declare they have been in receipt of Free School Meals on their UCAS application.
We do not primarily use this unverified information, but it may be considered if necessary.
2 Students applying for our MBBS courses or courses in the Faculty of Dentistry, Oral & Craniofacial Sciences are not eligible for contextual offers.
If eligible, students may choose to apply for the Extended Medical Degree Programme (EMDP) and Enhanced Support Dentistry Programme (ESDP).
Students applying to the course English Law & Hong Kong Law LLB and JD are not eligible for this reduction.
3 Contextual entry requirements may be up to two grades below the standard entry requirements.
There are some eligible courses and/or qualifications where the contextual entry requirements are not two grades below the standard requirements.
Full details of the contextual entry requirements for each course can be found on the course webpages .
For courses that require admission tests, applicants must meet the threshold to progress with their application.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/social-mobility/data-protection-and-safeguarding:
This privacy notice is intended to supplement the information that you have already been given in connection with your engagement with a particular service, facility, event or initiative run by the Widening Participation Department.
You may have been directed here because you are applying for one of our programmes or because you have signed up to an event organised by us.
The information published on this page explains how King’s College London (“we”, “us”, “our”) process the personal data of applicants and participants to programmes delivered by the Social Mobility and Widening Participation Department.
It should be read alongside the King’s College London Privacy Notice.
All data processing is carried out in compliance with King’s Data Protection Policy.
We process your personal information to:
Data protection legislation allows us to use your personal information in this way because it is required for our public purpose as a teaching and research institution.
Universities are legally required to demonstrate financial integrity and performance accountability, particularly relating to educational outcomes.
This means, certain university activities are deemed to be tasks necessarily carried out ‘in the public interest’ (i.e.
public task).
The Higher Education and Research Act 2017 outlines, under the Access and Participation section of the Act, the requirements of Access and Participation Plans (APP).
Section 32 of the Act obliges institutions to include in their APPs provisions relating to the promotion of equality of opportunity.
In summary, the provisions
The lawful basis of a task carried out in the public interest enables us to meet our statutory obligation to run programmes and evidence effectiveness of such programmes to funders, education regulators such as (but not limited to) the Office for Students, and central Government.
We process special category data (sensitive data related to your ethnicity and disability status) in order to select and target participants).
We process this data on the basis of substantial public interest, for the purpose of equality of opportunity or treatment and to meet our statutory obligations
We also process data in both yours and our legitimate interest to enable us to manage and administer the programmes we offer.
If you do not provide the requested information, you will not be able to participate on our programmes.
We collect the following data from you either directly, from partner organisations or via your schools and/or colleges:
We will keep your information for 15 years from:
(Whichever of these three conditions is most recent)
We keep information for this length of time to investigate the longitudinal effect of higher education outreach on participants in terms of social mobility, attainment and their progression and graduate outcomes, including employment.
Your personal information will be shared with other organisations and other departments at King’s.
Who your personal information is shared with depends on the programme you are enrolled on.
Some of the data will only be shared if you progress to a King’s undergraduate degree after successfully completing one of our widening participation programmes.
You can see on a programme by programme basis who your information is shared with here (PDF).
The privacy notice outlined above covers projects run by the central King’s Social Mobility & Widening Participation department.
Please see the projects covered in this (PDF).
However, if you are taking part in a project being run by King’s WP Champion staff from a different department within the university, please see the WP Champions Privacy Notice to understand how King’s handles and shares your data as part of delivering WP Champion programmes, including school pupils, current undergraduate or postgraduate students, mentors, and supporters such as teachers, parents/carers.
If you require further information regarding your personal information and how this is used by the Social Mobility and Widening Participation Department, please contact outreach@kcl.ac.uk.
For more information about how King’s College London processes your personal data, including your rights and who to contact to make a complaint, please see our Core Privacy Notice: https://www.kcl.ac.uk/terms/privacy
Our Social Mobility & Widening Participation Department conducts work in line with King’s institutional safeguarding policy, including our child protection duties for prospective students under the age of 18.
You can access King's safeguarding policy on our webpage.
If you have any queries, please contact our Lead Safeguarding Officer for School and College age pupils (under-18) Michael Bennett by email on michael.j.bennett@kcl.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/social-mobility/what-works-department:
We are a research and evaluation team which forms part of the Social Mobility and Widening Participation Department at King’s College London.
We conduct meaningful research and evaluation that enhances King’s knowledge of its students and improves the student experience.
The outcome of our work to help enhance social mobility and student success.
The What Works department research & evaluation.
Read articles on research findings, reports and more.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/visit/denmark-hill-campus:
Denmark Hill Campus provides facilities for the Faculty of Life Sciences & Medicine , the Dental Institute , and is the home of the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience.
Denmark Hill is situated in Camberwell, in the London Borough of Southwark.
In the last few years this and the neighbouring areas have undergone an incredible process of regeneration and are now one of the most exciting places in London to live, study and work.
Further information about the area is available on the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience webpages .
Prospective students may arrange to visit and tour the campus.
To find out what facilities and resources are available at Denmark Hill Campus and where they are located, refer to this short guide that covers everything from accessible toilet locations and secure bike parking to prayer rooms and food outlets.
Denmark Hill Station, adjacent to the Campus, serves trains from Victoria, London Bridge, Blackfriars and Elephant and Castle.
Loughborough Junction is about 15 minutes walk away and is served by Thameslink trains from London Blackfriars via Elephant and Castle.
The nearest tube stations are Oval (Northern Line) and Elephant and Castle (Northern and Bakerloo Lines) from where the journey has to be completed by bus.
King's College Hospital, Denmark Hill: 40, 68, 176, 185, 468, 484.
Camberwell Green (about 10 minutes walk): 12, 35, 36, 42, 45, 345, 171.
Coldharbour Lane (about five minutes walk): 35, 45, 345.
There is no car parking for the actual campus.
A public car park is located on Bessemer Road (part of the hospital complex) at a cost of £2.50 per hour.
Secure bicycle racks are available for staff and student use and are located close to the Weston Education Centre.
To use this facility you must register your interest in person with Campus Operations and show your ID card to security in order to gain access to the area.
There is a waiting list for the limited number of parking spaces available to staff only.
There is a small provision of visitors’ parking spaces available on a first come, first served basis.
However, if you inform reception with the full details of your vehicle we will try to ensure a space is reserved for you.
There are limited spaces reserved for staff, students and visitors to the right of the Institute’s Main Building for a Pick Up & Drop Off Area.
This facility is for people who need parking for up to 90 minutes, Please remember to visit Main Reception for a Temporary Parking Permit and display this on your dashboard.
There is bicycle parking underneath the David Goldberg Building and outside the SGDP Building for students and staff.
The area is monitored by security services, and students and staff must register with security to use these spaces.
Tel: +44 (0)20 7836 5454
AccessAble guide to plan an accessible route.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/visit/guys-campus:
Guy's Campus is home to:
Close to London Bridge on the South Bank of the River Thames, next to Guy's Hospital, this is an increasingly fashionable area, with many bars, restaurants, markets and creative businesses.
Nearby are:
To find out what facilities and resources are available at Guy's Campus and where they are located, refer to this short guide that covers everything from accessible toilet locations and secure bike parking to prayer rooms and food outlets.
London Bridge (Northern and Jubilee Lines): 1 minute walk, Borough (Northern Line):10 minute walk, Elephant and Castle (Bakerloo Line): 25 minute walk, Bank/Monument (Northern Line):20 minute walk, Monument (District and Circle Lines):15 minute walk.
London Bridge (Northern and Jubilee Lines): 1 minute walk, Waterloo (Northern, Bakerloo, Jubilee, Waterloo & City Lines): 30 minute walk.
Buses stopping in Tooley Street: 47.
Buses stopping at London Bridge Station: 21 (24 hour), 43 (24 hour), 48, 149 (24 hour), 343 (24 hour), 381, N381, 521.
Buses stopping at Borough High Street: 21 (24 hour), 35 (24 hour), 40, 47, 133 (24 hour).
A shuttle bus service is available for staff and students (carrying their college ID) wishing to travel between the Guy’s and St Thomas' hospital sites, the latter also being within walking distance of Waterloo and the Strand.
The pick-up and drop-off points are:
From the east, Woolwich Arsenal - Savoy: get off at London Bridge City Pier.
There is limited pay and display car park at the Guy's Campus, and Western Street, St Thomas Street and Snowsfield.
The Campus has two secure bike parks available for staff and students with access activated on their university ID card.
Hodgkin Building Secure Bike Park - 24 hours a day, 7 days a week
Nag’s Head Yard Secure Bike Park  - 07.00-19.00, Monday to Friday (the bike park is locked outside these hours).
Tel: +44 (0)20 7848 6004

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/visit/st-thomas-campus:
The St Thomas’ Campus is the home of:
The Campus is located in central London, overlooking the River Thames, next to Westminster Bridge and opposite the Houses of Parliament.
St Thomas' is just five minutes walk along the river from the Waterloo Campus.
To find out what facilities and resources are available at St Thomas' Campus and where they are located, refer to this short guide that covers everything from accessible toilet locations and secure bike parking to prayer rooms and food outlets.
Lambeth North (Bakerloo line): 7 minute walk, Waterloo (Bakerloo, Jubilee, Northern and Waterloo & City lines): 10 minute walk, Westminster (Circle, District and Jubilee lines): 11 minute walk.
Stopping at Westminster Bridge Road - 12, 53, 148, 159, 211, 453, C10, N44, N155, N159, N381.
Stopping at Lambeth Palace Road - 77, 507, N44.
Stopping at York Road - 76, 341, 381, RV1.
Stopping at Lambeth Road - 3, 344, C10, N3.
at St Thomas', the lower-ground car park opposite the Florence Nightingale Museum
at Guy's Campus, on Great Maze Pond on the lay-by to the Bloomfield Clinic.
Waterloo, Waterloo East, Victoria and Charing Cross are the nearest railway stations, and a 15 minute walk away.
From the west, Putney - Blackfriars: get off at London eye (Waterloo) Pier.
From the east, Woolwich Arsenal - Savoy: get off at London eye (Waterloo) Pier.
Bicycle racks are located along side Gassiot House and next to the Florence Nightingale Museum, both areas are covered by CCTV.
Tel: +44 (0)20 7188 7188

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/visit/strand-campus:
The campus is close to:
To find out what facilities and resources are available at Strand Campus and where they are located, refer to this short guide that covers everything from accessible toilet locations and secure bike parking to prayer rooms and food outlets.
Temple (District and Circle lines): 2 minute walk.
Charing Cross (Bakerloo and Northern lines): 10 minute walk, Embankment (District, Circle and Bakerloo lines): 10 minute walk, Waterloo (Jubilee, Northern, Bakerloo, Waterloo & City lines): 12 minute walk, Holborn (Central and Picadilly lines): 12 minute walk, Chancery Lane (Central line): use exit 4 - 15 minute walk.
Charing Cross: 9 minute walk.
Waterloo: 12 minute walk.
Waterloo East: 10 minute walk.
Blackfriars: 12 minute walk.
Buses stopping outside the university: 1, 4, 26, 59, 68, 76, X68, 168, 171, 172, 176 (24 hour), 188, 243 (24 hour), 341 (24 hour), 521, RV1.
From the west, Putney - Blackfriars: get off at either Embankment Pier or Blackfriars Pier.
No public parking, but a pay and display parking system operates in nearby streets including Surrey Street.
Motocycle bays are available in the Strand, Arundel Street, Temple Place and other nearby streets.
Weekend and evening bicycle parking after 20.00 is permitted at the Strand entrance opposite Security.
Please note that any bicycles left in this location after 08.30 Monday to Friday will be removed.
No responsibility will be accepted for the replacement of locks or costs incurred.
No bicycles are permitted to be brought into the buildings or chained to railings.
Students and staff may park at the Strand Campus secure bicycle park off Strand Lane but must register with Strand Campus Security for access.
There is bike parking in the streets, and Barclays Cycle Hire bikes are available close by.
By tube: Chancery Lane (Central line): use exit 4 - 6 minute walk.
Temple (District and Circle lines): 6 minute walk.
On foot from the Strand: 8 minute walk
Bicycle stands: Within the courtyard, to the right of the entry arch.
By tube: 22 Kingsway is equidistant to Temple and Covent Garden tube stations.
Temple (District and Circle lines): 8 minute walk.
Covent Garden (Piccadilly line): 5 minute walk.
On foot from the Strand: 6 minute walk
Bicycle stands: The nearest public cycle parking facility is at Lincoln’s Inn Fields.
Students and staff may park at the Strand Campus secure bicycle park and must register with Strand Campus Security for access.
Barclays Cycle Hire bikes are available close by.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/visit/waterloo-campus:
The campus is next to:
To find out what facilities and resources are available at Waterloo Campus and where they are located, refer to this short guide that covers everything from library locations to prayer rooms and food outlets.
Waterloo (Bakerloo, Jubilee, Northern and Waterloo & City lines): 4 minute walk, Charing Cross (Bakerloo and Northern lines): 9 minute walk, Embankment (District, Circle and Bakerloo lines): 13 minute walk, Temple (District and Circle lines): 20 minute walk.
Waterloo: 4 minute walk.
Waterloo East: 5 minute walk.
Blackfriars: 17 minute walk.
Buses stopping outside the university: 381, RV1.
Buses stopping near the university: 1, 4, 26, 59, 68, 76, X68, 77, 139, 168, 171, 172, 188, 211, 243 (24 hour), 341 (24 hour), 507 and 521.
From the east, Woolwich Arsenal - Savoy: get off at Blackfriars Pier.
There is no car parking available on this campus.
There is an APCOA car park on Cornwall Road.
Stamford Street is a red route.
Lambeth Council cycle racks are available in front of the Franklin-Wilkins and James Clerk Maxwell Buildings.
Bicycle parking is available in the bike shed at the back of the Franklin-Wilkins Building on a long term bookable basis.
Please contact the ETDE helpdesk for details.
No public parking.
Motorcycle bays are available in Cornwall Road.
Bicycle stands are outside the front entrances of Franklin-Wilkins and James Clerk Maxwell buildings.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/international-foundation/programme:
The King’s International Foundation Programme is a specialist, one-year foundation course that helps ambitious international students find the right pathway and combination of modules to progress to undergraduate study at King’s College London or another UK university.
These full-time foundation courses have been designed by King’s Foundations to develop your essential knowledge in a chosen subject area, introduce you to the UK higher education system and improve your academic English so that you are fully prepared for your degree.
You’ll join a supportive environment that’s dedicated to helping you transition from high school to university study.
You’ll receive around 15 hours of contact time a week, spread across lectures, small-group seminars and tutorials of, on average, 16 students.
The King’s International Foundation Programme is for students with an IELTS score of 6.0 with a minimum of 5.5 in each skill, or an equivalent English language qualification .
If you have an an IELTS score (or equivalent) of 5.5 with a minimum of 5.0 in each skill, you can apply for the Extended King’s International Foundation Programme .
This option offers an additional five weeks of online intensive academic English preparation before you join the rest of the King’s International Foundation Programme cohort on campus in September.
There are four different pathways to choose from, each carefully designed to lead you towards undergraduate study in specific areas:

- Health, Life & Biosciences
- STEM & Natural Sciences
- Politics, Culture & Social Sciences
- Business & Economics

When you decide on your pathway, you’ll get to tailor your syllabus further by choosing optional modules.
There are 17 different combinations of optional modules across the whole King's International Foundation Programme, but only some will lead to your desired degree, so you need to pick these carefully.
Every student will take four modules over the two semesters of their King's International Foundation Programme.
This includes a core English module and a compulsory society module.
Depending on the pathway you choose, you’ll pick one or two optional modules to further focus your foundation studies in the academic subject areas of the degrees you are most interested in studying.
The core English modules are:
During your King's International Foundation Programme, you will study a module that explores the impact of your chosen field on society and introduces you to key debates and perspectives from within the field.
The Society modules are:
You'll apply directly for the International Foundation Programme.
First, you need to select the pathway and module combination that will allow you to progress to your chosen degree.
You'll then need to set up an account with King's Apply portal and build your application.
We strongly advise that you choose only one pathway that you would like to apply to.
However, you can apply for more than one pathway in the same year if you would like to  — but please note that you'll need to pay the application fee for each pathway.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/international-foundation/about/extended-programme:
King’s Foundations is accredited by the British Council for its English language teaching, and we specialise in supporting students to be able to use academic English to excel in their university studies.
The Extended King's International Foundation Programme (IFP) is designed specifically for students who don’t quite meet the English language requirements for the King's International Foundation.
As an Extended IFP student, you will receive an additional five weeks of intensive academic English and skills preparation online over the summer, so that you can confidently participate in sessions with other students on the programme from September.
The Extended IFP covers the following and other areas:
The programme also provides a great opportunity for you to practise your English with other students before you meet them on campus in September – you’ll already have friends before Welcome Week.
If your overall IELTS score is 5.5 (or equivalent), with no individual skill below 5.0, then apply for the Extended IFP and join us for an English boost before the start of term.
However, if your overall IELTS score is 6.0 overall (or equivalent), with a minimum of 5.5 in each skill, you may be eligible to apply for the King's International Foundation Programme .
Important update: The application deadline for the Extended IFP has been extended until 30 June.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/international-foundation/about/ten-reasons-to-join:
Since 2016, the King’s International Foundation Programme has helped over 2,500 students progress to an undergraduate degree at King’s.
This year, we welcomed over 900 international students from 75+ countries to the King’s International Foundation Programme .
The King's International Foundation Programme is the largest course of its kind run by a university in the UK.
It’s designed and delivered by King’s experts on our King’s campuses.
Our foundation courses are never run by external companies.
Every King's International Foundation Programme student will be given a conditional offer to study one of over 150 undergraduate degrees* at King’s.
The degrees you’ll be eligible to apply for align with the foundation pathway and optional modules you choose.
Please read each option carefully and make sure you apply for the correct pathway and module combination.
*Subject to meeting entry requirements as stated in your conditional offer letter.
It excludes dentistry, law, medicine, midwifery, music, nursing, pharmacy, and physiotherapy.
These degrees require external tests and/or interviews.
However, interviews for Pharmacy are guaranteed for King's International Foundation Programme students on the Health, Life & Biosciences pathway.
Find out more on our progression to study page .
You can skip UCAS and apply directly to King's for up to three degrees (except for the excluded degrees outlined above).
This makes it much easier to apply to King’s and gives you more options to apply for other courses via UCAS, should you wish to do so.
Of last year's cohort 80% of students progressed to King’s.
Other students continued their studies at universities in the UK, including LSE, UCL, City, Bristol, Manchester, and many more both in the UK and abroad.
Another benefit of being a King's International Foundation Programme student is that you’re guaranteed a space in King’s accommodation —as long as you apply in time.
Foundation scholarships are available, and you can apply for one from November 2024.
Visit our 'Fees and funding' page to find out more about our scholarships.
If you continue at King’s, you'll also receive a Progression Scholarship.
It’s equivalent to 10% of the tuition fee for the first year of your undergraduate degree.
When you join us, you’ll be a King’s student from arrival.
You’re encouraged to join the students' union ( KCLSU ) and sign up for societies.
You’ll also be able to use a range of facilities, such as our gyms, on-site restaurants and cafes, and the NHS centre.
You’ll study at our campuses in the heart of London, alongside all our students with access to our libraries, IT and all other resources.
London has been ranked the best city for students in the world for the fourth year in a row ( QS Best Student City Rankings 2025 ).
By joining King’s, you’ll be at the most central university in London.
There are plenty of professionals on hand to help you adjust to student life at King's.
This includes your Personal Tutor, who will guide you through applying for undergraduate study.
There’s also a dedicated Student Experience team that will help you make the most of your international foundation year and a Wellbeing Advisor to help you with any wellbeing challenges.
With over 75 different nationalities studying the King's International Foundation Programme, you’ll be joining a diverse cohort.
But across the university, you’ll find students and staff from over 150 countries.
If you need any more information, please contact us

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/international-foundation/about:
King’s Foundations is dedicated to preparing students to succeed at university.
We do this via four key programmes:
Since 2016, over 2,500 students have progressed from the King's International Foundation Programme to an undergraduate degree at King’s.
Find out more about the expert King's Foundation team that delivers these programmes .
The British Council’s globally recognised scheme is a mark of quality assurance for international students who are taking or are planning to take an English language course in the UK.
The British Council inspects us every four years to ensure we meet their standards in management, teaching resources and environment, teaching quality, student welfare, and care of under-18s.
We were reaccredited in 2022.
King's Foundations supports you from the moment you accept your offer until you graduate and beyond.
This includes a guarantee of accommodation in a King’s Residence for the duration of your foundation on-campus learning, provided that you apply by the specified deadlines, and a special policy for under-18s.
As a King’s International Foundation Programme student you will also benefit from additional support throughout the year-long programme from a dedicated Student Experience Team, a Personal Tutor and a Wellbeing Advisor.
All of our teaching takes place at our Strand campus, whether that’s language tuition happening in Bush House or module teaching across our other buildings.
We don’t ship international students to a satellite campus.
When you join a King's Foundations programme, you'll become a King's student from your very first day and will integrate into campus life.
Get help meeting the English language requirements for your degree
Boost your academic and English skills ahead of your postgraduate study

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/international-foundation/about/testimonials:
Discover what it's like to actually join the King's International Foundation Programme and hear from students who studied with us talking about the module combinations they chose.
Eid decided to study a Foundation course to get a fundamental grounding in accounting and finance.
He has always been passionate about finance and banking and the financial district being on your doorstep in London was a big draw.
Meeting people from all over the world and the support from the Foundations team has helped him map out his future.
For Utku, he always wanted to study in the UK at a prestigious university.
He felt that King's offered this as well as the potential to expand social networks.
He had no experience in writing academic essays and the King's International Foundation Programme also helped significantly with this.
The King's International Foundation Programme helped give Shiori more confidence to talk in front of people.
She made lots of friends from societies and events that have a range of different views and she enjoys that diversity.
With the qualifications Catalina had when leaving school in Chile, it would have been a big challenge to apply for a degree in the UK.
The foundation course she studied offered a great way to get to King's and was a perfect 'stepping stone' to a BA in International Relations.
She says the King's community has become a 'second family' to her because of how much support there is and how much it cares for students' wellbeing.
The UK has a lot of culture and for Keita this was the best reason for him to study a foundation programme at King's as an international student.
Through the King's International Foundation Programme he got interested in the humanities more which led to him going on to study Liberal Arts at undergraduate.
When he came to England, Keita didn't know how to write an academic essay but by the end of the course his writing skills had much improved.
For May, the King's International Foundation Programme helped her develop a deeper passion for English Literature.
She particularly liked the Liberal Arts module that allowed for creativity and passion.
It allowed her to meet like-minded people and get involved in societies such as Roar News, a student newspaper, that led her to feel more at home on the programme.
The high school diploma that Julia left with in Switzerland wasn't fully recognised by higher education institutions in the UK so the King's International Foundation Programme was the perfect way to gain a grounding in higher education.
She found her foundation year was great at giving an introduction to complex numbers which was required for her undergraduate degree.
Smoothing the transition between high school and university was one of the main reasons the King's International Foundation Programme appealed to Maryam.
The ability to be a student studying on the King's campus was a big draw too.
She found regular meetings with her personal tutors very beneficial both academically and pastorally.
She thought the programme was a good balance between social life and academia.
Anna wanted to study her undergraduate degree at King's and chose to take the King's International Foundation Programme so she could be prepared for her studies and adjust to student life in London.
She says her programming lessons were particularly beneficial and she enjoyed getting involved in university life through student societies.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/international-foundation/pathways:
The King’s International Foundation Programme offers four pathways and 17 different module combinations for you to choose from.
Each module combination is designed to help you progress to a specific subject area or undergraduate degree at King’s, so you must carefully research and choose your modules .
Some degrees will have subject-specific requirements, so, for example, if a degree requires maths at A-level, then it will require a maths module in the foundation.
Our Foundation Finder will help you identify the right pathway for you.
However, some pathways have subject requirements and you will need to meet these requirements in your high school diploma or equivalent to be eligible to apply for it.
If you want to study health sciences or chemistry at university, this is the best pathway to consider.
You can progress to a variety of degrees, including Biomedical Science, Chemistry, Global Health & Social Medicine, Psychology and Sport & Exercise Medical Sciences.
You'll take one core English module and another on science and society, then you'll choose a combination of two science modules.
Find out more about this pathway:
If you want to pursue a degree in traditional sciences, technology or engineering at a university level, this foundation pathway is the right choice.
You can progress to a range of degrees that includes Artificial Intelligence, Computer Science, General Engineering, Natural Sciences and Physics.
During this pathway, you'll study a Science and society module, an English module and a mathematics for natural sciences module.
You'll also get to choose another natural sciences or STEM module.
This pathway will equip you with the skills and knowledge you need to study business, maths and economics degrees, among others, at King’s College London.
You could progress to King's Business School or take an undergraduate degree in a wide range of other subjects, including social sciences, mathematics and international development.
You'll take a compulsory English module and a core module on business and society.
You'll also get to choose a combination of two optional modules.
If you want to study the arts, culture, politics, digital media or law, this pathway is a good choice.
You could progress to a range of degrees, including Culture, Media & Creative Industries, Digital Media & Culture, International Relations, Law, Politics and Social Sciences.
You'll study a core English module and a compulsory culture and society module.
You'll also get to pick two optional modules for the rest of your course.
This foundation course in health, life and biosciences is the ideal...
This foundation course in STEM and natural sciences is designed to lead...
This foundation course in business and economics is designed for students...
This foundation course in politics, culture and social sciences is...

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/international-foundation/progression:
The aim of the King’s International Foundation Programme is to prepare you for undergraduate study at UK university — and over 80% of our students progressed to King’s for undergraduate study in 2024.
In the last five years, between 65-90% of students met their progression requirements and progressed to a King’s undergraduate degree.
Between 15-20% of students who complete the King's International Foundation Programme progress to study at another UK university.
King's International Foundation Programme students are guaranteed a conditional offer or interview for most programmes within their pathway progression routes.
A small number of programmes do not guarantee a conditional offer due to additional entry requirements.
You’ll be made a conditional offer, which means you’ll need to achieve certain grades in order to progress to your chosen undergraduate degree.
This will include an overall grade for your International Foundation Programme and, for some programmes, specific subject requirements.
Details of the grades you’ll need to achieve will be shared with you when you join King’s Foundations.
In the meantime, you can learn more about progression requirements using our A-level Equivalency Table further below.
Meet Jack from our Student Experience team who is our progression specialist.
If you want to study Dentistry, Law, Medicine, Midwifery, Music, Nursing, Pharmacy or Physiotherapy, a conditional offer is not guaranteed.
That’s because these degrees require applicants to take additional external tests or to attend an interview.
Midwifery, Nursing, Pharmacy and Physiotherapy at King's will guarantee an interview for applicants on the correct pathway.
Law requires applicants to meet the required threshold in the LNAT .
Both Dentistry and Medicine require applicants to meet the required threshold in the UCAT applicants who meet the required UCAT score will then be invited to attend an interview.
There’s a cap, implemented by the UK Government, on the number of international places available for both Dentistry and Medicine.
We recommend you read the below factsheet before applying for the International Foundation Programme to progress to Dentistry or Medicine.
Note that the only pathway accepted for Medicine MBBS is the Health, Life & Biosciences pathway.
If wishing to progress to Medicine from the Health, Life & Biosciences pathway, please choose the following modules: Biology and Chemistry.
The pathways accepted for Dentistry BDS are the Health, Life & Biosciences pathway or the STEM & Natural Sciences pathway.
If wishing to progress to Dentistry from the Health, Life & Biosciences pathway, please choose one of the following optional module combinations:
If wishing to progress to Dentistry from the STEM & Natural Sciences Pathway please choose either Biology or Chemistry as your optional module.
If you have any queries, please email kings-foundations@kcl.ac.uk .
King’s offers over 150 different undergraduate degrees, but you’ll only be eligible to apply for ones that match up with your pathway and module combination choices.
This means you need to have a good idea of the subject area you want to study, and you must choose the Foundation pathway and optional module(s) that will allow you to progress to your chosen degree.
We’ll make sure you know how to apply to a King's undergraduate programme as a King's International Foundation Programme student and support you to make the best decisions on which degree(s) you should apply for.
We do this by:
King's International Foundation Programme students can apply for up to three undergraduate degrees directly with King’s, using the King’s Apply website without writing another personal statement or using UCAS.
Students then select a firm and an insurance choice.
However, you will not be able to apply directly for the following:
If you’re interested in these degrees, you’ll need to apply through UCAS .
Please note that the UCAS deadline for Dentistry and Medicine applications is 15 October 2024.
Additional entry conditions, such as the UCAT, must be completed in advance of joining King's Foundations.
For more information please review the below factsheet.
Once you have applied to your chosen undergraduate programmes, you will need to meet the progression requirements stated in your offer.
This will be an overall grade in the King's International Foundation Programme (eg an A, or 70% overall) and, where applicable, a grade in a specific module (eg a B+ in Mathematics for Natural Science).
All progression requirements are equivalent to A-Level qualifications, which are listed as standard on King’s undergraduate programme webpages and on UCAS.
To check which degrees you are guaranteed conditional offers for, check the webpage for your chosen module combination and select ‘Degree Eligibility’.
You can use the table below to calculate the entry requirements needed to progress to your chosen undergraduate degree programme.
Please be aware that exceptions may apply and you will be given access to the full progression routes for your King’s International Foundation Programme pathway and module combination when you join King’s Foundations:
A-Level Requirements
International Foundation Overall Progression Requirement
A*A*A
A (70%)
A*AA
AAA
B+ (65%)
AAB
ABB
B (60%)
BBB
A-Level Subject Requirement
International Foundation Subject Progression Requirement
A*
A
B
For example, if an undergraduate programme at A-Level requires A*AA with an A in Mathematics, you would need to achieve an A (70%) overall in the King's International Foundation Programme and a B+ (65%) in the Mathematics module to progress.
Some King's International Foundation Programme students want to expand their progression options and apply to other universities or for less competitive courses.
These applications need to be made through UCAS, and we’ll provide you with guidance and advice on how to do so.
We’ll also help you apply with UCAS if you’re interested in one of the specific degrees that don’t allow direct applications.
This is particularly important if you want to study Medicine or Dentistry because the deadline to apply for those courses is in mid-October each year.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/international-foundation/how-to-apply:
You'll apply to the King's International Foundation Programme via our application portal, King's Apply .
There are three things you need to decide before you apply to the King’s International Foundation Programme:
Each of these options is explained in more detail on the King's International Foundation Programme page .
Make sure you take a look at our pathways and choose the right module combination that will allow you to progress to your chosen degree.
Don’t forget to check the entry requirements for the module combination that you’re interested in.
We have a priority deadline for our pathways.
For 2025 entry, this will be Sunday 16 March 2025 and applications received by this date are guaranteed to be considered.
Applicants who apply by 16 March 2025 will receive an offer in time to apply for King’s accommodation.
If you apply after 16 March 2025, your favourite module choices may be full and you may miss the deadline for King’s Residences.
Some pathways may remain open for applications beyond the priority deadline.
In this instance, you may apply late, but there may not be a space available for you by the time you submit your application.
Important update: The application deadline has been extended until 31 July 2025.
We recommend submitting your application as soon as possible to avoid disappointment.
To apply for the King’s International Foundation Programme, you must:
The King’s International Foundation Programme requires a non-refundable application fee of £75 before you can submit your application.
Please note that payment of an application fee is not a guarantee that you will receive an offer for your chosen programme, as many of our programmes are competitive.
If you decide to apply to more than one programme with an application fee, you will need to pay for each application submitted.
Please ensure that you read the information about your chosen programme carefully before applying.
Note: if you receive an offer, our Kings International Foundation Programme will also require a deposit payment to secure your place.
This is in addition to the application fee, however, the deposit is used as a partial payment of the tuition fees upon enrolling.
Your offer letter will include details of any deposit you must pay, deadlines, and payment methods.
You should not make a deposit payment unless instructed to as part of an offer.
You may start your application and save your progress before you submit it.
This is particularly helpful when you need to gather the supporting documents for your application.
We need three pieces of supporting information in order to consider your application:
A Personal Statement gives you the opportunity to tell us why you wish to study at King's and what degree programme you hope to study after your foundation.
You can see which degrees are available to you on the ‘Degree eligibility’ tab on each module combination page.
You should write a minimum of four paragraphs for your Personal Statement.
Please include information on how you feel your chosen course will benefit you, what you feel you can bring to King's as a student, and the area of study you intend to progress to after completing your Foundation course.
You should be aware that if the module combination you’re applying for does not allow progression to the degree you mention in your Personal Statement, we will need to query this.
Until this is rectified, your application will be deemed incomplete.
You need to submit an academic transcript with your marks for Years 10, 11 and 12.
If you are still completing high school, you should provide a Year 12 interim transcript with a full list of the subjects studied in the final year, as well as the academic transcript with final marks for Years 10 and 11.
If you have completed high school, you should provide a copy of your graduation diploma or certificate, as well as your academic transcript with final marks for Years 10, 11 and 12.
Official translations are required for any documents that are not in English.
An official translation is either from the school, on headed paper and stamped/signed, or from a certified translator.
We cannot accept documents translated by the applicant.
If you are taking A-levels or the IB Diploma, you should provide your predicted grades.
If you are taking AS levels, you should provide predicted grades and information on the exam board that will issue your certificate.
Please note that we cannot consider AS-level results issued at a school level.
If the exam board is not specified, then your application will be considered incomplete.
You must submit an approved English language test certificate, such as an IELTS for UKVI, which must be dated within the last two years.
If you have not taken one yet, you can still apply and if we make you an offer, this will form part of the offer conditions.
See a list of all English language qualifications that we accept .
We usually make a decision on your application within eight weeks.
You’ll get an email notification when it’s time for you to log back into King’s Apply and see our decision.
You may receive a notification to ask for more information before we can assess your application.
It is important that you keep an eye on your emails so that you can find out if you have an offer or if we need additional information from you.
If we offer you a place to join the King’s International Foundation Programme, this will often be a conditional offer.
Within this, we will outline the conditions that you need to meet in order to have your place confirmed.
For example, we may need you to provide evidence of your results or your English Language Certificate if you didn’t have these at the time you applied.
You’ll find details of your offer in your King’s Apply account.
When you’re ready to accept your offer, you need to log into your King’s Apply account and accept it.
At this stage, you must also pay your deposit and you can apply for accommodation if within the deadlines, note if your application is late you may miss the opportunity to apply for King's accommodation.
We strongly recommend you accept your offer as early as possible and apply for accommodation as soon as you can.
You can find out more about securing accommodation on our website .
You’ll need to upload your results to your King’s Apply account by the end of July, earlier if possible.
This is essential in order to have your place at King’s confirmed and receive a Confirmation of Acceptance (CAS), which you’ll need to apply for a student visa.
Visa regulations for entry into the UK often change.
We recommend you take a look at our visa information page to find out more about the latest system and what documents you’ll need to prepare.
We understand that the visa system may be confusing.
If you need any further advice on applying for your visa, please contact one of our Visa & International Advice Team .
If you apply before the accommodation deadline, you’ll be guaranteed a place in King’s accommodation for the duration of your King's International Foundation Programme.
You’ll be sent details of your accommodation options and deadlines along with your offer.
King’s Residences opens for application in spring, usually April/May time, for around a month.
You will be emailed when you can apply for accommodation.
We recommend you apply for your King's International Foundation Programme by 16 March 2025 to ensure you have an offer in time to apply for accommodation.
Late applicants may not receive an offer before the accommodation applications close, and you would then need to find accommodation with another provider or in the private rented sector.
Find out more about the accommodation guarantee .
If you’re unsure about your choice you can use our website to search for degree programmes at King’s you may wish to progress to , and see which pathway is most suitable for you .
However, you can apply for more than one pathway in the same year if you would like to.
You will be required to pay the application fee for each pathway.
If you receive offers for more than one pathway, you will only be able to accept one of the offers.
If you already hold an offer, then choose to apply to another pathway and are successful in your application, please let us know if you wish to accept the alternative offer.
We can transfer any deposit paid to the new pathway's application and accept the offer on your behalf.
Once you have completed an online application, you can click on 'new application' and create another application for a different pathway.
You cannot, however, make more than one application for the same pathway in the same academic year.
If your application has not yet had a decision, you should contact the Admissions team via King’s Apply and request a change of programme.
If a programme remains open to new applications, the Admissions team will be able to switch your application to the new programme without payment of a new application fee.
Please note this is not a guarantee that you will receive an offer for the new programme, as many of our programmes are competitive.
If you request to switch programmes, the date you submit your request will become the date of your application.
If your application is unsuccessful, you will need to submit a new application for another King’s International Foundation Programme, subject to that programme being open to new applications.
You will need to pay for the new application submitted.
If you hold an offer, that offer is specific to the specific King’s International Foundation Programme applied for, as will be detailed in your offer letter (if an offer is made).
If you wish to be considered for a different programme of study, you will need to submit a new application through King's Apply and be considered alongside other applicants for that programme.
You must do this before you enrol .
If you wish to change to a different mode of study, eg from the Extended to Standard Programme, please contact the Admissions Office through the King's Apply portal for advice before you enrol .
A request does not guarantee that the change can be permitted.
Once your application has been set up for enrolment in the programme, there is no guarantee that you will be able to change your programme or mode of study; however, Student Services can provide advice on internal transfer procedures.
You can message the admissions team through your King’s Apply account or contact us on +44 (0) 20 7123 4843.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/international-foundation/fees-funding:
We encourage you to apply as early as possible.
The key dates for the 2025-26 academic year are:
Event
Date
Applications open:
November 2024
Priority application deadline:
16 March 2025
Final application deadline:
15 June 2025
Extended King's International Foundation Programme starts online:
King's International Foundation Programme starts on campus:
29 September 2025
Programme finishes:
5 June 2026
All applications received by the priority deadline of 16 March 2025 are guaranteed to be considered and if you receive an offer it will be in time to apply for King’s accommodation.
If you apply after 16 March 2025, your preferred module choices may be full.
You may also miss the deadline for King's Residences.
IMPORTANT: Application deadlines have been extended until 15 June 2025.
The tuition fee for the 2025/26 King’s International Foundation Programme is £26,300.
The tuition fee for the Extended King’s International Foundation Programme is £30,450.
If you receive a conditional or unconditional offer to study a King’s International Foundation Programme you are required to pay a deposit of £5,500 to secure your place on your chosen course.
The deposit will be offset against your tuition fee when you join King’s.
King’s Foundations offers one scholarship of £5,000 for each of our four pathways for students on the King's International Foundation Programme.
To apply for this scholarship, you have to submit a short video explaining why your future begins at King’s by 15 May 2025.
The entries will be judged by a panel and successful applicants will be contacted to inform them of their prize.
The scholarship is awarded towards your tuition fee and is not a cash prize.
Further details of the scholarship for 2025 are available in the Terms and Conditions below and to apply please use the King's Scholars of Tomorrow Application Form 2025.
Applications for 2025 have now closed.
The King’s International Foundation Programme is a challenging year of study which allows students who meet the conditions of their offer to progress to undergraduate study at King’s College London.
In recognition of the hard work undertaken in order to meet those offer conditions, all students progressing to undergraduate study at King’s receive a scholarship equivalent to 10% of their first year’s tuition fee.
You don’t have to apply, just enrol on your undergraduate degree and the scholarship will be applied to your tuition fee.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/international-foundation/programme/download-programme-brochure:
Receive a digital version of our brochure by completing the quick form below:
Find out how to contact King's Foundations.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/foundations/courses/health-life-biosciences:
Part of King's International Foundation Programme
This Health, Life and Biosciences foundation pathway is the perfect choice if you’re interested in studying health sciences or chemistry at university.
If you choose this pathway, you may be eligible to progress to a variety of degrees, including Biomedical Science, Chemistry, Global Health & Social Medicine, Psychology and Sport & Exercise Medical Sciences.
The Health, Life & Biosciences pathway can also lead to the Medicine MBBS and Dentistry BDS at King’s, but you will not be guaranteed a conditional offer or be able to apply for these courses directly.
If you’d like to study Pharmacy, you will be guaranteed an interview but won’t be guaranteed a conditional offer.
Find out more on our progression page and check the degree eligibility tab on each module combination for a detailed list of appropriate degrees.
Detailed country-specific entry requirements are available on the individual module combination pages under the first tab below.
You can browse the optional module combinations below and find the entry requirements so that you know what you need to be aiming for to receive a conditional offer.
Biology + Maths for Natural Sciences Pathway modules: Mathematics for Natural Science Biology - International Foundation Chemistry + Mathematics for Natural Sciences Pathway modules: Mathematics for Natural Sciences Chemistry - International Foundation Biology + Chemistry Pathway modules: Biology - International Foundation Chemistry - International Foundation
Pathway modules:
This foundation pathway in health, life and biosciences is designed to provide you with the scientific academic skills and content you need to be successful in your chosen undergraduate degree.
It will improve and enhance your English language in a scientific, academic context.
You’ll strengthen your ability to express yourself through speaking and writing and boost your understanding when reading or listening.
You’ll learn how to use academic sources, like articles, books and lectures, and how to structure and write critical assignments or give academic presentations.
You’ll also explore key topics within modern sciences and consider how these affect society, with a compulsory Science and Society module.
You'll look at issues such as the philosophy and history of science and the ethical challenges of scientific and technical development, including AI.
This module will also prepare you for university study by discussing the cultural norms, ideas and practices of academic culture in the UK in comparison with other perspectives from around the world to understand the nature of science and the values and assumptions that may be obscured at first.
For the remainder of your health, life and biosciences foundation pathway, you’ll study your chosen optional modules.
You might choose to study a combination of biology and chemistry and learn about the biology of the human body alongside the chemistry of treatment, drug research and prescribing.
You may prefer to combine biology and maths for natural sciences or study a combination of chemistry and maths for natural sciences.
If you need to apply for a Student Visa to study in the UK, we can only accept IELTS and Pearson results that have been provided by test centres approved by UK Visas and Immigration: IELTS for UKVI (Academic) and PTE (Academic ) UKVI are only valid if taken within two years before the start date of your chosen programme of study.
All elements of the test results must be demonstrated in one test.
We cannot take a combination of your scores across two tests.
We cannot take IELTS One Skill scores.
You can find a list of approved test centres on the UKVI website.
Test
King's International Foundation
Extended King's International Foundation*
IELTS for UKVI (Academic)
6.0 overall with no skill below 5.5
From 5.5 overall with no skill below 5.0, to 6.0 overall, with no skill below 5.5
Pearson Test of English (Academic) UKVI
59 overall with a minimum of 54 in each communicative skill
54 overall with a minimum of 46 in each communicative skill
(* please see note below regarding English Language Entry Requirements for the King's International Foundation programme and Extended King's International Foundation programme .)
We accept a number of other English language tests if you do not require a student visa to study in the UK including those listed below.
For a full list of accepted tests for the Foundation programme, please visit our English Language requirements page .
The tests listed below are valid if they have been taken within two years of the start date of your chosen course.
The start date for the purposes of English language requirements is the 1st day of the month in which your courses commences, i.e.
if your courses starts in September 2025, the test must be dated within two years of 1st September 2025.
We cannot take TOEFL MyBest scores or IELTS One Skill scores.
Qualification
Cambridge Advanced Certificate (CAE)/Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge Certificate of Proficiency in English (CPE)/Cambridge C2 Proficiency
169 overall with a minimum of 160 in each skill
162 overall with a minimum of 154 in each skill
IELTS (Academic)
Minimum 6.0 overall, with no skill below 5.5
Minimum 5.5 overall, with no skill below 5.0
IELTS (Online)
Pearson Test of English (Academic) We also accept Pearson Test of English (Academic) for UKVI.
We do not accept Pearson Test of English (Academic) Online
TOEFL iBT Institution code: 0394 OR TOEFL iBT Home Edition OR TOEFL iBT Paper Edition
80 overall with a minimum of 20 in each skills
72 overall with a minimum of 17 in writing/speaking and 15 in listening/reading.
All TOEFL test results must be provided via King’s Apply.
Trinity College London Integrated Skills in English (ISE)
Level III with pass in each skill
Level II with pass in each skill
*Students who exceed this requirement will be transferred to the King's International Foundation programme, which starts on 29 September 2025.
This Health, Life and Biosciences foundation pathway is a full-time, 120-credit programme.
Students study four 30-credit modules.
All students undertake a minimum of 15 hours of live, face-to-face study on the pathway, in addition to an average of 20 hours of self-study a week.
This includes preparation for live sessions, homework, completion of assignments, revision and any other work set by your teachers.
The Health, Life and Biosciences foundation pathway is typically taught through a combination of lectures, seminars, and small group classes, which help you prepare for your undergraduate degree studies.
Face-to-face teaching is complemented and supported by innovative technology with elements of digital learning and assessment embedded into the programme.
Every student is assigned a personal tutor.
They will provide you with the regular opportunity to review your learning, academic progress and general well-being as you progress through your studies.
The nature of assessment varies by module.
Most modules are assessed through a combination of coursework and final examinations.
The type of assessment may include:
See each module page for more details.
You will study the following modules on this pathway:
You will choose one module combination:
*You will either study English for Scientific Academic Purposes or Academic Expression & Critical Thinking, depending on your level of English when you start the programme.
All of the modules support your subject and linguistic skills development as they encourage you to analyse concepts and develop ideas in your chosen subject area.
Upon accepting an offer for the King’s International Foundation Programme, you are required to pay a deposit of £5,500 to secure your place by the deadline, which will be stated in your offer.
If you do not pay the deposit or provide evidence of financial sponsorship by the deadline stated in your offer, your offer will expire, and King’s reserves the right not to reinstate the offer.
This deposit is payable when you firmly accept an offer (unconditional or conditional) to study with us and will be offset against your tuition fees when you join King’s.
Payments are made online through the King's Apply portal.
All students need to pay the deposit, with the exception of sponsored students.
If you are being sponsored by an employer or your government, for example, you will need to provide a valid Financial Guarantee letter.
Please contact our Admissions team if you have any questions.
Application fee: £75
Our King’s International Foundation Programmes require a non-refundable application fee before you can submit your application to be considered.
This step is built into the application process.
Please note that payment of an application fee does not guarantee that you will receive an offer for your chosen programme, as many of our programmes are competitive.
If you apply for a pathway and receive a rejection your application fee will not be refunded.
If you then choose to apply for a different pathway you will need to pay another application fee.
Please ensure that you carefully read the information about your chosen pathway and modules before applying.
Note: if you receive an offer, our King’s International Foundation Programme will also require a deposit to secure your place.
This is in addition to the application fee; however, the deposit is used as a partial payment of the tuition fees upon enrolment.
You should not make a deposit payment unless instructed to do so as part of an offer.
Find out more about how to apply for the International Foundation Programme.
In addition to your application and tuition fees, you can also expect to pay for:
Please see our student Terms and Conditions for further fee details, including our refund policy.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/foundations/courses/stem-natural-sciences:
This STEM & Natural Sciences foundation pathway is the ideal choice for anyone interested in studying traditional sciences, technology or engineering at a university level.
If you choose the STEM & Natural Sciences pathway, you may be eligible to progress to a range of degrees that includes Artificial Intelligence, Computer Science, General Engineering, Natural Sciences and Physics.
However, you will not be guaranteed a conditional offer or be able to apply for Law directly, as you must apply via UCAS and submit your LNAT score as part of your application.
You can read more about the modules and visit our module combination pages via the 'Teaching & structure' tab below.
Select your modules carefully and look at our progression page to check the recommended and eligible degree tabs for each module combination for a detailed list of appropriate degrees.
Chemistry Pathway modules: Chemistry - International Foundation Computer Science Pathway modules: Introduction to Computer Science - International Foundation Physics Pathway modules: Physics - International Foundation Engineering Pathway modules: Introduction to Engineering - International Foundation Biology Pathway modules: Biology - International Foundation
This foundation pathway focuses on the STEM and natural sciences academic content to enable you to progress to your desired undergraduate degree.
It is also designed to improve your English language skills in a scientific and academic setting.
Throughout your foundation pathway, you’ll learn how to use academic sources and discover how to structure and write things like essays and lab reports or give academic presentations.
You’ll improve the way you express yourself through speaking and writing and be able to understand more information when listening or reading.
Your scientific focus will extend to another compulsory Mathematics for Natural Sciences module that will teach you the A-level equivalent mathematics you need to study natural sciences or maths at degree level.
You’ll cover things like algebra, geometry, trigonometry, complex numbers, differentiation and integration, and their application in pure and applied areas of maths.
During your STEM & Natural Sciences foundation pathway, you’ll also take a compulsory Science and Society module.
This investigates how the development of scientific knowledge and technology poses ethical dilemmas while also looking at the philosophy and history of sciences.
You’ll explore the cultural norms, ideas, and practices of academic culture in the UK and compare them to perspectives from around the world to prepare you for life at a British university.
You will complete your foundation pathway by choosing one optional module.
Depending on your university ambitions, you may opt to study physics, computer science, engineering, biology or chemistry.
Please note, students aiming to progress to Law will need to take the LNAT and complete an application via UCAS for university.
This STEM and Natural Sciences foundation pathway is a full-time, 120-credit programme.
The STEM and Natural Sciences foundation pathway is typically taught through a combination of lectures, seminars, and small group classes, which help you prepare for your undergraduate degree studies.
You will study the following modules on this course:
You will choose one optional module from:
*You will either study English for Scientific Academic Purposes or Academic Expression & Critical Thinking, depending on your level of English when you start the course.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/foundations/courses/politics-culture-social-sciences:
This Politics, Culture and Social Sciences foundation pathway will give you the necessary preparation to go on to study an undergraduate degree in the arts, culture, politics, digital media or law.
If you take this foundation pathway, you may be eligible to progress to a range of degrees, including Culture, Media & Creative Industries, Digital Media & Culture, International Relations, Law, Politics and Social Sciences.
Liberal Arts + Social Sciences Pathway modules: Liberal Arts - International Foundation Introduction to Social Sciences - International Foundation Liberal Arts + Global Politics Pathway modules: Liberal Arts - International Foundation Global Politics - International Foundation Liberal Arts + Economics Pathway modules: Liberal Arts - International Foundation Economics - International Foundation Social Sciences + Economics Pathway modules: Introduction to Social Sciences - International Foundation Economics - International Foundation Social Sciences + Global Politics Pathway modules: Introduction to Social Sciences - International Foundation Global Politics - International Foundation Global Politics + Economics Pathway modules: Global Politics - International Foundation Economics - International Foundation
This foundation pathway in politics, culture and social sciences is designed to prepare you to study a related subject at undergraduate level.
You’ll take a core English module to develop essential skills, such as identifying the key points in academic articles, taking effective notes, structuring essays and other writing assignments, taking part in discussions and delivering academic presentations.
It’s taught by experts from King’s Foundations, who will help you improve your linguistic skills in an academic context.
You will also take a compulsory Culture and Society module, which will introduce you to the key contemporary issues within the humanities and social sciences.
You’ll consider the expectations of undergraduate study in the UK and how this differs from around the world to prepare you for further study.
Half of your Politics, Culture and Social Sciences foundation pathway will be shaped by you, depending on the combination of optional modules you decide to take.
For example, you might choose to combine your study of liberal arts with economics or global politics, or decide to focus your learning on the social sciences and global politics or economics.
There are six different module combinations that you can choose from on this pathway.
This Politics, Culture and Social Sciences foundation pathway is a full-time, 120-credit programme.
The Politics, Culture and Social Sciences pathway is typically taught through a combination of lectures, seminars, and small group classes, which help you prepare for your undergraduate degree studies.
You will choose two optional modules.
The available module combinations are:
*You will either study English for Academic Purposes or Academic Expression & Critical Thinking, depending on your level of English when you start the course.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/foundations/courses/business-economics:
This King’s International Foundation Programme pathway in business and economics is designed to cover the subject knowledge and skills you need to study business, maths and economics degrees among others at King’s College London.
To pursue maths you must take the maths module.
This pathway is ideally suited for students who want to study at King’s Business School (KBS) or take an undergraduate degree in a wide range of other subjects, including social sciences, mathematics and international development.
Progression degrees include Accounting & Finance, Business Management, Economics & Management, Political Economy and Social Sciences.
You can find out more on our progression page, where you can check the degree eligibility tab on each module combination for a detailed list of appropriate degrees.
Note that some degrees at King’s Business School and our Economics BSc require maths, so make sure you check and select the right modules for your degree of choice.
Social Sciences + Mathematics for Business & Economics Pathway modules: Introduction to Social Sciences - International Foundation Mathematics for Business & Economics Business Management + Social Sciences Pathway modules: Business Management - International Foundation Introduction to Social Sciences - International Foundation Economics + Social Sciences Pathway modules: Economics - International Foundation Introduction to Social Sciences - International Foundation
This Business and Economics foundation pathway will develop the academic skills and subject knowledge you’ll need to progress to an undergraduate degree in a related subject.
All students on this pathway will take a compulsory Business and Society module .
This module will teach you about the global and local values, culture and behaviours that define the different disciplines in the field of business studies.
You’ll cover a variety of topics, including business ethics, industrial relations, entrepreneurship and business imperialism.
You’ll learn about the relationship between business, ethics and society with a dedicated compulsory module designed to introduce you to the different disciplines involved in business studies.
You will also take a core academic English module - English for Academic Purposes or Academic Expression & Critical Thinking delivered by experts from King’s Foundations, which will enhance your language skills within an academic context.
It will further develop your academic skills in using sources, structuring assignments, writing essays and delivering presentations.
The rest of your foundation in business and economics will be dedicated to your optional modules.
You’ll be able to choose two optional modules in any combination.
For example, you can combine Business Management with Economics or study Social Sciences alongside Maths for Business & Economics.
Different module combinations lead to different degrees.
For example, if you combine the Economics module and the Maths for Business & Economics module, you will be eligible for all of the degrees at KBS as well as other degrees such as Maths, Economics and Psychology.
If you take the Social Sciences and Business Management modules, you can pursue a degree at KBS with no maths requirement or explore other areas of the university, including social sciences, international development, and geography.
You can see a full list of available optional module combinations on the Teaching & structure tab.
This Business & Economics foundation pathway is a full-time, 120-credit programme.
The pathway is typically taught through a combination of lectures, seminars, and small group classes, which help you prepare for your undergraduate degree studies.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/international-foundation/student-life:
We want you to relish your time as a King’s Foundations student and really enjoy your experience.
But we know that moving to a new country can be daunting, and you might need a little support to adjust.
To help you make the most of your student life, we have a range of support options available to you.
When you join King’s, you’ll find a whole team focused on making sure you thrive during your studies.
The Student Experience Team looks after student welfare and will support you throughout your King's International Foundation Programme or Extended King's International Foundation Programme .
This is done by creating a safe, welcoming and friendly environment that encourages you to discuss non-academic matters, hosts events and activities to help you meet other students and connects you to the King’s community and the wider services offered across the university.
As a King's International Foundation Programme student, you’ll get a Personal Tutor who will help you address any academic issues, navigate your university application, and provide guidance when appropriate.
You also have access to a Wellbeing Advisor , who can help you find and access any support you may need.
In addition, you’ll be able to arrange online or on-campus sessions with a Peer Assisted Learning (PAL) Leader .
These are former Foundation students who have progressed to undergraduate study at King’s and will be able to answer questions about life as a King’s student in London or continuing your study at King’s and help you get academic support.
The moment you join King’s, you’ll become an important part of our student body.
That means you’ll be able to join the King’s College London Students’ Union (KCLSU) and get involved in typical student life through societies, university-wide events and beyond.
You’ll be based in central London, with many world-leading institutions on your doorstep.
This offers a unique opportunity to enhance your education beyond the classroom by joining field trips or independently visiting an array of establishments and using their resources, where permitted.
University students in London, for example, can use the British Library - other people need to apply for this privilege!
The British Film Institute, St Paul’s Cathedral, the Tate Modern, the National Gallery, Shakespeare’s Globe and much more are within walking distance of the Strand campus, where you’ll be based.
King’s has a specialist Careers & Employability team that will support you with your career aspirations from the moment you join the International Foundation Programme.
The team has a range of information tailored for international students seeking career guidance .
This includes advice on how to:
King’s students can book an in-person or virtual appointment with a specialist Careers Consultant or Application Advisor.
They offer career coaching and planning, can provide feedback on already-prepared CVs, cover letters, personal statements and job applications or will help you practise for a job interview.
There are other ways to develop your soft skills and strengthen your CV while you’re at King’s.
For example, you could become a Student Ambassador and help prospective students learn more about what it’s like to study the King's International Foundation Programme.
This paid position could see you talk to students during Open Days or online events, become a Unibuddy and chat with students, lead campus tours, and more.
You can continue such a role through your undergraduate degree too.
Once you’ve progressed to undergraduate study, you could also join the Peer Assisted Learning Scheme (PALS) .
You’ll receive specialist training so that you can support the next cohort of Foundation students during their Foundation year via in-person or online sessions.
During your King's International Foundation Programme, there are a range of skills you’ll develop that will not only help you succeed at university but also appeal to future employers.
We truly value the importance of student voice, and it’s part of our mission to listen and learn from our students so we can make real changes and improvements to the King's International Foundation Programme.
You’ll be invited to become a Student Representative and help influence positive, student-led change.
In addition to developing your leadership skills, you’ll play a crucial role in ensuring your fellow students have a voice and an opportunity to provide feedback.
Each pathway has its own Student Representative, and you’ll find out more about this exciting opportunity from the Student Experience Team.
Each year, we’ll recognise the hard work and outstanding achievements of King's International Foundation Programme students with an end-of-year event.
You’ll have the chance to be celebrated for excellence in a range of categories, including academic performance, essay-writing, critical thinking, academic progression, intercultural proficiency, resilience and more.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/international-foundation/student-life/support-for-students:
When you start the King's International Foundation Programme , you’ll get access to a range of personalised support, social activities and more.
You’re guaranteed* a place in a King’s residence for the duration of your studies with King’s Foundations.
Our residences are located throughout London, and we have space for over 5,300 students at King’s Residences — plus access to additional University of London accommodation.
We offer a range of accommodation types, including:
If you hold an offer for the King's International Foundation Programme, you will receive an email when applications for King’s Residences open.
This is usually in spring (April to May) before you join us in September.
We recommend that you apply as soon as possible to have the best chance of securing your preferred residence.
Applicants who apply later in the cycle are not guaranteed accommodation, we highly recommend you apply for your King's International Foundation Programme by the ‘priority deadline’ to receive an offer in time and be ready to apply for accommodation.
*To be guaranteed a space, you must apply for a room in a King’s residence by the deadline.
Explore King's residences and find out how you apply here .
You’ll be allocated a Personal Tutor at the beginning of your King's International Foundation Programme year.
This is an academic member of staff who will take an active interest in your academic progress and university experience and is concerned for your general welfare.
You will have regular tutorials together where you will have the opportunity to ask for advice on:
If your Personal Tutor cannot help directly, they will be able to give you advice on who you might want to speak to instead.
The mission of King's Foundations is to help you make the most of your student experience and your new life in London.
Your welfare, alongside enriching your learning, is our priority, and we're here to fully support your journey from before arrival to beyond graduation.
King's Foundations’ dedicated Student Experience team will help you meet your classmates, participate in extra-curricular activities and settle into life at King's.
The team will run a programme of events and activities for you to make the most of your time spent at King’s.
You will become part of an inclusive and vibrant community with opportunities to engage with fellow students from your pathway and beyond while exploring London and what it has to offer.
The team will also signpost you to wider King's initiatives, activities and King’s College London Students’ Union (KCLSU) societies that you will have access to from day one.
Our dedicated Faculty Well-being Advisor can support you during your time on the programme.
You will be able to book a one-on-one appointment to discuss any challenges you are facing, how they are affecting you, and what support is available for you.
You can also be signposted to further support, such as counselling, mental health support or money and housing advice, and will have access to the full range of support services at King’s.
Students under the age of 18 are considered a child under British law (Children Act, 1989).
This means that King’s has social, moral and legal obligations to safeguard the wellbeing and safety of ‘children’ involved in any King’s activities.
Our Safeguarding Policy outlines our responsibility to keep all students under the age of 18 safe and ensure that your living arrangements are safe and secure.
This means that if you’re under the age of 18 at the time you enrol in the King’s International Foundation Programme or Pre-sessional course, there are a few things that you need to do before you arrive.
As part of the King’s safeguarding policy, students under the age of 18 must either:
If you choose to live in a King’s Residence, you will be grouped in the same accommodation blocks as other students under 18 years of age.
These residences have extra welfare and personal support for you.
If you’re still under 18 when you start your first year of undergraduate degree at King’s, you will also be guaranteed accommodation in a King's Residence.
You will need to submit a Parent/Legal Guardian Agreement to Study form U18 .
If you choose to live in private accommodation, you will need to provide evidence to King’s that you will be living with a parent or legal guardian.
We cannot permit you to live in private accommodation if your parent or legal guardian does not live with you.
If you cannot demonstrate that you will be living with a parent or legal guardian in private accommodation, you must apply for a place in King’s Residences.
You will also need to submit a Parent/Legal Guardian Agreement to Study form U18 .
Please note: if you don’t wish to stay in a King’s Residence and cannot demonstrate that you will be living with a parent or legal guardian, then it is the responsibility of King’s to withdraw your offer to your chosen King’s International Foundation Programme or Pre-sessional course.
This is because King’s does not act in loco parentis (in the place of a parent) towards its students.
Therefore, King’s must be assured of your safety and safeguarding at all times.
Read more about our policy about under-18s in King’s Residences below, and contact the admissions team if you have further questions.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/language-centre/languages/languages-taught:
At King’s Language Centre, our vibrant and diverse short courses bring language learning to life.
Join us at our central London campuses or connect with us online from anywhere in the world.
We teach courses in over 20 different languages, including both modern and ancient languages, ranging from beginner to advanced level.
We also offer English courses that focus on general English or special courses for jobs in health, hospitality or business.
Our vibrant and diverse short courses are open to everyone, whether you are within or not yet part of the King’s community.
We offer courses from beginner to near-native level, taught at our central London location.
Join us on an evening or Saturday language course.
Our class times are flexible and our teachers are all native speakers.
To find out more and enrol on a course, select one of the languages we offer.
Learn more about how we teach our courses, our course types and the benefits of learning with us.
Not sure what the right level is for you?
Take a closer look at our levels and find the most suitable starting point.
Find a full list of our course fees and the concessions available.
Our language classes are popular and run at different times throughout the year.
We do not run scheduled language classes during the summer months.
Our language classes will begin again in the autumn term.
Timetables and bookings for autumn term language classes will be available from 14 August 2025.
If you can’t find the course you’re looking for or you’d like to receive updates when new classes are released, please fill in our interest form.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/language-centre/bespoke-training/private-tuition-corporate-training:
The King's Language Centre provides bespoke and flexible language training to private groups and businesses.
Courses are tailored to our clients' specific requirements.
The King's Language Centre is part of the world-renowned King's College London and our expert tutors are highly-skilled professionals experienced in identifying and responding to students' needs at all levels.
We can provide bespoke consultancy services to understand your needs and build language programmes for you or your business.
We can work with you to create bespoke language tuition for your business.
We have taught clients from many sectors including: the City, the Foreign Commonwealth & Development Office, Media, Education and Fashion.
We have a wealth of experience providing language tuition tailored to small groups of private individuals.
We work with you to understand your needs and design courses to help you achieve your language goals.
Our experienced team of language teaching experts can provide bespoke solutions for your company to help you communicate effectively with global partners, clients and colleagues.
language.tuition@kcl.ac.uk
'As a fan of Italian opera and culture, taking this course rapidly improved my language development.
I had a short period of time to learn but the teacher and I developed an intense learning programme to ensure my needs were met'.
Please use our short application form to request a quote for tuition, training or consultancy services.
Our team will get back to you as soon as possible with further details.
Download our full terms and conditions in PDF format
KLC employs over 100 teaching staff who are native speakers of the language(s) they teach and have in-depth knowledge of language teaching methodology.
Many of our teachers also have expertise in other areas such as journalism, politics, law, business, international affairs and the health sector.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/language-centre/kings-students:
Both Undergraduate and Postgraduate students can choose optional language modules if their degree allows it.
Postgraduate students can also apply to study one postgraduate-only, non-assessed language course for free if they aren’t taking any languages as part of their course.
Enrollment for these modules opens in September for the new academic year.
External candidates and University of London students can also study a language module at King’s, but fees apply .
All King’s students can get a discount of almost 30% on evening and weekend courses while they’re studying.
When you graduate, you’ll still benefit from nearly 15% off courses.
This discount is extended to University of London students, as well as King’s alumni, staff and Health Partners.
As part of the Language Centre collaboration with the London Arts and Humanities Partnership (LAHP), Consortium for the Humanities & The Arts South-East England (CHASE) and South, West & Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (SWW), we have developed language modules designed to cater for research students.
Courses are tailored to the needs of students based on their PhD studies and students can bring in class materials linked to their research or special interests.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/language-centre/collaborations:
King's Language Centre (LC) provides the language provision for students enrolled on International Management BSc, currently six languages are offered.
In collaboration with the Classics and King's Languages departments, we provide language courses for students opting to study a modern language from ab initio level.
We also offer an intensive ancient language summer school - open to all.
Should you be interested in finding out how the LC can support your department and academic programmes, please contact our collaborations team.
We are the language learning provider for the London Business School's MBA programme.
Take the Japanese Language Proficiency Test (JLPT) with us.
Offering language modules in partnership with Circle U and 10% discount to members of DSCL.
Offering language modules to postgraduate research students.
Offering discounted language courses to the members of Canning House.
The Japanese Language Proficiency Test (JLPT) is an internationally recognised qualification for non-native Japanese speakers, sponsored by the Japan Foundation.
King's Language Centre is one of the two test centres in London.
We offer two Intensive Courses in Ancient Greek and Latin.
These courses are six weeks long, with the option to study either the first three week block (for absolute beginners) or the second three week block (for students at intermediate level).
You may choose to study on-campus or online.
This project aims to engage staff and students in active research, training and reflective practice that deconstructs the content and pedagogy of teaching languages and culture.
Active between October 2022 and July 2023, the project is funded by the university's Race Equity & Inclusive Education Fund.
The Partnership for Digital Learning and Increased Access (PADILEIA) produces and delivers blended higher education programmes to Syrian refugees and host communities in Jordan and Lebanon.
King's Language Centre joined forces with the Global Engagement Office at King's College London to offer a volunteer-based scheme for supporting English language speaking practice for PADILEIA students.
The scheme has now closed - thank you to everyone who participated.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/language-centre/resources/language-resources-centre:
The LRC provides a friendly environment for all King's and King's Language Centre students and staff wishing to engage in language learning.
Our resources are always free to access.
We are a specialist language library offering a wide variety of resources to help you develop reading skills, grammar and cultural understanding in the language you are learning.
During term time, we host student workshops and cultural events - see our Event Listings for full details.
We also provide speaking practice with native speakers from our staff team and student buddies from across the university - scroll down for more information on how to participate.
The Business Support Team and our team of multilingual Language Learning Advisors are always on hand to help you make the most of our facilities.
We work both on site and remotely to ensure we provide support in person and a quick response to any email enquiries should you currently be unable to visit us on campus.
Please bookmark our page, as we update it regularly and follow us on social media @kings_LC
Room K0.30 Ground Floor King’s Building
language.resources@kcl.ac.uk
The LRC will be closed during July and August and will reopen in September.
If you need to return a resource, please use the Return Box located outside the LRC.
The LRC team will be working remotely and can be contacted at language.resources@kcl.ac.uk
For any enrolment or module-related queries , please email languagecentreinternal@kcl.ac.uk.
For any Short Courses-related queries , please email languagecentreshortcourse@kcl.ac.uk
For any partnerships-related queries , please email languagecentrepartners@kcl.ac.uk
Speaking Practice for 2024-25 is now closed.
Many thanks to all buddies for dedicating their time to helping others to improve their speaking skills!
More information about Speaking Practice in 2025-26 will be released here in due course.
Please feel free to email language.resources@kcl.ac.uk if you have any questions.
King's Language Centre runs a variety of different cultural and language workshops during the academic year.
These workshops provide cultural insights into our languages and deliver exciting learnings on cultures from all over the world as well as helping you with grammar, vocabulary and exam preparation.
Evening & Saturday Language Courses
Choose the right level for you
Electronic newspaper & magazines
Over the course of 10 workshops, lecturers from the School of Education, Communication & Society���

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/language-centre/contact-us:
I would like to take a Language Module as part of my degree; how do I apply?
Please follow our intranet link here to access our application form.
Is there anything I need to do before applying?
Please ensure you have approval from your home department before applying if you wish to study a language as part of your degree.
What classes are available in 2025-26 and what are their details?
The list of Language modules on offer to both UG and PG students and their details (e.g.
credits, assessment, schedule, expected self-study) is available here under the 'Language Modules' link.
Members of the public can take a language module (fees apply).
Please contact us for more information.
The list of Postgraduate Only (PG-O) (Non-credit bearing) courses on offer to solely PG students and their details (e.g.
schedule, attendance requirements & expected self-study) is available here .
What is the difference between a Language Module (for award) and a Language Module (not for award)?
Both For Award and Not For Award modules have a 75% attendance requirement and include written and oral examinations.
For Award - Results will appear on your student record/transcript and will form part of your degree grading.
For Award Modules are free.
Please note that to study a For Award Module you must obtain approval from your home department prior to enrolment.
Please contact them directly before submitting your application.
Not For Award - Results will not appear on your student record/transcript and will not form part of your degree grading.
If you enrol on a Not for Award Module, you will need to pay the fee in full to secure your place (£650 in 25-26).
Where will teaching take place?
Teaching will be delivered in-person on the university campus.
Can I see the timetable before applying?
A timetable of classes can be found here.
Please note that classes are allocated on a first-come-first-served basis and therefore some classes may be full or unavailable.
What’s the average class size?
Classes are a maximum of 16 / 18 students, depending on the language.
My degree consists of a compulsory language module; how do I register?
Students should have been contacted by their home department with instructions on how to register.
Please contact your home department for advice:
Liberal Arts: interhums@kcl.ac.uk DLLC (Department of Languages, Literatures and Cultures): DLLC@kcl.ac.uk King’s Business School (BSc International Management: UG-Business@kcl.ac.uk ) Study Abroad: studyabroad@kcl.ac.uk
Will I get a certificate at the end of the module?
Credit-bearing language modules will appear on your transcript and therefore we do not produce certificates for those modules.
For non-credit bearing Language Modules and PG-O Language courses, you may request a certificate from the Language Centre upon completion of the module (after Faculty Board ratification).
Can I transfer to a different group?
We allocate students based on their (1) timetable and (2) our class availability.
If you find the group allocated unsuitable, please notify us as soon as possible and we will try and accommodate your request.
Unfortunately, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to accommodate your request.
I am a Study Abroad student here for 1 semester only.
What can I study?
We offer a small selection of One Semester Modules.
Please state your requirement when applying.
Are there more opportunities to enhance my learning once I enrol on a module or course with King’s Language Centre Yes, everyone enrolled on our courses will benefit from access to KEATS (an online platform where teachers upload resources), Pressreader, the Language Resources Centre , and free speaking practice.
What’s the difference between a Language Module and a Short Course?
Short courses are conducted in the evenings and weekends.
These are available to all and are standalone.
A language module is conducted along university lecture times, is available to all students, and can be part of your degree diet, or alongside your degree.
I’m a King’s student, are Short Courses free for me?
No, but the King’s community and King’s students receive generous discounts, please see our fees page here.
Open Monday - Friday 10am - 5pm
170 Strand, London WC2R 2LS, Strand Campus, Strand, London, WC2R 2LS
Our responsibilities and how we support our students.
See what resources we have on offer for students.
Meet our team, made up of individuals from all over the world.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/language-centre/languages/about-our-courses:
Find out more on how to enroll below
Our courses are open to everyone, not just King's students.
We welcome anyone who wants to learn a language at one of our central London campuses, or online.
We teach over 20 different languages in our evenings or Saturday morning classes.
Most evening language courses take place over 10 weeks, but some languages are offered as five-week or one-week intensive courses.
Some courses will be offered online, and you can find out more about how we teach here .
Our full timetable of classes at all levels is now live.
If the course or language is not available then register your interest and we will contact you when the course is next available.
Register your interest and be first to hear when our new classes goes live.
Our standard language courses are:
Discover all the languages we teach here
Our intensive language courses are:
Find your course
All students get access to the Language Resources Centre, which offers free speaking practice with a native speaker.
You can also make use of our wide variety of resources, workshops, and events.
Plus, our multilingual learning advisors are always on hand to help you make the most of the facilities.
We employ over 100 teaching staff who are native speakers of the language they teach and have in-depth knowledge of language teaching methodology.
Many of our teachers also have expertise in other areas, such as journalism, politics, business, international affairs, and the health sector.
26+ languages available
Concessions available

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/language-centre/languages/what-level-should-i-study:
To ensure you select the right level to study, we recommend that you read the level descriptions below or read through the CEFR Can-Do statements .
We also offer level assessments with our teachers.
Don't forget to read the course descriptions which detail what grammar, functions and topics will be covered in class.
Please get in touch with us if you need any help and we will be happy to guide you.
Our assessment days run from Tuesday 19th August through to Tuesday 16th September.
If you are a complete beginner, you do not require a language assessment and should enrol on Level 1, Part 1 of a course.
If you have questions about choosing your level, please email the team at languagecentreshortcourse@kcl.ac.uk
Most beginners start at Level 1, Part 1.
Once you have completed Part 1, you can complete Parts 2 and 3 to complete your language level.
By the end of Part 3, you will be able to communicate in basic everyday situations.
You will be able to understand simple texts and ascertain specific information on simple topics
Course structure:
Level 1, Part 1: for students with no knowledge of the language.
Level 1, Part 2: for students who have completed Level 1, Part 1 or the equivalent of 15 hours tuition.
Level 1, Part 3: for students who have completed Level 1, Parts 1 & 2 or the equivalent of 30 hours tuition.
if you are a False beginner (This is a student with some very limited experience), we recommend that you have a look at the description of part 2 and part 3 of the language you wish to learn.
Find the class in our search, then click on 'view details' where you will be able to access an overview of the course syllabus.
You can also book an online assessment if you wish - just email languagecentreshortcourse@kcl.ac.uk for more information.
If you are a false beginner in Spanish, please take the following test so that you can enrol on the right class (either Level 1 part 2 or Level 1 part 3).
False beginner in Spanish placement test
This course will be ideal for you if you have:
Completed Level 1 A GCSE/O-level or equivalent grade C or above Reached A1 of the CEFR
By the end of the course, you will be able to communicate on everyday matters and be able to deal with simple written texts.
Completed Level 2 A recent GCSE/O-level, grade A Reached A1/A2 of the CEFR
(For Japanese and Mandarin A1/A2 of the CEFR)
By the end of the course, you will have acquired the language and grammar to assist you with most situations likely to arise when travelling in areas where the target language is spoken.
Completed Level 3 An AS-level or A-level Reached B1 of the CEFR
(For Japanese and Mandarin A2 of the CEFR)
By the end of the course, you will be able to converse with relative ease on a wide range of issues and you will be able to read complex factual texts.
Completed Level 4 An A-level Reached B1/B2 of the CEFR and have had further contact with the language
At this level, you will improve your command of topic-related vocabulary and idioms and the ability to vary your style according to the situation.
By the end of the course, you will be able to express yourself confidently and with a high level of proficiency.
Completed Level 5 Achieved B2/C1 of the CEFR or a high level of proficiency in the foreign language.
At this level, you will learn how to recognise implicit meaning of written and spoken texts and how to make presentations on various subjects.
By the end of the course, you will be able to communicate with near-native proficiency.
Find a class
If you find that you need to transfer to a higher or lower level of your course once your class has started, please talk to your tutor who can advise you on the most appropriate level.
Please then email your transfer request to languagecentreinternal@kcl.ac.uk at the beginning of your course commencement date.
We may not be able to process any transfer requests after this deadline.
Transfers are dependent on class space.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/language-centre/languages/our-fees:
Evening and Saturday language course fees are to be paid in full at the time of enrolment.
We are unable to accept payment of fees in cash, payment must be made through our online booking system, King’s Apply .
Get 10% off all standard courses in Autumn 2025 if you apply before Sunday 7th September 2025 at 23:59.
For King's Students: MLC-2526-KSTU10-EB
For Associate Concessions (UoL Students/Alumni/Staff/KCL Alumni/Staff/KHP): MLC-2526-CON10-EB
For Full Fee Payers: MLC-2526-FFP10-EB
We offer a range of concessions to the King's & UoL** community.
This includes King’s* & UoL students, staff & alumni and King’s Health Partners (KHP).
*King's student status: In order to qualify for the King's student concession, you must be currently enrolled as a degree seeking student of King's College London as defined by the University.
**UoL students, alumni and staff not sure if your institution is part of the group - you can check here UoL group .
Note: Part 3 of courses is offered based on demand.
Please contact the office should you require further information.
Concession fees for all standard courses:
Part 1
Part 2
Part 3
Total
(10wks, 15hrs)
(30wks, 45hrs)
Full fee
£290
£870
UoL, KHP, Alumni & King's Staff
£247
£741
KCL students*
£203
£609
•	The King's student discount is only available to current King's students.
•	King's graduates are entitled to the alumni discount.
Please note that student or alumnus discount is only for a programme with an awarding degree eg.
BA, BSc, MA, PhD." •	Concessionary fees are available to University of London (UoL) staff, students and alumni.
Please see the list of colleges within UoL on the link at the end of this section •	Students and staff should be current UoL students/staff at the start of the course.
•	Please note that the term ‘alumni’ is used to refer to graduates and holders of a certifiable qualification from applicable institutions.
You will be asked to show evidence of eligibility.
Students failing to provide evidence will be invoiced for the full fee.
•	We regret that we are unable to offer the concessionary fees retrospectively.
•	King's Health Partners (KHP) staff including, The South London and Maudsley trust (SLaM), Guy's and St Thomas' trust (GSTT) and  King's College Hospital staff are eligible for the concessionary fees.
UoL member institutions
Concession fees for 45 hour-courses
Book a 45 hour-course and receive a discount off the total price.
Our 45 hour-courses enable you to book the whole level in one payment, confirming your course for the full 45 hours.
Please note that there is only a limited selection of languages and levels offered and courses are taught in the intensive and standard format.
45 hours' tuition (including discount)
£790
£672
King's students*
£553
If your course is being funded by an employer or sponsor, please note that we no longer accept sponsored fees at the application point.
Please contact us and we will provide receipts for indviduals to provide to their sponsor.
Students may withdraw from a part or 45 hour-course and request a refund within 14 days of payment (commencement of contract with the KLC, upon receipt of payment confirmation email).
After this period there will be no possibility of a refund.
To request a refund, please email languagecentreshortcourse@kcl.ac.uk .
Terms & Conditions
Please see the list of colleges within UoL on the 'UoL member institutions' link at the end of this section
•	Students and staff should be current UoL students/staff at the start of the course.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/language-centre/collaborations/dtp:
You can now apply for a DTP language module by completing the application form here
For more information about our 2025-26 courses, please view our flyer here .
Our next open day is on Thursday 18th September at 6pm and the sign-up form is available here .
The open day is an opportunity to discover our courses through a short FAQ session and enjoy a beginner-level language taster.
Non-beginners can take a level assessment to find the right class.
King's Language Centre (LC) at King’s College London is the largest language centre in the UK, teaching 9,000 students a year.
The LC, as part of its collaboration with LAHP , CHASE , SWW , M4C , and SGSAH has developed language modules specifically tailored to cater for research students.
Courses are designed to meet the needs of students based on their PhD studies, and students are invited to bring in class materials linked to their research or special interests.
The majority of the course will be conducted in the language of study.
Our teachers use a communicative approach in class and will address the four communicative skills (speaking, reading, writing and listening).
Courses will be delivered online and our virtual classroom will allow for real time online interaction through audio/video, and text chat between teachers and fellow students.
Our experienced and qualified native speaker teachers will use group work, online exercises, and will integrate a variety of activities to deliver their classes.
There are no final examinations but continuous formative assessment and an optional online formative assessment is also available at the end of Term 2.
Doctoral candidates who are part of other DTPs and would like to know more about these courses should contact languagecentrepartners@kcl.ac.uk
For information about other training oportunities at King's, please click here .
languagecentrepartners@kcl.ac.uk
020 7848 2890
Please note that classes are subject to demand and are not all guaranteed to run.
The classes on offer for 2025-26 and their schedule can be viewed here (opens in a new window).
Open to: LAHP and LAHP affiliated Postgraduate Research Students, CHASE Postgraduate Research Students and SWW Postgraduate Research Students, subject to approval by relevant Doctoral Training Partnership.
Credit value: 0 credits
Duration: 3 Terms (full year)
Teaching pattern: 2 x 2-hour language classes per week for 3 Terms (20 weeks)
Attendance policy: a 75% attendance requirement is in place in order to successfully complete the module.
Taught classes are not available via lecture capture.
Self-study: Students should expect to study for 4-8 hours per week in addition to the taught sessions.
Assessment: None
CEFR level: This module is broadly equivalent to A1 (Basic User/ Breakthrough) level of the Common European Framework of Reference for languages.
CEFR level: This module is broadly equivalent to A2 (Basic User/ Waystage) level of the Common European Framework for Languages (CEFR).
Teaching pattern: 1 x 4-hour language class per week for 3 Terms (20 weeks)
This module is equivalent to A2 (Basic User) /B1 (Independent User/ Threshold) level of the Common European Framework of Reference for languages (CEFR).
CEFR level: This module is broadly equivalent to A1 (Basic User/ Breakthough)/ A2 (Basic User/ Waystage) level of the Common European Framework.
CEFR level: This module is between A2 (Basic User) and B1 (Independent User/ Threshold) level of the Common European Framework for languages.
CEFR level: This course is B2+ (Independent User/ Vantage) level of the Common European Framework for languages.
CEFR level: This module is broadly equivalent to A1 (Basic User/ Breakthrough)/ A2 (Basic User/ Waystage) level of the Common European Framework.
CEFR level: This module is between A2 (Basic User/ Waystage)/ B1 (Independent User/ Threshold) level of the Common European Framework for languages.
CEFR level: This course is equivalent to B2+ (Independent User/ Vantage) level of the Common European Framework for Languages.
CEFR level: This module is equivalent to A2 (Basic User/ Waystage)/ B1 (Independent User/ Threshold) level of the Common European Framework of Reference for languages (CEFR).
CEFR level: This module is broadly equivalent to A1 (Basic User, Breakthrough) level of the Common European Framework for languages (CEFR).
CEFR level: This course is between B2+ (Independent User/ Vantage) level of the Common European Framework for languages.
The course has 80 hours total teaching time, 4 hours per week for 20 weeks (Autumn, Spring and Summer term).
Start: 20 October 2025
Start: 19 January 2026
Start: 20 April 2026
End: 12 December 2025
End: 27 March 2026
End: 18 May 2026
1 Reading Week 03 - 07 November
1 Reading Week 23 - 27 February
No Reading Week
*No Classes on Early May Bank Holiday (Monday 04 May 2026)
A Reading Week is a designated period, typically in the middle of each semester, where students are given a break from scheduled classes.
**British Sign Language (New for this year) will be online on Thursdays from 19:00 to 20:30 for 30 weeks.
Please note, term dates will differ from our standard schedule above.
Class is subject to demand.
The Language Resource Centre (LRC) offers free speaking practice for students with a native speaker to improve conversational skills.
Our speakers are volunteers and come from the richly diverse King's community.
The LRC also offers a wide variety of resources, workshops and events as well as multilingual learning advisors who are always on hand to help you make the most of the facilities.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/language-centre/resources/language-events:
There are no events  .
View the full list or all King’s events .

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/language-centre/resources/news:
As we mark a year since the invasion of Ukraine, the King’s community continues to focus on the many…
A teacher in the King’s Language Centre has been giving free Ukrainian language classes to people in…
The new name for the Centre from 1 August 2022.
French language experts at King’s are working through the Circle U.
Alliance to support refugee…
Tony is compiling a database of the vast amount of new vocabulary which has emerged as a result of…
Everyday language and conversation is being transformed by the coronavirus pandemic, reveals leading…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/language-centre/contact-us/about:
Our mission is to engage the King’s College London community and beyond in language learning and intercultural communication.
We do this by providing high-quality language tuition, from individuals to institutions, through our evening and weekend short courses , private tuition and corporate training programmes.
We offer evening and weekend courses in over 20 languages.
Each language course is taught by a native speaker who’s been trained to deliver the immersive pedagogical approach and use the communicative method.
This means they’ll get you speaking as much as possible in class to help speed up your acquisition of the language.
Our language classes are taught in the heart of London at our Strand and Waterloo campuses.
We also offer some courses online in our virtual classroom .
A project engaging staff and students in research, training and reflective practice deconstructing…
You can decide how you want to study your chosen language: standard classes involve one lesson each week and will take 10 weeks to complete each part, or 30 weeks to complete a level.
Intensive classes are twice as long, held on an evening or the weekend, and will help you complete one part in 5 weeks or one level in 15 weeks.
You can start from the beginning with Level 1 or jump back in where you picked off if you’ve studied the language before.
Before you decide, please read our guidance on which level you should study .
We have 26+ languages available to study from beginner to near native speaker.
To support your language-learning journey, you’ll get access to our resources centre, that’s bursting with assets for you to use.
You can borrow textbooks, dictionaries, laptops and more, or bring your own device and use our WiFi to prepare for your next lesson.
You can also book free speaking practice sessions and read local publications with complimentary Press Reader access.
We work with over 100 native speakers who have been extensively trained to teach languages.
They bring not just their personal experience of the country and culture but also expertise from a range of careers such as journalism, politics, business, international affairs and the health sector.
Each language teacher uses an immersive method of teaching, which means the lessons are primarily conducted in the language you’re learning.
They also use a communicative approach to ensure you’re using all four key skills during their classes: listening, reading, speaking and writing.
They’ll get you to do group and pair work according to a syllabus based on systematic grammatical progression.
Students tell us that they choose to study with us for several reasons: we offer a huge variety of languages across a range of levels lessons take place on different days and at our central London campus our teachers are native speakers

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/language-centre/contact-us/team:
Programmes Manager
Lecturer in French Language Education
Lecturer in German Language Education
Teacher of Russian
Lecturer in Italian Language Education
Deputy Team Leader/Lecturer in French Language Education
Lecturer in Spanish Language Education

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/language-centre/search:
Join us on an Evening or Saturday Language Course.
We offer courses from beginner to near-native level and teach at three central London locations.
To enrol on a course, choose a language below.
7 October 2025 to 9 December 2025
15 hours
Check individual course
The course is aimed at a wide range of students with a general interest in Arabic.
No prior knowledge of Arabic is required as the course is for complete beginners.
Evening course
Available
6 October 2025 to 8 December 2025
Ideally students should have completed 30 hours of tuition prior to joining Part 3 of the course.
8 October 2025 to 10 December 2025
This course is aimed at a wide range of students with a general interest in Arabic who have completed an Arabic Level 1 course with the King's Language Centre, approximately 45-60 hours’ tuition or the GCSE equivalent.
9 October 2025 to 11 December 2025
This course is aimed at a wide range of students with a general interest in Arabic who have completed an Arabic Level 1 course with the King's Language Centre or the GCSE equivalent.
This course is aimed at a wide range of students with a general interest in Arabic who have completed an Arabic Level 2 course with the MLC or the GCSE equivalent.
Learn how to understand basic written and spoken passages covering things like gender, personal pronouns, demonstrative pronouns and adjectives.
Understand how to greet others, introduce yourself, ask questions, talk about what you do and describe objects in the room.
Start your introduction to Arabic by understanding the alphabet and sounds and learning which words are masculine and feminine.
Learn how to use possessive endings and definite and indefinite nouns, and discover the question words and how to say I have.
Practise greetings and how to introduce yourself, how to ask questions and order food, and more.
Take your Arabic lessons further by learning the idafa (noun-noun) structure and the dual while continuing with adjectives, masculine and feminine plurals, irregular plural patterns and more.
Practise asking for directions, discussing where you came from, and shopping, amongst other functions.
You will benefit from this course if you are interested in travelling to an Arab region, working with Arab firms, interested in communicating with friends in Arabic, interested in understanding TV shows, songs and movies.
Understand how to use the present and future tense, use comparatives and superlatives, and use the past tense verb ‘to be’.
Learn about word order and verbs and the negative.
Practice describing the weather, discussing a trip, talking about your feelings or plans, understanding poems and lyrics, and more.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/language-centre/languages/language:
All Arabic courses at King’s are taught by fluent speakers with their own personal experience of the language, hailing from a range of countries in the Arab world.
They have been trained to teach Modern Standard Arabic, which is used in books, newspapers, television and radio, and in conversations between educated Arabs from different countries.
You can begin learning Arabic by choosing whether to study a more traditional approach that incorporates reading and writing or focus on spoken Arabic.
The spoken Arabic courses will help you to connect Modern Standard Arabic with dialects and develop your speaking skills for oral communication.
It’s possible to reach B1/B2 proficiency in Arabic with our Level 4 classes.
At this stage, you’ll be able to understand authentic text passages, discuss a range of subjects with good pronunciation and intonation, and write more complex texts.
If you’ve learnt Arabic before, you can join the level that best matches your experience.
Use the tabs below to choose between beginner and intermediate Arabic classes, or read our advice on what level you should study if you’re unsure.
Looking for Arabic Levantine lessons instead?
Standard
Please check individual class details
Intensive
9 October 2025 to 12 February 2026
45 hours
This course is aimed at a wide range of students with a general interest in Arabic.
Spoken Arabic is aimed at a wide range of students with a general interest in speaking Arabic and understanding different dialects.
This course is aimed at a wide range of students with a general interest in Arabic who have completed an Arabic Level 2 course with the King's Language Centre or an equivalent standard.
This course is aimed at a wide range of students with a general interest in Arabic who have completed an Arabic Level 3 course with the King's Language Centre or an equivalent standard.
Our teachers are fluent speakers and are well versed in the latest methodology and pedagogy of language teaching, also bringing an immersive cultural experience to the classroom.
They use the communicative approach which encourages students to speak the language throughout the lesson, enabling students to quickly pick up the target language.
Teacher of Arabic
Team Leader/Lecturer in Arabic Language Education
Business Support Officer
Lecturer in Arabic Language Education
Lecturer in Arabic Language Educations
Technology Enhanced Learning
View all people
For more information about our courses please contact us using the details below.
languagecentreshortcourse@kcl.ac.uk
+44 (0)207 848 2890
To ensure you select the right level to study, have a look at our level descriptions

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/multilingualism-is-seen-as-a-problem-valuing-languages-in-university-settings:
01 July 2025
Speakers debated the possibility of achieving true multilingualism in universities at the latest Language Debates event on 23 June, hosted by Language Acts and Worldmaking.
Although diversity in universities has increased, partly in response to widening participation initiatives, the issue of multiple languages is still missing from equality, diversity and inclusion statements across institutions.
As part of the Language Debates series by Language Acts and Worldmaking, this event posed the question: what would the multilingual university look and act like?
Language Acts and Worldmaking explores language as a 'material and historical force' in the world.
We have always been interested in how languages circulate, in their contact zones, in how we communicate across language and culture.
Our emphasis on the understanding of multilingualism in UK educational institutions allows us to put our research into work in our close environments and to ask ourselves how we can make the most of that richness.
Professor Emerita Debra Kelly from the University of Westminster, who is a Visiting Senior Research Fellow to the centre, co-chaired the debate, beginning by introducing her colleague Professor Terry Lamb .
As Professor of Languages and Interdisciplinary Pedagogy, Professor Lamb founded and leads The Multilingual University – A Westminster Learning Community, which aims to put the university’s multilingualism on the institutional agenda.
Professor Lamb set up this learning community in response to the diversity in the university, which he felt offered opportunities to ‘be very excited about its multilingualism’.
Not everyone is quite so enthusiastic about multilingualism as I am.
In most places I work it’s seen as a problem – something to be ignored or wished away.
Professor Lamb highlighted that teachers across Europe feel that any other language other than the one of the school of English get in the way of learning, but his research shows this isn’t the case.
Instead, he proposes shifting to plurilingualism, where the presence of multiple languages is seen as normal and something to enjoy.
He is leading this work at the University of Westminster by building a picture of the extent of language diversity in the institution.
There are seven considerations for creating a multilingual university that will help us to see ‘language as a resource for learning as well as a very important part of our identity’, said Professor Lamb:
Event co-chair Dr Ana de Medeiros , Director of King’s Language Centre, introduced Professor Jo Angouri , Professor in Sociolinguistics and Deputy Pro-Vice Chancellor for Education and Internationalisation at the University of Warwick to present her research.
Professor Angouri explored the European Commission’s commitment to transnational and multilingual collaboration, which aspires for all citizens to be able to speak two languages.
However, Professor Angouri argues that this commitment refers only to nation state varieties of languages, ignoring that there are multiple varieties within what we would consider to be “one language”.
Languages are not socially and politically equal.
They can be used as the arena for separating “us” and “them” – such as how the onus is on those who come new to prove good citizenship by speaking the language.
She proposed using alliances between universities as connected learning communities across linguistic divides, as ‘the more we create connections, the more students see themselves become members and belong’.
This can help to build an inclusive ecosystem that shows the value of all languages.
She also shared her experience of creating MultiDev, an interdisciplinary research module open to all undergraduate students at the University of Warwick, which aimed to make students’ linguistic capabilities relevant to the learning journey.
The project gave voice to large communities in universities and societies that are often silenced in policy documents and linguistic maps of Europe.
Students worked comfortably in a multilingual environment, saying that it gave them new perspectives on language as something political, as well as legitimising their own linguistic skills.
In response to the arguments put forward, Dr Jarad Zimbler , Director of Research at the Global Cultures Institute, said Professor Lamb’s offer is ‘enticing’ for literary scholars – yet he questioned the ways in which theories of plurilingualism understand decolonisation merely as a demand for institutions that are inclusive, non-hegemonic and non-hierarchical.
The history of decolonisation requires addressing the idea of hierarchy head-on, said Dr Zimbler, who used the example of the University of Nairobi, where a proposal was put forward in 1968 to abolish the Department of English in favour of a Department of African Literatures and Languages.
This proposal sparked intense debate about why English should be the central pillar for literary studies at the university.
The idea was not to reject English entirely, but to ensure that the focus of the institution was on languages and texts that were most relevant to students in an East African university.
Dr Zimbler argued that this was still a hierarchical vision of the world, despite offering a different perspective for the creation of a new kind of department.
How do we incorporate a gesture that seeks to include a new hierarchy in place of the old?
The debate was followed by an audience Q&A directed by Professor Kelly, in which people asked about whether multilingualism is diverse in terms of class, how it can be better embedded in humanities programmes at university level, and the concept of ‘translanguaging’ – switching between appropriate languages.
We perpetuate a framework of multilingualism that is important – but it’s not the only one.
To learn more about Language Debates by Language Acts and Worldmaking, sign up to the Global Cultures Institute newsletter .
The Language Debates series fosters a dialogue on the traditions and innovations and the synergies and fissures within Modern Languages, Language Education and allied disciplines in the Humanities and Social Sciences.
Language Acts and Worldmaking is a flagship project funded by the AHRC Open World Research Initiative, which aims to regenerate and transform modern language learning by foregrounding language's power to shape how we live and make our worlds.
Even in a globalised world, we come into daily contact with limits and boundaries, which divide us in stark and sometimes harmful ways on the grounds of language, culture, community, and identity.
At the Global Cultures Institute , by fostering conversations that are profoundly interdisciplinary, we probe and articulate these boundaries, developing a critical understanding of their origins and development, and sharing this understanding through research, education and public engagement.
Shaping a space at King’s for debate that is generous and robust, we confront the challenge of intensifying divisions and seek ways to talk beyond boundaries.
Professor of Latin American Cultural Studies
Reader in English and Global Cultures
Research Fellow
Director of King's Language Centre
What is the current place of multilingualism and plurilingualism in learning, teaching and research?

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/one-kings-impact-fund-announces-over-440000-in-awards:
09 September 2024
The One King’s Impact Fund has awarded over £440,000 to nine project teams working to develop solutions that respond to some of the most pressing global issues we face today.
The fund is part of One King’s Impact , the whole-university approach which strengthens King’s ambition to be impact-driven in all that it does, uniting Education, Research and Service to deliver positive change for people, planet and society.
The funded projects for Round One are:
Partners across the nine projects include Age UK Lambeth, South East London Integrated Care System, English for Action, Global Shea Alliance, Ansys Black Employee Network, the NHS, 3B Impact, The University Caterers Association (TUCO) and Refugee Legal Support.
Click here to find out more about the funded projects.
The projects teams span King’s departments and disciplines, with students, researchers, professional services staff and alumni working with community partners, businesses, networks and charities to drive impact.
Over the next year, the projects will work to deliver real-world solutions through cross-sector, multidisciplinary collaborations.
This combination of different types of expertise not normally brought together, including the integration of partners from outside the university, is fundamental to enhancing the positive difference King’s can make in the world through this impact-driven work.
Round One of the fund
The One King’s Impact Fund received 62 applications, with projects submitted from all nine King’s faculties, and a combined financial support request of more than £3.2 million.
Speaking about the awards process, Professor ‘Funmi Olonisakin, Vice President (International, Engagement & Service), “We know that there is appetite for and experience of impact-focused work already at King’s.
The selection panel for the fund were impressed with the quality of the submissions, with many proposals understanding the relevance of engaging a mix of expertise from the start, working locally to achieve something global.
However, the purpose of this fund, and the wider approach, is to maximise and unlock even more interdisciplinary impact-focused work, as well as the sharing of best practice.”
I am looking forward to seeing the collaborations that will be established with the network of project partners, both on our doorstep in London and across the world, to tackle important global challenges head-on.
The One King’s Impact Fund was established to support new initiatives and scale existing projects across research, education and service that align with King's Impact Priorities .
These nine projects selected for funding in Round One all support at least one of the five priorities, which were identified by the King’s community as areas where the university could focus its expertise to make a distinct contribution.
The £1 million fund is being allocated over two years; this announcement represents the first round of funding, with Round Two expected to open for applications later this year.
One King’s Impact
The fund is part of One King’s Impact , a whole-university approach to enhancing the positive difference King’s makes by fostering and supporting a revolutionary type of impact culture.
The programme intends to strengthen King’s Strategy 2026 ambition to be impact-driven in all that it does, uniting education, research and service to deliver positive change for people, planet and society.
One King’s Impact also convenes the Impact Changemakers ; a network of students, staff, alumni and external partners facilitating idea-sharing and access to training and support, as well as driving awareness and fostering connections among members.
One King’s Impact is advised by an Impact Leaders Board of experts from diverse fields spanning law, business, finance, public sector, charities and UK Government is providing cross-sector advice, peer support and mentorship to the programme.
The One King’s Impact Fund will announce the Round Two funding call later this year.
To find out more about the programme, including other ways to get involved visit kcl.ac.uk/impact or email impact@kcl.ac.uk .
Join the Changemakers Network here.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/more-needs-to-be-done-to-decolonise-language-teaching-kings-project-team-says:
Over the course of 10 workshops, lecturers from the School of Education, Communication & Society (ECS) and the King’s Language Centre (King’s LC) have explored how to decolonise the Modern Foreign Languages (MFL) curriculum and language teaching.
The project team , led collaboratively by Dr Jane Jones and Dr Christina Richardson in King's ECS and Dr Tanya Linaker at King’s LC , discussed the meaning of decolonisation and considered practical ways to decolonise the curriculum and deliver a more diverse, inclusive and representative curriculum and modes of learning.
Throughout the academic year 2022/23, they organised workshops to engage not only their respective teams but also King’s students and guests from other institutions, to reflect on deconstructing the content and pedagogy of teaching languages and culture.
They found that the process of decolonising language teaching will require both mindset changes and practical adjustments – starting with shifting from Eurocentricity to multicentricity, especially in the Global South.
Teaching staff in schools and universities need to be more diverse, and students listened to in all developments and aspects of policy.
There needs to be a holistic approach that takes on board not just colonial histories but also intersectionalities with gender, race, family structures, cultures, and individual identities.
It is essential to be aware of the emotional basis and sometimes stress caused by decolonising processes.
While many teachers have been revising and expanding their materials and resources to ensure a greater community and global representation, they need to be better supported.
This could take the form of a framework and set of principles to scaffold their work.
In particular, more should be done to make pedagogies and assessment more diverse.
Jane Jones, Senior Lecturer in Education in ECS , said: "I came to realise how the curriculum decolonising project enabled each individual to understand and interpret in their own way what needed to be done and how it might be enacted.
It starts from each individual’s lived experience and continues as a reflective project to decolonise the mind as well as the very practical implementation of MFL curriculum revision.
"I was particularly interested to promote student teachers as researchers in the project – a great success – and thereby in a generative research process of inquiry as they begin their teaching careers.
I was also interested to promote the pupil voice as a critical reality and not just a piece of rhetorical discourse.
"As personal reflections enjoined collaborative research and discussion, the project became ever more powerful, increasing agency and understanding.
There is still much work to do but MFL is an ideal space to progress this work."
Tanya Linaker, Team Leader for Slavic and Middle Eastern Languages at King’s Language Centre , said: "The project enabled me to delve deep into the issues of what decolonising the language teaching curriculum means to me personally as well as to my colleagues, students and the academics across the field.
"I realised that a nuanced, culturally sensitive and differentiated approach is needed to discuss highly contested aspects of postcolonial, post-imperial and post-Soviet identity through the intersection of culture, ethnicity, sex, gender, race, religion and social status.
While we aim to decentre the status quo and give voices to those who have not been heard before, we should be careful not to tip the balance of power in such a way as to disadvantage one group over another."
Christina Richardson, Senior Lecturer in Language Education in ECS , said: "My main points of learning from the project are 1) how complex and potentially sensitive discussions around decolonising the curriculum are; 2) the variety of perspectives and positions that teachers may take on decolonisation; and 3) the value of arts-based methods/tools as a starting point for reflecting on one's own identity, assumptions and preconceptions."
The languages curriculum is very well situated to be a starting point for thinking about decolonisation, for addressing inequalities in education and for transformative education: thus decolonising the MFL curriculum project is a vital part of work that understands and promotes the importance of a truly inclusive approach to language teaching and learning, that recognises intersectionality and the value and importance of having teachers, students and pupils at the centre of the process of the decolonising journey.
Supported by the King's Race Equity & Inclusive Education Fund, the project concluded on 13 June at an international gathering, with teachers joining the seminar from La Plata, Argentina and colleagues from King’s link school in Paris, France.
As they continue discussions on decolonising the MFL curriculum, which is an ongoing endeavour and long process, the project team is planning to work on decolonising lesser taught languages and starting a new collaboration with the ECS partner school in Paris.
Senior Lecturer in Russian Language Education
Senior Lecturer in Education
Senior Lecturer in Language Education
Senior Lecturer in German Language Education
Senior Learning Designer

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/decolonising-language-teaching-project-latest:
08 June 2023
The Decolonising Language Teaching project aims to engage staff and students in active research, training and reflective practice that deconstructs the content and pedagogy of teaching languages and culture.
The project is supported by the King's Race Equity & Inclusive Education Fund, which provides funding for initiatives addressing racial inequalities and embedding inclusive education across King’s.
Since October 2022, the project team have embarked on intensive programme of outreach and scholarship with the goal of engaging as many people in the higher education community as possible with their work.
Activities include curriculum analysis exploring how decolonisation of curricula happens in practice, reading groups and presentations at King's and sector-wide conferences, such as the Association of University Language Communities (AULC) annual conference.
Some of the outputs, such as reflective reports , being co-produced with students.
The project will run until July 2023 and you can find out more on the project webpage.
Decolonising Language Teaching project webpage

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/professional-education/register-your-interest:
What professional courses are available at King’s?
What opportunities are there for bespoke programmes for a company?
Explore the opportunities that Professional Education at King’s offers to you by registering your interest below.
You'll receive helpful information via email about professional courses you might be interested in, news and upcoming events that are relevant to you and more.
Be inspired and inspire others with Professional Education at King's

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/professional-education/brochure:
Download our professional and executive education brochure by completing the form below.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/professional-education/executive-education:
Unlock that potential with King’s Executive Education.
Our courses provide the strategic insights and advanced skills needed to navigate today's complex business landscape.
From leadership development to innovative management techniques, our programs are designed to empower you to drive organisational success.
Whether you’re moving into a more senior role or looking to make more of an impact where you are now, we’ll help you grow as a leader.
With content built on cutting-edge research delivered by practitioners and subject matter experts and faculty.
And because King’s Executive Education draws from all nine faculties, you’ll have access to an unrivalled network of expertise in everything from climate change to healthcare.
View our online catalogue of executive education courses .
Find out more about professional education at King's and join our community of professional learners

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/professional-education/custom-solutions:
We develop customised solutions to upskill and empower your employees.
Expert academics.
A huge range of subjects.
Scalability for any size business.
A central London location with top facilities.
You’ll have access to it all.
Every business is different.
There’s no one-size-fits-all learning solution.
Consultancy packages.
Professional development and executive courses.
Master's programmes.
Whatever format works for you and your team, we’ll work with you to deliver real value.
Think of King’s Professional Education as your gateway to this world-renowned university.
We’ll be your partner to help you unlock the potential of your workforce, applying the latest thinking to design a solution that meets your goals.
“ The Linklaters team was blown away by the quality of the training and the impact that the hackathon has had on our GenAI adoption programme.
By partnering with King’s, you can draw on expertise across nine specialist faculties:
So, whether you need to upskill employees in a niche industry, or want to boost soft skills and improve leadership capabilities, we’ll connect you to the right people.
We work across the globe, partnering with governments, NGOs, the private and public sectors to deliver professional education that has impact.
We are the first Russell Group university to be delivering place-based transnational education in Indonesia through our partnership with Singhasari Special Economic Zone.
The Special Economic Zone has been set up by the Indonesian Government to support growth in digital content production, technology development, education and tourism.
Read more about our partnership .

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/professional-education/professional-development:
Continuing professional development (CPD) is vital for creating an effective workforce.
When individuals and teams develop their skills, everyone benefits.
Our flexible courses fit your busy schedule.
Choose from face-to-face or online options, immersive teaching and practical insights.
With a wide range of disciplines taught by world-leading academics, you can deepen your specialist knowledge, gain skills in a whole new area or meet regulatory requirements.
Challenge yourself.
Build your network.
Develop the skills to drive your career and your organisation forward.
View our online catalogue of CPD courses .

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/professional-education/microcredentials:
Anyone serious about success should invest in professional development.
But signing up for a postgraduate course doesn’t work for everyone.
That’s why we’re reinventing education with a game-changing alternative.
Micro might mean small.
But microcredentials offer a big opportunity to sharpen skills and accelerate professional development.
Each block (a module from our extensive portfolio) has the same content taught by the same leading academics as our full postgraduate degrees.
View our online catalogue of microcredentials .
Microcredentials are designed for professionals in both public and private sectors who want to develop their careers.
Perhaps you want to strengthen your skillset or maybe you want to make the move into a new area.
This pioneering alternative will be a great fit for you if you don’t want to commit to a full degree programme or if you have interests across academic fields.
The possibilities will depend on the modules you pick, making this a truly individual learning journey.
“ Our professional development framework is designed to help busy professionals balance work and life commitments so they can secure a promotion or open new doors.
You’ll find everything you need to know about entry requirements on each module web page.
Typical entry requirements are:
For some modules, you might need to meet additional criteria.
Join Professional Education at King’s College London, a name recognised by employers across sectors, around the world.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/business/executive-education:
Responsible, purposeful business & leadership is at the centre of executive education at King's, to help you and your organisation to create financial and social value.
Our courses reflect the complex world you operate in & will equip you to have a positive impact in your organisation, and expand your career development.
Step away from your day-to-day role to immerse, reflect and engage in learning.
Enhance your performance and impact your organisation with a short course.
An Executive MBA is an investment in your future.
But at King's, an Executive MBA is an investment…
We partner with organisations to offered impactful development solutions tailored to your needs.…
See the full range of executive short courses on offer with King's Business School
Explore our upcoming Executive Education events.
Organisations are trying to stay relevant in a turbulent world and creating an environment where…
Executive Education is an important investment in your professional development.
We are pleased to…
Find our more about Executive Education at King's Business School
Leave your enquiry below and a member of our team will contact you.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/law/executive-education:
Equip yourself with the tools to be at the forefront of a rapidly evolving legal landscape.
Elevate your legal professional skills and develop the critical analytical tools you need to excel in your role and advance your legal practice.
Our open courses are designed and curated to broaden legal knowledge and expertise, enhance professional development and deliver impact.
Our bespoke courses are tailored with your organisational needs in mind.
We can work collaboratively with you to leverage your team’s existing skills and experience to create innovative solutions to complex industry challenges.
Whether you choose our bespoke or open courses, you will be exposed to King’s world-leading research and will have the opportunity to learn with motivated peers in live seminars and networking sessions.
Become part of our global community of experts at one of the most prestigious law schools in the world.
Explore our open courses .
Discover our bespoke learning opportunities .
Enquire about our courses
Find out more about the General Counsel Academy in partnership with Winmark.
Find out more about our partnership with the IBA
The Dickson Poon School of Law is well equipped to face pressing real world legal challenges as one of the world's most global law schools.
Our open courses, bespoke programmes and world class legal expertise gives individuals and organisations the skills needed to succeed in a rapidly evolving legal landscape, adding lasting value to strategic career or organisational goals.
Our open courses are designed to equip you with the legal knowledge and expertise to propel your professional development and deliver impact as a legal professional, enabling you to immediately implement your learning and experience in your role.
You will be exposed to King’s world leading research and have the opportunity to learn with our esteemed faculty and also with a network of knowledgeable and motivated peers from across sectors.
Online course covering all the stages of arbitration proceedings.
Find out more about our Coroners and Inquests course.
Find out more about our Navigating International Financial Regulation and Compliance course.
Gain coding literacy and skills to navigate the technological revolution emerging in the legal…
Crypto, Digital Assets, and the Law Executive Education, The Dickson Poon School of Law, King's…
Generative AI In Law, King's College London, The Dickson Poon School of Law
Our bespoke executive education courses are agile and are responsive to complex and changing demands of industry needs.
We can work with your organisation to design workshop delivery for participant needs according to their level of expertise, jurisdiction and legal or educational background.
Collaborate with us to develop solutions that are tailored not only to your organisational needs but wider industry demands.
The  workshop series is designed to provide an in-depth understanding of legal generative AI and prompt engineering including language, logic and models.
No prior computing experience is required but it empowers participants with the analytic skills and tools to apply these technologies to their work.
The workshops cover the technical basics of machine learning, AI architectures, and their applications in legal and workforce settings.
Find out more about how we can create bespoke solutions to stay at the forefront of developments in legal technology.
The Dickson Poon School of Law is fortunate to be partnered with many industry leaders for our bespoke executive education programmes.
Download the executive education brochure for The Dickson Poon School of Law
Find out more about our executive education programmes at The Dickson Poon School of Law
Find out what previous participants had to say about executive education
A comprehensive and rigorous introduction to law and practice for non-law graduates
Who we are and what we do: browse our staff profiles.
Find out more about public events at The Dickson Poon School of Law.
Find out more about opportunities for professional development at the School.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/nmpc/cpd:
Ready for a new challenge, eager to update your skillset, or interested in research?
Our Professional Development courses are packed with insights and learning that help you fulfil your potential and boost your career prospects.
We’ve designed courses that offer the flexibility you need to study around your commitments and slot learning into your current lifestyle.
From stand-alone modules to PhDs, we offer a range of training geared towards developing expertise and improving patient care.
Whatever path you pick, you’ll develop the leadership skills you need to take your career to the next level.
Our work-based learning option gives you the chance to achieve an academic qualification, without putting your career on hold.
You’ll learn from your experiences in the field and sharpen skills vital to your role.
Re-starting education can feel daunting, but you’ll join a diverse community of like-minded healthcare professionals and clinical educators.
At King’s, you’ll be taught by leaders in the field.
Everything you learn will be up to speed with the latest changes in practice and help you effectively approach the spectrum of challenges you face every day.
You’ll discuss current debates in the field, share experiences and find ways to make a real difference.
Our courses will help you develop your expertise, boost your career prospectus and improve patient…
Undertake clinical academic study with the Faculty of Nursing, Midwifery & Palliative Care at King's…
Please see the individual MSc, PGDip, PGCert, MPhil and PhD course pages for entry requirements and how to apply.
Our postgraduate courses .
Our free standing modules are published in our Short Courses catalogue .
Details of application deadlines, teaching dates and contact details are available on the individual course pages.
Applications are made through the King's Apply online application portal
An introduction by Dr Jacqualyn Moore
Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) allows successful applicants to selected degree or diploma courses to claim 'credit' for previous learning from elsewhere, either at another institution or in practice.
The previous learning must be relevant to the course applicants are applying for and if their application is successful, the credit will count towards their chosen course of study.
Successful applicants to any post-qualification MSc, PGDip or BSc course offered by the Faculty can claim credit for previous learning that meets the RPL criteria.
There is a separate RPL process for successful applicants on our pre-registration MSc courses.
Please contact the Admissions Team through the King’s Apply portal for further information.
Qualified Allied Healthcare Professionals who are offered a place on course eligible for RPL and can evidence one or more of the following relevant to the course:
You can apply for RPL once your place on your chosen course is confirmed, but not before.
Please follow the ‘how to apply’ process on this page and submit your claim form by the next available deadline.
Decisions about the level and amount of credit to be awarded for prior learning are made by an accreditation panel, based on the evidence that applicants are able to provide about their relevant learning experience.
The accreditation panel meets once per term to review recommendations of the accreditation assessors and award credit accordingly.
Students who do not hold the requisite entry requirements may apply for advanced standing to allow entry to the programme by demonstrating that they have knowledge and skills either via RPCL / RPEL or a combination of both that is the equivalent of 120 credits.
This will for example allow an applicant who does hold a DipHE or equivalent to join a BSc programme.
Students intending to put in a claim for advanced standing should meet with a panel member to discuss the content of their application as these claims can be substantial.
Students applying for RPL must discuss the potential for this with the course lead before starting their course and can only submit an RPL application once they are enrolled on their course.
Please follow the RPL application process.
Please note there is a charge for making RPL claims.
Full details of the procedure are in the key documents listed on this page.
To access and submit the Recognition of Prior Learning claim form please click here .
Guidance on completing the form can be found here .
The RPL administrative fee is separate from tuition fees.
Paying the RPL fee does not reduce or affect your tuition fee liability.
Please visit our Student Fees Hub for more information on payment dates, methods and FAQs on tuition and residence fees.
Once your place on your chosen course is confirmed, follow this application process:
NursingRPL@kcl.ac.uk
Work-based learning is a process through which health practitioners and clinical educators can gain academic credit for learning undertaken in the workplace.
It is used increasingly in the health services to allow qualified staff to progress academically either at BSc or MSc levels while learning in their field of practice.
We offer work-based learning modules with 15 and 30 credits attached at both level 6 (BSc) and level 7 (MSc).
The modules can form part of the MSc Advanced Clinical Practice or the BSc Clinical Practice or be taken as free standing modules.
Up to two Work-Based Learning modules can be taken at each level.
Educational opportunities arising in the work place have immediate clinical relevance to practice, employers and to the professional development of individual practitioners.
Our modules aim to develop critical reflection and improve people's learning skills.
Students are assessed on a portfolio of activities demonstrating the learning from a work-based activity and their own development as an independent learner.
The portfolio can contribute to evidence of professional development.
The academic support provided for this module is negotiated with the organisation providing the work-based learning opportunities or with individual students undertaking their own projects in practice.
Students will have an introduction to the module and the opportunity for follow up tutorials delivered by a member of the Faculty teaching staff either in a group or individually.
Students will have access to online learning resources through the university's online learning platform, KEATS.
All students will have a named person in their organisation who is responsible for approving the work based learning activity and their learning plan.
Find out how we work with NHS trusts, charities and private care providers to train our students and…
Our Faculty is made up of four teaching departments, three research divisions and one…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/kiass/profdev1:
KIASS (King's Institute for Applied Security Studies) delivers world-leading security and defence education and consultancy.
We bring together decades of experience in the areas of conflict, war, security, and defence.
Our courses are delivered by the School of Security Studies, one of the world's largest and most diverse communities of scholars engaged in teaching and research in this field.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a fast-moving field, with dramatic research breakthroughs emerging regularly.
Many of these have utility for national security actors, whether in the military, intelligence agencies, or policy-making communities.
Accordingly, AI has a longstanding and deepening connection with national security.
This course will help to contextualise these developments.
It will explore the striking changes that AI is bringing to national security, including to military tactics and strategy and will investigate the ways in which culture shapes the employment of AI.
It will also consider some ethical implications of AI in national security affairs.
Find out more
The rise of China in the Liberal International Order has caused much frenzy and uncertainty across the Western civil society.
China as a cultural and political entity creates anxiety in those parts of the world where liberalism has dominated for decades if not centuries.
Citizens, policy-makers, and military are still catching up on their knowledge of China and cannot confidently deconstruct the complexity of a country that hosts a fifth of humanity and whose foreign interactions have been characterised by much ambiguity.
This course seeks to explore those areas of ambiguity where Chinese actions are causing security dilemmas for Western citizens, administrators, policy-makers and the military and to expand knowledge on China but also to learn lessons that can be applied in other areas of foreign/security policy.
To achieve this aim, the course is structured around several topics, each of which seeks to address a "dilemma" related to China, by looking at a contemporary "case-study" while leveraging on an "academic concept" to stimulate lateral thinking.
This course offers an overview of the disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration (DDR) of ex-combatants in countries recovering from conflict.
It outlines the concepts, definitions, and types of DDR approaches that are followed by various international, and national agencies to demobilise armed groups, and to return and reintegrate their rank and file into civilian society.
The course will also map the evolution of programmatic efforts over time, and how the various shifts have influenced DDR effectiveness.
This short course incorporates a gendered focus on the reintegration of women and girl combatants; and on the age-specific needs of child soldiers.
It also involves a deep engagement with the question of ex-combatant re-recruitment; and the role of ex-combatant agency in the decision to re-engage in violence.
The Indo-Pacific is emerging as one of the key regions in which international politics are redefined.
It encompasses some of the world’s fastest growing economies, top world military powers, and rich cultures.
Its economic dynamism rests on a maritime geography that has favoured connectivity and interdependence; its political make-up is defined by outstanding territorial disputes, unresolved Cold War issues, and an increasingly entrenched Sino-American structural competition; and its cultural traditions are both similar and different to Western traditions.
This particular course focuses on what is meant by the term "culture", how do people embedded in different cultures think, make judgements and decisions and when, why, and how culture matters in engagement with the Indo-Pacific region.
More than twenty years since 9/11, terrorist-related threats remain alive.
Understanding counterterrorism and its dilemmas is therefore paramount.
This course will explore questions on What is terrorism?
What causes it?
Who is a terrorist?
Most importantly, how do we respond?
How much force shall we apply?
Can we legally carry out targeted assassinations in countries we are not at war with?
Can we afford true intelligence sharing?
How should the media cover acts of terrorism?
What are the possible measures liberal democracies should undertake?
After all these years, are we winning the "War on Terror"?
This course is designed to provide a comprehensive introduction to the topic of military healthcare ethics and to explore the issues of practicing healthcare ethically in the military setting.
Who should be picked up by military medical evacuation helicopters?
Should I withdraw treatment from a child burned in a cooking accident to free up an intensive care bed for a military patient?
Should I declare a soldier unfit to deploy because they refuse to take antimalarials?
Should I report a soldier who has declared their alcohol addiction to their Commanding Officer?
Should I downgrade a senior non-commissioned officer whose medical condition precludes deployment and prevent their promotion?
Should I administer a vaccination that I think is unnecessary?
These are just some of the types of decisions that may face a military healthcare worker that have ethical and legal implications.
This course seeks to provide students with a general understanding of sanctions, defined as the restrictive measures imposed by states or groups of states to achieve coercive influence in the international system.
Sanctions are among the most frequently used tools of diplomacy.
For many states, they form an important part of foreign policy and they are regularly deployed in pursuit of foreign policy objectives.
In this course you will be introduced to the core concepts of strategic communications, frameworks of analysis, and different perspectives on strategic communications around the world such as China, Russia, Brazil, and South Africa.
Over the course of five lessons, students will receive introductions into strategic theory and the method of wargaming.
By the end of the course students should be well positioned to be able to evaluate if, when, and how wargaming might address some of the challenges organisations and individuals face today.
kiass@kcl.ac.uk
I found the course to be very well structured, informative, and highly valuable to my professional development and personal interests.
The quality of the speakers was of the highest calibre, and the format and delivery mode were excellent.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/artshums/study-with-us/career-accelerators:
Career Accelerators are intensive but flexible online programmes designed to help ambitious working professionals make rapid and meaningful progress in their careers .
Designed and delivered in partnership with online education company FourthRev , our career accelerators combine the power of industry experience and university education to ensure you learn the most relevant skills at the highest level.
Over six months, you’ll engage in project-based learning structured around weekly deadlines.
The part-time, online learning format allows you to arrange your study time around your work and life commitments.
In the final Employer Project, you’ll apply what you’ve learnt to a lifelike scenario based on a challenge set by one of our real-world partner companies.
You’ll leave the Career Accelerator with a set of portfolio-worthy practical skills in up-to-date frameworks and technologies, a mindset shaped by higher education and expert coaching, and the recognition of a King’s certificate.
Investing in my professional growth wasn’t an easy decision, but looking back, this was the best career investment I’ve made.
The ROI is real – I now have the confidence, skills, and credibility to grow my career in ways I wouldn’t have imagined before.
Build the end-to-end knowledge and practical skills needed to become a standout product manager.
Explore the Product Management Career Accelerator here
The day of my final presentation for the Employer Project, I had the final interview for my product manager role in the afternoon.
That was a day that I will never forget.
I found out that afternoon that I'd gotten the role!
Develop the skills and confidence to change to a fulfilling, creative career in product design.
Explore the UX & UI Product Design Career Accelerator here
The type of learning was incredibly practical for me.
Kudos to the programme, everything that I learned was very useful straight away in the business world and for my freelance gigs.
Develop your skills and knowledge through practical assignments based on real-world scenarios and data.
In the last six weeks of the programme, you’ll prove your skills on an Employer Project.
Together with a small group of your peers, you'll create a solution to a challenge set by a real company, get their feedback along the way, and present your recommendations directly to the business.
Get proof of what you’re capable of to stand out to hiring managers, leadership teams, and your professional network.
The project work you undertake during the Career Accelerator can be added to a portfolio that proves your practical experience.
When you complete the programme, you’ll also gain a certificate from King’s College London that proves the depth of your learning and stands out on your CV.
Achieve more than you thought was possible, in less time than you imagined.
As a Career Accelerator learner, you’ll be offered practical guidance to chase your goals — whether it’s a promotion or a complete career change — and overcome common blockers such as self-doubt, imposter syndrome, and fear of failure.
Through expert career coaching and personal support, your unique aspirations and challenges are given the attention needed to unlock your potential.
Find a course and study online today with King's Arts & Humanities.
Offering unique Master's programmes across a wide range of disciplines.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/professional-education/about-us:
Business challenges aren’t always predictable.
Career paths aren’t always linear.
Team needs aren’t always ordinary.
Whatever your sector and wherever you are in your career journey, Professional Education at King’s can help you make a real difference in your business and in society.
Expand your skillset.
Lean into challenges.
Connect with experts and build a network of lifelong contacts.
Our professional courses are accessible and actionable, filled with cutting-edge content that bridges the gap between theory and practice.
King’s College London is a global name, recognised for excellence in education and research.
We drive positive change in society to realise our vision of making the world a better place.
Artificial intelligence, defence and security, healthcare, and more – our professional education courses cover a whole host of subject areas relevant to today’s world.
Our world-leading academics combine immersive teaching techniques and practical insights .
You’ll also have access to facilities and teaching spaces in central London designed exclusively for professional education.
Professional development is vital for creating an effective workforce.
By helping individuals and teams develop their skills, everyone benefits.
Productivity increases.
Teams work together more effectively.
Employees report higher levels of job satisfaction.
Businesses grow.
For almost 200 years, King’s has been at the cutting edge of research-applied teaching.
Now you can leverage our expertise to achieve excellence too.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/professional-education/contact-us:
Achieving your ambitions starts with a conversation with the professional education team.
Tell us about your challenges and we’ll work with you to find solutions, fill skills gaps and shift behaviour in the workplace.
Director of Professional Education
Associate Director of Academic Affairs
Head of Business Development
Head of Business Development, Social Impact & Engagement
Business Development Manager
Assistant Business Development Manager
Business Development Officer
Communications & Engagement Officer
Lead Operations Manager
Operations & Service Manager (Professional Education)
Programme Manager (Professional Education)
Data & Reporting Officer
Professional Education Coordinator
Professional Education Administrator
Senior Research & Engagement Coordinator

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/professional-education/melbourne-house:
Imagine a space where critical conversations flow.
Where learning can come to life, and you create change as a team.
Where you shape the future and make the world a better place.
The hub has everything you’d expect from a high-spec teaching space, allowing a seamless experience for participants in-person and online.
Melbourne House, on our Strand Campus, is at the heart of the capital’s vibrant culture and dynamic business sector.
Legal London, the City, Somerset House, government, and much more are right on our doorstep.
Our Professional Education Teaching Suite is amid the hustle and bustle, but you can enjoy brilliant views of greenery and the impressive St Clement Danes Church.
Melbourne House is easy to reach from different parts of the city, as well as further afield by train and air.
There are hotels locally where professionals can stay if needed which King’s have good relationships with and can offer discounted rates.
Need privacy?
This is the ideal place for conversations that need to be kept behind closed doors.
It takes seconds to get from the street to this secure space – enter the building and the lift will take you straight up to the reception area.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/summer/summer-on-campus/pre-university-summer-school:
Our Pre-University Summer School for students aged 16-17 offers a wide variety of courses in different disciplines.
Students can select one or more course in the same or different disciplines.
Each course is one-week long and students can select to do multiple courses over one, two, three or four weeks.
If you are not sure which combination of courses you would like to apply for, please contact us at summer@kcl.ac.uk .
A highly experienced team in Summer Programmes draws from the expertise of King's faculties and academics, to develop courses based on your requirements, with the best that King’s and London can offer.
Please note that our pre-University Summer school is for students aged 16 and 17.
Pre-University students who are 18 years old can join our Undergraduate Summer School .
Information about modules you may be eligible to study is here .
Applications for Pre-University Summer School have now closed.
Session 1: 30 June - 4 July 2025 Session 2: 7 - 11 July 2025 Session 3: 14 - 18 July 2025 Session 4: 21 - 25 July 2025 Applications closed Applications deadline 4 April 2025 Contact us Email address: summer@kcl.ac.uk Phone: +44(0)20 7848 1533
Apply Now
£2,990
£5,610
£8,600
£11,220
£1,200
£2,400
As per the fees listed above, booking multiple courses receives a discount if received by 23:59 GMT 28 March 2025.
This discount cannot be used in conjunction with other discounts of promotions and excludes English Language & Culture courses.
Subject to availability at the time of application.
The tuition fees cover:
An application fee of £60 is payable at the time of application and is non-refundable.
Please note that we can only assess your application if the application fee has been paid.
Pre-University students will be staying in Stamford Street Apartments, one of the King’s Residences, located in central London.
Address: 127 Stamford St, London, SE1 9NQ.
Students are allocated single en-suite rooms with shower in blocks and floors exclusively dedicated to the King’s Pre-University Summer School.
Linen and towels are provided in the room.
Students can check in to their rooms on the Sunday prior to the start of their course.
Students who apply for two, three or four courses will be able to remain in the accommodation on the Saturday night that falls between their courses.
The residential package covers:
Our Pre-University Summer School is open to academically motivated students who are about to start or who are enrolled in their final three years of high school and are 16 or 17 years old.
To apply for the Pre-University Summer School, students must turn 16 before the arrival date in accommodation/start date of their course, whichever the earliest.
Students’ 18th birthday must be after the last day of the programme/their departure date in accommodation.
Pre-university students who are 18 years old, can attend and audit our Undergraduate Summer School .
Information about this track can be found here .
As this is an intensive social and academic experience, it is essential that all applicants are independent, mature and motivated students.
As part of the application process you will need to upload the following:
Our Pre-University Summer School is taught and assessed entirely in English.
Applicants must have studied English to at least level B2 in the Common European Framework of Reference for languages (CEFR).
If your first language is not English, please provide evidence of your English proficiency from the list below:
If your English language qualifications are not listed, we will need an official letter from your school verifying that it is the equivalent of level B2 in the CEFR.
If your high school teaches all subjects in English and you have studied there for at least two years, this will be accepted as proof of your English language skills.
Please note, the above requirements don’t apply to students who are applying for the English Language and Culture Courses.
For those requirements, please read the next section.
This intensive course is for students who are at a B1 level (CEFR) and takes an active-learning, communicative approach to develop confidence and fluency in English.
Please provide evidence of your English proficiency from the list below:
We are committed to the health, safety, security and wellbeing of young people who participate in our Summer Programmes.
Safeguarding arrangements are overseen by the Designated Safeguarding Officers.
Students are also assigned dedicated Summer Assistants throughout the programme.
They support and supervise students at all times, other than when they are in their rooms and during scheduled independent time.
This includes all extracurricular activities on and off site.
Students staying in King’s residences have 24-hour support provided by Summer Assistants who will stay in campus accommodation alongside Summer School students.
Further information on safeguarding can be found in Information for Applicants , under Policies.
If you have any questions regarding safety or supervision, please contact us .
With so many things to do in London, budgeting can be a challenge.
It can be a good idea to plan in advance and get a picture of the financial cost of living in London.
Living expenses will depend on the choices of the student and although London can be expensive, there are opportunities to get the best out of London on a limited budget.
For students on the Pre-University Summer School, breakfast and dinner are provided as part of the accommodation package.
Students need to consider allocating money for other meals and consumables.
We also encourage students to bring a small amount of spending money for gifts.
Please be advised that many shops and restaurants in London are cashless and may accept only payments by card.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/summer/university-level/undergraduate-summer-school:
Our Undergraduate Summer School programme offers experiential research-based teaching through workshops, seminars and lectures tailored for undergraduate students who have completed at least one year of study.
Whether you are currently at university or graduated some time ago and just fancy learning something new, you can join our Summer School.
Each course normally lasts two weeks, Monday to Friday and we offer two sessions, giving students the opportunity to explore different subject areas in each session.
We are pleased to announce that in Summer 2025, we are introducing a new 4-week long programme with courses running from Monday to Thursday.
For more information, please check the Courses tab further down on this page.
Students joining our six-week Biomedical Engineering Research Programme can undertake their own research project in Biomedical Engineering at King’s.
This is an excellent opportunity to explore becoming a researcher and solving real life problems, whilst preparing you for the next phase of your education.
Over this six-week period, students will work on an academic research project aligned with current research areas in the school of Biomedical Engineering, carrying out experiments to develop a solution to a pressing medical problem.
During the programme, students will be based at St Thomas' Hospital.
This year we are pleased to introduce modules in English Language & Culture available in Session 1 (30 June - 11 July 2025) and Session 2 (14 - 25 July 2025) .
This programme offers students a chance to improve their confidence, fluency and communication skills in the English language.
Join one of our interactive information sessions to find out more about our Undergraduate Summer School.
Two week programme: Session 1: 30 June - 11 July 2025 Session 2: 14 - 25 July 2025 Four week programme: 30 June - 25 July 2025 Six week Biomedical Engineering Research programme: 30 June - 8 August 2025 Applications open Applications deadline: 9 May 2025 Contact us Email address: summer@kcl.ac.uk Phone: +44(0)20 7848 1533
Courses are taught on-campus any time between the hours of 9am and 6pm from Monday to Friday.
Attendance is vital to success on the module, and you are required to attend at least 80% of your lessons in order to pass the module.
All students will receive a final mark on their Record of Agreed Results (transcript).
The UK grading system may be very different from what you are used to.
Please note in the UK anything above 70 is considered excellent; it is not usual to receive much above 80 even if this is what you are used to at your home university.
Each module is 150 study hours comprising intensive teaching, independent study and group work and is examined to university standards.
Comparable to an in-semester 15-credit King’s undergraduate module and therefore typically awarded 3-4 US credits or 7.5 ECTS, many summer students ask their home institution to award them external credit for their King's summer module to use towards their degree programme when they return home.
Over this six-week programme, students will work on an academic research project aligned with current research areas in the school, carrying out experiments to develop a solution to a pressing medical problem.
Students will take ownership of their research project by:
All research projects are studied on campus in London.
Students will be expected to commit full-time to this course with a minimum of 35 hours for project work required in labs every week.
There will also be 1-to-1 meetings with your project supervisor and lab group meetings scheduled across the six weeks.
The primary deliverables will be representative of those frequently used to disseminate academic research: Literature Review 20%; Scientific Paper 60%; Oral Presentation 20%.
The Biomedical Engineering Summer Research module can be taken for credit towards degrees at other institutions and the module is examined to university standards.
To receive credit for King's summer module, contact your home institution to ask them to award external credit.
This module is equivalent to an undergraduate degree module and usually awarded 6-8 US credits or 15 ECTS.
The projects allocated on this module will be aligned with the School of Biomedical Engineering and Imaging Sciences’ current research areas, addressing unmet patient needs.
Students will be placed alongside lab group members working in similar research fields and expected to fully participate in the life of the lab group.
Students will receive guidance on new scientific techniques required for their experiments.
All research projects can be studied on campus in London.
Projects will be allocated on an ongoing basis.
If you require further information on any of the projects listed above, please email summer@kcl.ac.uk .
*As per the fees listed above, booking on multiple 2 week courses receives a discount until 23:59 GMT on 9 May 2025.
The tuition fee covers:
Academic tuition for the course of your choice
Course materials (including building materials, lab supplies and protective equipment where applicable)
On campus wi-fi
Use of campus facilities, such as library, classrooms and catering facilities
Certificate on completion of the programme
Extracurricular activities (excluding travel)
We are looking for dynamic and creative students who are able to tackle the robustness of our summer programmes.
As such, we require the following:
Here are the International minimum grade requirements for entry to our undergraduate summer school
- Australia: GPA of 3.3 or 2:1 or 70% - Brazil: 7 - China: GPA of 3.2 or 80% - Colombia: GPA of 3.9 - Denmark: 10 - France: 13 - Germany: 'gut' - Greece: 6.5 - Hong Kong: GPA of 3.3 - India: 60% - Japan: GPA of3.3 or 80% - Italy: 24 - Korea (South): GPA 3.3 (out of 4.30) or 3.0 (out of 4.0) - Mexico: 8 - Netherlands: 8 - Norway: B - Qatar: GPA of 3.3 - Russia: 4 - Saudi Arabia: GPA of 3 - Singapore: GPA of 3.3 out of 4 or 4 out of 5 - Spain: 7 - Switzerland: 5 (out of 6) or 8 (out of 10) - Turkey: CGPA of 3 - UK 2:1 grade bracket - USA: GPA of 3.3 If you have not studied at university, or do not meet our academic requirements, contact summer@kcl.ac.uk to find out if we are able to consider your application based on other criteria.
Level 5 modules may have additional requirements.
All classes are taught and assessed in English, except ancient language modules.
All applicants must have studied English to at least level C1 in the Common European Framework of Reference for languages (CEFR) or offer one of the below:
- BULATS, minimum score of 65 - Cambridge Advanced Certificate - grade B - Cambridge Certificate of Proficiency in English - grade C - CET-4 (China) – 550 - CET-6 (China) - 493 - Duolingo English Test, we require a minimum test score of 105 - GCSE/ IGCSE/ O-Level - grade C or grade 4 - GEPT - high intermediate level - GRE (verbal score) 300 (please note this is for tests taken before 1 August 2011) - GRE (verbal score) 140 (please note this is for tests taken after 1 August 2011) - IELTS - 6.5 (or equivalent) with a minimum of 6.0 in each skill.
- International Baccalaureate- Standard Level 4 - iTEP - Level 5 - TOEFL Internet Based Test - 95 with minimum 20 in all skills (within the last 2 years) - TOEFL Paper based test - 583 with minimum 53 in all skills (within the last two years) - TEM, minimum score of 70 - TOEIC, minimum score of 685 - UEE (University Entrance Exam (China) – score of 110
If your first language is not English or the medium of instruction at your university is not English, please provide evidence of your English proficiency from the list above or contact summer@kcl.ac.uk for advice, stating the name and level of your current qualification.
This is an open enrolment programme but due to the specialist nature of the research projects, students are required to fill the pre-requisites listed below.
If your qualification is not listed please contact us for advice, indicating the country in which you are studying and the name and level of your current qualification.
If you require assistance to check your eligibility for the programme, please email summer@kcl.ac.uk for advice.
Undergraduate students will be staying in Great Dover Street Apartments King’s Hall of residence.
Address: 165 Great Dover St, London SE1 4XA.
Students are allocated single en-suite rooms with shower.
Accommodation and on campus Wi-Fi
Social activities (excluding travel)
It can be a good idea for you to plan in advance and get a picture of the financial cost of living in London.
You need to consider allocating money for meals as well as travel around London and consumables.
Information on travel fares can be found on the Transport for London website.
Aside from that, we encourage students to bring a small amount of spending money for gifts.
Please be advised that a lot of shops and restaurants in London are cashless and may accept only payments by card.
Mark Hawkins talks about an Undergraduate Summer…
Helen Eames talks about an Undergraduate Summer…
Alan Meehan and Sumeyra Yalcintas talk about an…
Dr.
Emily Rowe talks about an Undergraduate Summer…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/summer/contact/partner:
King’s College London Summer Programmes welcomes students from all around the globe to London every year to take part in innovative and exciting short courses, both in the summer and at other times of year.
We are proud to partner with universities from all around the world and to be able to support their students in accessing what are truly global experiences.
The portfolio of our Undergraduate and Pre-University summer courses represents offerings from across King’s College London faculties from Medical & Life Sciences to King’s Business School.
The two summer schools are recognised for their creative, educational philosophy and their commitment to a dynamic, participative student experience.
Comparable to an in-semester 15-credit King’s undergraduate module and therefore typically awarded 3-4 US credits or 7.5 ECTS, many summer students ask their home institution to award them external credit for their King's summer module to use towards their degree programme when they return home.
Some of the advantages our partners benefit from are:
Our experienced team of programme developers works with you to create a personalised and tailored programme drawing from the experience of King's Faculties based on your requirements.
Some bespoke courses may be credit bearing and students can ask their home institution to award them external credit for their King's summer module to use towards their degree programme when they return home.
summer@kcl.ac.uk
+44(0)20 7848 1533
Register your interest in our summer programmes.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/summer/student-experience:
We have a range of extracurricular activities on offer every week for students to join, giving them a chance to socialise with other students on the King’s Summer Programmes whilst discovering London.
We have two streams of activities – one for our Undergraduate students and one for our Pre-University students.
Part of the university experience is the opportunity to become part of a vibrant social community.
For Pre-University students, we offer a social programme that provides a taste of university life, allowing them to experience the independence, connections, and exciting activities that come with it.
Through a range of events, group activities, and outings, students can explore campus life, build friendships, and develop a sense of community with their peers.
For Undergraduate students, our extra-curricular activities provide the chance to form lasting friendships with peers from around the world.
Whether it's showcasing your trivia skills at a pub quiz or attending a guest lecture, our summer extra-curricular programme enriches your time studying at King’s College London.
Examples of previous events our students have enjoyed:
All students are automatically eligible for our extra-curricular activities by enrolling onto our summer programmes.
King’s College London has five fantastic campuses dotted around the city:
• Strand Campus (including Bush House) • Guy’s Campus • Waterloo Campus • Denmark Hill Campus • St.
Thomas Campus Most of our summer programmes are based at Strand and Guy’s Campus, but students can expect to potentially visit our other campuses for specific sessions.
Navigating around our campuses is easy with the helpful guides linked above.
All of our campuses are well-connected via the London Underground and Overground networks.
Strand Campus can be reached via Temple station (District or Circle line), Covent Garden station (Piccadilly line) and Holborn station (Central or Piccadilly line).
Strand is also serviced by a variety of TfL buses with routes from all over the city.
Guy’s Campus is a stone’s throw from London Bridge station, meaning it’s easily accessed via the Northern and Jubilee lines as well as a multitude of National Rail lines.
We recommend downloading Google Maps or Citymapper to help navigate London’s transport system.
We have a variety of food outlets on each campus for you to enjoy refreshments, a well-needed cup of coffee and a spot of lunch!
We also have the fantastic KCLSU spaces, The Shack and Guy’s Cafe , at our Strand and Guy’s Campuses.
Ran by our Student Union, they’re a great spot for a quick bite as well as a great study spot!
We’re also very lucky to be based in the heart of the city, so there are plenty of options to enjoy just outside of campus too!
Strand Campus is on the doorstep of Covent Garden, with fantastic restaurants, cafés and shops to enjoy.
Guy’s Campus is a five-minute stroll away from the famous Borough Market and also enjoys all of the amenities within London Bridge station.
The newly pedestrianised Strand is a wonderful asset central to the Strand Campus.
It is not only a safe and convenient way to get between Strand and Bush House, but also a place to sit and rest, admiring the beauty of our surroundings.
It is a lovely place for both quiet contemplation and lively conversations and socialising.
There are also regular art displays that take place along here, meaning there is always something new happening.
The Quad is a great space to hang out and eat lunch during the summer months, being a beautiful green space at the heart of Guy’s Campus.
It can serve as a space for events as well as socialising, and we know it is just one of the features that our medical students will enjoy on our summer programmes.
There are plenty of study spaces for you to focus, research and prepare your assessments across King’s.
Not only do we have our fantastic library spaces (read more below), but every campus also has plenty of computer rooms, quiet spaces and study rooms for you to enjoy.
Our libraries:
For a full map of our libraries, look at this website to find maps and opening times.
Click here for all the best study spaces across King’s.
We take everyone’s safety and security on campus very seriously and ensure the safety of our students and staff at all times.
Please read below for more information on what we do to make the campus safe.
King’s campuses and residences all have security cover 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
Security support can be accessed at our security receptions or by calling +44 (0)207 848 2222 or extension 2222 from a King’s landline phone.
There is also a help point by Shepherd’s House on Guy’s Campus where you can call for assistance.
Please familiarise yourself with our Policies.
This is the most important and up-to-date repository of information regarding your safety as a Summer Programmes student.
More information can be found on the King’s internal webpages , though please note, some of this information will be more pertinent to the wider student body of King’s, as opposed to Summer students, so do refer to our policies section for specific guidance.
All of us can play our part in making public spaces and streets safer.
When you are out after dark, or the streets around you are quiet, please consider the following:
London is a vibrant city and has a lot to offer, whether you're interested in the arts , sport , food , shopping or the outdoors .
We are brilliantly situated in the heart of London, which means you will be next door to all the most famous sights and attractions.
There are simply too many to list all in one place, but to give you a sense of what’s on our doorstep within a few minutes walk:
Pre-arrival information will be published near the start of your programme, so check back here for guidance.
Hear from our students:
I truly loved my stay at King’s.
I learned more about my subject, which has confirmed that I certainly want to study it at university.
Furthermore, I’m now looking to apply to King’s.
The campus, its location, students and the staff are wonderful.
King’s is incredibly accessible and welcome and I wholeheartedly recommend their summer school.
(Pre-University)
My stay at King's was an incredibly fun and uplifting experience.
Although I went in slightly nervous on how the course would go, I made good friends and managed to properly grasp the essentials of law in the United Kingdom.
An excellent course that I would definitely recommend to anyone who's interested in studying law .
The fact that I was able to study for two weeks in the summer at a prestigious university like King's, meet so many interesting people, and explore London at the same time is truly something I am grateful for.
It was a perfect balance between coursework, social activities, and time for exploring this charming city.
(Undergraduate)
King's summer school was one of the best decisions I made in 2023.
Studying international relations with classmates from all over the world was an eye opening experience.
Having high-level guest speakers brought much depth to this course.
Strongly recommended!
The interactive lectures, having access to the slides and more in KEATS, and going to places rather than normal lectures sitting in class made my experience even better.
King's had people from more than seventy nationalities, I made new friends that I wouldn't have if I didn't go.
Besides being an educational experience where I learned so much about a course that I am planning to study in university, I made new friends from various countries!
My time in King's was one I would remember for a lifetime, even if I don't come back to study.
The teachers who taught the summer school were passionate about sharing what they have learnt throughout their careers.
I couldn't ask for any better professors, the wisdom and the way they interact inspired me to look deeper into the subjects (Undergraduate)

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/summer/contact/register-your-interest:
If you have an enquiry about King's Summer Programmes and want more information, please email or call us on the details below.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/accommodation/undergraduate:
Booking your room and living at King's Residences while studying at The Courtauld Institute of Art
Find out more about welfare services and social activities in halls
We're pleased to advise that the accommodation portal has now reopened for new bookings.
However, please bear in mind that availability is limited.
Therefore we strongly advise exploring other accommodation options as well.
To help you stay prepared, here are some resources and recommendations to help you with your search.
Check out our housing advice pages for more information and things to think about when finding private accommodation.
You can also read the University of London Housing Advice .
Remember, if you need any support or advice, you can call the King’s Student Advice Line and select the housing option to speak to one of our advisers.
When searching for accommodation, we would advise sticking to the University of London property database or letting agents who are registered with a professional body.
You may also want to read our guide to accommodation scams if you are looking for accommodation, so that you can take reasonable steps to check the letting is genuine.
There are plenty of options for housing in London.
These articles will give you lots of information on what's available to you and how to prepare:
Our partner, Urbanest, are offering an exclusive £500 voucher at check-in!
Use the promo code "LUCKYDAY" for a discount when making a booking.
Exclusive preferential rates available for KCL students at iQ.
Unite are offering a £400 cashback offer at a range of their sites and room types.
AXO are offering KCL students £200 off their rent with the code KCL25 when making a booking.
At King's Residences, you have the opportunity to live and learn in a safe and collaborative environment in one of the most exciting and eclectic cities in the world.
The accommodation guarantee applies to the following groups where KCL is the firm choice (whether conditional or unconditional) for a full-time course for the 2025/26 academic year.
The UG guarantee applies as long as you hold an Active Registration and complete the required steps of the booking process as laid out here before the deadline of midnight 5 June 2025.
Any Reactivated registrations are excluded from the guarantee.
If you need to cancel your accommodation, the deadline to do so without charges was 23:59 on 30 May 2025 (UK time zone).
Please refer to the cancellation policy for further details.
This guarantee is for individual applicants and cannot be transferred to another student.
Additionally, the accommodation guarantee does not apply to room preferences (location, room type).
*Not including Study Abroad one term only, January starters, or returning students.
kingsresidences@kcl.ac.uk
0207 848 5959
Live within walking distance of world-class shopping, bars and restaurants.
In this modern residence, you'll be able to study, relax and lead a vibrant social life.
A new residence overlooking the Thames and the iconic Battersea Power Station.
Among the picturesque docks, Canada Water features a gym, games area, cinema room and more.
Great Dover Street Apartments is just a short walk from some of London's most visited attractions.
Located in Zone 1, moments from Aldgate and Aldgate East Underground stations.
Julian Markham House is in a thriving area sometimes referred to as 'the Piccadilly of the south'.
Located in thriving Southwark, within walking distance of the Tate Modern and the Thames.
Directly on Guy's Campus, OLIB features multiple common rooms and a large courtyard.
A recently refurbished residence conveniently located on Waterloo Campus.
Located on Guy's Campus, experience affordable living beside The Shard.
At iQ Vega, you'll live in the heart of a riverside community, with easy transport links to campus.
If you will be under 18 at the start of your contract, we will require your parent / guardian / responsible adult to sign your Licence Agreement (contract for your room) once it’s generated.
The properties available for students under the age of 18 at the point of move-in are Great Dover Street Apartments and Stamford Street Apartments.
These Residences are owned and managed directly by King’s College London.
Places in halls are offered on the understanding that students are self-sufficient and capable of living independently, away from home and looking after themselves in all practical matters.
Learn all about moving into the halls of residence.
Discover the ResiLife programme in King's Residences.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/accommodation/postgraduate:
Access the accommodation portal to register, choose your room, or manage your booking
How to apply for a disability provision in residences
Discover the best of King's postgraduate accommodation, made better
The postgraduate accommodation guarantee deadline has been extended to 16 July 2025.
The accommodation guarantee applies to the following groups where KCL is the firm choice (whether conditional or unconditional) for a full-time course for the 2025/26 academic year and if all required deposits for the course have been paid.
The postgraduate guarantee applies as long as you hold an Active Registration and complete the required steps of the booking process as laid out here before the deadline of midnight 16 July 2025.
If you need to cancel your accommodation, the deadline to do so without charges is 23:59 on 30 May 2025 (UK time zone).
Find out more about living in King's Residences and how to book as a Courtauld student on our webpage .
GradPlus members receive exclusive access to these benefits:
*peak membership to King's Sport Strand & Waterloo gyms
A GradPlus residence.
Make your home in an award-winning property.
A GradPlus residence in one of London's most exciting riverside quarters.
Find out how to book your room in just a few minutes
Find out how to pay your accommodation fees.
Find answers to your questions on Student Services Online.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us:
In addition to a well-managed accommodation, King’s Residences provide students with a variety of events, workshops, and activities.
Our ResiLife programme is a great opportunity to make friends and our dedicated Residence Team will provide advice and support, and help you settle in.
You will have a supportive and inclusive living environment to help you socialise and form friendships with people from across the globe.
The Residence Team are here to ensure that you have the best time possible whilst staying with us and help you to have a smooth transition into university.
Great Dover Street: Ongoing refurbishment programme, students may be required to move room at some point during the 25/26 academic year.
Moonraker Point: Essential maintenance work, which will require erecting scaffolding outside the building.
Angel Lane: Essential maintenance work to the external and some internal areas, which may require erecting scaffolding outside the building.
Wolfson House/City: Possible noise disruption.
Though there will be some noise disruption, we will do our very best to keep the impact on our residents to a minimum.
Angel Lane
City-Vine Street
Moonraker Point
Stamford Street Apartments
Wolfson House
Everyone is responsible for keeping the kitchen clean.
Tidy up after yourself and share chores equally.
Check with others if you want to borrow something or if your plans will impact them.
To avoid blockages or floods, only flush toilet tissue and ensure to clean shower drains often.
Make time to rest, know your limits and be safe when out and about.
This is a shared home so make sure you help to keep it safe and clean for everyone.
Be polite, open minded and work with your flat mates to find a solution.
Open your window for fresh air to help prevent damp and mould.
This is everyone’s home so think about how your (and your guests') actions will affect others.
If you’re worried about someone or something, reach out to your Welfare Leads or Reception for support.
King’s Sport & Wellness are proud to present the Resi Sport & Wellness programme, which aims to proactively support students through opportunities to stay active, learn about ways to wellbeing and build friendships.
The programme delivers weekly sessions within residence common areas, such as yoga and exercise classes, as well as various volunteering opportunities and termly day trips or sport days.
King's Residents get free access to the BeActive programme!
BeActive is the social sport and physical activity programme available to all students at King’s, regardless of experience or how sporty you think you are.
Brought to you by King’s Sport & Wellness, the programme allows all students to enjoy weekly social sport and fitness during term-time.
Activities include Badminton, Basketball, 5-a-side Football, Volleyball, Yoga, and much more!
Some residences have gyms on site, so make sure to explore the Residences webpage to discover all your facilities.
You may want to check out the King's Sport & Wellness campus gyms.
They offer exclusive memberships to residents, depending on location.
To find out what kind of membership you're eligible for, and how to activate it, please visit their Halls page.
Your contents.
Covered.
By partnering with Howden (formerly Endsleigh), the No.1 student insurance provider, we've arranged contents insurance for all our residents at no cost to you.
It is important that you confirm your cover as soon as possible to ensure you understand what is and isn’t covered.
You can do this by downloading the Howden for Students app and registering.
All of our residences comply with the Student Accommodation Code, which protects your rights to a safe, good quality place to live, and our third-party accommodation is operated in accordance with the ANUK National Code of Standards for Student Accommodation.
We commit to providing:
•	A healthy, safe environment
•	Timely repairs and maintenance
•	A clean, pleasant living environment
•	A formal, contractual relationship with your landlord
•	Access to health and wellbeing services
•	A living environment free from anti-social behaviour
Living in halls offers a unique opportunity to experience community life, but safety remains our top priority.
We commit to:
•	Maintaining safe buildings.
•	Placing residents first in all safety-related decisions.
•	Providing opportunities for feedback to improve our systems.
Discover the GradPlus programme, a residential experience exclusively for postgraduates.
King's Residences provide an in-house welfare team at every residence.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/accommodation/undergraduate/how-to-apply:
Our central London residences are close to campus, come with an accommodation guarantee, and couldn't be simpler to book.
All you need to do is follow four easy steps to book your accommodation with us.
See below for details on each step.
Before you make a booking though, explore our residences page to fully understand the location, room fees, and facilities available at each residence.
Find out more about the King's Affordable Accommodation Scheme
This place has been my home away from home.
1.5 months into university I feel very settled and look forward to going back to my accommodation.
It has become a safe space for me.
My room and view is great and homely, everything functions and has everything I need plus fun events.
These documents outline the way in which we provide accommodation for current and prospective students at King’s College London.
The first step is to register your interest in accommodation.
You must hold a Firm offer of study in order to be eligible.
At this point, you will be able to apply for the King’s Affordable Accommodation Scheme, mention any Accommodation Disability Provision requirements, or declare a recent care leaver status, if you wish to do so.
To register your details you will need to enter your King's College London student ID number as your username and select 'reset password'.
This will send a new temporary password to the email address we have on record.
If you do not know your ID number, please refer to the offer letter that you have received via email.
Registrations will be active for four weeks from the date of submission.
During this period, you should make sure to secure your accommodation.
Any registration without bookings will be automatically cancelled after four weeks.
Within two weeks of registration you’ll receive an invitation email.
The email will contain a date and time from which you can access the accommodation portal to book your room.
Remember to make your booking as soon as possible while your registration is still active.
Registrations without a booking after four weeks will be cancelled.
If you have applied for the King's Affordable Accommodation Scheme (KAAS) or an Accommodation Disability Provision (ADP), your invite may take a little longer while the team reviews your submission.
For KAAS, you will find out the outcome of your application in your invitation email, and for ADP, you may be contacted to discuss your needs.
For applications from those who will be under 18 at the time of arrival, you'll find further details on booking your accommodation at the bottom of the page.
Once you can access the portal, you’ll be able to select from a number of criteria, such as budget or room type, and view availability across the residences.
You can then pick up the exact room you like.
It’s totally up to you.
You will also able able to view the age and gender of the other residents in your selected flat to help you make your choice.
Make sure to read your licence agreement (contract) carefully before signing, as it is legally binding.
Once you have accepted it, you will receive a confirmation email with a PDF attachment of your Licence Agreement.
Please ensure that you check your spam/junk folder if you do not receive this email.
You can make changes to your booking later if you like, but this can only be done once and will be subject to availability.
You will now be asked to make a rent pre-payment of £450 in order to secure your room, but this pre-payment will be offset against the first instalment of rent due in October 2025.
If you have been approved for the King's Affordable Accommodation Scheme (KAAS), you will not be asked to make this pre-payment.
And you’re done!
Welcome to King’s Residences!
There are some differences when booking accommodation as a Study Abroad student.
If you are a new Study Abroad student inbound for September or January , your booking experience will follow a similar process to that of the postgraduates : that is, you will register and receive instant access to the accommodation portal once it has opened.
You do not have to pay the £450 pre-payment of rent.
However, rooms are limited and availability is not guaranteed.
If you are an outbound Study Abroad student , arriving in residences in September and leaving in January, your contract will be adjusted provided we have received the evidence of your study abroad programme by November.
For this contract adjustment to be accepted, you must agree to vacate on or before your contract end date for Term 1, without extensions.
You will be required to pay the £450 pre-payment to secure your booking.
We also accept bookings from students whose 18th birthday falls after the start of their contract.
That means you will be under 18 at the point of moving in.
We are unable, however, to accommodate students under 16-years-old.
The properties available for students under the age of 18 are Great Dover Street Apartments and Stamford Street Apartments .
Upon application, you will be asked your preference and we will manually allocate you into one of these residences.
Please note, though, that while you will receive an offer for one of these residences, your room number will not be communicated with you until arrival.
As you will not yet have reached 18 years of age when your Licence Agreement (contract for your room) will be generated, we will require details of your parent / guardian / responsible adult as a co-signatory.
Places in Halls are offered on the understanding that students are self-sufficient and capable of living independently, away from home and looking after themselves in all practical matters.
Under 18s Policy
Access the King's College London accommodation portal

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/accommodation/undergraduate/kaas:
King’s Affordable Accommodation Scheme (KAAS) enables undergraduate students to access accommodation priced at below market levels when applicants meet the eligibility criteria outlined on this page.
Successful applicants will be sent an email advising them on how to proceed.
KAAS will be awarded on a first come first served basis until all available spaces have been allocated.
Students approved for KAAS will not be asked to make the £450 advance payment of rent in order to secure their room.
If you're a returning student, you will be required to make a new KAAS application for each year of accommodation, although the outcome is not guaranteed to remain the same.
King’s Residences and KCLSU work together in a unique setting to discuss how rents will be set for the following academic year, taking into account utility costs (heating, water, electricity, WI-FI), the service costs (24/7 reception, security and pastoral care staff), the features of the property, the location of each site and transport costs to campus, where applicable.
For further information on student loans, please visit our fees and funding pages .
Incomplete applications will not be considered and therefore automatically withdrawn.
Check with your regional student finance agency for information about their application process, funding amounts, and deadlines:
An outcome on your application will be provided within 14 working days of us receiving your Letter of Entitlement.
Applications can be made via the form at the end of the accommodation registration.
A limited quota of KAAS rooms is available in the following properties:
The following properties are not included in the KAAS scheme:
Please note, you may be required to provide documentation to support your application for KAAS.
If you are approved for KAAS, you will be given one week from approval to secure accommodation with this rate.
Should you fail to book a KAAS room within a week of receiving your approval email, the KAAS offer will be withdrawn and you will be asked to book a room at the published rate.
In the event of us receiving more applications than our current availability, the following order of priority will be applied.
Priority 1: care experienced applicants or students estranged from family verified by King’s Widening Participation.
Priority 2: applicants below the household income threshold, in receipt of King’s bursary and based outside London.
Priority 3: applicants below the household income threshold, in receipt of King’s bursary and based in London.
Please note that you may not be approved for KAAS if all places have been offered to applicants in a higher priority group.
This is due to limited availability of KAAS rooms in the portfolio.
If more rooms become available, we may contact applicants not yet offered a KAAS room to inform them of the change in availability.
If your application had been declined and you wish to have it reconsidered, in order to provide additional information or supporting evidence, please email to kingsresidences@kcl.ac.uk .
However, there is no guarantee you'll be approved, particularly if all KAAS rooms have already been allocated.
If you are unsure of what other financial assistance is available to you, King’s Student Funding can help you access a wider range of initiatives.
If you have any questions or queries about this, please get in touch with the Bookings Team.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/accommodation/undergraduate/courtauld-students:
How to apply for any additional accommodation requirements
Explore The Courtauld's accommodation webpages
King's has set aside a contingency of rooms for the Courtauld students at Angel Lane and Canada Water.
All enquiries on how to secure a room in one of the listed properties, please visit the Courtauld Accommodation pages https://courtauld.ac.uk/study/accommodation/ .
For further assistance, please contact duchy.helpdesk@courtauld.ac.uk
2025/26 Academic year Term Dates:
Angel Lane is located in Stratford, between Westfield and the Olympic Park, so there's always something to see and do.
Only 25 minutes from central London, direct and easy transport links will take you straight to campus.
With its large courtyard, mezzanine terrace and vibrant atmosphere, students have the opportunity to socialise and build lasting friendships.
Within walking distance of a multitude of bars, restaurants and cafes, Angel Lane is the perfect residence for students looking to balance living and learning.
Opened in 2022, Canada Water residence features a 24/7 on-site gym, games area, cinema room, communal lounge and study spaces, as well a courtyard and picturesque docks nearby.
With Canada Water Underground station on your doorstep, this brand new accommodation is convenient for all campuses and has easy access to everything London has to offer.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/accommodation/undergraduate/social-activities:
The ResiLife Programme is set up to help build communities.
Residents can engage and interact with one another to build friendships and share interests.
The ResiLife Programme provides an environment to enhance the student experience and increase students physical and mental wellbeing.
This academic year, the ResiLife Programme will be a hybrid programme consisting of both face to face and online events.
Events such as Tea Talk, Podcasts, Guided Meditations, Creativity Nights, and entertainment evenings are available weekly at King's residences and via our online channels.
Check out our online platforms to stay up-to-date with our weekly events: Twitter , Facebook , Instagram and the ResiLife blog.
Our ResiLife Community Facilitators are so friendly!
Every time I attend an event they make me feel welcomed and heard.
They're really good conversation starters [...] I like how varied the events are.
I’ve made lots of friends through the ResiLife events and Community Facilitators
We are looking for residents who are keen to get involved in building a community through engaging their fellow residents with social events.
Do you have creative ideas?
Have a good understanding of what is important to your peers?
Apply for the Community Facilitator role to ensure a fun and engaging academic year full of fun events.
Apply Here - New Residents
Apply Here - Returning Residents
For more information on all the job opportunities in Residences, please visit the Jobs webpage.
We are looking for residents who are postgraduates, or in the final year of undergraduate studies, to manage a team of Community Facilitators and deliver engaging events to residents at King’s Residences.
Each of our four Senior Community Facilitators will oversee the four pillars of our ResiLife programme: GradPlus, Under 18 engagement, Sustainability/ Volunteering and ResiWide events.
Providing a space for the residents to express themselves in a creative way, and engage with international events to bring imaginative ideas.
What can’t a good cup of tea solve?
Supplying different types of teas and coffee for residents to come and have open conversations.
Centered around games and movies, residents can bring their own games, big or small, to the party.
Looking to explore to local area or just become familiar with your campus?
Through these series you can visit different sites.
Whether you’re competitive or not, come and join in some fun games.
From board games to escape rooms.
Collaborating with the Residence Welfare Leads, these events will focus on mindfulness and wellbeing to enhance our residents overall welfare.
Meet others from across all of our residences at local coffee shops to talk about common interest and see hidden gems of London.
Experience different cultures of food, dance, and music from all of our different cultures that exist in our residence.
ResiLife events are organised by the Community Facilitators to provide additional events throughout the month to celebrate global events and provide other opportunities to create a diverse community.
Community Facilitators act as role models and peers and help to develop communities for students to live and learn in.
Being a CF is an exciting and life changing opportunity – you will make friends for life, build an incredible network, enjoy the status of the position as well as gaining experience and receiving training that is highly valued by employers.
Every student at King's is automatically a member of KCLSU.
Together with their members, they are a union of students where individuals connect, have fun, build communities, share experiences, and make change.
KCLSU is here to make sure every King's student has the best student experience possible.
Run by students, for students, KCLSU is independent of King's College London, and their decisions, policies and what they do are decided by the 30,000 student members.
If you have any feedback about King's ResiLife or you'd like to get in touch, email the contact below.
ResiLife@kcl.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/accommodation/postgraduate/how-to-apply:
As a postgraduate, you get instant access to the accommodation portal.
So, all you need to do is register and book your room.
It’s as simple as that.
The whole process can take less than five minutes.
Remember, you must hold a Firm offer of study in order to be eligible.
To register and access the portal, you will need to enter your King's College London student ID number as your username and select 'reset password'.
If you do not know your ID number, please refer to the offer letter that you have received via email, or any correspondence from King’s.
How to apply for the disability provision in residences
View residences and room types
The prime location of this accommodation is a snatch as this is just a 5 min walk from 2 tube stations, which is why the connectivity is extraordinary.
Convenience stores being just around make it quite easy to get household stuff whenever I want.
I have really enjoyed my experience here so far and Wolfson especially feels like a very social and tight knit community.
I love the common room and events
All postgraduates are offered a 51-week contract, while students on a Study Abroad programme will be offered a 40-week contract in selected properties.
Pre-sessional bookings will open soon.
Please do not book a room before accepting your pre-sessional course offer.
Once you have accepted this offer, you will be able to access the portal and book both your pre-sessional and postgraduate accommodation.
If you have already booked your room and need accommodation for your pre-sessional course, then please contact us on kingsresidences@kcl.ac.uk to discuss your options.
All pre-sessional students will be able to register their interest.
Please see the table below for details on the course types and accommodation options.
On campus start date
End date
Accommodation
16 Week Combined
Mon 7 July
Fri 15 August
Subject to availability
11 Week F2F
Mon 3 June
6 Week F2F
You can find further information about pre-sessional courses on our webpage.
The best of King's postgraduate living, made better.
GradPlus, is a unique new programme designed specifically for postgraduates.
Based around themes of wellbeing, personal development, and career progression, you can expect special offers, alumni talks, networking sessions, and careers workshops, as well as trips across London and socials with your peers.
We’re currently offering the GradPlus package at Vauxhall and City residences.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/accommodation/postgraduate/social-activities-gradplus:
We know that our postgraduate students have their own unique needs and aspirations when it comes to accommodation.
So that’s why we created GradPlus, a brand new programme designed specifically for postgraduates.
Based around themes of wellbeing, personal development, and career progression, you can expect alumni talks, networking sessions, and careers workshops, as well as trips across London and socials with your peers.
You can find out more about these properties and the programme below.
•	Free peak membership to King’s Sport & Wellness Strand and Waterloo gyms
•	Free access to Wellness and BeActive sport activities
•	Exclusive offers in all KCL cafes and restaurants
•	Free on-site events
•	Postgraduate-only residences
This newly built property is a high-spec residence in the historic City of London.
Experience life in the capital like never before by making your home in an executive grade residence, where the famous Roman London Wall itself is incorporated into the architecture.
Located just a 4-minute walk from Tower Hill tube station and only 20 minutes from campus, this property is the perfect place to kickstart your career and take your London life to the next level.
Vauxhall is in the heart of one of central London's newest and most exciting riverside quarters.
Offering incredible views of London, this state-of-the-art property is within walking distance of the Houses of Parliament, Sloane Square, Tate Britain and the green spaces and cultural hotspots of the surrounding area.
With just a 4-min direct train ride to Waterloo campus, Vauxhall is one of our most convenient residences for both Strand and Waterloo campuses.
Located in Zone 1, the train, bus, and tube stations are all on your doorstep, so travel to all campuses, as well as across London, is quick and easy.
Make your mark in residences and get involved.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/accommodation/residences/intercollegiate-halls:
Living at Intercollegiate halls provides King's students with the opportunity to interact with students from all colleges across the University of London.
King’s Residences hold a number of rooms for new undergraduates and applications can easily be made through our accommodation portal .
Please note that if you select a place at these residences, you will be required to pay a deposit upon securing your room and your contract will be held directly with the University of London.
40 weeks: 14/09/2025 - 20/06/2026
Find out more about the University of London's intercollegiate halls
Discover all that King's College London residences have to offer.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/accommodation/residences/guest-staff-accommodation:
Short term accommodation is available to King's staff and visiting academics by contacting us on kingsresidences@kcl.ac.uk .
All King's staff will receive a 20% discount.
Guest rooms are made up with fresh linen, towels and toiletries.
Please bear in mind that bookings can only be made up to four weeks in advance.
All bookings are subject to our Terms and Conditions.
For further details, please download the following.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us/moving-in:
Complete your compulsory online induction.
You will be emailed a link to this shortly before arrival day.
Book your move-in slot.
Once you've completed the induction, you will receive a link to book your arrival.
Join our online community and start talking to your future housemates.
Check out our Welcome Weeks Event calendar and book your activities.
Postgraduates will receive all pre-arrival information including how to complete the mandatory Health and Safety induction and book their arrival slot in early August.
Undergraduates will receive all pre-arrival information including how to complete the mandatory Health and Safety induction and book their arrival slot around late August.
We will contact you to let you know when you can complete these steps.
The earliest arrival slot we can offer is 15 September.
Remember, though, you'll need to add an Early Arrival Week to your booking, which will be chargeable, via the portal.
You will be able to do this from late July for postgraduates and late August for undergraduates.
Early Arrival will be available at all sites, with limited availability at Hayloft Point and Angel Lane.
Don't worry.
Your room will be secured as long as you pay the pre-payment and instalments of rent by the deadlines.
You can book an arrival slot for later.
The reception operates 24/7, so there will always be someone to check you in.
Please log onto the Accommodation Portal and select Change My Arrival Slot.
There’s no parking at our residences, on move-in days there’ll be a stop-and-drop system.
If you require parking, you can find the nearest car park on the NCP website.
Visit the NCP website for more information
We don't arrange pickups, but you may find such options from third parties.
As London is very well-connected via transportation links, you can easily access the residence via public transportations or cabs.
As there is no storage for packages, we recommend that you arrange deliveries on or after your move-in day.
Payment of each instalment is required by the start of each term, on or before the dates set out below: 1st Term – 25 October 2nd Term – 25 January 3rd Term – 5 May Summer Extension - 24 June Residence fees for a student whose license agreement commences after the standard term due date, is payable within 14 days of commencement of the agreement.
Subsequent instalments are then payable in accordance with the due dates as specified above.
Payment of each instalment is required by the start of each term, on or before the dates set out below:
Residence fees for a student whose license agreement commences after the standard term due date, is payable within 14 days of commencement of the agreement.
If you're having difficulty meeting fee payment deadlines, visit the student fee payment page for further information.
Students can arrive early, from 15 September 2025, by adding an Early Arrival Week to their booking when it's available in the portal (usually around late July for postgraduates and late August for undergraduates).
Remember, this will incur an additional charge.
For more information see the Moving In Guide
You'll need to provide your own bed linen and other bedding essentials.
Please note that bed sizes differ for each accommodation site so be sure to check your residence for specifics.
Likewise, you will need to bring in your toiletries, laundry detergent and iron.
We also advise that you bring your cooking utensils.
You can pre-order your bedding, towels and kitchen essentials from our partner Student Essentials , who offers a lot of extras such as mattress topper, iron, kettle, etc.
as well.
These will get delivered prior to your arrival.
You're welcome to bring small electrical appliances that are in good working order.
If you're bringing them from outside the UK, that means fitting your plugs with three-pin adaptors that comply with the British electrical system (230V, 50Hz) and British Standard BS 1363.
Extension leads are OK, as long as they're not overloaded, but block plug adaptors are not permitted.
Laptops, printers and small electrical appliances such as speakers, small lamps and alarm radios are all welcome, as long as they’re fitted with plugs or adaptors that are compatible with the UK electrical system.
Microwaves are standard in all kitchens – please don’t bring your own – but we don't supply kettles or toasters.
You also won’t need to bring any e-scooters, e-cigarette chargers, electric heaters (including any halogen equipment) or air conditioners because we don’t allow them.
Leave at home anything involving a naked flame, such as candles, hookah pipes, incense burners, fairy lights and barbecues.
We also advise that you do not bring any large items of furniture into the residences, and this includes wardrobes, and chest of drawers.
Unless you’re a disabled user, please don’t bring a car, moped, motorbike, electric scooter, quad bike, articulated lorry or any other motor vehicle.
There are much better ways to get to and from the university.
We strive to provide you with the best level of assistance and
care, and we have a team of staff to help you with any queries
you may have.
No matter how big or small of an issue, we are
always happy to help.
Remember to join the residences welcome events!
They start around 7:00 pm, usually in your residence common area with pizza and drinks, but keep an eye out for what’ll be happening where you are.
Either way, make sure to get involved on your first day, as you’ll have the opportunity to meet your flatmates, other residents, and maybe even some students from your course.
You’ll be surprised at how easily participating in these events will create friendships that can last for years, even for those who may be a bit shy at first.
Don’t forget to follow ResiLife on social media @kingsresilife as soon as you can so you can keep track of what’s happening in your residence, and say hello to your Residence Welfare Leads on your site as well.
Meet your Community Facilitators and Residence Welfare Leads.
Your Community Facilitators (CFs) and Residence Welfare Leads (RWLs) will be visible around your site and they’re always happy to chat.
They’ll introduce themselves as soon as they can and ensure you’re settling in.
It’s a good idea to spend some time personalising your room and creating your own space.
If you’re feeling a little homesick or lost, don’t worry.
We’re always here to support you.
Come along to our weekly events and programmes to engage and meet with the rest of the community.
Remember, you can always speak to one of the Residences Welfare Leads for some advice, general information, or just a chat.
By now you should be quite integrated into your community, you'll be getting to know KCL, and things will be becoming the new normal.
You can identify which CF and Residence Welfare Lead is on duty according to the duty posters visible at reception, and the CFs will continue to inform you of all the opportunities to get involved with ResiLife activities.
These activities will vary throughout the year so that they complement your academic life rather than compete with any other priorities.
To ensure fairness and cooperation in your shared spaces, your CF will pay you a visit in your first few weeks to introduce themselves and have a chat with you and your flatmates on kitchen etiquette and living with others.
By now you'll also be familiar with your on-site staff and residence manager, and they'll always be happy to help you with anything you need.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us/moving-out:
Moving out can be a stressful time.
The high of finishing exams is over and you're ready for the summer break to start.
However, there are a few key things that need to be done before you head off.
We've collaborated with donation services to ensure that anything you don't need is disposed of in a sustainable way.
The companies we use provide services that divert redundant furniture, fittings and equipment away from landfill and put them back to good use.
Please remember that the payment you made upon booking your room, if applicable, was a pre-payment of rent that was deducted from the first instalment of accommodation fees in October.
This was not a refundable security deposit.
We work with a number of suppliers who provide packing boxes and materials.
Please visit the following sites for more information: Argos , Staples , Packaging2Buy , PackingBoxes .
Unfortunately due to space restrictions in our residences, we are not able to store any items for residents, but you can find plenty of companies in London that provide this service.
Here are a few examples: LOVESPACE , Big Yellow Self Storage , Shurgard , Henfield Self Storage .
If you contact any of these companies, please ensure they fully meet your needs before making a booking with them.
Once all details have been agreed with your chosen removal service, please remember to notify you residence.
Whilst you were living in residences your personal contents were covered by Endsleigh, the No.1 student insurance provider.
Now that you are moving out of residences your cover will end with your contract.
Endsleigh is offering all former residents with a great deal on personal contents insurance starting from as little as £1.93 per month.
Please also ensure you report any repairs required prior to checking out.
If you room has been found to have been damaged, you will be charged based on the identified rates.
All residents are required to check out by 10:00am on the day of their contract end date.
Residents at our Great Dover Street, Stamford Street and Wolfson House residences are able to collect their express check out envelope from reception.
All residents are required to check out with reception to avoid any excess removal fees beyond your contract date.
For further details on charges, please download the following.
Drop off stations will be set up in your residence to collect any items you would like to donate.
Please check with your reception team regarding where these stations will be set up.
Items that can be donated shoes (tied together), clean bed linen, working electrical items, clean & undamaged kitchen items, non-perishable and unopened food, books, CDs and stationery.
Whilst you were living in residences you had access to King's Sport & Wellness BeActive halls programme.
This was included in your rent and enabled you to access a number of classes and sports free of charge.
If you are not returning to residences, you will no longer have access to the halls programme.
If you wish to continue your BeActive membership, you can find out more from the link below.
Request to swap, extend or move out early

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us/contract-change:
We hope you're enjoying your time in Residences so far but we know that circumstances can change.
As you know, you're bound by the contract you signed, but if you would like to swap your room or request an early termination of contract here's a guide on what to do.
Make sure you familiarise yourself with your Terms and Conditions of Accommodation (or licence agreement) before you decide on what to do.
We recognise that student life does not always go to plan, and an individual’s personal circumstances can change significantly during their stay, affecting their ability to adhere to their King’s Residences Licence Agreement.
Early terminations are usually only granted to students withdrawing from College or interrupting their studies.
If you are not sure if you should leave your course or just take a break please visit this Student Services webpage .
If you are withdrawing, make sure to complete a Notification of Withdrawal from College form and notify us on kingsresidences@kcl.ac.uk .
Information about withdrawing from College can be found on this Student Services webpage .
All requests will be reviewed in accordance with our Early Termination policy and after receipt of the relevant form and supporting evidence.
Early Termination Requests will not be considered without supportive evidence.
Early Termination Request Process
Early Termination Request form
If you wish to swap your room with another King's student staying in King's Residences, you both with must send the following information in an email entitled ' Room Swap ' to kingsresidences@kcl.ac.uk :
If we are able to grant your request, a new accommodation agreement will be issued and you and your “swap partner” will have 24hrs to accept it online.
Keys and access cards must not be swapped until both Licence Agreements have been signed online by the “swap partners” and a swap date has been agreed with the team.
It is the responsibility of each swap partner to ensure that they receive the correct credit notes/invoices in respect of any financial adjustment to their student account resulting from the room swap.
Please note that a cleaning administrative charge of £50 will be applied to both parties.
Please allow 2 weeks for us to process your room swap request.
Students who wish to terminate their Licence Agreement and move out of residences have to find a replacement occupier who has been approved by the team (at our absolute discretion) and who is not already in one of King’s Residences to take up the remainder of your licence agreement.
If you wish to transfer your room contract with another King’s student, you both must send the following information to kingsresidences@kcl.ac.uk :
If we are able to grant your request, a new accommodation agreement will be issued and you and your “transfer partner” who will have 24hrs to accept it online.
Keys and access cards must not be swapped until both Licence Agreements have been signed online by the “transfer partners” and a transfer date has been agreed with the team.
It is the responsibility of contract holder to ensure that they receive the correct credit notes/invoices in respect of any financial adjustment to their student account resulting from the room transfer.
Please allow 2 weeks for us to process your room transfer request.
If you're a current resident looking to extend over the summer, extension requests will be available from March.
We'll email you to let you know when these requests can be made.
You must be up to date with your accommodation fees in order to book an extension.
If your request is granted, you'll be contacted to accept a new accommodation licence agreement, which you must accept within the given timeframe.
You will not be required to pay a new pre-payment for summer extensions.
Please bear in mind that you may be required to move rooms or even halls depending on availability.
From October we start taking requests for swaps.
Once all the forms have been completed and sent to kingsresidences@kcl.ac.uk and the room swap has been authorised by the allocations team, we will confirm your swap date.
No, vacant rooms are reserved for students who don't yet live in residences.
Yes, as long as your "swap partner" is also a recipient of KAAS.
There are many ways for you to find students who wish to swap their rooms.
Our Residences Facebook groups are one way to connect with other residents, but the KCL Flatmate Finder Hub , managed by the Advice Services, also connects King’s students looking for halls contracts to take over.
You may wish to try The Student Room too, which has a large following from KCL.
Unfortunately we cannot offer room swaps for these residences as your agreement is with a different provider.
If both of you live in a hall with the same provider, the local reception staff will be able to tell you if and how you can swap.
No, you'd need to arrange a room transfer instead.
No, as rooms are allocated based on student classification (Foundation/UG/PG).
No, you will need to find a "swap partner" on the same contract length.
No, as you are terminating your study you are not required to find a replacement for your room.
Please ensure you've completed a Notification of Withdrawal from College as mentioned above and notify us on kingsresidences@kcl.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us/welfare:
King's Residences provide an in-house team of Welfare Leads at every residence.
The Welfare Leads are specially trained staff or postgraduate students that live alongside you in your residence and are on hand to support you during your stay in halls.
Your Welfare Leads can be contacted directly via phone, email or at regular drop-in sessions, or you can ask your reception team for guidance in how to reach them.
You can choose how to contact them depending on what makes you most comfortable – whether that’s a cup of tea in your kitchen or a meeting over Microsoft Teams.
Your Welfare Leads are there to create a safe space to listen to you, so you can share and process how you are doing in confidence.
It is normal to go through difficult periods and face challenges whilst at University, and they are here to provide wellbeing support if that happens to you.
They are also trained to support and assist you with accessing more specialised help if you need it, such as mental health services, academic support and more.
We are here for your welfare 24/7.
If you would like to speak to your building Residence Welfare Team, they are available from 8pm until 8am Monday to Friday and 24 hours on Saturdays, Sundays, and bank holidays.
Outside of these times, if you need support please speak to your reception team or e-mail welfare@kcl.ac.uk .
Residences Wellbeing Management team are available Monday-Friday between 9am – 5pm
welfare@kcl.ac.uk
King's is committed to creating an inclusive, respectful and safe environment for every member of our community.
As such, bullying and harassment have no place in our residences, or across the university, and we take reports of such behaviours very seriously.
Whether you have experienced or witnessed inappropriate behaviour, you can report it to King's using our Report Support service to discuss options for support and possible action, and access information about specialist services.
King’s offers an online support service called Spectrum.Life that you can use at any time.
The service is free and confidential, available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week from any device with an internet connection.
It's a great source of support outside normal office hours and means you can get support when our services are closed, including evenings, weekends and outside term.
If you or someone you know in the residence is in crisis or an emergency situation, please contact the Emergency Services on 999.
You can also go to your Reception desk to request support from the Reception and Security team.
In complex or very vulnerable situations, the Residence Welfare Leads may ask the Residences Wellbeing Management Team to become involved with their students to enhance and escalate the support they need.
The Residences Wellbeing Management Team work in the central Residences Management team and are available Monday-Friday between 9am – 5pm.
They have worked in Student Residences for a long time and are experienced in supporting students in crisis and helping them to get the help that they need to succeed at University.
We work hard in King’s Residences to create an inclusive environment where students feel safe and supported.
We expect all of our students to do the same and show respect and kindness towards your fellow flatmates, peers and staff at the College.
We operate a 0-tolerance policy to disrespectful behaviour of any kind, including bullying, harassment and any kind of discriminatory or offensive behaviour.
It is our community responsibility to take a stand to end bullying and harassment, and we encourage you to report any instances to your Reception team, Welfare Lead or directly to welfare@kcl.ac.uk.
We also have a bespoke Residences Disciplinary Policy where you can find out more about how residences are committed to providing a safe environment during your stay.
King’s College London have a dedicated online Student Services platform where you can access a range of different support resources.
The College offers specialised support in Disability Advice, Counselling and Mental Health Support, Health and Wellbeing, Fees, Funding and Money Advice and more.
All services are completely free to King’s students, so we encourage you to engage with these services as needed!

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us/jobs:
Roamer Residence Welfare Leads provide ad-hoc overnight welfare support to students living in King’s Residences, covering shifts for the core Residence Welfare Team as needed.
Residence Welfare Leads (RWLs) are trained team members who offer wellbeing support, help residents adjust to university life, and respond to welfare concerns between 8pm and 6am.
This is a paid, flexible role with shifts allocated on a first-come, first-served basis via King’s Talent Bank.
Roamers will also be added to an RWL reserve list for mid-year vacancies within the team.
Please see the role description below:
To be eligible to apply for a Roamer RWL position, you must:
We are looking for residents who are keen to get involved in building a community by engaging their fellow residents through social events.
The right candidate will be enthusiastic, motivated, and collaborative with a can-do attitude and tons of initiative.
Here at ResiLife we’re constantly searching for new ways to connect and engage.
Being a Community Facilitator is more than event planning, we rely on our CFs to connect us with those living in residencies, ensuring that each of our residents feel welcomed and included.
This role is flexible and part time, perfect for fitting around your studies.
Do you have a good understanding of what is important to your peers?
Do you enjoy meeting new friends and managing events?
If so, apply for the Community Facilitator role to help us build a programme of exciting events at your residency for the upcoming academic year!
Download the ResiLife Community Facilitator job description
Apply here - new residents
Apply here - returning residents
We are looking for residents in their final year of undergraduate or in a postgraduate program to manage a team of Community Facilitators delivering community engagement events to those living at King’s Residences.
Our ResiLife programme is set up to ensure all residents at King’s have the opportunity to socialise and make friends in a welcoming, inclusive setting.
We’re looking for competent managers who are keen to create a supportive environment for our Community Facilitators and residents.
The right candidate will have great verbal communication skills, will take initiative, be creative and reliable.
Please see the second page of the job specification for more information regarding these responsibilities.
Are you passionate about community engagement?
Do you enjoy leading a team?
Would you enjoy the freedom to implement tangible change in a pillar of our ResiLife programme?
If so, apply for the Senior Community Facilitator role to help us run our ResiLife programme in the upcoming academic year!
Download the ResiLife Senior Community Facilitator job description
Residence Welfare Leads (RWLs) are voluntary workers who are either actively studying postgraduate students on an MA/MSc or PhD course, students undertaking a second undergraduate degree (having completed an undergraduate degree already), or full time or part time staff at King’s College London.
RWLs are recruited for their dedication and enthusiasm for helping others.
They are specially trained to live in the halls and provide an out-of-hours on-call wellbeing support service to our resident students from 8pm to 6am on a rota basis, covering every day of the year.
Being a Residences Welfare Lead in King’s Residences is an excellent opportunity for those wanting to get more involved with activities that directly impact student experience, as well as developing skills that will enrich their lives and CVs!
This is a great opportunity for those looking to make a real difference to the students that would otherwise find life at university very hard.
Please see the role descriptions for all our available roles below:
King’s Residences provides our RWLs with designated accommodation rent and bills free .
This is because living in the accommodation is a condition of service that the team must have for the proper performance of their duties.
In addition, RWLs receive extensive, accredited training at the start of their appointment in areas such as Mental Health First Aid, Suicide Intervention, First Aid at Work, Sexual Violence Awareness and many more.
Being in the RWL team is like being a part of a large, supportive community - so this is a great chance to join a group of like-minded individuals who are all working together to make a positive difference to others.
To be eligible to apply for an RWL position, you must be either:
All applicants must hold the appropriate Right to Work documentation that covers your right to work legally in the UK from 1 August 2025.
If you are an international student planning to study in the UK from September 2025 onwards, your VISA may not allow you to work in the country until 1 month before your course start date (which is usually around 27 August).
This will omit the compulsory training period for role.
In these circumstances, you will need to ensure you have alternative Right to Work documentation.
Please note: 3 of our Residences – Julian Markham House, Moonraker Point and Canada Water operate on 40-week contracts only.
RWLs at these sites will be on a shortened agreement, ending 27 June 2026.
We're looking for King's students or King’s alumni to help with our September student arrivals.
The Welcome Ambassador plays a key role in the operation leading up to, and during, the September arrival weekend.
This is a great opportunity if you are interested in welcoming new students and helping them settle into their new home.
It is also a fantastic opportunity to make new friends while earning some extra cash!
Please note that you must be a current student or an alumnus who recently graduated to apply, and you must have an active King's College London email address.
Job title: Residence Welcome Ambassador / Senior Residence Welcome Ambassador
Salary: £13.09 per hour / £14.09
Hours: 8 hours per shift (please state any visa restrictions on your application)
Location : Flexible – must be able to work in different locations as required, including:
Great Dover Street Apartment, Stamford Street Apartment, Wolfson House, Angel Lane, Atlas, Canada Water, City – Vine Street, Hayloft Point, Julian Markham House, Moonraker Point, Orchard Lisle and Iris Brook and Vauxhall.
King’s Sport & Wellness are looking for student Activators to support the BeActive and Resi Sport & Wellness programmes.
Activators help lead weekly sessions, support various events and receive CPD opportunities to develop their CVs.
Location: Multi-site – across campuses, residences, and external facilities
Job Type: Temporary
Pay Rate: £13.92
Start Date: September 2024
Hours: 2+ hrs a week
King’s Sport & Wellness aims to connect communities and help people find their personal best.
We deliver a range of opportunities for students and staff to take care of their wellbeing through sports, physical activity and wellness.
BeActive is a social and recreational activity programme available to all students and staff at King’s College London.
Across our staff and student timetables, we offer over 30+ activities every week to ensure that there is something out there for you.
Resi Sport & Wellness offers all students living in King’s residences the opportunity to stay active and look after their wellbeing while connecting with others.
The programme delivers weekly sessions within residence common areas such as yoga and exercise classes, as well as volunteering, day trips and sport days.
Here is what you need to know about moving out of your residence.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/accommodation/living-with-us/accommodation-disability-provision:
We want to welcome you into your new home with confidence.
If you have a disability, health concerns or other requirements, we are here to help.
If you give us the right information when you apply for accommodation, we’ll be better equipped to find a room that suits you.
King’s Residences endeavour to make reasonable adjustments to support individuals who, due to disability, a long-term medical condition or sensory or physical impairment, require adapted accommodation or a particular location to help them participate fully and enjoy a fulfilling university experience, in line with the Equality Act 2010.
In order to ensure your needs can be met, it is essential that you disclose your requirements when you apply for King’s College accommodation using the portal system.
If you do not let us know until after you have applied, we cannot guarantee that a suitable room will be available.
Requests for adjustments submitted at very short notice, or after the accommodation guarantee deadline, will be equally considered but cannot be guaranteed, as suitable rooms may have already been booked by other students.
If the nature of your condition means special adaptations are not necessary, you will be able to book your room online using our online booking system.
If you do require an accessible room or room adjustments, you are required to complete the ADP form at the registration stage of the booking process.
Please ensure you can provide the required evidence before making your application.
Once your application has been submitted and evidence received by disability@kcl.ac.uk , the Allocations team will liaise with the Disability Support & Inclusion team to confirm any necessary adjustments.
Any applications submitted without supporting documentation provided to disability@kcl.ac.uk will be rejected.
Remember to please include your name and the fact that you have applied for ADP in your email to the Disability Support & Inclusion team in order to support the team in verifying your evidence promptly.
If the original evidence is not written in English, an authorised translation must be provided.
The original (untranslated) document must also be provided, and this must be signed by the author.
Please see your embassy for a list of authorised translation agencies.
** Information provided in your ADP application to King’s Residences is used for accommodation purposes and may be shared with the wider Residences team and the Disability Support and inclusion team.
If your disability is likely to impact your studies and you may require additional support or reasonable adjustments, including campus access and exam arrangements, please contact our Disability Support & Inclusion team for more advice.
King’s Disability Support & Inclusion team provides advise and support on reasonable adjustments in learning, teaching and assessment.
The Disability Support & Inclusion team can also provide advice on what accommodation arrangements it would be reasonable for you to request.
In addition, if you would like to visit the College and our accommodation, this can also be arranged with the  Disability Support & Inclusion team.
Upon arrival at residences we have an in-house Welfare support team that are experienced in pastoral care and are here to help you settle and provide comfort during your residence.
King’s also provides support via Student Services and your personal tutor.
In addition, KCLSU (King's College London Students' Union) can also help you navigate these support services whenever you need.
See their useful information for parents, guardians and friends and self-help resources.
Disability Support & Inclusion

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/students/summer-graduations-2025-everything-you-need-to-know:
27 May 2025
We're looking forward to our summer graduation ceremonies.
Your graduation day is an opportunity for you to celebrate the incredible accomplishments that you have all worked so hard to achieve.
Explore below all you need to know about your graduation, from what to do before the special day, to the venue and what to expect on the day.
Travel – Remember to account for the time you’ll need to get to your ceremony, collect your tickets, pick up your gown and have any photographs taken.
Give yourself plenty of time to ensure it runs smoothly.
Accommodation – When planning travel, if overnight accommodation is needed, please remember to book this in advance too.
Make sure any travel and accommodation you book is fully refundable, just in case your plans change.
Visa assistance – You can find more information on visas and graduation in our article Visa assistance for your graduation ceremony .
Special requirements – If you or your guests have any special requirements to ensure you can participate fully in your ceremony, please let the graduation team know.
This can be done up to 10 working days before your ceremony via the booking platform or by completing the Ceremonies & Events contact form .
Final confirmation email and guest tickets – You'll receive final details regarding your ceremony a few days in advance of the event.
If you have ordered guest tickets for ceremonies at the Royal Festival Hall, these will be sent by email prior to your ceremony (reminder to check your junk mail).
Please forward this email to your guests who will need this on the day to gain entry to the auditorium.
For ceremonies at Southwark Cathedral you will collect any guest tickets on the day.
Photo ID – Most importantly, remember to bring a form of photo ID with you.
This can be your King’s student card, passport or photo driving licence.
You will need ID to collect your graduate tickets and book in on the day of your graduation ceremony.
Proof of tickets – If you have booked any guest tickets for a ceremony at the Royal Festival Hall, you will need to show the email at the venue.
This email does not have to be printed and can be shown on a phone or tablet.
For ceremonies at Southwark Cathedral, you just need to show your ID to get your graduate ticket and any guest tickets.
A camera or phone – Be ready to capture the moment and memories with your friends and family (but remember to put phones into silent mode for the ceremony!)
You must bring photo ID on the day to collect your tickets and gown.
Collect your ticket first and then show your student ticket and booking confirmation to collect your gown.
The ticket desk closes 40 minutes before your ceremony, so make sure to collect all tickets in time to ensure your place in the ceremony.
In 2007, King’s was granted degree-awarding powers in its own right.
One of the impacts of securing its own degree-awarding powers was the need for King’s to design its own academic dress.
We are most grateful to Dame Vivienne Westwood for the major role she played in bringing the academic dress, which is based on a medieval design, up to date.
Through her reworking of the traditional robe, Vivienne Westwood hoped to “link the past, the present and the future”.
The King’s academic dress design was approved by the University and does not include a mortarboard.
The gown colours can be found in our article What is the academic dress for ceremonies, and how can I book it?
Official photography on the day of your ceremony will be provided by Tempest Graduation Photography between 8.30 and 17.00 ( 19.30 on Wednesday 31 July and Thursday 1 August only ).
We recommend that photographs are taken prior to your ceremony and there is no need to book a photography slot in advance.
The ceremony will be filmed by Galaxy Video and will be live-streamed on the day of the event.
You can purchase a DVD in advance or on the day.
Additional guest tickets – If additional guest tickets are available for your ceremony, they will be available on the ticket collection desk to be paid for on the day at £30 per ticket.
Please pay for any additional guest tickets you require at the Ticket Desk when collecting your graduate ticket.
Can my guests take photos and videos during the ceremony?
– Your guests are welcome to take photographs and videos during the graduation ceremony, but we ask that they please remain seated to avoid blocking the view of those around them.
Where should I meet my guests?
– We suggest having a prearranged area to meet your guests, such as in the reception areas.
There will also be meeting points by the information desks at each venue.
More information for each venue will follow with your invitation and final details email.
The alumni team will be there on the day to welcome you to your King’s global alumni community.
As a memento of the day, you can download a free personalised graduation video of you walking across the stage!
Share yours on social media – X (@KCLalumni) and Instagram (@kclalumni) using the hashtag #ForeverKings.
Make sure you visit the alumni stall at your ceremony where you can win prizes!
Come along to spin the prize wheel, take photos with our #ForeverKing’s backdrop, and discover our amazing alumni benefits – exclusively available to you as a new graduate.
Looking for a memento to mark the occasion, or a gift for someone special?
The Union Shop is here to help you celebrate graduation with their range of King’s merchandise.
Graduating at Southwark Cathedral?
Visit The Union Shop pop-up in Guy’s Café on either the 3 or 4 July.
Grab a coffee and browse the exclusive GKT collection, which includes keyrings, pins, magnets, tote bags and more.
Graduating at Royal Festival Hall?
Don’t miss the pop-up shop running all week in late July.
There, you’ll find limited-edition pieces from our Graduation range, including embroidered hoodies, t-shirts, totes and the one-of-a-kind graduation Reggie soft toy.
If you can’t make it on the day, you can also visit The Union Shop on the Strand to pick up your King’s merch.
They’re open all summer, Monday to Friday, 10.30–17.30 and are offering click and collect so you can pick up with ease.
See below for further information on Royal Festival Hall and Southwark Cathedral, from travelling on the day to nearby restaurants and information on accessibility.
Royal Festival Hall as a graduation ceremony venue
Southwark Cathedral as a graduation ceremony venue
Should you have any queries regarding graduating and your graduation, please visit Student Services Online.
Check out our article Key information about graduating and attending your ceremony for more information.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/students/kings-climbs-to-31st-in-world-university-rankings:
We're delighted to announced that King's has been named the 31st best university in the world and 5th best in the UK in the QS World University rankings 2026.
QS is a world-renowned prestigious ranking which uses ten indicators to compile the rankings, including sustainability, international research network, academic reputation, employer outcomes and citations per Faculty.
QS evaluates 8,467 institutions around the world, including 90 in the UK, and ranks 1,501 institutions.
King’s has also ranked 14 th globally on the Sustainability indicator and 19 th in the world on the International Research Network indicator.
In March 2025, King’s was named first in the world to study Nursing, and ranked among the world’s best in 41 other subjects including Geography, Dentistry, Life Sciences & Medicine and Arts & Humanities.
King’s rose from 44 th to 14 th globally in the QS World University Sustainability Rankings between 2024 and 2025.
The biggest score increases came in the areas of environmental sustainability and governance, and improvements in environmental sustainability also contributed to the position.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/students/making-the-most-of-summer-in-london:
Staying in London over the summer?
At this time of year, the city comes alive - you only have to walk along the Southbank when the sun’s out to experience it.
We’ve rounded up our top picks to help you make the most of this summer.
Frameless is an immersive art experience showcase some of the most famous art in the world, including works from Van Gogh, Monet and Morisot.
Accessibility: Chilled sessions, audio-described tours and British Sign Language (BSL) tours.
Contact Frameless for more information.
Student tickets start at £21.70.
While headliners at London festivals like BST, Wireless, All Points East and Lido draw crowds, there are more budget-friendly ways to enjoy live music this summer.
Check out work or volunteering opportunities at the bigger festivals by searching online.
As well as the experience gained, you might get to see some of the acts after your shift.
Alternatively, take advantage of the free live music scene across the city:
King’s Cross Summer Sounds sees Coal Drops Yard transformed for free concerts every evening from 7 – 17 August.
Accessibility: Coal Drops Yard has ramp access and accessible toilets.
Seating at King’s Cross Summer Sounds is limited.
The nearest tube station is King’s Cross St Pancras.
Parliament Hill Summer Bandstand concerts are free concerts with views of Hampstead Heath.
Taking place from June to August, check the website to see what’s on.
Accessibility : Hampstead Heath has accessible toilets and there are surfaced paths to the bandstand.
From Monday 1 June until Thursday 10 July 2025, visit Open House at Hyde Park .
Bring a picnic and catch a film at the outdoor cinema, watch Wimbledon on the big screen and enjoy live music performances throughout the week.
Accessibility: Nearest tube stations are Green Park, Bond Street, Marble Arch, Hyde Park Corner.
Find more travel information on BST Accessibility pages .
This year’s Pride in London parade is taking place on Saturday 5 July 2025.
The city-wide parade runs from Hyde Park Corner to Trafalgar Square.
As well as joining the crowds in soaking up the atmosphere along the march route, you can check out the performances across the stages in Trafalgar Square from 12.00.
Accessibility: Check the Pride in London accessibility guide .
Read what Pride means to Student Life Content Creator D.A .
If you’re looking to get out of the city don’t forget to use your Railcard for discounted travel.
Popular day-trip destinations from London include:
Just an hour away by train, check out Henry’s tips for fun and low-cost things to do in Brighton .
Find history, architecture and scenic river views just over an hour away from London.
For more inspiration, check Akshara's favourite places to visit .

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/kings-edge/events:
We host a series of events throughout the year in various areas in order for the student body to have a multifaceted experience.
These include work experience and employability initiatives, workshops focusing on creative and digital skills, entrepreneurship programs, language learning opportunities, leadership development activities, research and academic skill-building sessions, events centred around social impact and sustainability, and programs promoting sports and wellbeing.
We have a vast range of events all year round, ranging from (but not limited to!) volunteering opportunities in our community garden to career enhancing workshops to inspiring talks with our incredible alumni.
King's Edge Festivals are series of exclusive events, including workshops, insight sessions, panel discussions or networking opportunities.
They showcase the best of King’s extracurricular unique offer, designed to encourage students to experience student life beyond their degrees.
King's Edge Festivals help students stand out as future innovators, leaders and service minded.
By bringing a wide range of events and opportunities together, King's Edge Festivals enhance students' exploration of university's communities to inspire them in their future endeavours.
Couldn't make an event at the King's Edge Festival 2024?
Don't worry, you can watch most of the taster and information sessions here.
Our talks and workshops will help you develop essential skills such as - productive job hunting, networking, CV and Cover Letter writing, interview preparation and assessment techniques.
We host various workshops specific to different stages that you could be in your journey.
Past events: Entrepreneur Institute: ‘How to’: How to nail networking My Next Steps: What do I want from my career after university?
PhD and Research Staff - Winning at Job Interviews My Next Steps - Job Interviews, psychometric tests and assessment centres How Peer Mentoring Can Help You Get the Most Out of University
Entrepreneur Institute: ‘How to’: How to nail networking My Next Steps: What do I want from my career after university?
My Next Steps: What do I want from my career after university?
My Next Steps - Job Interviews, psychometric tests and assessment centres How Peer Mentoring Can Help You Get the Most Out of University
How Peer Mentoring Can Help You Get the Most Out of University
Come along to discover opportunities and build connections with people and organisations that drive positive change in our local, national, and international communities.
From one-off events to regular volunteering opportunities, there’s something for everyone.
Whether you are passionate about the environment, education or mental health, King’s Volunteering can connect you with an organisation and a cause that’s right for you.
Explore Volunteering Opportunities
King’s Careers & Employability team offers career appointments throughout the academic year for students needing support with their journey.
Regardless of the stage of their journey (discover, focus, action), our Careers Consultants will be on hand to support you, answer questions and signpost students to helpful resources and find relevant opportunities.
A majority of appointments are booked through King’s CareerConnect.
One-to-one appointments are very popular and get booked quickly, so we encourage students to sign up soon, so they do not miss a slot.
From stimulating academic lectures to panel events discussing unique extracurricular opportunities for King’s students to stand out, find an upcoming talk to attend.
Past events: How to Make the World a Better Place How to Become a King’s Undergraduate Fellow AKC Lectures: Minimal Ethics for a Planetary Crisis
How to Make the World a Better Place How to Become a King’s Undergraduate Fellow AKC Lectures: Minimal Ethics for a Planetary Crisis
How to Become a King’s Undergraduate Fellow AKC Lectures: Minimal Ethics for a Planetary Crisis
AKC Lectures: Minimal Ethics for a Planetary Crisis
Our networking events are designed to facilitate in-depth discussions with our students seeking greater knowledge of the roles, cultures, and opportunities available across different industries.
These events are a fantastic opportunity for students to focus their search, get to know different organisations and work cultures and action their career plans by enhancing their understanding of the recruitment and assessment processes.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/careers/supporting-you/workshops-panels:
Our careers workshops are tailored sessions that help you to explore your existing skills and build new ones that are beneficial to your career journey.
#MyNextSteps workshops help you tackle key topics for different stages of your career journey.
These workshops take place throughout the year, but are also available as recordings on the #MyNextSteps KEATS page .
Topics are themed by stages of your career journey and include:
Labour market insights workshops are delivered online throughout the year by our specialist employer relations and development advisers.
They provide an in-depth look at the graduate labour market within particular industries.
You can search for labour market insight workshops on the King's CareerConnect events calendar, or find them in our sector pathways.
As well as central careers workshops, our careers consultants run workshops in departments and faculties across King's.
These workshops are often supported by academics, student ambassadors and societies, and take place throughout the academic year.
You can find and book all workshops on the events section of King's CareerConnect .
Our dedicated Research Talent Careers Education team run workshops and events specifically to support researchers at King’s.
We work closely with the Centre for Doctoral Studies and the Centre for Research Staff Development to provide a variety of events that help you develop your career management skills, increase your career confidence and hear from experts in different sectors.
Each September, we run a series of Welcome to King's workshops which:
Drop-in careers lounges take place in departments and across our campuses.
They can help you:
King's Skills for the Future is a self-assessment tool and set of learning pathways on King's CareerConnect.
It is designed to help you evaluate, develop and expand your existing skill set.
It focuses on 36 high-value skills that are particularly important for your employability.
Explore and book upcoming careers events and workshops.
Access our #MyNextSteps recordings and session plans on KEATS.
Explore our dedicated Careers+ support for under-represented groups.
Update your preferences to receive relevant events and opportunities.
Review videos, podcasts and recordings of our events on KEATS.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/events/bak-community-breakfasts:
Please note: this event has passed
Every Friday from 8:30 – 10:00 during the academic term, King’s Food are running a free community breakfast on our Waterloo, Guy’s and Denmark Hill campuses.
Come along to meet students and staff from across the university and eat some free food.
Where?
Denmark Hill: IOPPN & WEC Refectory
Guy's: Henri's Restaurant
Waterloo: FWB Restaurant
Throughout the year we’ll be running a few collaborative sessions with faculties and services across the university.
See the poster for more information .

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/students/four-tried-and-tested-tips-for-finding-your-tribe-at-kings:
Whether you’re coming to King’s from nearby or from across an ocean, feeling anxious about joining university life is a universal experience.
There’s no perfect formula for fitting in and making friends at university, but there are lots of ways to ease the discomfort that comes with putting yourself out there.
My name is Neha and I’m an international student about to begin my third year studying Philosophy & Modern Languages at King’s.
More importantly, though, I’m a major introvert.
I’ll be sharing my tips on how you can overcome the hurdles of socialising in a new environment to find the right people for you, right here at King’s.
King’s has something for everyone.
Welcome to King’s, for example, is ripe with opportunities to meet new people in a number of different settings.
Whether you're interested in the thrill of late-night clubbing or the relaxation of afternoon brunches, I’m certain that Welcome to King's will have something enjoyable in store for you.
For example, if you're into fashion then you may enjoy hitting up the vintage clothing fair held on Strand Campus.
Or, if you’re keen to explore the city while meeting new people, the London riverboat cruise could be the perfect event for you.
Try to figure out which environments you thrive in so you can connect with like-minded people while avoiding feelings of discomfort or boredom.
It’s important to remember that making friends and connecting with people isn’t a one-size-fits-all experience.
Take time to explore a diverse range of social activities that appeal to you, so you don’t end up doing things you don’t really enjoy while trying to make friends.
Another great way to meet like-minded people is to join student societies centred on your passions, hobbies or interests.
During my first year, I unexpectedly met one of my closest friends through a student society focused on highlighting underrepresented perspectives in philosophy (feel free to check it out at @kcl_map !).
This also allowed me to meet more people from my degree programme who I shared many interests with, but not necessarily classes.
You can check out the 250+ student groups KCLSU has to offer.
I know, it’s scary—but as they say, you’ll never know if you never try!
Whether it be striking up a conversation with someone at a society event or asking a coursemate if they’d like to study together, there are lots of simple and effective ways to make the first move in making friends.
This doesn't just apply to in-person interactions.
In my opinion, reaching out to other students online is an underrated way of getting round some of the scariest parts of socialising, while still connecting with and learning more about others you have a lot in common with.
Another one of my closest friends is someone I randomly decided to reach out to on Instagram after discovering her profile on a page for prospective King’s students.
Remember that making friends is a trial-and-error process.
You’re likely to meet tons of new people during your first few months at King’s, but friendships are all about quality, not quantity.
So don’t feel bad if it seems hard at the beginning to maintain strong friendships.
Chances are, your tribe is just around the corner.
Packed with things to see and do, Welcome to King’s is full of chances to meet new people both on campus and online.
Download the Welcome to King’s app ​ to explore everything on offer and start finding your people.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/students/confusing-campus-signs-not-for-much-longer:
To make it easier to navigate your way around King’s campuses, we’re fixing old, confusing room and building signage, introducing an easier-to-understand system.
Here’s what you need to know about it:
Changes won’t happen all at once
There are over 550 doors to re-label across King’s campus buildings, so changes won’t happen overnight.
From August, new signage will start appearing across the King’s Building on Strand Campus, beginning with LG2, LG1 and Ground level; before moving to Levels 2, 4, 6 and 7.
From there, the team will start moving through the rest of Strand campus, with all buildings and rooms completed by 2027.
Three is the magic number (and name)
Once all signage has been updated, every King’s building will have three-letter abbreviation and a unique colour code.
These will be used in your timetables and on digital maps, making finding your classrooms a lot easier.
All rooms will have a numerical code too, and these will be consistent across buildings, with numbers ascending or descending in a logical order.
Signs will feature icons and a new accessible King’s font, with careful attention to text size, colour, and placement to ensure signs are easy to read.
Some room numbers are changing completely - double check where your classes are
Sign changes will see some rooms change name completely – a room you took classes in last academic year might now be called something entirely different.
It's always important to check your timetable regularly for room changes, but this year, it’s especially important.
Take some time to check where your room is on our campus map – don't rely on your knowledge of last year’s room name.
And leave plenty of time to get to your teaching room just in case.
Find out more about how to find your teaching room on campus on Student Services Online.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/students/keeping-each-other-safe:
The Office for Students has introduced new regulations on harassment and sexual misconduct for universities in England.
To ensure we meet the regulations, we’ve updated important resources and training to help us all do what we can to create an inclusive, safe and intellectually vibrant community.
This means protecting our students, staff and visitors from the following unacceptable behaviours, which undermine our values and what we stand for as a University.
We’ve taken five important steps to align our policies and practices with the new regulations:
We’ve developed new essential online training modules for students and staff to complete once a year.
These are to help you see the signs and prevent bullying and harassment.
The Keeping Each Other Safe (Student Course) is part of enrolment if you’re a new student and re-enrolment if you’re a returning student, but you can also refer to it at any time you’d find it helpful.
King's Community Charter was developed jointly by King's College London and King's College London Students Union (KCLSU).
Designed as a source of guidance for everyone at King’s, it sets out how we can all contribute positively to developing and maintaining a thriving community, where all can work, learn, and study in an inclusive and respectful environment.
Explore our Community Charter PDF document .
We recognise bullying, harassment and sexual misconduct can be personally challenging topics, and encourage you to seek support if you feel you need it.
Information and support are available on our Preventing and addressing bullying, harassment and sexual misconduct webpage.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/students/beat-that-boring-commute-tips-for-travelling-between-kings-campuses:
Commuting can be a time-consuming activity for any student.
So, why not take your journey to the next level and make it as enjoyable as possible?
A new route may be just what you need to add a bit of novelty to your day.
Whether you’re an undergraduate or a postgraduate, based at Strand, Guy’s or Denmark Hill, here are some suggestions for a smoother and more pleasant commute between King’s campuses :
One route is good for your health, free and quick: walking !
St Thomas’ campus is just 7 minutes away from Waterloo Campus which makes for a nice movement break.
You can walk along the river and enjoy the sight of the London Eye.
If you’re leaving from Strand campus, it’s same route but from the other side of the river.
If the bus is more your vibe, try taking the C10 bus from Waterloo or the 59 bus from the Strand (fixed fare at £1.75).
If you enjoy a bike ride , good news!
The 10-minute route between the Strand/Waterloo area and Guy’s is very simple and completely covered by cycle lanes if you stick to the north side of the river and then cross over London Bridge.
If you don’t own a bike, Santander Cycles is a great option which offers cheap hiring fees and day passes.
If cycling isn’t for you, the Tube is a good option too.
You can either take the District line from Temple to Monument, or the Jubilee line from Waterloo to London Bridge.
For a cheaper alternative, there’s always the 15 bus from the Strand to Monument, followed by a short walk across the Thames.
Both the 176 and the 68 buses take approximately 45 minutes to get you from the Strand/Waterloo area to Denmark Hill.
Bring along a book or listen to a podcast to make your journey more entertaining.
The C10 bus will take about 30 minutes getting you to Guy’s Campus, but if you’re really in a hurry and feeling adventurous, try cycling instead – you’ll be going through the center of the city so there might be lots to see on the way.
The 148 bus can take you from St.
Thomas’ to Denmark Hill in just over 35 minutes, and it takes approximately the same time for the 35 bus to take you from Guy’s to Denmark Hill.
That’s just enough time for you to watch an episode of your favourite sitcom on Netflix!
For a quicker and more scenic alternative, consider cycling as the approximate travel time is 20 minutes.
Walking and cycling are great options if they work for you - they’re great for the planet, and they can really help you enjoy an otherwise boring part of your routine.
As you take in some fresh air, you might discover hidden gems or potentially find yourself enjoying your Monday morning commute to campus.
If walking or cycling isn’t your thing, then taking the bus is another speedy and sustainable option too – it’s perfect for reading, listening to your favourite playlist or just enjoying the city’s sights.
Check out Transport for London’s website for more commuting inspiration.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/students/celebrating-the-class-of-2025:
A huge congratulations to all our new graduates!
Graduation is the culmination of years of hard work and we are incredibly proud of all of you.
This summer’s celebrations kicked off at Southwark Cathedral at the start of July where we celebrated the achievements of our Faculty of Dentistry, Oral & Craniofacial Sciences (FoDOCS) and our School of Medical Education.
Southwark Cathedral ceremonies
Ceremonies then continued for five days of celebrations at Royal Festival Hall.
Snaps from Royal Festival Hall
Whilst you may have finished your degree, there are still plenty of ways to stay in touch with the King’s community.
We’ve included some information below about life after King’s to get you started.
Our alumni community consists of over 220,000 people across 174 countries and have access to tailored benefits to support your continued success and connection to the university.
Stay in touch by joining our alumni mailing list to receive monthly alumni updates.
They can also check out our biannual alumni magazine, InTouch Online , and invitations to exclusive alumni events.
Please also encourage graduates to follow the alumni team on X , Facebook , Instagram , LinkedIn and WeChat .
King's Connect is your gateway to the King's community, wherever you are in the world.
Here, you can join our social and professional networks, stay in touch with your classmates and find a professional alumni mentor to support you in starting your post-King's career.
You can even use your King’s Connect profile to access our libraries.
We know it can be harder for our international alumni to stay in touch.
But wherever you go, you can always stay Forever King’s by joining one of the many international alumni groups creating community worldwide.
Find your nearest group .
Volunteering is also a great way of staying in touch with King’s and give back to the community you’ve loved.
You can sign up now to become an International Alumni Ambassador to share your experiences from King’s with prospective and incoming students and get involved with alumni engagement in your local area.
Find out more and sign up now .
With a KCLSU Associate Membership , you continue to be part of over 300 societies and have access to all KCLSU events, bars and restaurants.
Plus, Associate members in the UK can get a TOTUM membership to continue receiving student discounts for the next three years.
As you embark on your next chapter, remember that no matter where you are in your alumni journey, you will be Forever King’s.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/students/graduating-in-january-make-sure-your-details-are-up-to-date-on-student-records:
We’re looking forward to celebrating your hard work and accomplishments at the January graduation ceremonies.
Graduation invitations will soon be sent out to eligible students, so it’s important that you make sure your personal email address listed on your Student Record is up to date to ensure you don’t miss out on any important information regarding Graduation.
It’s also a good time to update your home address so we know where to send your certificate.
Please log in to your Student Record and check that the personal email address listed is one that you regularly use.
For guidance on how to update both your email and home address, please see our article How do I update my address and email address on my student record?
After your student IT account is closed, it’s difficult to update your details and you may miss out on important communications regarding graduation as well as other University news.
For more information about the closure of your student IT account, please see our article How long after I graduate will my student IT account be closed?
If you need any assistance with this process, please contact us .
Explore the Graduation category on Student Services Online for more resources and guidance tailored to support you as you finish your studies.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/students/in-memory-of-aalia-mahomed:
On the 18 March 2025, the King’s community was deeply shaken by the tragic accident on the Strand which resulted in the loss of life of one of our students, Aalia Mahomed.
Aalia was in the second year of study for her BSc in Physics & Philosophy, jointly taught by the Faculty of Natural, Mathematical & Engineering Sciences and Faculty of Arts & Humanities.
Aalia was a treasured member of the King’s community - as shown by the hundreds of students and staff who gathered at her vigil, and the many tributes, flowers and messages of remembrance placed along the Strand.
Aalia’s decision to study both Physics and Philosophy reflected her spirit of discovery and a willingness to push boundaries.
Aalia’s life, her memory and her place within the King’s community has been honoured at both the Philosophy and Physics graduation ceremonies.
Aalia’s family and friends were at the NMES graduation ceremony held on Thursday 31 July to receive her posthumous degree awarded in her memory.
Following the graduation ceremony Aalia’s family and friends gathered at the cherry blossom tree planted on the Strand to unveil a plaque in her memory.
The beautiful wording chosen by Aalia’s family reads:
The cherry blossom tree and plaque will stand as reminder to us all to ‘Be More Aalia’.
Grief takes many forms, and there's no right or wrong way to experience it.
Please reach out to one another and to our student and staff support services available to you.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/students/kings-improves-in-all-student-satisfaction-metrics-for-nss-and-ptes:
We’re pleased to share that King’s has improved across all areas in both the National Student Survey (NSS) for undergraduates and the Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey (PTES).
These surveys are run every year and are open to students in the final year of their course.
They are an important way to help us understand what matters most to you, what’s working and where we need to do better.
When you share your experience through surveys like these, you can help shape a better King’s for everyone.
This year, 75% of final-year undergraduates (4,480 students) completed the NSS, and almost 4,000 postgraduate taught students took part in PTES.
While our latest survey results show we’re making positive progress, they also show how important it is to continue our work to improve our students’ experience.
Image 1: Improvement across all themes: Positive responses per theme and year-on-year change.
Our average score across core NSS questions rose to 79.8%, a 4.3% increase from last year.
The results also highlighted some of the progress we’re making in areas students have previously told us we can do better.
For example, Student Voice is our biggest area of improvement showing more of you feel your feedback is listened to and acted upon.
Longer term, we’ve been working to improve our two lowest scoring areas of Organisation & Management and Assessment & Feedback, and our results this year show increased positivity for both.
Our most positive responses were in the areas of Teaching, Learning Resources and Academic Support.
For example, over 90% of you told us our teaching staff explain things clearly and that library resources support your learning effectively.
Image 2: Graph showing the most positive responses and their percentages, all above 85%.
Overall postgraduate satisfaction has increased to 86% and 3% higher than last year.
King’s has improved across all 11 survey categories, achieving our highest level of satisfaction in each one since 2017.
Our largest increase is in Assessment & Feedback, which has a 76% satisfaction score and 5% higher than 2024.
Satisfaction with our Teaching & Learning and Organisation & Management has improved.
Across the University, 93% of respondents agreed staff are enthusiastic about what they teach.
Image 3: Graph showing Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey 2025 results by category and percentage increase from last year.
Your feedback is invaluable in shaping a fulfilling university experience.
By participating in surveys, focus groups, student representative meetings, and KCLSU campaigns, your voice drives positive change.
Find out how your insights make a difference .
We want to thank everyone who has given feedback during their time at King’s so far and made their voices heard.
Whether it’s completing the NSS or PTES, your module evaluations or letting your student representatives know your experience, we hope you will continue to share, so we can continue to make improvements and make your time at King’s even better.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/students/unlock-your-future-at-kings-careers-in-china-fairs-this-summer:
Are you in China this summer?
King’s is hosting a series of Careers in China Fairs taking place in Beijing, Shanghai and Hong Kong during August to help you explore job opportunities in the country.
Booking is now open for the fairs which will enable current King's students, recent alumni, researchers and offer holders to meet over 80 top employers from across the three cities in mainland China & Hong Kong SAR.
There are a limited number of places now available for booking on King's CareerConnect:
Each event will welcome organisations from a range of industry sectors recruiting for internships or graduate roles in their offices across China, starting now or in summer 2026.
The employers in attendance will range from large multinational corporations and regional brands to government-backed organisations and small or medium-sized enterprises.
You can view the full list of employers attending each event on the relevant King’s CareerConnect page, alongside timings and venue information.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/students/how-languages-move-us-linguistic-diversity-at-kings:
09 July 2025
Why do some languages say go out , others say something similar to exit , and others present both options, like English?
What does it mean that in one language you can run into a room, while in another you must break that action down into two components – entering and running ?
And what can these subtle differences tell us about the way we see and move through the world?
These were just some of the questions explored at Crossing Boundaries: Celebrating Linguistic Diversity at King’s , an interactive workshop that brought together students from diverse backgrounds to reflect on how language shapes our experience of movement and space.
Organised by Andrea Farina and Dr Barbara McGillivray (King’s College London), with artistic direction by Gioele Morello (London Metropolitan University).
The event was funded by a Diversity & Inclusion Grant from the Faculty of Arts & Humanities.
London is one of the most linguistically diverse cities in the world, and this richness is reflected in the student body here at King’s.
While the 2011 Census was the first to ask residents to name their main language, the reality of the city’s linguistic diversity is better understood through the lived experiences of its communities, highlighted in media features such as the BBC’s exploration of London’s linguistic landscape .
Despite this extraordinary variety, many of the languages spoken across the city are now at risk of disappearing .
In response, Crossing Boundaries was conceived not just as a workshop, but as a celebration of the living linguistic diversity within the King’s community.
More than that, it served as an urgent reminder that language is far more than a tool for communication – it is a way of thinking, perceiving, and being, deeply embedded in culture, continually shaping identity and shaped by it in return.
The event focused on comparing verbs denoting different types of movements – like English go , move , come , run , sail , swim – across a spectrum of ancient and modern languages, from Latin to Italian, Chinese, Korean, and Albanian.
What emerged was a richer understanding of how languages carve up the world differently.
Even a basic action like running into a room can be packaged in totally different ways depending on the language you speak.
English, for example, tends to combine the manner of movement ( run ) with the path or direction ( into the room ) – a feature typical of so-called “satellite-framed” languages.
In contrast, “verb-framed” languages like Spanish or Korean often express the path of motion in the main verb ( enter ), while the manner ( running ) may be optional, added separately or omitted altogether.
So instead of “run into the room,” a speaker might simply say “entered the room”, unless the manner is particularly relevant.
This distinction highlights how some languages naturally spotlight the how of movement, while others focus more on the where , shaping not only how we describe action, but how we conceptualise it.
A highlight of the day was the collaborative creation of Paths of Motion , an interactive art installation centred on the image of a hot air balloon symbolising linguistic fluidity, travel, and shared perspective.
Participants contributed verbs of movements in different languages, such as Korean, Russian, Albanian, Mandarin Chinese, Greek, Italian, and Sanskrit.
These were visually woven into the artwork, reflecting the multitude of ways languages describe journeys, directions, and transitions.
Produced by the Department of Digital Humanities, the artwork was adapted into multiple formats, including a digital version created using Canva and an animated GIF.
In an academic environment where English often dominates, Crossing Boundaries offered a timely reminder of the value and beauty of linguistic diversity.
As one student reflected, while English is often seen as a global lingua franca , it is increasingly recognised as a language that evolves and adapts locally – forming rich, hybrid varieties like Singlish or Chinglish.
This growing awareness speaks to a broader concept of “super-diversity”, where language becomes a reflection of layered identities, histories, and cultures, rather than a single, uniform mode of expression.
These kinds of events do more than foster academic curiosity, as they create space for empathy, inclusion, and pride in linguistic heritage.
As we continue to navigate an increasingly globalised world, understanding the languages around us becomes a step toward deeper human connection.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/students/support-made-simple-my-experience-with-student-services-at-kings:
From balancing exams with extracurricular activities to attending lectures and seminars each week, student life can be overwhelming for all of us.
So, why go at it alone?
There’s a world of support right at our fingertips.
In this article, I’ll be sharing my personal experiences with King’s support services and how they can help improve your student experience as well.
My first encounter with King’s support services took place before I even became a student.
That’s because I consulted Visa and International Student Advice team for guidance on applying for my student visa when I was an offer holder.
I dialled their number, waited in queue and was put directly through to an adviser in few minutes.
What I enjoyed most about the interaction were the adviser’s calm, patient tone and genuinely helpful guidance
This service is not only for offer holders but also for current students.
If you ever face visa issues or immigration doubts, reach out to Visa and International Student Advice team through their drop-in sessions, by phone or email.
If you’re in need of advice in relation to academic or personal wellbeing, I’d recommend reaching out to the Student Wellbeing team at King’s.
They’re experts at helping students manage challenges like procrastination, academic stress, or pressure to succeed —things many of us, including myself, experience during our studies.
The team is comprised of wellbeing advisers who work closely with you to develop a wellbeing plan and signpost you to other relevant services.
Residence Welfare Leads exist to curtail flat conflicts and resolve a wide range of issues within King’s student accommodations.
One night last April, when tensions flared between my flatmates, I dialled the Residence Welfare team in frustration, not expecting an answer at 2.30 am.
To my surprise, someone immediately answered the call.
The Welfare Lead I spoke gave me advice on how to keep myself and other flatmates safe and quickly alerted the residence security about the incident.
The support and quick response time restored my composure and helped me navigate the situation safely and effectively, making it my personal favourite support services at King’s so far.
While having a wide range of support services available to us can be great, it can also be pretty overwhelming trying to figure out which team to reach out to in the face of a problem.
Luckily, that’s what Student Services Frontline is for.
Give them a call, message or in-person visit if you’re ever not sure who to contact when in need of advice or support.
Student Services Online is a huge repository of self-help articles and guidance on topics like money, housing, funding, documents, facilities, and more.
This is a great starting point if you need more information about a given service or are unsure about how to address a certain problem.
Being a student provides you with unique opportunity to explore your personal and academic needs with the help of dedicated and trained professionals.
At King’s, there are wide range of support services with dedicated professionals to make your student journey easy.
Remember, it’s always okay to ask help.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/students/essential-information-for-graduates-documents-letters:
If you’re coming to the end of your degree, you're likely thinking about your next steps.
We know that getting proof on paper of your achievements is a priority as you move forward.
That's why we're sharing everything you need to know about essential documents and letters after completing your studies, plus what to expect with your King’s IT account.
Your degree certificate is more than just a souvenir!
It's an essential document used to prove your result and award.
A hard copy of your certificate will be mailed to you within three months of your award date to the home address listed on your student record.
If you’ve moved recently or your home address has changed and this is not listed in your student record, you’ll need to update this as soon as possible before you are awarded so that the correct address is listed for posting of your certificate.
You can find information on this via our article How do I update my address on my student record?
Your certificate will be issued in the name you are registered under at the point of award, so it is important you also have this up to date.
You are encouraged to check your name is correctly listed, including any special characters, as certificates cannot be issued in new names after you are already awarded.
Information on how to request a change or correction in name can be found in our article I need to change my name on my student record .
If you've done a postgraduate research programme, you’ll also need to submit your final e-thesis and declaration form by email before your certificate can be released, following the steps on the Research Degrees website under stages 9 and 10.
Check out our article I’ve graduated recently and need my degree certificate for more information about the delivery timeline.
From summer 2025, King's is proud to partner with Gradintelligence for the offering of digital award certificates for undergraduate and postgraduate taught students.
This is anticipated to be available for eligible students with an award date of 1 July 2025 onwards.
For new awards, digital credentials are expected to be viewable around 4 weeks from the date you receive a results email confirming your award.
You will receive a notification email from Gradintelligence when your digital certificate is available to view.
Gradintelligence hosts a number of other documents from your time at King's.
You can find information on how to access your account in our article How can I access my Gradintelligence account?
For undergraduate and postgraduate taught students, once you’ve received your results, you can access your final transcript and your Higher Education Achievement Report (HEAR).
Your transcript provides a breakdown of your module marks for each year alongside your final award, and your HEAR showcases the full scope of your learning and achievements.
Best of all?
Both documents are available digitally within days of your final award being ratified through your Gradintelligence account, so you can use them to prove your degree and results before your certificate arrives.
For detailed information on your transcript, HEAR, and how to access your Gradintelligence account, check out our articles:
Whilst postgraduate research students don’t get a transcript or HEAR, you can request a Confirmation of Completion of Study letter from Student Records to prove your results while you wait for your certificate to arrive.
Our article I need to prove I have completed my studies outlines the process of obtaining a letter.
You may find that you need to prove completion of your course before you receive your results when applying for graduate jobs or further study.
Don’t worry!
You can request a ‘Pre-Award Letter’ from Student Services, which won’t include your results or degree classification, but can be used to prove you’ve finished your course and are awaiting your results and final award.
To find out more, our article I need to prove I’ve finished my course and am awaiting results explains the process.
It’s important to remember that after completing your studies at King’s, you'll lose access to your King’s IT accounts and email, including your saved documents.
Be sure to save any important documents or emails and update your contact details on personal accounts.
Once your student account is closed, you won't be able to access it anymore.
For more information on this process, please refer to our article How long after I graduate will my student IT account be closed?
Explore the Graduation category on Student Services Online for more resources and guidance tailored to supporting you through this exciting transition.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/student-life/counselling:
Counselling offers a safe, confidential and supportive space, to help you explore your problems, share and gain insight into your feelings, thoughts and behaviour.
The Counselling and Mental Health Support Service offers free and confidential in-person and online support for students at King’s.
Counselling offers a safe and supportive space to help you explore your problems, share and gain insight into your feelings, thoughts and behaviour.
This is a free and confidential service.
The counsellor is there to help you identify and understand more clearly what may be impacting on your daily life.
A counsellor can help you to gain a different perspective on yourself and/or your problems and aid you in making choices and changes that feel right for you.
Our counselling service offers cognitive behavioural (CBT) and integrative or psychodynamic group and individual therapy, depending on what best suits your needs.
When you register with the Counselling & Mental Health Support service at King’s, whenever possible, as well as your presenting issues we will consider preferences such as gender, sexuality, language and race when allocating you to one of the team.
Registering with the Counselling & Mental Health Support Service gives steps for registration, eligibility, how appointments works, and other details you need to know ahead for registering for our service.
Please make sure to read the late arrival and cancellation information on this page.
After you have read the above instructions, please follow this link to register:
Counselling Self-Referral
Our Service is committed to providing equitable, diverse and inclusive counselling and mental health support.
Our aim is to address and remove any barriers to access, particularly to individuals from marginalised groups who may find it harder to access our service.
We are committed to providing support which facilitates engagement in its outreach provision and provide more bespoke support to marginalised individuals.
For details of how the Counselling & Mental Health Support service works, how we can support you, and how to register, please refer to our articles below.
King's Counselling Online (KCO)
King's Counselling Online therapists, in partnership with Spectrum Life, offer short-term (up to 6 sessions), solution-focused counselling support, advice and guidance, for low to moderate mental health needs.
More information can be found below.
Please note that the Service is open Monday to Friday: 09.00 – 17.00
Missed and cancelled appointments result in longer waiting times for students who would like to see a counsellor.
Please take a minute to read our cancellation and attendance policy below.
Staff at King's who are supporting students can find a range of helpful information and resources on our SharePoint site, Thrive.
Listen to the Counselling & Mental Health Support Service's new podcast, Talk Therapy.
The team bring together counsellors, student officers, student reps, and staff to share their experience and insight on trends and themes they have noticed in the Counselling and Mental Health Service here at King's.
Find out more and listen to the episodes now:
Understand anxious feelings, the thoughts associated with them, and what...
Understand patterns of worrying, rumination, and insomnia which can...
Understand procrastination better and find out how to challenge unhelpful...
Understand low mood and learn more about how you can challenge unhelpful...
•	Feeling preoccupied with thoughts about food and eating?
•	Worrying a lot about your body shape and weight?
•	Feeling like your relationship with food is having a negative impact on your life?
Join our drop-in sessions if you would like to have a chat about how you are feeling.
We offer a supportive, safe space to discuss thoughts you may be struggling with.
We offer non-clinical practical support where we can signpost services to ensure you get the support you need.
Every Tuesday 11.30-13.00 from 29 October in Bush House, South East Wing, third floor.
You can talk to a Health Advisor for Mandarin-Speaking Students (HAMSS) for advice on how and where to access free and confidential health-related support available to you as a King’s student.
For example, they can advise you on how to register with King’s College Health Centre and book a GP appointment, and where to access King’s mental health support resources.
A HAMSS appointment is also a supportive space for you to ask any questions you may have about university life, and to build up your confidence in accessing the right support.
Free and confidential 24/7 digital mental health support.
Free, safe and anonymous mental health and wellbeing support.
Wellbeing tips and support for students from Kooth and Qwell.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/student-life/belonging:
King’s is a diverse, inclusive community that values every voice.
Our goal is to ensure you feel a sense of belonging wherever you are at King’s, and that you’re able to be your authentic self.
Our Belonging & Engagement (BE) team can help you with initiatives that help to achieve this goal.
Our support includes:
Belonging at King’s is not just a feeling, but a reality that is shaped by the actions and attitudes of everyone in the King’s community.
We want you to feel happy and proud to be part of a community where we share our failures as well as our achievements, and feel comfortable to be ourselves.
This shared sense of belonging will help us as a community to continue making the world a better place.
Get in touch with the BE At King's team.
Find out more and collaborate with us.
Addressing the cost-of-living crisis and food waste at King’s.
Bringing King’s staff and students together over breakfast every Friday.
Improving the wellbeing of PhD students through hiking and writing.
Conversations that encourage empathy and connectivity at King's.
Helping to better understand, support and include neurodivergent students.
A space for our community to relax and socialise while creating art.
A network of students and staff that tackle local community priorities
BE At King’s is a new initiative that aims to improve belonging at King's.
Every Friday from 8:30 – 10:30 during the academic term, King’s Food are...
Come along weekly for an hour of painting, drawing and creative activity...

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/student-life/money-housing:
The Money & Housing Advice Service (MHAS) offers advice, guidance and advocacy to King’s students.
Whether you are thinking of coming to King’s or already have an offer to study with us, we’re here for you throughout your student journey.
Before you embark on your course, we provide advice, information and outreach sessions to help you prepare your finances.
We can also help you navigate any changes to your personal circumstances throughout your time at King’s, especially if they affect your living arrangements, housing options or financial security.
Our aim is to inform and empower you to take agency of your own financial situation and housing options.
However, we are also here to support and advocate on your behalf when required if we are the most appropriate team to do so.
If the expertise sits with another team or agency, we will work with you to get you appropriate support.
We work closely with our student staff, the King's Student Money Mentors, and external partners Blackbullion and NASMA to develop proactive resources, tools and campaigns to keep you informed of current student issues that may impact your financial position and housing options.
We will endeavour to help you identify practical solutions to improve or take control of your current financial or housing situation, which may be causing you distress and/or affecting your ability to fully engage with your studies.
Our team are friendly, understanding and committed to continuously improving the student experience at King’s.
We aim to respond to all initial enquiries within 5 working days.
Cases may be prioritised based on complexity and need rather than the date of enquiry.
Where our service cannot assist directly, the enquiry will be forwarded to the relevant internal team, or the enquirer will be signposted to alternative sources of help and support.
For full details of our terms of service, what you can expect from the advisers and what we in turn expect from our clients, please see our MHAS Service User Guidance .
Many common queries can be answered by using our helpful articles on Student Services Online.
If you still require support, further contact details can be found below.
For detailed, personal advice, please first complete our registration form below.
We will allocate a Specialist Adviser to your case, who will either advise you via email or make arrangements to meet with you.
Please remember to provide full details of your situation and confirm your availability.
You can request to have an appointment with an adviser in person at Strand Campus, Guy's Campus or Waterloo Campus, or over Microsoft Teams.
If you have received an offer from King’s College London but do not yet have King’s login credentials, you won’t be able to complete our registration form.
If you need to get in touch with our team, please email us.
Our Advice Line is open at the following times:

Mondays: 13:00–15:00
Wednesdays: 13:00–15:00
Thursdays: 13:00–15:00 
Fridays: 10:00–12:00 

Please note these calls are usually for a maximum of 15 minutes.
Please ensure you have your student ID ready, as your adviser will ask for this at the start of the call.
If your query is complex, then it may need an appointment or follow-up by email.
Enrolled students can come to an on-campus drop-in session.
Drop-ins have now concluded for the 2024-25 academic year and will resume at the start of the next term, from Monday 29 September 2025.
Let us know about your experience working with one of our advisers.
If you've engaged in a campaign or outreach, we want to hear from you.
We have a comprehensive complaints policy.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/student-life/disability:
Information about the support available to disabled students at King's.
Guidance for Disabled Students Allowances support workers (NMH) and for...
Information on screenings and diagnostic assessments.
Find out how we support students with health conditions including mental...
What is provided, how to apply, getting your support in place.
Learn about the evidence we will need to provide you with the right...
Discover what adjustments can be made to examinations and assessments for...
Information about specialist study skills support such as assistive...
Guidance for staff on accessible learning and teaching is available on our intranet pages

If you are a member of staff at King's, please visit our internal pages for information on how the Disability Support & Inclusion Team can assist and advise you.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/entrepreneurship/index.aspx:
Subscribe to our newsletter today!
Learn what entrepreneurship is and how you can change the world.
Skills to super-charge your employability and further your career.
Got an idea?
Talk to us and we can help you take it to the next level.
Access support to start or scale your venture.
Get innovation inspiration delivered to your inbox
Events, workshops, competitions -  we do it all, and more!
We support women entrepreneurs to break barriers with their world-changing ideas.
Meet members of our community and follow their entrepreneurial journeys.
The King’s community gathered at Bush House to celebrate the conclusion of the inaugural cohort of…
3 July 2025
ADAPT-AI Doctoral Focal Award, led by King’s with London South Bank University and Guildhall School…
9 winners have been awarded up to £400 in the first round of the King's Validation Fund, run by the…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/student-fees:
The Credit Control Department is responsible for the collection of all Tuition and Accommodation Fees invoiced to students and sponsors in line with the college terms and conditions.
We encourage students to read through the information held within the Student Fees pages listed below, as they contain answers to the most asked questions.
All options available to pay your tuition and residence fees
Guidance on your expected fee invoice due date
If you are facing difficulties paying your fee invoice
Find answers to some of our most common questions
Further information to support students fee queries
For students undertaking any of the King's Digital online postgraduate...
Goods and Services Tax is a consumption tax which in the UK is known as VAT
Information on the due date of your residence fee invoice
Undergraduate, Overseas & Postgraduate students will be classified as “self-funded” for any part of your fees which you, a friend or family member are paying.
Undergraduate, Overseas & Postgraduate students will be classified as a “sponsored” student where your tuition fees are being paid to King’s College London directly from an external organisation.
Terms and conditions detailing the basis upon which King's College London...
Protect yourself from scams and frauds

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/policyhub/academicregulations/kings-academic-manual:
Academic regulations and policies are part of the formal contract between the university and its students.
Students are encouraged to familiarise themselves with relevant sections when they enrol and consult the regulations and policies at appropriate intervals during their studies.
The academic regulations in force when students register will normally apply to them until completion of their programme .
If you would like to access a complete PDF of the academic regulations for 2024/25, please click on the following link:
In-year changes to the academic regulations are avoided.
However, if changes are necessary, these will be communicated promptly on these webpages.
Please note:  New Emergency Regulations (Regulations 9.8 - 9.47) were approved by Academic Board on 30 October 2024 and are applicable from that date.
The SUSTech – King’s School of Medicine (Joint Education Institute) regulations, policies and procedures 24/25 are available here
Chapter 1: Read more on the requirements placed on students before arrival at the University.
Chapter 2: Find out more on enrollment, registration and attendance.
Chapter 3: This section outlines the awards currently offered by the University, including the level of each award and the corresponding descriptor for that level.
Chapter 4: This section outlines the assessment rules for taught programmes or taught components of research awards at King’s and should be read in conjunction with programme and module specifications.
Chapter 5: This section outlines the progression rules for taught programmes at the University, including the minimum and maximum number and level of credits that a student must take each year.
Chapter 6: Introduction to be added here to describe the Framework for Postgraduate Research Awards
Chapter 7: This section outlines the regulations, policies and procedures in place to support students during their studies at King’s.
Chapter 8: Find out more about student student concerns, conduct and complaints.
Chapter 9: Find out more about the academic governance structures and oversight of the King’s academic regulatory framework.
A list of definitions for the terms and expressions used in the academic regulations.
The degree outcomes statement analyses the University's degree classification profile by reviewing trends over several years and bringing together regulations and policies that protect degree standards
Assessment Boards, External Examiners and Committee Procedures
For queries on the regulations, please contact the Academic Regulations, Quality & Standards team:
Information on requesting an exemption for students on UG and PGT...
Further information on internal processes and projects as well as...
Policies, regulations and key documents that determine the governance of...
Covering visa guidance, admissions information, wellbeing support and more

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/about/bullying-harassment-and-sexual-misconduct:
This means protecting our students, staff and visitors both on our campuses and in our digital spaces from the following unacceptable behaviours:
These behaviours undermine our values and what we stand for as a university.
Together with members of our community and our staff and students’ unions, we are working hard to prevent and address them.
Our Community Charter sets out how everyone at King’s can contribute positively to developing and maintaining a thriving community.
This page sets out our policies, procedures, training, reporting mechanisms and support services designed to prevent and address unacceptable behaviours at King’s.
Anyone in our community who experiences bullying, harassment, sexual misconduct or restriction of free speech or academic freedom can use Report + Support to report these incidents.
Report + Support is available to students, staff and visitors to the University.
Reports can be made anonymously or include contact details, with three options for:
Bullying, harassment and sexual misconduct can cause humiliation, isolation, loss of confidence and serious harm to mental health and wellbeing in both the short and longer term.
A range of support and advice services are available to members of our community who have experienced, witnessed or been accused of bullying, harassment or sexual misconduct.
In an emergency situation where there is a risk of serious harm, call 999 or go to the closest Accident and Emergency (A&E Department).
Find urgent crisis and mental health support.
The following Report + Support articles provide information about the support available to students affected by bullying, harassment or sexual misconduct:
Students can also find additional support articles covering a range of topics on Report + Support .
The following articles on Student Services Online also provide a range of helpful information:
The King's College London Students' Union (KCLSU) Advice service can provide confidential and impartial advice to King's students about reporting bullying, harassment and sexual misconduct, or about what to do if they have been reported.
If a student's academic work has been affected, KCLSU Advice can also support them to inform the University.
Find out more about Help & Advice on the KCLSU website and in our Student Services Online article What does KCLSU offer to support my wellbeing?
The following Report + Support articles provide information about the support available to staff affected by bullying, harassment or sexual misconduct:
Staff can search 'Dignity at King's' on our intranet for more information.
King’s provides all staff with access to a free service, our Employee Assistance Programme (EAP), which offers confidential advice and counselling on a wide range of work and personal issues.
The EAP service is delivered by Vita Health Group and is independent from the University.
Any personal information shared is at the user's discretion and appropriate to their need.
Staff can search 'EAP' on our intranet for information on our Employee Assistance Programme.
You can find the latest versions of our policies on our policy updates webpage .
A full directory of all our policies, including those relating to bullying, harassment and sexual misconduct is on our Policy Hub webpages.
We expect all our students to complete the Keeping Each Other Safe online courses every year during their time with us, unless they’re eligible to opt-out (for example, as a survivor of sexual assault).
This training is accessed through our Student Records system and is part of annual enrolment and re-enrolment.
These courses help build the participant’s understanding of the laws and responsibilities surrounding bullying, harassment, sexual misconduct and freedom of expression; promote effective communication and respectful relationships; and empower students to be active bystanders.
More information about the 'Keeping Each Other Safe' courses is available on Student Services Online .
All King's staff are required to take annual training in the prevention of sexual misconduct.
This training is available on our Workrite online learning platform (login required)
We encourage all our staff to complete additional training on the prevention of bullying, harassment and sexual misconduct.
Our Keeping Each Other Safe (staff) online modules cover topics including:
Our Keeping Each Other Safe (staff) modules are available on our Epigeum online course platform (login required).
We also offer our staff Active Bystander training, provided by our Organisational Development team.
Staff can search 'Active Bystander' on our intranet for more information.
Line managers and staff who support investigations into bullying, harassment and sexual misconduct work closely with our Human Resources Business Partners, who offer toolkits and training in how to run an effective investigation.
Staff can search 'workplace investigations' on our intranet for more information.
Our partnerships seek to broaden our impact and expand opportunities for communities locally, nationally and across the world.
Working closely with our partner providers, King’s is committed to creating an inclusive, respectful and safe environment for all members of our community.
King’s is committed to creating an inclusive, respectful, and safe environment for all members of our community.
King’s believe that everyone has the right to work, learn, study and live in an environment free from bullying, harassment, and sexual misconduct.
To support this commitment, King’s has implemented robust publicly accessible policies and procedures designed to safeguard the community and aligned with the requirements of the Office for Students (OfS) Condition E6 [Guidance on the general ongoing conditions of registration].
This condition sets out clear expectations for preventing and responding to incidents of harassment and sexual misconduct in higher education.
In line with these standards, King’s expects [Partner] to uphold equivalent safeguards, including maintaining clear policies, accessible reporting mechanisms and appropriate support structures to prevent, address, and respond to such behaviours.
This webpage is the single comprehensive source of information required by the Office for Students ( OfS Condition of Registration E6 ), the independent regulator of higher education in England.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/student-life/graduation:
Congratulations, you are officially a King's College London graduate!
Your graduation day is an opportunity for you to celebrate the incredible accomplishments that you have worked so hard to achieve.
Below we share information to help you on your new and exciting journey.
Find out when graduation ceremonies will take place, how to book tickets, gown hire and photography as well as venue information and what to expect on the day.
You can also find information about receiving your certificate and requesting transcripts.
Our graduates will always remain part of the King's community.
Explore the support offered for graduates, be part of our alumni community and visit The Union Shop to purchase memorabilia to remember your time at King's.
More information regarding graduation ceremonies can be found on Student Services Online.
Find out more about being ready to graduate and how to book.
Find out more about when you will receive your certificate or how to request a transcript.
Find out more information about our graduation venues.
Find out more about our services for alumni below.
Get advice about opportunities after you graduate.
How to keep in touch after you graduate.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/parents-carers-supporters:
With over 200 universities and Higher Education institutes in the UK, we also appreciate how overwhelming it can be for them to make the right decisions, and for you to offer advice and support.
King's is confident of the excellent support we can offer.
We have gathered a number of links to resources which we hope will help answer your questions about studying at King's and give you a good idea of what a student can expect should they join us.
If you’re a parent, carer or supporter of someone who’s already been successful in their application and is about to begin their studies at King’s, please visit our new students pages for information on how to help them start out.
If you’re a parent, carer or supporter of someone already studying at King’s, please visit our article on Student Services Online for more information , including what to do if you’re concerned about them .
You can play a big role in their decision-making.
Watch our video on applying and personal statements to give them that additional support.
We realise that parents and carers can be concerned about their young person moving to London.
However, for many it is a wonderful experience that they will always value.
Read more of the unrivalled opportunities London offers student on our webpage.
Finances can be one of the biggest concerns for parents and carers but we can support students with tools and funding to ensure that living in London can be affordable.
The Student Funding Office and the Student Advice team both offer advice on student funding, ensuring students are aware of the financial support available to them and are able to budget and manage their money effectively.
For many students, living in accommodation at university is the first time they've ever lived away from home and it's important to find the right place to live.
King's offers several accommodation options across London and we have over 3,000 places available, plus access to University of London accommodation.
All applicants who meet the following conditions are guaranteed a place in King’s Residences:
Learn more about accommodation for King's students on our webpages.
King's is proud to have received praise for our support network for students.
In our Institutional Audit, the Quality Assurance Agency particularly highlighted the good practice at King's in respect to its student support at a university and departmental level.
Discover our range of student support services available to students on our webpages.
Find out more about how you can support a current King’s student and what to do if you’re concerned about them.
At King's College London, we're committed to providing a safe, supportive, and enriching environment for every student.
We recognise that starting university is a significant step, and we're particularly mindful of the transition for students under 18.
Explore our guide designed to assist parents, carers, and supporters in helping students under 18 at King’s.
We hold several open days throughout the year.
This is a great opportunity for parents, carers and students to find out more about our undergraduate courses and all the fantastic opportunities that King's has to offer.
You will also get the chance to hear from academics and current King's students.
Find out more about our open days and how you can learn more about King's on our undergraduate events page.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/new-students/parents-and-supporters-zone:
The first year of university is an important step in a student’s life.
Although an exciting moment, it can also be a daunting experience for new students, as well as their parents, carers and supporters.
This page provides more information to help you support new students as they start out on their King’s journey.
If you’re a parent, carer, trusted contact or supporter of someone already studying at King’s, please visit our article below for more information, including what to do if you're concerned about them.
New students at King's have a number of tasks they need to complete in order to begin their studies.
Visit the articles linked below for more information on some of the most important first steps.
If you’re concerned about a student’s wellbeing, please read our articles below for more information on the support available to them and how you can help.
Resources to help our new students settle into King's
Find information about our health and wellbeing services
Explore what we offer to help students build their career path
At King's, our students' safety is a key priority.
Below you'll find more information about how safety is tackled.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/smhw/strategic-action-plan:
King’s has received the Student Minds University Mental Health Charter Award which recognises their whole-university approach to mental health and wellbeing.
As part of our commitment, King’s is a proud member of Student Minds’ University Mental Health Charter Programme.
The programme brings together universities across the UK committed to supporting university community mental health to share practice and create cultural change.
In 2024 King's received the University Mental Health Charter Award, recognising our whole-university approach to Student Mental Health and Wellbeing.
Following receipt of the award King's is now actioning recommendations in the Charter Award Outcome Report with an aim to achieve the next level of award when we are re-accredited in 2028/9.
Learn more about our success in achieving 'Award' status here.
The mental health and wellbeing of our students and our staff is something we care deeply about.
King’s is committed to embedding a whole-university approach to student mental health and wellbeing (SMHW), which ‘recommends that all aspects of university life promote and support student and staff mental health’ as outlined by Universities UK Stepchange: Mentally Healthy Universities .
This framework gives King’s an opportunity to:
This aligns with our strategic commitment to becoming a sector leader in supporting our students and enabling them to succeed as outlined in the Education Strategy 2018-2022 and the Enabling Student Success strand of Strategy 2026, which states:
"Building on our partnership with KCLSU and existing expertise of our faculties, including our Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, we will be an exemplar university, ensuring that our support is research-led and evidence-informed.
We will support students effectively at all levels of need, from prevention through support and proactive interventions, to referring students to specialist external services in cases of crisis.
This involves collaboration with teams and colleagues across the institution,
We pilot innovative approaches to community and belonging, for both students and staff, and curriculum-embedded wellbeing.
Importantly, our approach to student mental health and wellbeing is co-designed with students, drawing on input from the King’s 100 student panel and student staff colleagues, and continuing our partnership model of peer support and engagement with KCLSU."
In 2017-2018 academic year, King’s began a university-wide project, bringing together staff and students, to explore areas of university-life where we could drive the biggest improvements in our support for student mental health and wellbeing.
A cross-institutional Student Mental Health and Wellbeing Steering Committee was convened and was tasked with overseeing the University’s approach to addressing student mental health and wellbeing, with a view to develop, implement and share good practice, informed by academic and research expertise at King’s and across the sector.
Its first deliverable was the 2018-2020 Student Mental Health and Wellbeing Strategic Action Plan , which introduces our Pyramid of Support Model of Support, based on the World Health Organization’s Optimal Mix of Services Framework.
This Pyramid Model highlights King’s as an environment that both supports our students in times of challenge and helps everyone to thrive, while offering dedicated interventions and specialist support to students when they need it.
The aim of the five-level model is to allow us to understand how we currently focus our support to students and where we can focus our resources and efforts in the future.
We are committed to making sure that we are supporting our students effectively at all five levels of the model.
At the heart of this is ensuring that our learning experience is inclusive and supportive.
This doesn’t mean undermining the challenge and rigour of our courses, but instead creating a learning environment that supports student wellbeing – for example through effective academic support, reforming assessment and feedback to a focus ‘for’ learning, rather than assessment ‘of learning’, while introducing a greater variety of assessment methods.
Recognising that students play a crucial role in helping each other to build coping skills, resilience and better understand their own wellbeing needs, we have also worked closely with KCLSU to equip and train student leaders to support themselves and others through student-led wellbeing activities and high-quality peer support.
This partnership is seen as sector-leading, and we will continue to work with King’s College London Students’ Union (KCLSU) and our sabbatical officers to ensure we are addressing the needs of students.
King’s & KCLSU work together so that ‘students are empowered to build a community of good wellbeing where they feel able to support themselves and others to thrive’ through:
King’s’ Student Mental Health and Wellbeing Steering Committee, chaired by Professor Juliet Foster and Joy Whyte, provides a forum for overseeing the University’s approach to addressing student mental health and wellbeing, with a view to develop, implement and share good practice, informed by academic and research expertise at King’s and across the sector.
The Steering Committee reports into College Education Committee (CEC) and Academic Board.
A Student Mental Health and Wellbeing Operational (Ops) Group comprised of faculty and professional services colleagues reports in the Steering Committee.
Dean of Education
Strategic Director, Education & Students
Director of Student Services
Student Mental Health & Wellbeing Strategy Project Manager
Head of Strategy for Student Mental Health and Wellbeing
We have specific policies and procedures in place to support students’ mental health and wellbeing at King’s.
These include policies to support students through mitigating circumstances that may arise during their studies, and policies to ensure students remain safe whilst on campus.
You can read more about these policies on our Policy Hub .
Policies and processes at King’s that support Student Mental Health and Wellbeing include:
King's Community Charter was developed jointly by King's College London...
Free and confidential support for King’s students

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/smhw/research-and-innovation:
We will continue to be a world leader in promoting the wellbeing of our students and staff, drawing upon our clinical and research strengths in mental health, to inform our service provision.
We will work in collaboration with the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience (IoPPN) and King’s NHS Partners and other relevant research networks to build on the expertise of experienced clinicians and researchers when identifying the best approaches to support student mental health and wellbeing.
We will continue to work with and support colleagues delivering initiatives and interventions to undertake rigorous evaluation, which will be used to inform continuous improvement and future decision-making.
“ King’s has long been recognised as a centre of excellence when it comes to research into the health and wellbeing of students and young people ”
New multi-university collaboration aims to create the blueprint for...
British adults experienced highest-ever levels of poor mental health...
King’s-led research about the transition to university and student social...
Research to inform strategies and initiatives to best support our students
Collaborative project to improve the efficacy of mental health...
King’s-led national research network
Collaborative evidence-informed guidance to embed wellbeing into the...

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/smhw/support-for-students:
Find out more about our services and levels of support .
If you need help now you can call Student Services on (+44) 020 7848 1234 from 08.00–18.00, Monday to Friday, or log a case using our online system .
If you are worried about a King’s student you can call Student Services on (+44) 020 7848 1234 from 08.00–18.00, Monday to Friday, or log a case using our online system .
Read more about Student experience from King's College London...
Supporting personal wellbeing and providing supportive services

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/smhw/support-for-staff:
King’s is committed to always prioritising the welfare and wellbeing of staff.
We aim to create a supportive, healthy and positive working environment where everyone has a good work-life balance and access to support whenever it is needed.
Colleagues can visit the intranet to find out more about our range of services .
A friendly, professional community that respects individual differences
Discover the range of opportunities for sport and wellness at King's
Current vacancies and career opportunities

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sport/about-us:
King's Sport & Wellness delivers a range of opportunities for students and staff to get involved in sport and physical activity, with an ambition to be the most active university in London.
We run social sport sessions through our BeActive programme, utilise exercise to improve mental health in the Active Wellness Scheme , support elite athletes through our Performance programme and operate four gyms across King's campuses and halls of residence.
Founded in 2012 and growing our delivery year on year, King's Sport & Wellness currently engages over 15,000 people across our various programmes.
Whether you're a first-time participant or a seasoned competitor, we have something for you to join the King's Pride.
Personal Development and Athlete Lifestyle
Gym Operations Supervisor - Strand
Performance Sport Manager - Strength & Conditioning Coach
Performance & Workforce Manager
Strength & Conditioning Coach
Operations Supervisor: London Bridge Gym
Sports Physiotherapist & Physiotherapy Clinical Educator
Performance Sport Psychologist
Dietitian
Wellness Coordinator
Lecturer in Physiotherapy & Clinical Practitioner
Physical Activity Coordinator
Read our Visions to Values
See our Privacy Policy
Over 60 sports teams, 30 sessions of social sport and activity every week and more.
Performance scholarships supporting dual careers of the University's elite student athletes and…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sport/gyms/gyms:
Gym memberships available to students, community members and the wider public.
Our members get access to over 200 classes a week, including Yoga, Pilates, Spin and Boxing.
Free inductions, training programmes, personal training and group exercise classes.
King's biggest gym facility yet in the iconic Bush House with an expansive gym floor and 4 spacious…
Just off Borough High Street, the 80-station gym boasts a dynamic fitness and studio experience.
Selected King's Halls have gyms with treadmills, bikes, cross-trainers and resistance equipment.
Join King’s Sport & Wellness for one of our most popular BeActive sessions, Yoga.
Doesn’t matter if…
25 September 2025

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sport/physical-activity:
BeActive is the social and recreational activity programme available to all students and staff at King’s College London.
Across our staff and student timetables, we offer lots of activities every week to ensure that there is something out there for you.
No commitment is needed, so it’s up to you if you want to try a different activity each week or become a regular to your favourite session.
All activities are non-competitive and inclusive, so everyone can participate regardless of experience or ability.
Earn points and get rewarded for doing activity!
King's Move is an App available to all students and staff at King's.
It lets you connect a wearable fitness tracker or an app on your phone to track your activity and earn points.
You can redeem points for rewards around campus like coffees and merchandise.
King's Sport Health & Fitness Strand Gym
The biggest King's Sport gym facility with a prime location in the beautiful North West Wing of Bush House, King's Sport welcomes all students, staff, alumni and external members to join our new facility on the Strand.
The gym will has four bespoke studios and 200 stations of resistance and cardio equipment.
Go to the Strand Gym page
King's Sport & Wellness Centre
Go to the Centre page
King's Sport Health & Fitness London Bridge Gym
The gym located adjacent to Guy's Campus and is a fully equipped 80 station facility with a wide range of studio classes from Yoga to Les Mils Bodypump.
Go to the London Bridge Gym page
Our social sport and activity programme BeActive has sessions across all campuses for students and staff.
It's free if you live in King's Halls or are a member of staff.
If not, then it's just £25 for the whole year.
Find out more about BeActive
If you are a King's student living in university halls of residence, BeActive Halls gives free access to all BeActive sessions and exclusive BeActive Halls sessions, run by students within halls of residence and delivered by King’s Sport.
What's more is there is no need to sign up!
If you live at Great Dover Street, Stamford Street Apartments or Champion Hill you get free gym access.
Check out our Halls Gyms page for more information.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sport/clubs-sports:
King’s Sport & Wellness operates two Sports Grounds across London, home to our student sports teams and numerous external Sports Clubs in London.
The two Grounds, New Malden and Honor Oak Park are serviced from Waterloo and London Bridge mainline stations in close proximity to our campuses.
In total we have 7 high quality grass full-sizes pitches, 3 junior pitches, 3 courts and 2 artificial pitches.
Our Grounds are the home venues for our University teams weekly training and competing in both BUCS and LUSL.
In addition, we host AFCW Wimbledon, University Alumni Sports Clubs, both adult and junior Community Clubs competing in London Sports Leagues and a number of local schools.
To find out more about the grounds and how to book a facility, visit our individual Grounds pages below.
Hockey, rugby, football, multi-use and training pitches as well as netball and tennis courts.…
Football, rugby, lacrosse and cricket pitches as well as all weather netball and tennis courts.…
Please refer to our individual Sports Grounds pages for their respective contact details.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sport/performance/performance-sport:
From Olympic Gold Medalists to the Fastest Woman in Britain, many great athletes have walked King's halls.
King’s strives to achieve excellence in all that it does; to support sporting excellence, as part of our Performance Sport programme, King’s Sport & Wellness has established Performance scholarships to identify and advance the University’s most talented individual student-athletes and sports teams.
Applications for the 25/26 Performance Programme open on Sunday 1 June 2025 and will close on Tuesday 30 September.
Apply here.
See the eligibility criteria.
Athlete grant: £1000
Criteria: Athletes who currently compete at the highest level in their sport - an international or national representative level in a senior squad competing at the highest level of World/Olympic/Paralympic events or equivalent with a commitment to contributing to King’s Sport & Wellness.
Athlete grant: £500
Criteria: Athletes who currently compete or have recently competed at the highest level as an international or national representative athlete at a continental level for their country such as Junior World Championships, U23 World Championships, Senior European Championships or equivalent.
Student also may compete in the highest standards of BUCS or other national-level sports competition, with a commitment to contributing to King’s Sport & Wellness.
Criteria: Athletes who compete in the highest standards of BUCS, other national-level sports competition or equivalent, with a clear commitment to contributing to King’s Sport & Wellness and continue advancing personal performance.
At King's College London, our dedicated Strength and Conditioning (S&C) team works closely with our TASS and student-athletes to ensure they are physically prepared to meet the demands of elite sport.
Our coaches deliver a tailored athletic development programme throughout an athlete’s time at King's, focusing on long-term progression, injury prevention, and peak performance.
Our S&C coaches bring a wealth of experience from a wide range of sports and athletic backgrounds, and many hold advanced postgraduate qualifications and industry accreditations, such as UKSCA certifications.
We support athletes across all levels, from emerging talent to world-class competitors, helping them to develop strength, speed, power, agility, and resilience — both in training and competition.
S&C sessions are based at the King’s Sport & Wellness Waterloo Gym and our programmes are specifically designed to complement academic schedules and the demands of high-level sport.
We understand the unique challenges of balancing high-performance sport with academic excellence.
Working in partnership with academic departments, the university offers:
•	Lecture Capture Support: Assistance with accessing recorded lectures for athletes competing internationally.
•	Assessment Flexibility: In cases of major sport and academic clashes, we can support applications for deadline extensions or alternative arrangements.
•	Stretched Degree Pathways: For athletes competing at senior international level, we support applications for extended degree programmes to better manage sporting and academic demands.
Performance Nutrition focuses on how what you eat and drink impacts your training, performance, and overall wellbeing.
Our practitioners work with you to optimise fuelling for different training demands, support injury recovery, strengthen immunity, and manage body composition when needed.
Support can include:
•	Personalised advice on fuelling for training, matches, and tournaments
•	Injury prevention and recovery nutrition strategies
•	Guidance on managing energy levels, recovery, and immunity
•	Support around body composition goals (e.g., muscle gain, body fat management)
Our PDAL programme takes a personalised, reflective approach.
Support typically includes one-to-one sessions with a trained Lifestyle Advisor, offering time and space to:
•	Set goals and develop personal ambitions across sport, study, and wider life
•	Plan academic and sporting commitments
•	Develop time management and resilience skills
•	Explore career aspirations and transitions beyond sport
•	Reflect on personal development and wellbeing
•	Access referrals for additional support when needed
All TASS athletes and King’s Sport & Wellness IPP athletes are eligible for support through PDAL.
We also offer tailored workshops and group sessions throughout the year on topics such as transition readiness, dual-career management, personal branding, and life after sport.
Our specialist Physiotherapy Team provides dedicated support to King’s community as well as all TASS and IPP athletes.
Working closely with our strength and conditioning coaches, nutritionists, sport psychologists and athlete lifestyle advisors, we focus on helping athletes stay robust, recover quickly, and perform at their best throughout their time at King’s.
When injuries occur, our physiotherapists lead the management and rehabilitation process, working individually with staff, students and athletes.
Rehabilitation sessions are delivered at the Waterloo Sport and Wellness Centre alongside using our dedicated Strength & Conditioning spaces and clinical environments, and we can provide support you need.
The mental side of performance is critical for success.
We support athletes to develop psychological skills that enhance their ability to train and compete at their best.
This includes developing strategies to overcome barriers such as low confidence, performance anxiety, and motivational challenges, but also proactively working on mental performance to build a competitive edge.
Psychological skills such as managing thoughts, emotions, and behaviours are treated with the same focus as physical and technical training, ensuring athletes are prepared to perform consistently and enjoy their sport.
Summer: 1 June – 30 September 2025.
Winter: 15 – 31 December 2025.
Athletes who don’t meet the IPP criteria can still join their club, which may apply for the Premier Team Performance Programme (TPP).
At King’s, clean sport values are central to our philosophy.
We provide education and workshops that align with UK Anti-Doping (UKAD) to ensure our athletes understand their rights, responsibilities, and the importance of maintaining a clean sport environment from the start of their careers.
Access to 3 facilities at Strand, London Bridge and Waterloo.
For opening times, please refer to the dedicated page on our website here.
Drop into our Recovery Clinic at Waterloo throughout the year to support your body and mind between training, lectures, and competitions.
Athletes can access:
•	Normatec recovery boots
•	Pulseroll massage guns, vibrating foam rollers and peanut rollers
Whether it’s post-S&C, between lectures, or before a big match, take a break that boosts performance.
All IPP athletes will get access to IPP x KCL branded kit which might has previously included; rucksacks, winter jackets or training t-shirts.
We often run workshops all year round focusing on areas such as nutrition, sports psychology, careers, international travel, UKAD anti-doping workshops, and you can also become an accredited anti-doping ambassador.
As a department, King’s Sport & Wellness aims to be the Most Active University in London with our commitment to developing talented athletes reflected in our recent TASS Dual Career Accreditation.
As a TASS Dual Career Accredited Centre, we are the biggest site in the southwest.
Receiving this accreditation affirms King’s ambition to ensure students can succeed and perform optimally in both their academic and sporting careers through academic flexibility.
King’s College London is proud to be the largest TASS Delivery Site in the South East, supporting student-athletes to achieve their potential both academically and in sport.
The Talented Athlete Scholarship Scheme (TASS) is a Sport England-backed programme that helps athletes balance the demands of performance sport alongside their second career e.g.
education, work.
Through TASS, King’s student-athletes receive access to a coordinated package of support services delivered by experienced practitioners within our Performance Sport programme.
Each year, we work with a growing number of athletes from a range of national governing bodies to deliver tailored, athlete-centred support that aligns with their life journey and sporting goals.
Our TASS delivery at King’s includes:
Our practitioners are embedded across the performance programme and work collaboratively to ensure athletes receive holistic, consistent and coordinated support throughout the academic year.
For more information about the TASS programme, visit www.tass.gov.uk or contact info@tass.gov.uk .
If you have any questions about King's Sport & Wellness Performance and our University Sports Scholarships, contact us at the email below.
If you have any feedback or complaints about King's Sport & Wellness that you would like to direct to the Estates & Facilities department, email the contact below.
King's Sport & Wellness Performance Athletes
King's College London has a proud history with athletes from a range of sports who studied here on…
Sport & Wellness Clinic open to the King's Community

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sport/health-and-wellbeing:
Let King’s Sport & Wellness energise your team meeting, class or event.
Whether its mindfulness, a seated stretch, or a pulse raiser, we’ve got you covered.
This is a free service offered to staff and student groups, delivered by a trained King's Sport & Wellness Coach.
Sessions are 10-15 minutes long, no experience or equipment is needed, and you can sign up as many times as you wish.
Find out more and request an Energiser here.
What is it?
Meet Move Motivate is a wellbeing initiative created by King’s Sport & Wellness which offers a space for social connection, physical activity and wellness practices,  
all in one event.
Aimed at student and staff groups.
How does it work?
Each session consists of a 30-minute to 1-hour inclusive physical activity session led by a King’s Sport & Wellness instructor, followed by a micro wellness workshop 
lasting up to 30 minutes, delivered whilst participants enjoy refreshments and snacks.
Participants will then have the opportunity to socialise with peers and ask the workshop facilitator any follow-up questions.
Bookings and prices
Meet Move Motivate delivery starts at £75, to cover instructor and resource costs.
To request a Meet Move Motivate, please fill out this form .
You will receive a response within 10 working days.
Mixing the hottest music with cutting-edge exercise science, motivation and the energy of many, LES MILLS™ group fitness classes make you fall in love with fitness.
Discover our new range of world-class on-demand fitness workouts by enrolling to our KEATS page below.
Our newly opened Sport & Wellness Centre offers free weekly sessions for all in the King’s Community.
Sessions range from Sports Massage, Physiotherapy consultations to Mindfulness and Journaling sessions.
The Active Wellness Scheme is an initiative to help anyone within the King’s Community who suffers from any mental or physical health issues through the use of exercise therapy.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sport/physical-activity/news:
King’s College London PhD student Jordan Joel has been selected as a new member of the International…
As the holy month of Ramadan approaches, Muslims around the world prepare for a period of spiritual…
Step Change Studios in partnership with King’s Sport & Wellness is teaching ballroom dancing to…
The 2024 Paris Olympics kicks off today with talented King’s students and alumni competing.
With…
King’s College London Alumni Association & King’s Sport & Wellness partnered once again to host the…
King’s Sport & Wellness are excited to launch a Women's Community Studio, in line with our mission…
Olympic athlete Laviai Nielsen (Geography, 2018) returned to campus to deliver an inspiring talk to…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sport/physical-activity/events:
15 September 2025, 12:30 to 13:00
18 September 2025, 10:00 to 26 September 2025, 22:00
24 September 2025, 14:00 to 15:00
25 September 2025, 14:00 to 15:00
29 September 2025, 13:00 to 13:45
A 45-minute mind-body workout designed to improve strength, mobility and happiness.
Slow, simple…
29 September 2025, 14:00 to 15:00
It's a perfect combination of simple choreography, the latest and greatest music hits, and nonstop…
29 September 2025, 18:30 to 19:30
A barbell workout for anyone looking to get lean, toned, and fit – fast.
Instructors will coach you…
29 September 2025, 19:00 to 19:45
Cycle confidently with this exercise class designed for those wanting to learn the correct technique…
30 September 2025, 13:00 to 13:45
30 September 2025, 14:00 to 15:00
Enjoy this relaxing session whilst you learn the foundations of yoga practice.You can expect an…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sport/gyms/the-strand-gym:
The biggest King's Sport & Wellness gym facility with a prime location in the beautiful North West Wing of Bush House, King's Sport & Wellness welcomes all students, staff and alumni to join the #KingsPride at our facility on the Strand.
This is one of two King's Sport & Wellness gyms; the other site is located at London Bridge.
All gyms are located on or just a short walk from King's campuses in central locations, making them convenient and accessible to students and staff.
Our members enjoy free personalised training programmes, access to Strand and London Bridge gyms and over 100 studio classes every week across both sites.
Mon - Fri: 07:00 - 22:00.
Sat - Sun: 10:00 - 18:00.
Bank holidays: 10:00 -18:00
Please view the online booking system on the Timetables page to book activities.
For details on our membership prices and how to join, visit our Memberships page.
The Strand Gym has four bespoke studios each designed for a different type of class.
All the studios have the best lighting design and sound systems to make every class the ultimate experience.
Studio 1 - Group Exercise: Dance, Les Mills BODYPUMP, Les Mills BODYCOMBAT, Les Mills BODYATTACK, Boxfit, and many more.
Studio 2 - Mind Body: Pilates and Yoga.
Women's Community Studio - The studio will be predominantly used a Women’s Only space, with specific days open to other communities through advanced booking, if you're interested in booking this space - request a booking here .
Spin Studio - Group Cycle classes just like a boutique spin studio!
View the full timetable and book classes on our Timetables page.
To request to book studio 1 or 2 , please fill out this form and to request to book the Women's Community Studio, fill out this form .
Please fill in all fields and note that bookings and payment must be made 2 working days in advance.
At Kings Sport & Wellness, we are dedicated to delivering a range of opportunities to our gym members that cater to all levels of experience and all types of personal goals.
Get introduced to the gym space and equipment with inductions, reach your individual goals with programmes, develop a specific skill with specialised training and get one-to-one focus with personal training.
Read more about our gym experience below.
Find out more about our Gym Experience .
Are there changing rooms on-site?
Yes, we have male and female changing rooms.
We also have gender-neutral and disabled toilets with showers.
One is located in the gym (lower ground floor) and two are located on the ground floor (studios floor).
Do you have lockers?
Yes we have lockers located inside the gym and outside the studios.
When using a locker we would advise you secure your belongings with a padlock, you can bring your own padlock or purchase one from reception for £5 .
Please Note: Any items left in lockers overnight will be removed.
Do you provide towels?
No, we do not provide towels – you will need to bring your own.
Does the gym provide hair dryers?
Yes there are hairdryers located in both the male and female changing rooms.
Do you provide shower gel/soap/shampoo?
No.
Please bring your own shower amenities.
Are the showers single cubicle or communal?
The showers are single cubicles in the male and female changing rooms.
We also have shower facilities in the gender-neutral and disabled bathrooms located on the ground floor and lower ground floors.
Is the gym wheelchair accessible?
Yes, we have a lift which is wheelchair accessible and a wide-access gate for gym entry.
I need a new membership card, how do I get one?
Replacement membership cards can be purchased from reception, with a cost of £5.
Is Wi-Fi available on site?
Yes, the Cloud and eduroam are available.
The gym is located on Aldwych within Bush House.
To find us, please enter Bush House North-West Wing and make your way to the ground and lower-ground floors.
King's Sport Strand Gym, Lower Ground Floor, 57 Aldwych, London WC2B 4PA
0207 848 2260
kingssport@kcl.ac.uk
Slow, simple mov…
It's a perfect combination of simple choreography, the latest and greatest music hits, and nonstop s…
Instructors will coach you …

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sport/gyms/london-bridge-gym:
Our London Bridge Gym is a welcoming and inspiring facility - from over 35 studio classes a week to our highly qualified and friendly fitness coaches, energising studio classes to bespoke interactive lighting design.
The gym caters to all fitness goals - from taking steps to leading a healthy, well-balanced lifestyle to competing at a high level in your sport, we aim to help you find your personal best.
Our members enjoy free personalised training programmes, access to the Strand Gym and over 100 studio classes weekly across both sites.
Mon - Fri: 07:00 - 22:00.
Sat - Sun: 10:00 - 18:00.
Please view the online booking system on the Timetables page to avoid disappointment.
For information on our studio classes and booking, visit our Timetables page.
Are there changing rooms on site?
Yes, we have male, female, disabled and gender neutral changing rooms, all have showers.
Do you have lockers?
Yes we do have lockers in our changing rooms, when using a locker we would advise you secure your belongings with a padlock, you can bring your own padlock or purchase one from reception for £5.
Do you provide t owels ?
Unfortunately, we do not provide towels.
Yes there are hairdryers located in both changing rooms and GHD straighteners in the female changing room.
The showers are single cubicle.
Yes, we have a lift which is wheelchair accessible, and a wide-access gate for gym entry.
I need a new membership card, how do I get one?
Yes, the Cloud is available.
The gym is located just off Borough High Street.
To find us, please enter the alleyway next to Premier Inn, turning right and right again (there are signs to help!).
135 Borough High Street, London, SE1 1NP
0207 848 4988

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sport/gyms/timetables:
King's Sport & Wellness Gyms provide a diverse range of over 100 classes for all levels across our sites, led by our team of inspiring coaches who are dedicated to making fitness fun.
If you are a member, you can book your classes using the widget below once you have activated your account.
If you are not a member, you can book a one-off class below and complete your payment online.
Book onto a class at Strand Gym.
Book onto a class at London Bridge Gym.
Our new group exercise timetable will start w/c 30 September 2024.
Adjustments are made to the timetable every term and then again during the summer.
See the timetable.
The Strand and London Bridge Gyms will be open from 10:00 - 18:00 and there will be a reduced timetable on these days.
Sign up to be the first to hear about King's Sport & Wellness Gym Memberships for the next academic year.
Sign up to the Earlybird mailing list
Classes are free for all King's Sport & Wellness Gym members.
Please note that peak and off-peak membership timings apply to bookings and, therefore will affect which classes you can attend.
Please refer to our membership page to find out about these times.
If you are not a member, you can get a Class or Day pass for £6.
Yes, all classes must be booked to secure your place.
Classes can be booked up to 3 days in advance.
You can book onto classes up to 3 days in advance through the links the Timetables page on our website.
You can cancel class bookings through your account.
Any payments will be automatically credited to your account if cancelled with a minimum of 24 hours notice before the start of the class.
If the class is full, in some cases you will be able to book onto the waiting list.
If a space becomes available before the class you will receive an email and will be asked to accept the booking.
If you are unable to see or book the class online then it may unavailable for bookings due to a one-off cancellation, recent change in our class timetable, or there are no spaces available on either the booking or waiting lists.
If you have missed classes then you may have a penalty on your account preventing you from booking further classes.
You must register your attendance for the class by tapping your card at the gym desk or studio door, or manually signing in with a member of staff at the gym desk.
If you signed in but still received a penalty, please get in touch via email at kingssport@kcl.ac.uk.
Failure to show up for a booked class will result in a no-show mark being added to your account.
Two no-show marks will result in your online booking rights being revoked for 1 month.
Any class booking requests during this period must be made at the gym desk.
Please ensure you arrive at least 5 minutes early to your exercise class.
If you are late for an exercise class you will not be allowed to participate, and your space will be offered to a customer on the waiting list.
Your login details should be created when purchasing a membership using the email provided.
If you do not know the password, or have had your membership manually added from our side (such as free halls memberships) you will need to perform a password reset to gain access to your account.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sport/gyms/halls:
As a King's Resident, you gain access to a variety of King's Sport & Wellness programmes.
Whether it’s joining our BeActive social activities or participating in the Resi Sport & Wellness programme, there’s something for everyone.
Additionally, selected halls include gym access as part of the accommodation package.
Explore your benefits below!
King's Residents should have receive an email from us with information about how to access your free membership.
If you didn't receive this email, you can fill out our Resident Account Creation Request form, when filling out this form you will need to provide evidence that you live within King's Residences.
If you are experiencing difficulties activating your membership, you can speak to a member of staff at one of our campus gyms or contact us via email or phone using the details below.
The following King's Residences get free access to the BeActive & Resi Sport & Wellness programmes:
Battersea
City Vine Street
Hayloft Point
Vauxhall
Atlas
Canada Water
Great Dover Street
Julian Markham
Orchard Lisle and Iris Brook
Stratford One
All residents at Great Dover Street have access to our King's Sport & Wellness Gym, which is located within the residence.
You'll be able to upgrade your membership to get access to our London Bridge & Strand Gyms for just £60.
Opening Times for GDSA Residence Gym
Monday - Sunday: opens 07:00 with last entry at 21:00.
GDSA residents also get access to London Bridge 07:00 - 12:00 on weekdays & 10:00 - 18:00 on weekends
Students living in City-Vine Street will receive free membership for Strand gym and can access Waterloo Gym during the Sport & Wellness Centre opening times  09:00 - 17:00 Monday - Friday.
Residents can upgrade their membership to get access to London Bridge gym.
They will get access to all the usual perks of the gym, including inductions, programs and classes.
Residents of Stamford Street Apartments receive free peak membership to the King's Sport & Wellness Waterloo Gym located on Stamford Street (40 weeks of the year only as it closes for the summer).
Residents of Stamford Street Apartments can also access Strand Gym on weekends from 10:00 - 18:00.
Residents can also upgrade their membership for just £60 to get unlimited access to Strand & London Bridge gym.
Please ensure you have activated your student card at SSA reception allowing you to enter the gym via the courtyard.
Residents of Vauxhall will receive a free peak membership to the King's Sport & Wellness, Strand Gym & Waterloo Gym during the Sport & Wellness Centre opening times  09:00 - 17:00 Monday - Friday.
Residents can update their membership to get access to London Bridge gym.
If you live in either Great Dover Street Apartments , Stamford Street Apartments, Vauxhall & City Vine Street you can upgrade your gym membership for just £60.
Upgrade your membership on flow .
All users will be required to see a member of the team when visiting the gym for the first time to confirm they are a resident before being able to access at peak times.
Our BeActive programme is free for student living in King's Halls.
It has over 35 sessions of sport and activity every week including yoga, 5-a-side football, basketball, tennis, swimming, bootcamp, run club and much more.
Better yet, all sessions take place either on campus, at our Halls or nearby.
Visit the BeActive webpage
Our memberships start from as little as £20.99 a month and give you access to our campus gyms at Strand & London Bridge.
Find out more about gym memberships
If you discover any equipment fault, break or damage, please report these issues to the front desk of the residence, call King's Sport & Wellness Strand at 0207 848 2260 or email us using the contact details on the right.
Great Dover Street Every day: opens 7:00am with last entry at 9:00pm.
Stamford Street Apartments, Waterloo Gym Please check the Waterloo Gym page for opening times.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sport/gyms/memberships:
A King's Sport & Wellness Gym membership will get you access to both of our campus gyms located at Strand, and London Bridge.
Membership includes over 100 studio and virtual classes across our sites and a free training programme written by one of our coaches tailored to your goals.
Your membership gives you access to Strand and London Bridge but please select your Home Site - this is the gym that we will see you at the most.
Located in the iconic Bush House the Strand gym is our largest facility yet with a big gym floor and…
As of Monday, 1 September 2025.
Membership freezes can be requested through your account by going to the ‘Memberships’ tab, ‘Manage Membership’, and ‘Submit Freeze Request’.
Please ensure that your request meets our Terms & Conditions, and provide appropriate documentation as required.
Freezes can be requested with a minimum of 3 days notice.
Read our Terms & Conditions
Membership refunds can be requested through this link .
Please ensure that your request meets our terms and conditions , and provide appropriate documentation as required.
Please allow 7 days for a reply.
Complete this form.
Membership cancellations can be requested through your account by going to the Memberships tab, Manage Membership, and Cancel Membership.
Please ensure that you have read the cancellation policy in our terms and conditions .
For early cancellation and partial refund of a paid-in-full membership, please ensure that your request meets our terms and conditions and complete our Refund Request Form.
You can join online by clicking on the above links and selecting the membership you want.
If you have any questions you can visit us at one of the gyms.
Inductions are a great way to get to know the gym.
Inductions are optional, however we strongly advise having one if you are new to the gym.
Inductions are 30-minute sessions with a King's Sport & Wellness Health & Fitness Coach.
King's Sport & Wellness will not accept any liability for any claim for negligence if an induction is not carried out.
For our full induction policy, please see out terms and conditions .
Yes, but the £6 fee for a day pass will apply.
No, a UK bank account with a physical address (not Monzo or Revolut) must be used to create a Direct Debit membership.
When purchasing a new Pay Monthly membership, you will be charged a pro-rata amount until your chosen payment date, and an additional month up-front.
Your recurring monthly direct debit payments will begin on the following payment date once your initial payment runs out.
Yes, non-members can purchase day passes and class passes through our website before arrival.
You will be required to create an account with us for health and safety reasons.
You can request to cancel your membership at any time through your account as long as it is at least 10 days prior to your next payment date.
Your membership will remain active until your previous payment runs out at the following payment date.
Kings Sport & Wellness Gym membership gives you access to the London Bridge and Strand Gym.
Members do not, however, have access to our Halls Gyms located at Great Dover Street and Stamford Street residences.
These gyms are for residents only.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sport/gyms/gym-experience:
If it’s your first time in the gym or you want to know the basics of how to use our equipment, book in with one of our Health & Fitness coaches.
Inductions are free and can last up to 30 minutes.
They will give you all the information you need to get started within our gyms, help and support and a chance to ask any questions.
We can also provide information on other sport and wellness services we offer at King's.
You can book online or at the gym reception.
Book a Induction at London Bridge.
Book a Induction at Strand.
Active Wellness Scheme provides one-to-one support to any King’s Student or Staff member who wants to become more physically active but is facing challenges in doing so.
Follow our fitness pathway to your personal best with a free six-week programme
Book in a programme with one of our qualified health and fitness coaches to set you on the right path and get the most out of your gym experience.
Whether that be fitness for fun, injury prevention, stress relief, strength building, cardiovascular fitness, or something else.
The coach will guide you through a one-hour gym session built around your experience, needs and interests.
They will then design a programme for you to complete.
This programme is free for all gym members and can be booked once a term.
To sign up for this please book online or at the gym reception.
Check out the coach profiles to find the right one for you.
Book a Programme at London Bridge.
Book a Programme at Strand.
King’s Sport Wellness will be introducing Quiet Time in our gyms.
We recognise that gyms can be intimidating or overwhelming places and we want everyone to feel welcome.
Therefore, Quiet Time will be a time of the week where we turn the music down, making the gym a more accessible space, and helping you achieve your personal best.
Strand: Thursday 15:00-16:00
London Bridge: Wednesday 15:00-16:00
Gym membership gets you access to nearly 100 classes a week, including Yoga, Pilates, Les Mills BODYPUMP and Boxfit.
Our team of coaches and instructors are dedicated to making fitness fun so if you like to dance it out in Zumba or sweat it out at Group Cycle, check out our studio timetable.
Find out more about studio classes
From Monday 20 November 2023, Studio 3 at Strand Gym will become a new Women's Community Studio.
The launch of the studio aligns with our mission to reduce barriers to physical activity participation.
The studio will be a Women-only Space for King’s Sport & Wellness Gym members, operating times as follows:
Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday - Friday: 07:30 - 21:00.
Saturday & Sunday: 10:30 - 17:30
This is so that any operational checks can be done in the absence of a female staff member.
The Studio will be bookable as a private Gym on Wednesdays.
Request to book the Women's Community Studio
Sign up to be the first to hear about King's Sport Gym Memberships for the next academic year.
Book your space for inductions, programmes and specialised training at the London Bridge gym.
Book your space for inductions, programmes and specialised training at the Strand gym.
Jennifer is responsible for managing the King's Sport & Wellness London Bridge Gym .
View full profile and email
King's Sport & Wellness Gym Coach
Health & Fitness Coach
Please wear appropriate clothing as the coach will be guiding you through how to use each piece of equipment.
Please wear appropriate clothing as your coach will be going through the exercises with you, ensuring you know how to perform them correctly.
Your programme can be tailored to your specific needs and injuries.
There are certain coaches trained in injury prevention and corrective exercise.
If you look online at the coach profiles, you can select a coach with expertise in sports injuries.
A programme is created for you by one of our coaches based on your specific needs.
You follow the programme and perform the training on your own.
Personal training is 1 to 1 coaching for every training session.
You will have an initial consultation with your coach, and they will ask if you have any injuries.
The coach can then help tailor a programme based on your specific needs.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sport/physical-activity/beactive:
Across our staff and student timetables, we offer a variety of activities every week to ensure that there is something out there for you.
Buy your BeActive Student membership for just £35 for the year!
Join the staff BeActive programme from just £5 a month to unlock unlimited access.
Try a BeActive Session for just £3!
The staff summer timetable will end on Friday, 15 August.
We will, however, run a reduced timetable until the start of Term 1.
Our full timetable will return on Monday, 29 September.
You can only book if you have a membership.
If you don't have a membership, please see the drop down lists below.
You will need to activate your membership (whether it's a Halls, Standard, Club Recreational, Staff) before you try and book an activity.
Stay up to date with all of the latest news through the BeActive Instagram .
For students who have bought a BeActive membership or a partnered Club Recreational membership.
The Resi Sport & Wellness programme, which aims to proactively support students through…
For King's staff who have bought BeActive membership.
Kings Sport  & Wellness London Bridge - 135 Borough High St, London SE1 1NP
Kings Sport  & Wellness The Strand - 57 Aldwych, Bush House - North West Wing,King's College, London WC2B 4PA
Kings Sport & Wellness Centre Waterloo - 127 Stamford St, London SE1 9NQ.
Guy's Activity Rooms - Guy's Campus, King's College, London SE1 9RT
WEC Gym Room - 10 Cutcombe Rd, London SE5 9RJ
IoPPN Student Union - 16 De Crespigny Park, London SE5 8AB
Archbishop Park - Carlisle Ln, London SE1 7LE
Black Prince Trust- 5 Beaufoy Walk, London SE11 6AA
Borough Academy-  94 Southwark Bridge Road, London SE1 0EX
Brixton Recreational centre- 27 Brixton Station Rd, London SW9 8QQ
Chiswick rugby club- Chiswick Rugby Football Club, Dukes Meadows, London W4 2SH
The Castle Centre - 2 St Gabriel Walk, London SE1 6FG
City Bouldering - 33 Aldgate High St, London EC3N 1AL
Geraldine Mary Harmsworth Park - St George's Rd, London SE1 6ER
Kennington Park- Kennington Park Kennington Park Road LONDON SE11 4BE
If you are a student and do not live in a King’s Halls of Residence, BeActive membership is just £35 for the whole academic year.
This will give you full access to our timetable, campus classes and BeActive sessions.
Once you’ve purchased your membership you can use the booking widget above to start signing up to sessions!
We also offer a session pass to our BeActive sessions for £3 per session.
Purchase your membership for 23/24 academic year.
If you are a resident at King’s Halls then BeActive is completely free!
You get access to all BeActive sessions, including the online timetable, as well as exclusive BeActive Halls sessions.
You’ll get an email at the end of September that tells you how to activate your membership and sign up to activities.
Enter you kings email address (firstname.lastname@kcl.ac.uk) into the activation link below to begin booking
Once you’ve activated your membership you can use the booking widget above to sign up and book onto sessions!
Activate your account.
This membership will give staff of King’s unlimited access to both the BeActive staff timetable.
Please note there is a £2.00 set up fee.
Purchase your membership
BeActive partners with 9 KCLSU clubs to offer club members discounted access to BeActive through a Sports Team membership.
GKT Netball GKT Women’s Football KCL Rugby Football Club KCL Women’s Basketball Pole Swimming/Water Polo Tennis Ultimate Frisbee Volleyball
Contact your club from the list above to apply for your discounted BeActive membership.
For more information, check the KCLSU website.
Absolutely no problem.
BeActive sessions are geared towards trying sports non-competitively, regardless of your level of experience or fitness.
However with swimming there is no coach present, and you must be able to swim competently as this is just a drop in swim session.
To see for yourself, just come along to the next session and  get involved.
You can use the booking widget above to buy your membership, or session pass, register your account and book classes!
We provide sports equipment, such as yoga mats, tennis racquets and footballs, however feel free to bring your own if you prefer.
Sign into your account in the widget above where you can cancel classes and manage your bookings.
Please make sure you cancel any activity bookings at least 5 hours in advance to allow other people to book in your place.
The BeActive timetables run through these dates:
Term 1 - 10 weeks
Starts Monday 23 September 2024 until Sunday 1 December 2024
Please note there is reduced timetable running during reading week: Monday 28 October until Friday 1 November Term 2 - 10 weeks
Starts Monday 13 January 2025 until Sunday 23 March 2025
Please note there is reduced timetable running during reading week:	Monday 17 February until Sunday 23 February
Term 3 - 6 weeks Starts Monday 14 April 2025 until Sunday 18 May 2025
Activities still take place over reading weeks at a reduced timetable, however, are not available for booking on Bank Holidays.
The BeActive Staff timetable runs year-round, except for a 2–3-week break over the Winter Holidays and operates on a reduced timetable during the summer.
Activities do not take place on Bank Holidays.
King’s Sport & Wellness and King’s College London recommends that you consult your doctor regarding the applicability of any recommendations and follow all safety instructions before beginning any exercise program.
When participating in any exercise or exercise program, there is the possibility of physical injury.
If you engage in this exercise or exercise program, you agree that you do so at your own risk, are voluntarily participating in these activities, assume all risk of injury to yourself.
View our BeActive Terms and Conditions and Health Commitment Statement .
Stay motivated, be active and don't miss out.
Be the first to know about all opportunities for King's staff members to stay active.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sport/physical-activity/kings-move:
King’s Move is an app that rewards you for being active.
Whether you’re walking, running, cycling or swimming you can earn points just for being active.
You can then redeem your points for rewards such as a Kings food hot drink, a King’s Sport & Wellness Gym Day pass or a King’s Move Hoody.
Its completely free to join.
No, King's Move is completely free!
The platform was created purely to help motivate the King's community to stay active during their busy schedules.
The Moves+ app currently tracks, steps walked, miles run, miles cycled, metres swum.
Moves+ does not collect data associated with any other activities so, if your tracker/wearable allows you to log different types of activity (eg weights or rowing), then any steps recorded during this activity will not be collected by Moves.
You can directly connect with the following trackers and wearable devices:
Apple Health (iOS devices only)* – no wearable device required.
Fitbit – you will need to purchase a Fitbit wearable device, we recommend the Fitbit Charge 3 or above.
This tracker is recommended for swimmers.
Garmin
Google Fit – no wearable device required.
Strava – no wearable device required.
App is recommended for cyclists and runners.
Withings (Health Mate app) – you will need to purchase a Withings wearable device.
There are more details within the app about the benefits of each of these tracking apps so you can choose the right connection for you.
Visit the ‘My tracker’ section within the profile page.
You can only connect one tracker at a time!
If you have two trackers or apps downloaded on your phone, e.g.
a Fitbit wearable and Google Fit app, we recommend that use one tracker/wearable with Moves+; there is no need to attach Fitbit to Google Fit and Google Fit to Moves+, for example.
Remember that you will need to connect one of the above trackers to your Moves account to earn points.
We have an array of rewards you can redeem from King’s including Kings Sport & Wellness merchandise and activity, Kings Food and Drink and Kings Move clothing.
The rewards available to redeem will be shown in the 'Rewards' page of on the Moves+.
The app will display rewards as: Available – you can redeem this reward.
Coming soon - the reward will become available on a set date in the future.
Not enough points - you cannot redeem until you collect more Moves+ points.
There’s two ways to claim a reward: Merchant Claim Follow the instructions, you will be prompted on pressing claim to hand your device to the salesperson you are redeeming the reward.
They will confirm receipt of the claim on your device.
Code Claim On claiming the reward, a unique code will be revealed.
Instructions will be given on how to use the code to claim your reward.
Follow the instructions, you will be prompted on pressing claim to hand your device to the salesperson you are redeeming the reward.
On claiming the reward, a unique code will be revealed.
Details about 'how to redeem' your reward will be written in the Reward Description of each listing.
Additional information and any Terms will be listed in the Terms of Service of each listing.
It is important to read the Reward Description and Terms of Service in full for each reward before redeeming, so that you are aware of all of the information and any action that may be required by you, the user.
Please note: points will not be refunded for rewards redeemed by accident, or for not following the instructions provided.
Once a reward is claimed it cannot be undone.
The app will always give you a final warning, if you claim by mistake you cannot reclaim your points.
Yes, but you can't join more than one type of challenge, for example: you can't compete in two step challenges.
As per the Terms of Use that were updated in November 2023 - All users points will be reset to 0 on 31 August every year at 08:00, to align with our annual reset.
If users have not redeemed points before that date they will be lost and will not be transferred.
King's Move app is a great motivational addition - collecting points just works on me!
Especially when I noticed how running is rewarded compared to just walking, the app had certainly made me go for that 10k run on more than one occasion.
Apple Health will only sync activity when you open the Moves+ app.
If you don’t open the Moves+ app, any points earned will be rolled over.
We recommend that you open your app every day.
When a tracker or wearable device's software is updated, it can sometimes lead to issues with its connection to Moves+.
If you’re having issues contact us at kingsmove@kcl.ac.uk , so we can either support directly or raise the issue with our Application Provider.
Please check that the verification email has gone to your junk or spam folder.
If you haven’t received it after 24 hours, please let us know.
Read the King's Move Terms of Use .
I have had a difficult year and to be honest, these rewards and challenges were often my only motivation to get out of the house.
If you have any questions or queries about King's Move, please contact us using the details below.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sport/health-and-wellbeing/active-wellness:
The Active Wellness Scheme provides one-to-one support to any King’s Student or Staff member who wants to become more physically active but is facing challenges in doing so.
The expression of interest form is now closed, and applications will open again in the new academic year.
An initiative to help any Student or Staff member in our community overcome barriers to exercising.
We support individuals facing a variety of challenges, which include:
If you would like to check if you are eligible, or check if the Scheme is suitable for you and your needs, please contact us at activewellness@kcl.ac.uk .
When you join the Scheme, you will be paired with an experienced coach for 8 weeks.
Your coach will help you take your first steps in the gym, or make active lifestyle changes to improve your health and wellbeing.
To sign up fill out the form above.
You will work with your coach on a one-to-one basis for 8 weeks.
During this time, you can complete up to six sessions with your coach.
You can choose for your sessions to be on Waterloo, Guy’s, or Strand campuses, or work with your coach remotely via Microsoft Teams.
Your first session will be an introduction, where you will get to know your coach and set your goals.
In the final session, your coach will help you make a plan for staying active.
Your first session with your coach will involve a tour of the gym facility, to help you feel comfortable and prepared for your first workout.
The in-person coaching sessions are focussed on building your confidence in the gym, increasing your knowledge of exercises that suit your preferences, ability, and fitness level, and preparing you to continue exercising independently once you complete the Scheme.
Your coach can also offer advice on wellness topics such as healthy eating, sleep hygiene, and stress management.
The remote coaching option is perfect for those who can't make it to any of the central campuses, or prefer working out at home.
It's designed to help you get active and focus on overall wellness, whether you're aiming to eat healthier, improve your sleep, or manage stress positively.
Your coach will assist you to set goals, plan actions, and review your progress in each session.
As a scheme participant, you will also gain access to the campus gyms , group fitness classes , and the BeActive programme.
Absolutely!
Many of our participants are completely new to the gym and fitness.
Our sessions are designed to be beginner friendly, to gently introduce you to exercise and physical activity.
We understand that starting something new like exercise can sometimes feel daunting or overwhelming.
That’s why our approach is not just about physical activity; it’s about creating a supportive environment where you feel comfortable and motivated to participate.
Most importantly, we want to make sure you enjoy your sessions.
We believe that when you enjoy working out and see the benefits, whether that’s feeling stronger, more energised, or simply enjoying the sense of accomplishment, it becomes easier to stick with it and make positive, lasting changes for your health and wellbeing.
Regular exercise can make a big difference for many health conditions or help you manage them better.
If you have a specific health issue, it is important that your exercise instructor knows about it so they can tailor exercises that are safe and effective for you.
We welcome clients with various conditions including cardiovascular (hypercholesterolemia, hypertension), respiratory (asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), endocrine (diabetes, obesity), skeletal and mobility (osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, osteoporosis, joint replacement, lower back pain), and mental health conditions (depression, stress, and anxiety).
For some health issues, we may ask you to speak to your GP before starting the programme, to get advice on what exercise may suit your needs best, and any precautions you should take.
For any queries about the Active Wellness Scheme, please contact:
23 January 2020
The Active Wellness Scheme is an initiative to help anyone within the King’s community who suffers…
12 December 2019
The Active Wellness Scheme is an initiative to help anyone within the King’s community who suffers…
26 February 2020
25 November 2019

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sport/health-and-wellbeing/resi-sport-wellness:
King’s Sport & Wellness is proud to present Resi Sport & Wellness, a programme exclusively for King’s Residence students.
It offers a variety of opportunities to be active, stay well, make friends, and build healthy habits.
Stay active and connected with the GradPlus Summer Series.
Enjoy weekly Yoga and Pilates at your residence, starting on Monday 16 June for 6 weeks.
City Vine
Earn rewards for investing in your wellbeing and attending Resi Sport and Wellness events and clubs.
Collect your loyalty card from our Student Activator on your first attendance.
Fill out our form to redeem your prize!
See the full Terms & Conditions here.
Our feelings and attitudes can affect our body, which means it is equally as important to nurture our mental health as it is our physical.
Mind & Body sessions will connect the two through several practices such as Yoga, Pilates and Journalling.
The instructors will take participants through a series of movements and mindfulness techniques to help you feel calm and relaxed.
No experience needed.
Dance not only improves physical health, but also contributes to brain health such as memory and focus.
These classes are completely judgement free, participants will practice the foundations and fundamentals of the chosen dance style before learning a short and fun routine each week.
Join a volunteering day trip ‘Move for Good’ which combines doing good for the community with being physically active.
Examples include beach clean ups, transporting donations to food banks or litter picking whilst paddle boarding!
Other events include Winter Ice Skating, Mind & Body Retreats and more.
Does your accommodation have a gym?
Want to increase your knowledge to ensure you are making the most of it?
Our gym coaches will attend once a month to deliver an in-depth group induction, demonstrating how to use all equipment and guidance on how to structure workouts.
Check the timetable to book your slot.
A run club that focuses on social connection and seeing new areas of London.
Meet students from other residences each week at a different location for a 5k run.
The group will be led at a 6.30/7.00 km pace by our friendly student activators
Find your Resi Sport & Wellness Loyalty Card in your Welcome pack at Move In and bring it to each class, club or event you attend.
Earn stamps each time and get rewarded every 5 attendances with a prize!
Redeem here .
Read our Terms & Conditions .
Make sure to follow us on instagram to stay up to date with our latest events!
Follow us on Instagram
Exclusive wellness sessions for King's Residents as part of the ResiLife programme.
If you are a resident at King’s Residences then BeActive is completely free!
You get access to all BeActive sessions, you’ll get an email at the start of September that tells you how to activate your membership and sign up to activities.
Live at Great Dover Street, Stamford Street, Vauxhall or City Vine Street?
Find out what Gym access is included at your halls.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sport/health-and-wellbeing/sport-wellness-centre:
The lower floor of the Wellness Centre is a Halls gym just for the residents of Stamford Street Apartments, City & Vauxhall; please double-check the halls page to see when you have access.
To align with the department's new vision, we have developed the Waterloo gym facility into the King’s Sport & Wellness Centre.
The purpose of the of the facility is to connect with our communities to be their personal best, through delivering unique, distinctive world-class services as well as bringing people together through inclusive and transformative shared experiences.
Bringing together academic partners and professional services, we have created a dynamic learning and living environment where we will co-create services that promote positive life habits and behaviours, optimizing our people and our potential.
This will allow us to strengthen social connections and trust through sport, physical activity and wellness so everyone can work, learn, live and thrive at King’s.
All King’s Staff and Students can access free Physiotherapy, Nutrition and Behaviour Change Sessions at our Sport & Wellness Centre.
Book in for a 1 to 1 Physiotherapy Consultation if you have an injury, we will assess you and provide a treatment plan.
This might include a course of Physiotherapy sessions, referral to further medical investigations or to other healthcare professionals when needed.
The Nutrition Clinic offers a variety of support towards achieving your fitness goals.
We offer guidance through nutrient breakdown, educational resources such as meal plans and how to meal prep, and general advice on how to help you achieve optimal nutrition for enhanced performance and practice.
Want to become more physically active, eat a healthier diet, or quit smoking?
Our new behaviour change service can benefit any member of the King’s community.
Sessions are 40 minutes designed to help you tackle your specific issue, and leave the session with a practical skill or strategy that you can start using to change your own behaviour to improve your health and wellbeing Click here to see the timetable , and book a session here .
Monday - Friday: 08:00 - 18:00.
Internal Departments at King’s can request use of the space via this form .
Please ensure your request is submitted at least 4 weeks in advance of the event date.
King's Sport & Wellness Centre, 127 Stamford Street, London SE1 9NQ
0207 848 4650

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/london-bridge-gym-refurbishment:
King’s Sport & Wellness is pleased to announce that our London Bridge Gym will undergo a refurbishment this September to improve the layout and introduce brand-new equipment helping members get even more from their workouts.
To carry out the upgrade, the gym will be temporarily closed from Thursday 28 August 2025 from 8pm .
We are working hard to complete these works as quickly as possible, which will see new and exciting exercise equipment, including a Smith machine, Glute drive, Olympic bench press, and brand-new Stairmasters all within a revitalised space designed to enhance your training experience.
We anticipate reopening on the 15 September 2025 , subject to the work being completed on schedule.
During this closure period, all students, staff and community who use the London Bridge Gym can continue to access the Strand Gym , as previously mentioned.
Additionally, we are pleased to confirm that you can also use the Waterloo Gym.
Strand Gym:
Opening hours Monday – Friday 7am -10pm Saturday – Sunday 10am-6pm
Waterloo gym located within the Sport & Wellness Centre:
Members will need to ask a staff member at the reception desk of the Sport & Wellness centre to gain access to the gym.
Monday – Friday 7am – 8pm Saturday – Sunday CLOSED
BUCS Universal Membership
Staff & Student members can access nearby London South Bank gym during this time through the BUCS Universal Membership scheme, members will need to create an account via the BUCS website and book ahead of time to gain access.
Find out more here.
Unlock on demand content with Les Mills+
Unlock access to a library of Les Mills+ content via our dedicated KEATS page.
Workouts range from meditation and yoga to bodyattack.
Allowing you to work out wherever you are.
Unlock access.
In line with King’s Sport & Wellness membership policies, if you would prefer to freeze your membership during the closure, rather than use Strand or Waterloo you can submit a freeze request through your account.
To do this:
Log in to your King’s Sport & Wellness account .
Go to the ‘Memberships’ tab.
Select ‘Manage Membership’
Choose ‘Submit Freeze Request’
All freeze requests must be submitted with a minimum of 3 days’ notice.
Please freeze on or before 24th August to align with the closure.
As freezes are processed for a minimum of a month.
Once the London Bridge Gym reopens, we will offer manual unfreezing at reception should you wish to resume your membership before the full month has elapsed.
To learn more about King’s Sport & Wellness memberships, visit our website .
If you have any questions don't hesitate to email us at kingssport@kcl.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/ksw-returnablecups:
09 April 2025
King’s Sport & Wellness introduces returnable coffee cups at Honor Oak Sports Ground to reduce single-use waste.
To further reduce waste and support sustainability, Honor Oak Sports Ground has launched a new returnable coffee cup scheme, replacing all single-use cups on site.
The initiative builds on the success of the returnable pint cup scheme introduced at Honor Oak Sports Ground in 2019.
By expanding the scheme to hot drinks, King’s Sport & Wellness is taking another meaningful step towards minimising the site's environmental impact.
Disposable coffee cups are very difficult to recycle as they are a mix of plastic and paper, which means most end up in an incinerator.
At King’s, we use a lot of disposable cups, with 208,616 being bought across the estate in 2024.
If we make the switch to returnable cups, we will save a lot of raw resources and waste.
Customers who buy a hot drink at Honor Oak Park will pay a £3 deposit towards a returnable cup.
They must then return the cup to a staff member to receive their deposit back.
Used cups are then washed and reused for future customers.
Customers are also welcome to bring their own reusable cups.
As an extra incentive, anyone who brings their own cup six times will earn a free hot drink through the site’s loyalty scheme.
'At King's Sport & Wellness, we are committed to promoting sustainability as well as wellbeing.
The returnable cup scheme at Honor Oak Sports Ground is a further step along the line of reducing our waste and encouraging our community to make simple, impactful changes.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/events/ksw-welcomes25-discover:
15 September 2025 12:30 to 13:00
Online
Bookings will open closer to the event date.
Join our online chat to hear about our programmes and facilities.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/events/ksw-welcomes25-kingsmove:
18 September 2025 10:00 to 26 September 2025 22:00
This offer will open closer to the event date.
To mark National Fitness Day on 18 September, we’re giving our King's Move users the chance to unlock a discounted gym pass for just 50 points.
This reward will be available to redeem once per user from September 18 to 26 and can be used at either Strand or London Bridge .

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/libraries:
Find and borrow library resources
Find out about the different study spaces available
IT facilities available in the libraries
Access and membership arrangements for different types of visitors to King's Libraries
Latest information on disruptions to the services or resources we provide.
Support through the research lifecycle.
New staff guide to get you started with the libraries
NHS staff guide to get you started with the libraries

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/collections:
King's Libraries offer a huge multidisciplinary information resource base including over 1.2 million printed books and ebooks; more than 60,000 journals, reference tools, statistical data, official publications, maps, music scores, multimedia resources, photographs and manuscripts, as well as Archives (5 million items) and Special Collections of international standing.
There are six campus libraries providing information resources relevant to all the subjects taught locally.
In addition we have a range of unique material available in our Archives and Special Collections.
On and off-campus access to electronic resources including library catalogues, bibliographic and full text databases, ejournals, ebooks.
Find out more about finding and borrowing books
On and off-campus access to electronic resources.
200,000 printed works, maps, slides, sound recordings and manuscript material.
Archives are the business owners of the university's Digital Asset Management System (Celum) which manages King's Image Library.
This is the central repository for images, artwork and videos that the university owns, produces or commissions.
It includes images used for current business and older images that have historical value.
Find out more about how to use the King's Image Library
The Image Library is available to all King's College London staff at digitalassets.kcl.ac.uk .
First time users will need to register for an account with IT Services .
Current eresource trials
A showcase of projects from staff, students and researchers.
New for 2024-25 - ebook novels, digital magazines and audiobook platform

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/further-support:
Online or face-to-face support for new or returning students
Academic staff support with reading lists, book ordering and supporting teaching
Online or face-to-face support and training for NHS staff
In line with the College's Equalities Policy, Libraries & Collections are committed to providing inclusive, user-oriented services to support students and staff during their time at King's.
Library staff are available to help users make full use of the services and facilities we offer.
Library Champions are students acting as an important link between students and Libraries & Collections.
Through engaging with the work of the libraries they help bring the views of students across the university into decision making, and ensure that resources and services meet the needs of their departments.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/about:
Libraries & Collections is a key division within the Directorate of Students and Education at King’s College London, supporting the institution’s teaching, learning, research and administrative activity.
Led by the Director, Lis Hannon, Libraries & Collections has four departments.
Education & Learning is responsible for delivering the King’s Education Strategy by: embedding information literacy in the curriculum and creating a community of learners; working across King’s to contribute to the development of the digital environment; supporting the development of  a rich and diverse curriculum by working in partnership on reading list design; and supporting Research Enhanced Learning by delivering skills for researchers and research skills for students.
Research & Impact is responsible for delivering the King's Research Strategy by: increasing the impact and accessibility of King's research; increasing the impact of our research collections including digitisation, digital scholarship & public engagement; reducing the administrative burden on our researchers; ensuring compliance with funder, publisher and legal requirements; developing our subscription model with close alignment to open research; representing King’s in international debates around Open Access, Plan S and publishing.
Service Design & Delivery is responsible for providing services and spaces for the entire King’s community by: providing spaces, physical & digital, that are fit for a '21st Century Library' and ensuring they are managed to maximise impact; providing systems and technology that underpin and enhance service delivery; maximising the availability of our lending collections and delivering first-line services that are welcoming and make the library accessible to all; ensuring customer insight is captured, analysed and fed into the design of our services.
Business Operations is responsible for enabling and underpinning the high-functioning of Libraries & Collections by: ensuring the visibility and engagement of our services through targeted marketing activities; ensuring service resilience through business continuity planning and evidence-based decision making through the provision of business intelligence; ensuring we maximise our financial reach through careful budgeting and planning; ensuring our people are developed, engaged and deployed to ensure the delivery of Library Evolution.
Libraries are located across the five main campuses offering subject-specific resources with help and advice from qualified staff.
Libraries & Collections also offers a portfolio of services to King’s Health Partners an extensive network of affiliated organisations including NHS staff from three internationally renowned trusts: King’s College Hospital, Guy’s and St.
Thomas’ Hospitals, and South London & Maudsley.
Find out more about our future
Our aims and results
Read more about regulations

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/contact:
If you have an enquiry please see our LibAnswers FAQs , created to help you get the answers you need quickly.
Find out how we are using your feedback to improve our services by following our blog, Library Loop .
If you need to speak with a member of our team, LibAnswers pages also have a Live Chat service available 24/7 .
All chats are to a real person / Librarian (no chatbots involved).
Let us know how we're doing, good or bad .
Your feedback helps us improve.
If you are not satisfied with the service you have received and would like to make a complaint please follow our complaints procedure
Are you in a quiet or silent zone and other people being too noisy?
Text the Noise Line on 07883303052 , describing your location (library name and room) and we will respond as soon as possible.
We will not text back unless we need to clarify your location.
Examples:
‘Disruption in Maughan Library, room 2.59’
or ‘Noise in WEC library, quiet zone, 1st floor’
This service operates 09.00 – 19.00 on weekdays and 12.00 - 16.00 at weekends.
(Service not available during Bank Holidays or over Winter/Easter breaks.
Please note that St Thomas's is only staffed a few hours a week and we may be unable to act on your Noiseline message.)
Our LibAnswers pages have searchable FAQs and information on the ways you can contact us, including 24/7 Live Chat.
Student Support Officers provide you with the practical support and information you need to navigate through your studies and any personal issues that may arise.
King's IT specialists are available 24/7/365 to help you get you IT-related queries sorted.
We run workshops on literature searching across all Faculties.
The aim of these sessions is to introduce you to basic literature searching skills and direct you towards key resources for your subject.
For Health & Biomedical Sciences we run workshops on critical appraisal and undertaking searching for a systematic review as well as basic literature searching.
You can book to attend a workshop online via LibCal .
More information on these workshops including dates and how to book can be found here and on the LibGuide for your Faculty.
Workshops usually run 1-2 times monthly and we currently offer both online and in-person sessions.
Drop-ins are held online using Gather.
Gather is a virtual office space that lets you walk up to other people that are in the online space and talk to them.
At the moment, drop-ins are only for learners undertaking systematic reviews.
They are best suited for someone who wants to talk to a librarian but doesn’t have a specific problem or question they want to discuss.
You might just want some general guidance, or an idea of where to start and prefer to talk this through than do independent e-learning or post on a forum.
Upcoming drop-in dates are available on LibCal
We’re offering students one-to-one appointments via Teams or in-person to support you with literature searching.
We can give guidance on:
1-1s last 45 minutes and when you make a booking we will ask for some information on what you want guidance with.
This is so we can prepare and ensure your session is as helpful as possible.
These 1:1s will be run using Microsoft Teams, once you have booked an appointment we will send you a Teams invite.
Choose your time slot and librarian to book a 1-1 appointment

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/libraries/locations:
Libraries have collections linked to particular subjects but are not restricted to any one group of students, for example a medical student can study at the Maughan Library or a Classics student at the Weston Education Centre, you can access them all with your King’s ID card.
You can see the subjects for each library on the map of subject collections .
You can find all our spaces dedicated for Postgraduate and PhD students in the guide to our Postgraduate spaces .
More information about each King's library, including floor plans, can be found via the links below.
Current opening hours for all the libraries .
Home to the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience and also provides facilities to the Dental Institute.
The Faculty of Life Sciences & Medicine and the Dental Institute are based at the riverside Guy's Campus, next to the Shard.
Information about access to other London and UK libraries.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/libraries/borrowing:
Our libraries  are open for browsing, borrowing and study without the need to book before you visit.
If you are new to King's have a look at the Library Guide for your subject to learn more about the libraries.
We have enhanced our online services, and it is expected that you will be able to access what you need when working remotely.
This includes access to our wide range of online databases, journals, ebooks and other online material - including digital content held by Archives and Special Collections .
King’s have provided significant additional funding to ensure the core texts on  reading lists are provided in ebook format where it is possible to do so, if you are having difficulty accessing a resource online please contact us .
If a book or journal article is not available at King’s at all, then it may be possible to obtain it via the interlending and document delivery service .
Due to licencing restrictions some resources are not available off campus – these resources will be clearly marked.
We continue to work with publishers to make these resources available off campus wherever possible.
Please access resources via our A-Z list of databases and Journal Search so that the King’s login box appears, and you are able to access the content.
If you are a NHS staff member you will need an NHS OpenAthens username and password to access NHS eresources .
Where journal articles are not on NHS OpenAthens, NHS Staff are able to request them from our collections without visiting a library.
If you are new to King’s or need a refresher on how to search for resources you can visit our Getting Started guide
Books cannot be issued without your King's ID card , if you need to collect a Student King's ID card please check the situation via Student Services Online .
The following document outlines:
•	Borrowing items, including loan periods
•	Renewing items
•	Returning items, including postal returns
Manage your library account, sign in via Library Search.
Free pre-paid book returns service within the UK
Find online lists of books, journals and websites your lecturers expect you to read for your…
Find books on shelves and online, full text journal articles, request books, pay fines and more.
The Reading Lists system will let you look up online lists of books, journals and websites your lecturers expect you to read for your lectures and seminars.
Type in your module code or use a keyword search to find your online Reading List.
All of our books and most journal articles can be located with Library Search.
You can find self-service kiosks around the libraries allowing you to borrow and return items.
You will need to your King's ID card to use the kiosks.
All standard loan books are auto-renewed unless requested by another user.
If a book or journal article is not available at King’s at all, then it may be possible to obtain it via the interlending and document delivery service.
Libraries & Collections provides access to a wide range of eresources for students and staff.
Many of the ebooks, databases and ejournals are available off-campus.
If you are a NHS staff member you will need an NHS OpenAthens username and password to access NHS eresources
Our blog where we share how we are using your feedback to improve our services
Why we have fines and what we do with this money?

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/libraries/study-spaces:
There are different types of study spaces around libraries, the information below gives an overview of what we offer.
Libraries & Collections are here to make your experience of studying in the library as comfortable and productive as possible.
To help achieve this, it is important that everyone shows respect for others and the library itself.
C onsider other users and don’t write or highlight in them.
A lert library staff of repairs, don’t try to DIY.
R emember to leave them as you found them and take anything left inside with you.
E ating can be messy, so keep your food and drinks away from your books.
Library books are for everyone.
Help us look after this shared resource.
Are you in a quiet or silent zone and other people are being too noisy?
‘Student talking loudly on phone, Maughan Library, room 2.59’
or ‘Large group chatting, WEC library, floor 2 open plan area’
This service is currently operating Monday to Friday between 09.00 – 19.00 and 12.00 - 16.00 on Saturday and Sunday.
Please note that St Thomas's is only staffed a few hours a week and we may be unable to act on your Noiseline message).
There are three different Zones in the libraries which are colour-coded or marked on the floor plans for each library .
Note: At the Maughan Library we have mapped and colour-coded the collections on the floor plans, at  this library all zones are Quiet unless marked with the Silent or Discuss icons below.
In all the libraries there are bookable Group Study rooms (GS) for between 3-12 people, with AV screens.
Please note, the person making the booking is accountable for the conduct of the group.
Group Study is also possible in other areas of the library, such as the Discussion Zones or Study Pods (SP).
Study Pods (SP) are available at the Franklin-Wilkins, Weston Education Centre and Maughan libraries.
The Maughan library Study Pods (SP) are non-bookable spaces, see the floor plans or ask a member of staff where they are.
Study Pods (SP) at the Franklin-Wilkins and Weston Education Centre Library can be booked via the Library Booking system.
Soundproofed Video Call Pods (VP), designed for single person usage, are ideal if you need to make a private call for an interview whilst in the libraries.
Available at the Franklin-Wilkins and New Hunt's House Libraries, these are bookable via the Library Booking system.
There are ten Assistive Technology Rooms (AT) spread across the six King's library sites.
Each room is equipped with ergonomic workstations with adjustable desks and chairs, Dragon headsets, a scanner and a printer.
These rooms are bookable by registered users only.
There are Postgraduate Study Zones available at the following libraries:
Franklin-Wilkins, The Maughan, New Hunt’s House, Weston Education Centre.
Look for PG on the floor plans for each library.
Most of these areas are accessible by swipe card access with your King's ID card.
We know that studying can be demanding, so we encourage you to take regular breaks, stay active, and prioritise your physical and mental health.
We have a dedicated Wellbeing Room in the Franklin-Wilkins Library if you need a quiet, comfortable space to reset.
While it’s important to rest and recharge during study sessions, extended sleep is not permitted in any area of the library.
Our spaces are designed to be safe and supportive for everyone, so please be aware that staff may wake you if necessary.
For support with your health whilst studying, you can speak confidentially with a Faculty Wellbeing Advisor from the Student Wellbeing Team or attend a term-time Drop-In Hub for additional advice and support.
Find your favourite spots on campus to revise and relax to get the best out of your study sessions

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/libraries/facilities:
You can find Printers around the libraries – they print, copy or scan to email.
You will need to register on a printer the first time you use one.
Just send your documents to Follow Me Printing and they will be released from any working printer across King’s through use of your King’s ID card.
Send your printing from your personal device by attaching your document and sending an email from your King’s account to emailprint@kcl.ac.uk
You can top-up online to add credit to your print account.
There are Computer Rooms and some study spaces equipped with PCs in the libraries.
You can find the nearest available PC using the PC free service.
You can find options for locations of PCs and Printers across the campuses on the IT Student Computing locations webpage.
Laptop loan cabinets can be found in the libraries and as a King's student you can borrow a laptop for free for 72 hours.
If you intend to take a laptop off campus you will need to log on before taking it off campus, otherwise you won't be able to use it.
King’s IT offers 30 minutes free charging time for your personal device, in partnership with ChargeBox.
Simply find a ChargeBox, turn off any alarms and set your device to silent, connect your device, lock the box, and return 30 minutes later to a charged device.
Chargeboxes are available at our Strand, Waterloo, Guy's and Denmark Hill campuses.
You can access free Wi-Fi in all the libraries using either:
eduroam - use your King's username in the form k1234567@kcl.ac.uk for example, and your normal password.
The Cloud - a free commercial service that provides guest Wi-Fi
Having difficulties logging into your email, connecting via King's RemoteApp, connecting to Wi-Fi or navigating through a tricky application?
Get in touch with the King's Service Desk - available 24/7 all year round.
8888@kcl.ac.uk
020 7848 8888
The IT TechBars are open for in-person, on-campus IT support from 10am to 4pm, Monday to Friday.
Find us in the Maughan, New Hunt’s House libraries and Franklin-Wilkins building (room 2.32).
Every student and member of staff at King's gets a free MS Office 365 licence with an option to download applications on up to five personal devices.
Enjoy industry-standard business applications such as Excel, PowerPoint and Skype for Business.
You will also get a 1TB of secure online storage as well as ongoing support from both Microsoft and King's IT.
More about accessing O365

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/libraries/access:
King’s students are automatically registered with the library, your King’s ID card is your Library Card to give you access to all the King's libraries.
Members of King’s staff can join the library using self-service registration .
We also welcome visitors from the UK and around the world, there are specific access or membership arrangements in place for various visitor categories, details in the pages linked below.
Please note that we do not accept walk-up requests for access outside of the arrangements outlined in these pages.
The King's College London Libraries are not open to members of the public, except for the Maughan Library:
Library access for a NHS staff member
Library access for a King's College London Alumni
Library access for a member of the University of London
Library access for a member of other higher education institutions
Library access for an independent researcher
Library access for a member of an associated organisation
Library access for a member of the M25 Consortium

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/collections/eresources:
Libraries & Collections provides access to a wide range of eresources for its students and staff, many of these databases and ejournals are available off-campus.
When accessing eresources we recommend that you use our links to ejournals , databases , ebooks , video and streaming resources which make it easier if you have to log in.
Find out more about how to access eresources
Library Guides provide information about finding the resources for your subject.
New in 2024-25, use the Libby App or open on your mobile device to enjoy free ebook novels, digital magazines and audiobooks.
Below are some examples of the titles for LBGT+ History Month:
Kanopy video streaming service with 30,000+ films
An extensive collection of TV and radio programmes, documentaries, news broadcasts, and more
Explore the world's knowledge, cultures, and ideas
Libraries & Collections provides you with access to over 390,000 ebooks covering a wide range of subjects.
Most ebook platforms can be accessed off campus using your usual King’s username and password.
Ebook Central is an ebook platform that allows King’s to make a greater range of ebooks available to our users that we couldn't afford to purchase outright, by allowing them to be "borrowed" for twenty-four hours.
Currently, we have access to over 200,000 titles through the Ebook Central, it can be accessed through A-Z Databases by searching the databases for Ebook Central.
You will need to log in with your King’s username and password.
Libraries & Collections subscribes to over 25,000 electronic journals which are available to staff and students of King’s College as well as providing access to thousands more open- access or freely available titles.
If you are off campus then you will need to log in using your King’s username and password for most resources.
BrowZine brings together scholarly ejournals from multiple publishers and platforms and displays them in an easy to browse format.
It allows you to browse current and back issues of most of our titles.
King’s subscribes to a broad range of electronic databases which can help you find articles and information for your research.
The type of database you should use will depend on your subject area.
Guidance on which databases to use can be found on the on the Library Guides.
You can search or browse for databases using A-Z Databases.
Libraries & Collections subscribes to a number of film and video streaming services that include content such as movies, documentaries, foreign films, classic cinema, independent films, TV programmes and educational videos on a wide range of subjects.
You can search or browse using A-Z Databases and setting the database type to ‘video’.
You will need to log in using your King’s username and password for most resources.
With the Libby App you can enjoy free ebook novels, digital magazines and audiobooks.
Here's how to access:
Download the Libby App or open Libby on your device
Search for King's College London
Sign in with your King's credentials
Browse, borrow and read!
NHS staff can register for an NHS OpenAthens username and password
Once you have registered you can use the NHS OpenAthens account to access NHS eresources (databases, journals, ebooks and elearning) from any computer with Internet access.
Help King's libraries to improve resources and services to meet students' needs

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/collections/archives:
King’s College London Archives - including the Liddell Hart Centre for Military Archives - hold a unique and internationally significant range of archival and printed sources, ensuring their preservation and providing access to King's students, academics and other colleagues, the global research community and the general public.
Please contact us via archives@kcl.ac.uk to schedule an appointment and include the following information:
Please also note that where material is held offsite, we will need a minimum of seven days' notice prior to your visit.
Such material is flagged in the catalogue and can be checked on this list .
We offer a remote enquiry service to all our users including requests for the use of quotations or digital images in published works, online or for other commercial and non-commercial purposes.
We will also provide general information about our collections and advice on how to search our catalogue - and invite you to explore our online exhibitions , Research Guides and other resources via the tabs and links below.
If you would like to deposit with us, please provide as much detail as possible and we will contact you to organise the review and potential collection of material.
If you are a member of King’s teaching staff and wish to discuss onsite or online sessions for your students in archival research skills and/or exploring our collections, please email your requirements and we shall contact you to make arrangements.
The Archives’ rich and extensive collections are continually growing and particular subject strengths include:
Find out more about using the archives
The King's College London Archives welcomes all King’s students and staff, and members of the public, to use our collections.
Find out more about visiting the Reading Room and accessing material including contact details and opening hours
Online catalogues of King's College London Archives, including the Liddell Hart Centre for Military…
Key collections include:
Founded in 1964, the Liddell Hart Centre for Military Archives is a leading repository for research into modern defence policy in Britain - its strategy, planning and conduct.
Their significance has been recognised through the Arts Council England’s Designated Outstanding collection scheme .
The Centre holds the private papers of over 800 senior defence personnel who held office from 1900 onwards.
Individual collections range in size from a single file to the hundreds of items contained within the archives of Capt.
Sir Basil Liddell Hart.
Collections may comprise many types of material: diaries, correspondence, working papers and files, texts of lectures, memoranda, unpublished memoirs, audio and video tapes of events and recollections, transcripts of interviews, photographs, maps and plans, and press cuttings.
The scope of the holdings is vast, and ranges from high-level defence policy and strategic planning (for example, in the papers of FM Viscount Alanbrooke and General Lord Ismay) down to the command of individual units in the field.
Holdings cover all the armed services, (including the special services) and all wars, campaigns and peacekeeping initiatives in which British forces were engaged or acted as observers or specialist advisers, from the Second Boer War (1899-1902) onwards.
The Centre's collections are also of value for a range of subjects not necessarily associated with military history including the history of science and journalism, and the study of racial interaction and colonial administration.
An extremely rich resource for biographers is Liddell Hart's extensive correspondence with public figures of his day such as Robert Graves, Lord Beaverbrook and TE Shaw.
More recent acquisitions include the collections of TV documentary makers
Our reference library, the core of which is the former private library of Capt.
Sir Basil Liddell Hart, forms an integral part of the resources of the Centre, covering a range of military history topics from the late nineteenth century onwards.
All staff and students, researchers and external visitors are encouraged to use the extensive collections and expert assistance available in the Archives - and from our colleagues in the Foyle Special Collections Library.
The Archives support the University’s teaching programme by welcoming group and individual visits by students and staff, including introductory and skills-based sessions, and timetabled teaching with hands-on use of archive documents designed for specific courses or modules.
The collections provide an invaluable teaching and learning resource, and faculty members who think their students might benefit are encouraged to contact Archives directly or to submit a form through the Libraries & Collections Teaching Offering Libguide.
Anyone wishing to consult original archive documents and manuscripts is welcome to do so in the Archives Reading Room where we will first register you as a Reader.
Many of these items are unique and irreplaceable, so we supervise the Reading Room to maintain the security and preservation of our collections for the benefit of all our Readers.
This means we ask everyone visitors to observe the following regulations:
Please note that you may be refused entry to the Archives Reading Room and access to original materials if you don't strictly follow the regulations.
All researchers must register with us before they are permitted to view the archives, by completing a Reader Registration form (pdf) and presenting two forms of identification, one photographic and one proof of address as listed here.
This can be done on the day of your visit.
Find out more about how to register for access to King's Archives
If you wish to reproduce material from the archives in publication, you must obtain permission from us.
A publication may be any of the following:
Find out more about reproducing materials from the Archives
Readers are welcome to order copies of material for the purpose of private study either in person or remotely.
We provide the following services:
Please note that copies of copyright material are made solely for the purpose of private study.
Readers can make no further use of copied material without first seeking the permission of the copyright holder.
Find out more about obtaining copies of materials from the Archives
King’s College London Archives - including the Liddell Hart Centre for Military Archives - strives to be the best university archive in the UK.
Its expert staff provide access to a growing high-quality collection for teaching, research, and public engagement.
Its collecting policy supports the strategic vision of the university but its collections are maintained for free for the public and social good; and in the expectation of the widest possible dissemination for information and learning, digital scholarship, and creative reimagination.
As an accredited archive service and in accordance with the UK standard for archive services, we seek to ensure that our collections:
For further information please see our policy documents:
Archives Services collection development policy (pdf, 276 KB)
Archives Services collection information policy (pdf, 193 KB)
Archives Services collection care policy (pdf, 194 KB)
The principles guiding the provision of access to King’s College London College Archives and the Liddell Hart Centre for Military Archives are explained in our access policy, available here:
Archives Services access policy (pdf, 256 KB)
Archives staff are always keen to discuss potential donations and deposits.
For more information please look at the information in the PDF below:
LHCMA depositors leaflet (pdf, 7.07 MB)
The following Research Guides combine the resources of the College Archives, the Liddell Hart Centre for Military Archives and the Foyle Special Collections Library.
World War One (PDF) Medicine and Healthcare (PDF)
© All research guides are the copyright of King's College London and are supplied for private research only.
Materials available specifically from King's College London Archives for a range of popular research topics, both from the Liddell Hart Centre for Military Archives and the College Archive collections, are highlighted in the following guides:
Victorian Lives celebrates the lives of 19th century staff from King’s by offering nearly 200 short biographies.
The initial project engaged volunteers from the University of the Third Age (U3A) to research details of academics, domestic staff and technicians, representing a fascinating cross-section of Victorian society.
King’s College London Archives preserve extensive collections.
Volunteers consulted lists of former staff, correspondence, minute books, College Calendars and other publications.
Plans are to add further biographies soon.
More than half of the King’s College London Calendars published between 1831 and 1986 have been scanned and are available online to be consulted and downloaded.
Currently more than half those published between 1831 and 1986 have been scanned so that their pages can be consulted and downloaded.
The calendars are a valuable source of information about the year-to-year history of King’s including notable events and achievements, lists of students and staff by department and faculty, information on courses and examinations and details of degrees, prizes and scholarships awarded.
As well, the texts of the calendars available have been extracted via OCR (optical character recognition) and are searchable.
The Serving Soldier provides access to thousands of digital copies of diaries, correspondence, scrapbooks, photographs and other unique sources scanned as part of a JISC-funded project.
It provides insight into lives of servicemen and families from the late nineteenth century until World War Two.
King's College London Archives are one of five external partners to have contributed their collections to Codebreakers: Makers of Modern Genetics , a major digitisation resource from the Wellcome Library.
Key documents from the papers of Professor Maurice Wilkins and the Department of Biophysics at King's can be accessed through the website.
This 123-partner project aggregates the descriptions of archive collections in London institutions.
AIM25 is a major research resource and new institutional records are being added regularly, most recently from the London Metropolitan Archives, the National Maritime Museum and Kew Gardens.
'You matter to the last moment of your life' project catalogued the papers of Dame Cicely Saunders (1918-2005) held at King's College London Archives.
Thanks to a research resources award from the Wellcome Trust a full-time cataloguer was employed to catalogue the collection of more than 100 boxes of material assembled by this pioneer of the early hospice movement.
For the story behind the project, please see the Archives of Dame Cicely Saunders blog and Twitter at Dame CS Archives .
Archives & Special Collections participated in the AHRC funded project Scrambled Messages .
This project - jointly led by King’s, the Courtauld and UCL - explored The Telegraphic Imaginary 1857-1900 and the catalogues of the Charles Wheatstone collections were enhanced for interpretation by the project’s researchers.
Staff assembled a blog celebrating the Liddell Hart Centre at 50 between January and April 2014 by selecting 50 items relating to World War One that reflect the richness of our collections.
This marked the Centre's 50th birthday as well as commemorating the centenary of the start of World War One.
The items were chosen because they are important, poignant, amusing, thought-provoking, arresting or simply strange!
A website based on the records of the Royal British Nurses' Association, Pioneering Nurses reveals the fascinating personal lives and careers of those who were among the first nurses to sign up to a professional register in 1890.
This site was created by the Archives and volunteers from the University of the Third Age.
Archives and the University of the Third Age (U3A) have created 'Lest We Forget' , a website commemorating the war dead of King's College and the institutions with which it has merged, including the Medical Schools of Guy's and St Thomas' Hospitals.
The website allows users to search and browse detailed biographies of the war dead, including photographs.
A series of online exhibitions provides a rich and colourful introduction to the history of King's and to our unique Archives collections.
Since it began in 1988, the Liddell Hart annual lecture has attracted notable guest speakers on topics which range from the role of intelligence in World War Two, through to the implications of the mass media on modern warfare and the psychiatric effects of war.
The most recent lecture was delivered by Michael S Neiberg, Chair of War Studies at the United States Army War College in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, on Monday 29 October 2018.
Liddell Hart himself said that war was always a matter of doing evil in the hopes that good may come of it.
This talk explored the good that he and others hoped they might be able to forge from the evils of 1914-1918.
It focussed largely on the new role of the United States, examining America's newly-found power, its attempt to base the peace on principles rather than diplomatic dealing, and its fundamental lack of understanding of the problems the war had unleashed.
It ended with a case study on America's surprising and long-forgotten role in the Syria crisis of 1919.
We are happy to answer enquiries about our collections and finding aids, visiting and depositing material - and can undertake basic research on your behalf.
archives@kcl.ac.uk
+44 (0)20 7848 2015
Strand Building, Strand Campus, Strand, London, WC2R 2LS

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/collections/special-collections:
The Foyle Special Collections Library holds over 240,000 items – printed books, pamphlets and periodicals, as well as maps, slides, manuscripts, typescripts and photographs – ranging in date from the 15th century to the present day.
Many items are extremely rare; some are unique.
All offer a wealth of opportunities for teaching and research, and together they form part of our local, national and international documentary heritage.
The Foyle Special Collections Library is open to King's staff and students and to external readers.
Monday - Friday, 10.00-13.00 and 14.00-17.00.
If you are a current King’s College London student or member of staff there is no need for you to pre-book your visit, though you are welcome to do so if you wish.
Please do get in touch with us with any enquiries you may have about our collections and how to use them.
If you are an external visitor, we recommend you book your visit in advance.
To arrange your visit please contact us at specialcollections@kcl.ac.uk at least one working day in advance of your preferred visit date and include the following information:
All visitors must present a photographic form of identification, e.g.
university identification card, passport, driving licence, or a letter of introduction.
Please note: the entrance to Special Collections is immediately on your right as you enter the main Maughan Library gates.
Please ring the buzzer and Security will bring you through to a member of Library staff.
Please bring your own laptop as there are no PCs available for use in the Reading Room.
Digitised versions of many of the items held in the Foyle Special Collections Library are available.
Please see more information as to where these can be found in our Online resources portal below.
This section also includes wider resources related to special collections and the history of the book, as well as full text databases of historical texts and  useful resources such as podcasts, videos and blogs.
If you are a member of King's teaching staff, we are happy to discuss developing special collections seminars for you and your students.
We encourage you to explore our collections via our webpages, online exhibitions and the Digital Scholarship webpage .
We have created a KLASS module for King's students, entitled Using Special Collections in Your Studies .
This is a useful module to complete, for those students interested in finding out about how to access and use items from Special Collections in their studies.
We have also created an introductory video entitled 'Getting started with Special Collections', which is available to view below.
Information on all Libraries & Collections services is available here.
Find out more about using Special Collections
The Foyle Special Collections Library welcomes all King’s students and staff, and members of the public, to use our collections.
Find out more about accessing the library including opening hours
The historical library collection of the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) was…
The Marsden Collection comprises books from the library of William Marsden (1754-1836), orientalist…
The Rare Books Collection holds some 12,000 printed books, dating from 1483.
The HG Adler Collection was the personal reference library of the novelist, poet and Holocaust…
The St Thomas's Historical Collection comprises the pre-1901 holdings of the St.
Thomas's Hospital…
Overview of all the collections held by Special Collections.
The collections range in date from the fifteenth century to the present day and in subject from human anatomy to Modern Greek poetry.
The largest collection, the FCDO Historical Collection , comprises material from the former library of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, transferred to King’s in 2007, and contains over 140,000 items.
Topics covered in depth by this collection include: exploration, discovery and travel; war and cold war; diplomacy and peace-keeping; the growth, rule and decline of empires; colonial emigration and settlement; the growth and abolition of the Atlantic slave trade; trade, transport and communication; anthropology and natural history.
Many of these areas of strength are complemented in our other collections, such as the Rare Books Collection and the Marsden Collection .
William Marsden (1754-1836) worked for the East India Company in Sumatra before joining the staff of the Admiralty, where he rose to the post of First Secretary.
A great linguistic scholar and collector, he built up an important library of works on travel and languages.
This collection contains a number of extremely rare Bibles, including what may be a unique surviving copy of the Book of Genesis in the Algonquin language, printed in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in 1655.
The history of Germany in the twentieth century is a notable strength of our collections.
The libraries of HG Adler and Gert-Joachim Glaessner explore Hitler’s Germany and East Germany (1945-90), respectively, while the Cohn Collection provides in-depth coverage of the legal systems of German-speaking Europe in the twentieth century.
We also have a wealth of medical material in our collections and hold the historical library collections of the constituent medical schools of the College – St.
Thomas’s , Guy’s and King’s – as well as that of the Institute of Psychiatry , reflecting the College’s long and illustrious tradition of medical teaching and research.
A significant amount of medical material can be found in some of our other collections, such as the Early Science Collection and the Rare Books Collection .
The FCDO Historical Collection also holds works on tropical medicine and public health administration in the former British Empire.
The Foyle Special Collections Library has also submitted 2,000 items from its medical collections to the UK Medical Heritage Library project.
This project involved ten research libraries in the UK and is focused on the history of medicine and related disciplines in the 19th and early 20th century.
For more information please see our Online resources tab above, and the links below to the items digitised in the project.
UKMHL project homepage
Items submitted to the project from King's
The Rare Books Collection holds some 12,000 printed books ranging from a 1483 Venice printing of Silius Italicus’s Punica to first editions of the novels of Charles Dickens and the Left Book Club’s 1937 edition of Orwell’s The road to Wigan Pier , while the Early Science Collection’s holdings span the scientific achievements of the period 1801-1914, from Darwin to railway construction and from botany to cookery.
We also hold a number of other important scientific collections such as: the Wheatstone Collection , the former library of Sir Charles Wheatstone (1802-1875), pioneer of the electric telegraph; the De Beer Collection , which contains books, journals and pamphlets collected by Sir Gavin De Beer relating to Charles Darwin and evolution; the Stebbing Collection , the former library of the Rev.
Thomas Roscoe Reed Stebbing (1835-1926), covering natural history in general but with a strong emphasis on marine invertebrates; the Ruggles Gates Collection which consists of the books and pamphlets of Professor Reginald Ruggles Gates (1882-1962), geneticist and botanist and is strong in anthropology, eugenics, genetics.
Literary collections include the Adam Collection , the former library of the literary journalist Miron Grindea (1909-95), who founded the Adam International Review ; this contains copies of their works inscribed to Grindea by such major literary and artistic figures as Samuel Beckett, Marc Chagall and T.S.
Eliot.
King's College London is traditionally strong in theology as an academic discipline and collections held at the Foyle Special Collections Library reflect the College's history and traditional strength in this area.
The Library has extensive theological collections, including many Bibles, liturgical works, prayer-books, hymnals and works on sacred music, ranging in date from the late fifteenth to the twentieth centuries.
Important theological collections include the Box Collection , the former library of Canon George Herbert Box (1869-1933), which is strong in Judaica, Biblical history, Biblical commentary, and the languages, literature and history of the Middle East; the Rainbow Collection , part of the former library of Dr.
Bernarr Rainbow (1914-1998), which contains Christian and Jewish hymnals and devotional music, the Ratcliff Collection , the former library of Canon Edward Craddock Ratcliff (1896-1967), former Professor of Liturgical Theology at King's, which is strong in the areas of Christian liturgy and Church history; the Relton Collection , the former library of Herbert Maurice Relton (1882-1971), former Professor of Dogmatic Theology at King's, the focus of which is on Christian dogmatic theology and ecclesiastical history.
Below is a list of the incunabula held in the Foyle Special Collections Library.
The image shown is an opening from Hortus Sanitatis , 1491
The Foyle Special Collections Library holds 17 incunabula, or books from the infancy of printing; the term is properly applied to works printed before 1501 and derives from the Latin term for swaddling clothes.
All are fully recorded on the Library catalogue and feature, with images, in our online exhibition on Incunabula
We have contributed to the Material Evidence in Incunabula project coordinated by the Consortium of European Research Libraries (CERL) of which King's is a member.
Full details of our incunabula appear on the project database, alongside those of thousands of other incunabula held by libraries around the world.
Our incunabula, ordered by date of publication:
Silius Italicus.
Punica .
Venice: Baptista de Tortis, 1483.
[Rare Books Collection FOL.
PA6695.A2] ISTC 2nd edition: is00507000
The oldest book in our collection is this 1483 Venice edition of the epic Latin poem Punica , by Silius Italicus (ca 28-ca 103 AD).
At over 12,000 lines, Punica is the longest Latin poem to survive from antiquity and tells the story of the Second Punic War.
Our copy was acquired by King’s in 1961 as part of its purchase of the library of Petrus Johannes Enk, professor of Latin at the University of Groningen.
Enk’s collection of over 7,000 volumes forms a significant component of our holdings in classical literature.
Paulus Florentinus.
Breviarium totius juris canonici, sive, Decretorum breviarum.
Memmingen: Albrecht Kunne, 1486.
[Rare Books Collection Z239.5 K9 A7] ISTC 2nd edition: ip00180000
A copy of the third edition of a treatise on canon law, the first edition having been printed in Milan in 1479.
This edition, printed in the Swabian town of Memmingen by Albrecht Kunne, has the distinction of being the first book containing a portrait of the author to be printed in Germany; our copy unfortunately lacks the first four leaves, including the portrait leaf.
Homer [ Opera ] .
Greek.
Florence: Bernardus Nerlius and Nerius Nerlius, 18 March 1487/88.
PA4018 A2] ISTC 2nd edition: ih00300000
The first printed edition of a major Greek work in its original language, comprising the Iliad and Odyssey of Homer.
This editio princeps was edited by the Greek scholar Demetrius Chalcondylas.
Presented to King's by Robert Hutton, Librarian from 1931 to 1958, it is bound in 18th century morocco, with gilt tooling.
Guglielmo da Saliceto.
Summa conservationis et curationis .
Venitiis imp[re]ssum: [Marinus Saracenus], [1489] [Guy's Hospital Medical Collection FOL.
R127.5 DAS] ISTC 2nd edition: is00033000
The contributions of Guglielmo da Saliceto (1210-1276 or 7) to medicine were principally diagnostic.
He recorded crepitus (the grating sensation when fractured surfaces rub together) as a sign of fracture, distinguished between arterial and venous bleeding and noted contralateral paralysis in skull wounds and the venereal origins of chancres and buboes.
In the days before Vesalius, when knowledge of human anatomy and physiology was sketchy, these conclusions cannot have been easy to reach.
Francesco Petrarca.
Trionfi, sonetti e canzoni .
Venice: Petrus de Plasiis Cremonensis, dictus Veronensis, 1490.
PQ4477.A3 V4] ISTC 2nd edition: ip00386000
Petrarch's allegorical poems on the Roman ceremony of triumph , featuring the victorious returns of Love, Chastity, Death, Fame, Time and Eternity.
Includes six full-page woodcuts at the beginning of each 'trionfo', other decorative features and commentaries.
In a 19th century vellum binding, with a gilt-tooled red leather spine label, which was probably taken from an earlier binding.
Hortus sanitatis .
Mainz: Jacob Meydenbach, 1491.
[St.
Thomas's Hospital Medical Collection FOL.
RS79 H67] ISTC 2nd edition: ih00486000
The last of the great medieval herbals to be published before Columbus’s discovery of America transformed European botanical knowledge, Hortus sanitatis (the Garden of Health) was printed in Mainz by Jacob Meydenbach, also thought to have been its compiler.
It draws heavily on an earlier work, the Gart de Gesundheit , printed in Mainz by Peter Schoeffer in 1485, but also includes much additional material.
Illustrated throughout with lively woodcuts (hand-coloured in this copy), it includes details of hundreds of plants, animals and minerals, and combines practical advice with folklore and legend.
Pietro d'Argelata.
Cirurgie Petri de la Cerlata .
Venice: [s.n.], 1492.
[Guy's Hospital Medical Collection FOL.
R127.5 DAS] ISTC 2nd edition: ia00952000
Pietro d'Argelata (d 1423) was an Italian surgeon who taught surgery at Bologna.
He was one of the first to use sutures (stitching) and drainage tubes, and was also a competent dentist, although this was fairly common, as dentistry was not a separate profession at this time.
He was the most distinguished pupil of Guy de Chauliac’s pupils: Guy de Chauliac (ca 1300-68) was the most eminent surgeon of his day.
John of Gaddesden.
Rosa Anglica practica medicine a capita ad pedes .
Pavia: Franciscus Girardengus and Joannes Antonius Birreta, 24 January 1492 .
R127.5 GAD] ISTC 2nd edition: ij00326000
Rosa Anglica is the first medical printed book to have been written by an Englishman.
Thought by some commentators to be the inspiration behind the character of the physician in Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales , John of Gaddesden (1280?-1361) received his medical training at Oxford.
Written in 1305-07, his treatise on medicine, generally known as Rosa Anglica , circulated widely in manuscript and later in printed form for the next 200 years, the 1492 Pavia edition represented in our collections being the editio princeps .
Hartmann Schedel.
Liber chronicarum .
(copy 1)
(copy 2)
Nuremberg: Anton Koberger, 1493.
[Rare Books Collection OVERSIZE D17 N91] ISTC 2nd edition: is00307000
The Liber chronicarum , or Nuremberg chronicle, as it is also known, is a history of the world from a biblical perspective, written by the German humanist scholar Hartmann Schedel (1440-1514).
This ‘biblical paraphrase’, encompassing a history of the world, is divided into seven ages with the first age dealing with Creation to the deluge and the final age covering the end of the world and the Last Judgement.
The book includes 1,809 woodcut images and is regarded as one of the finest illustrated books of the 15th century.
The woodblock subjects would have been sketched in first and the text set to fit in the remaining space.
The two copies held differ considerably in format, as is described in the online exhibition referenced at the top of this panel.
Bible.
Low German .
1494.
De Biblie mit vlitigher achtinghe ...
Mit vorluchtinghe vnde glose des hochghelerden Postillatoers Nicolai de Lyra ...
Lübeck: Steffen Arndes, 1494.
[Marsden Collection R2/6] ISTC 2nd edition: ib00638000
This Low German translation of the Bible is noted for its many fine woodcuts.
It contains 97 large woodcuts, many of which are repeated to give a total of 152 illustrations.
Two principal illustrators, both anonymous, have been identified, and the greater of the two, believed to be Flemish, is generally known as the Master of the Lübeck Bible.
Our copy of the Lübeck Bible, which has a fine 16th century binding, formed part of the library of William Marsden (1754-1836), who gave his library to King’s in 1835.
Aristotle.
Eis organon Aristotelous .
Venice: dexteritate Aldus Manutius, 1495-1498.
PA3890.A2 M2] ISTC 2nd edition: ia00959000
The first printed edition of Aristotle’s collected works, in five volumes.
Edited by Aldus Manutius and Scipione Forteguerri.
The volumes are bound in 18th century mottled tree calf, with gilt tooling.
Thesaurus.
Cornu copiae & Horti Adonidis .
Venice: Aldus Manutius, 1496.
PA253 T5] ISTC 2nd edition: it00158000
A collection of ancient grammarian texts in Greek.
The combined work of various scholar-editors, including Aldus Manutius.
Various bookplates and sale details are detailed on the catalogue record indicating provenances.
In an 18th century English vellum binding.
Hortus sanitatis [Ortus sanitatis] .
Strasbourg: Johann Prüss c.1497.
[Rare Books Collection Harrod FOL.
RS79 HOR] ISTC 2nd edition: ih00487000
Despite being rooted in a medieval system of knowledge that would shortly be supplanted by the scientific enquiry of the Renaissance, Hortus sanitatis was a publishing success and went through numerous editions in the 15th and 16th centuries.
In our copy of this 1497 Strasbourg edition the woodcuts are largely uncoloured and at the end of the book is a treatise on urine, not present in our 1491 copy.
Cirurgia magistri Petri de Largelata .
Venice: per Bonetus Locatellus, 22 February 1497.
[KCSMD Historical Collection FOL.
RD30.VIG] ISTC 2nd edition: ia00953000
Second edition of Pietro d'Argelata's work on medicine and surgery, which is bound in leather with blind-tooled patterning.
See biographical details for d'Argelata in an entry for his 1492 work above.
Latin.
Vulgate.
Biblia cum tabula nuper impressa [et] cum summariis nouiter editis .
[Venice]: Simon Bevilacqua, 1498.
[Rare Books Collection BS75 B4] ISTC 2nd edition: ib00603000
This Venetian edition of the Vulgate is illustrated with fine woodcuts.
The printer, Simon Bevilacqua, re-used woodcuts from the 1490 edition of Niccolo Malermi’s Italian translation of the Vulgate.
Guy, de Chauliac.
Chirurgia Guidonis de Cauliaco : De balneis porectanis ...
Venice: per Simonem de Luere, 1499.
R127.5 CHA] ISTC 2nd edition: ig00559000
Guy de Chauliac (ca 1300-68) as mentioned above in the entry for Pietro d'Argelata, was the most eminent surgeon of his day.
This book was written in 1363, and first printed in 1498.
His methods were comparatively advanced, and for this reason his expertise was much sought after by contemporary rulers, including three popes.
He used this text to advocate new surgical techniques, including early excision of tumours, the treatment of fractures with slings and traction, and operations for hernia and cataract.
The importance of this work is reflected in the number of extant copies of this 1499 printing alone.
The Incunabula Short Title Catalogue lists 50.
It is also reflected in the copious contemporary annotations in this copy.
All students and staff are encouraged to use the extensive facilities and expert assistance available in Special Collections - and those of our colleagues in King's College London Archives.
Please see access procedures at the top of the page.
Special Collections support the university’s teaching programme by welcoming group visits by students and staff, including general familiarisation visits for newly-inducted students and timetabled teaching sessions involving hands-on use of archive documents and rare books designed for specific course modules.
We also provide workshops and visits for the Summer School and Widening Participation programmes.
Recent sessions have been hosted for departments as diverse as History, War Studies, English, Physics, Nursing & Midwifery, and Geography.
The collections of historical material held in Archives & Special Collections provide an invaluable teaching resource, and faculty members who think their students might benefit are encouraged to contact Special Collections, using the links on the right.
You can also submit a form requesting a skills activity or teaching session in Special Collections through our Libraries & Collections Teaching Offering Libguide.
Engagement and outreach
Archives & Special Collections creates exhibitions and supplies images of rare books and archives for events such as conferences, festivals, fundraising, and Alumni Weekend, as well as undertaking historical tours of the University's campuses and hosting visits in the Archives and Special Collections Reading Rooms, supporting the university’s engagement strategy.
We also facilitate requests from broadcast production companies and publishers.
As items are not held on the open shelves, readers are asked to complete a request slip for each item that they wish to see.
If you wish to complete request slips in advance of your visit, please print or download this electronic version of the Document Request Slip .
Items can usually be fetched from the closed access storage areas within a few minutes.
A link to regulations relating to capturing and using images from our collections is available here.
Readers are welcome to order copies of material for the purpose of private study, either in person or remotely.
All copying is carried out at the discretion of Special Collections staff.
Find out more about obtaining copies of materials from the Special Collections
Readers wishing to publish quotations or to cite from any unpublished material (archives, manuscripts, typescripts, unpublished photographs, theses or records) held in the Foyle Special Collections Library must seek permission.
Regulations concerning the use of material from Archives collections is in the 'using the collections' tab on the Archives page.
Readers wishing to quote in a publication from published material are reminded of the need to abide by the provisions of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act, 1998.
A summary guide to the Act can be found on the university's Copyright web pages.
We seek to ensure:
Special Collections loan conditions and guidelines  (pdf, 203 KB)
Special Collections collection development policy 2022-25 (pdf, 167 KB)
Special Collections preservation policy 2022-25 (pdf, 164 KB)
Policy on gifts and bequests
Gifts and donations FAQs
Copyright notice and takedown policy
King's College London safeguarding policy and procedures
A leaflet describing the holdings and work of the Foyle Special Collections Library
You can search for items located in the Foyle Special Collections Library through King's Library Search
Being signed in to Library Search gives the best functionality for searching and the homepage gives advice on how to narrow down your searches, by using scopes and by filtering searches you have made.
The information below is also contained in a Library Search tips guide (pdf, 378kb), with screenshots included to illustrate the instructions.
Using scopes
The options in the drop-down menu adjacent to the search box, called scopes, can help you find what you need.
You can choose to limit your search to Foyle Special Collections Library items from the outset (though bear in mind that this will lead to your missing potentially relevant items elsewhere in our collections).
There are two ways to do this:
Both techniques will just retrieve items held in the Foyle Special Collections Library.
Similarly, if you select the 'Library Resources' scope only the print and ebooks, audiovisual material and journals held by the campus libraries and Foyle Special Collections Library will be retrieved in your searches.
Using filters
For finding material related to specific collections and former owners, use the 'Library Resources' scope in the drop down menu and then filter by 'Former owner' in the Advanced search criteria to display records from a specific collection.
You can also use the Location drop down menu on the left-hand side of the screen to identify items from specific named special collections.
Please do contact us for further advice on identifying material which will assist you with your studies.
The historical library collection of the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) was transferred to King’s on permanent loan in 2007.
A dedicated webpage explains more about the FCDO collection .
Arguably the most important library collection to be acquired by the University in its history, it comprises some 80,000 volumes of books, pamphlets, reports, typescripts and manuscripts with a date range from the early 16th century to the present day.
Explore 500 years of world history (pdf, 1,210 KB), an introductory leaflet about the collection is also available as a PDF file.
Please remember that not all material can be found in our online catalogues.
You may need to look at manual finding aids, such as the printed and card catalogues and hand-lists that can be found in our reading rooms.
We are also happy to help with research proposals and are often able to identify uncatalogued items in our collections which may be of use.
With our colleagues in Archives, we have produced the following research guides:
Medicine and healthcare
World War One
Items from the College Archives and Liddell Hart Centre for Military Archives and the Liddell Hart Library are housed at Archives in the Strand and can be consulted there.
A link to their Catalogues and finding aids is available below:
Archives catalogues
Archives research guides
The lists below suggest some online resources that Special Collections users may find particularly useful.
Archives and Special Collections teams are adding full-text digitised material from our collections to: JSTOR Open Community Collections
This is a project in which resources we have digitised from our collections are made freely available on this platform.
The King's College London Archives and Special Collections page is here: King's College London on JSTOR
For a full list of resources subscribed to by King's please see the A-Z list of databases .
The sections below are divided as follows:
Adam Matthew Primary Sources
Access these titles individually by using the A-Z list of databases
British Online Archives (BOA)
EEBO (Early English Books Online) - English books, 1473-1700.
Requires King's username and password for use off campus.
ECCO (Eighteenth Century Collections Online) - English books, 1701-1800.
Foreign Broadcast Information Service
FBIS Daily Reports 1941-1974 & 1974–1996.
An archive of 20th Century news from around the world.
Note: access is via the proxy server, so users need to access via A-Z list of databases
House of Commons Parliamentary Papers (HCPP) includes over 200,000 House of Commons sessional papers from 1715 to the present, with supplementary material back to 1688.
HCPP delivers page images and searchable full text for each paper, along with detailed indexing.
Use 'Log in through your library or institution'.
Empire Online - is a digital resource containing thousands of images of unique source material, including maps and manuscripts which enables undergraduates and postgraduates to explore colonial history, politics, culture and society.
Requires King's username and password for off-campus access.
Migration to new worlds - provided by Adam Matthew, Migration to New Worlds explores the movement of peoples from Great Britain, Ireland, mainland Europe and Asia to the New World and Australasia.
Split across two modules, and including collections from 26 archives, libraries and museums, Migration to New Worlds brings together the movement and memories of millions across two centuries of mass migration.
Secret Files from World Wars to Cold War: Intelligence, Strategy and Diplomacy.
Spanning four key twentieth-century conflicts, with a spotlight on the Second World War, Secret Files from World Wars to Cold War provides access to British government secret intelligence and foreign policy files from 1873 to 1953.
Wiley Digital Archives Wiley Digital Archives is a continuous program of new databases comprised of unique or rare historical primary sources, digitized from leading societies, libraries, and archives around the world, and made accessible in ways that tie directly to research outcomes and educational goals.
All Archives are cross-searchable, and contain tools for searching, browsing, analyzing and visualizing primary source content.
To identify material submitted to this resource by King's College London Special Collections, select Advanced search and then use the Quick Limiter 'Collections' to select 'Wheatstone collection monographs' or 'The Foreign and Commonwealth Office Historical Collection'.
19th Century British Pamphlets on JSTOR - Throughout the 19th century, pamphlets were an important means of public debate, covering the key political, social, technological, and environmental issues of their day.
19th Century British Pamphlets, created by Research Libraries UK (RLUK), contains the most significant British pamphlets from the 19th century held in research libraries in the United Kingdom.
17th and 18th Century Burney Collection Newspapers - The newspapers and news pamphlets gathered by the Reverend Charles Burney (1757 - 1817) represent the largest single collection of 17th and 18th century English news media.
The 700 or so bound volumes of newspapers and news pamphlets were published mostly in London, however there are also some English provincial, Irish and Scottish papers, and a few examples from the American colonies, Europe and India.
Requires King's username and password for use off campus.
19th Century British Library Newspapers - Contains full runs of 48 influential national and regional nineteenth century newspapers.
King's username and password needed for use off campus.
19th Century UK Periodicals - Provides access to around 100 periodicals for the study of British life in the nineteenth century - from women to sports and leisure, and from children to humour.
It is mainly based on the repositories of the British Library and the National Library of Scotland.
British Newspapers 1600-1900 - The British Newspapers 1600-1900 is the most significant digital collection of British historic newspapers.
New conservation and imaging techniques and a new cross-searchable platform adopted by the British Library offers unparalleled access and discoverability to this valuable historical and cultural archive.
In addition one will find specially commissioned essays and contextual materials written by expert scholars intended to help non-specialist users with perspective and analysis.
British Periodicals Online - Searchable full text of hundreds of periodicals from the seventeenth to the twentieth century.
The Economist Historical Archive 1843-2003 - The Economist Historical Archive 1843-2003 ('EHA') is the fully searchable complete facsimile edition of The Economist, the weekly paper which is essential reading for anyone engaged in politics, current affairs and all aspects of business and trade worldwide.
In 8,000 issues and more than 600,0000 pages, EHA offers full-colour images, multiple search indexes, topic and area supplements and surveys, together with a gallery of front covers and a selection of exportable financial tables.
Altogether this is a unrivalled multidisciplinary primary source for researching and teaching the 19th and 20th centuries.
Historical Newspapers: The Guardian (1821-2003) and The Observer (1791-2003) - Provides online, easily-searchable first-hand accounts and coverage of the politics, society and events of the time.
Times Digital Archive (TDA) 1785-1985 - Researchers can search through the complete digital edition of The Times (London), using keyword searching and hit-term highlighting to retrieve full facsimile images of either a specific article or a complete page.
The entire newspaper is captured, with all articles, advertisements and illustrations/photos divided into categories to facilitate searching.
English Emblem Book Project A digital collection of English emblem books provided by Penn State University Libraries
Gallica A digital library of over 6 million items from the collections of the Bibliothèque Nationale de France
Munich Digitisation Centre - the Digital Library of the Bavarian State Library hosting more than 16 million scans of books and manuscripts from the Middle Ages onwards.
Biblioteca Digital Hispánica - The digital library of the Biblioteca Nacional de España, including over 88,000 rare books from its collections, plus manuscripts, maps and much more
E-rara - A digital library of rare books held by major Swiss libraries
Cambridge University Digital Library - Scriptorium: Medieval and Early Modern Manuscripts Online
Digital Bodleian - Digital Collections from the Bodleain LIbrary
Johns Hopkins Digital Library of Medieval Manuscripts
Georgian papers programme
The Georgian papers programme is a partnership between King's College London and the Royal Collection Trust, which aims to enrich public historical understanding of the Georgian period through collection digitisation, dissemination and interpretation.
A feature on the Foyle Special Collections Library
UK Medical Heritage Library
King’s College London was one of ten partners in a major project to digitise 19th and early 20th century medical books, jointly funded by Jisc and the Wellcome Trust.
Approximately 15 million pages and 70,000 volumes of books and pamphlets from our collections and those of other UK partner institutions have been digitised and the resulting resources are now freely available on multiple platforms.
A link to all the material digitised in the project is available here
The following link directs you to all the items digitised in the project which were submitted by King's: King's College London submitted books The image shown above is an example of an item that was digitised and which is now available to view on the UK Medical Heritage Library site.
All the resources digitised in the project - both those digitised from King's and from project partners - are also available through King's Library Search .
A link to the digitised version of the item will be highlighted at the top of the record, as illustrated below.
A link to the UK Medical Heritage Library, as well as links to other useful resources can also be found in the databases A-Z page .
A link to the Wellcome Library catalogue where the items are also available is available here
The King's items that were digitised are all from the Foyle Special Collections Library and reflect the rich tradition of medical teaching and research across the current King’s Health Partners.
Biodiversity Heritage Library - A digital library of over 150,000 items, comprising historical material in the fields of botany, zoology and related subjects
Early Canadiana Online (ECO) - this is a digital library containing over 12,000 volumes.
Some material is restricted to ECO subscribers but much is free.
Dibner Library of the History of Science and Technology
Making of America - the collection currently contains approximately 10,000 books and 50,000 journal articles with nineteenth century imprints on American social history from the antebellum period through reconstruction.
Manchester Digital Collections
Manchester Digital Collections: Early European Print
These resources form part of the University of Manchester's online platform to showcase its heritage and special collections.
Each item in Early European Print is fully digitised in high quality and has a detailed bibliographical description, produced as part of the library’s ongoing Incunabula Cataloguing Project.
The Center for Retrospective Digitization, Göttingen State and University Library
15cBooktrade -  A host of resources, compiled by the University of Oxford, relating to research on the 15th century book trade
Material Evidence in Incunabula - Database containing copy-specific details of thousands of incunabula held in libraries all over the world
The print workshop in the 15th century -  Introductory video produced by Cambridge University Library demonstrating how books were printed in the 15th century
DIY First Folio - Includes digitised images of Shakespeare’s First Folio, plus a virtual printing house containing a demonstration of the collation process
CERL Heritage of the Printed Book Database (HPB) - King's is a member of CERL (Consortium of European Research Libraries) and 14,000 records for items printed between 1483 and 1830 and held in the Foyle Special Collections Library, are available on CERL’s Heritage of the Printed Book Database (HPB).
Printing R-Evolution - 1450-1500.
Fifty years that changed Europe.
The curator of the exhibition and editor of the website is Cristina Dondi, of Lincoln College, University of Oxford, who is also secretary of the Consortium of European Research Libraries (CERL).
William Blake Archive - high-quality electronic reproductions of a growing portion of Blake's work.
From Grub Street to Fleet Street : The development of the early English newspaper - Bob Clarke lecture at Gresham College (video)
The machine that made us - Gutenberg documentary.
Stephen Fry in association with Timeline and TVF International
The long lives of early printed books - Harry Ransom Centre: University of Texas.
Video lecture
Codex Zacynthius spectral imaging project - Cambridge University Library video
AGAPE an open-access database which maps the reception of the Greek Church Fathers in print throughout early modern Europe.
University of Oxford Bodleian Library carbon dating project - video
British Library Discovering Literature Playlist
University College London Special Collections Podcasts
History of the Book from Gilgamesh to Now - The Guardian Books Podcast
History of the Book Seminar Series University of Oxford
Yale Program in the History of the Book
British Library: Medieval Manuscripts Blog
Cardiff University Archives and Special Collections blog
Imperial War Museum Blogs
National Archives Blog
The Foyle Special Collections Library regularly participates in external projects; and we often undertake these with our colleagues in Archives Services .
Current and recent projects are detailed below.
We enjoyed welcoming an MA History intern from the Department of History at King's to the Foyle Special Collections Library in the first part of 2025.
Eleanor Smith researched the life and works of Joseph Banks and assisted with the curation and digital component of our current exhibition: From streets to the stars: 500 years of maps
She has also had sessions on other areas of special collections activity, such as cataloguing, digitisation and reading room procedures.
Her public engagement outputs included a talk given on her research into Joseph Banks at Shoe Lane Library in London; and an online exhibition of her work:
Applied science: How Joseph Banks’ science fuelled empire
She also completed a blogpost detailing her research and experiences of the internship.
We were delighted to host Irina Ticleanu, our 2023 MA History intern from the Department of History at King's.
The internship ran from January to April 2023 and the focus of Irina’s research was the fine collection of 18th century chapbooks, or ‘ penny histories ’ held in the Foyle Special Collections Library.
Chapbooks or Penny histories are small pamphlets, cheaply printed (though sometimes illustrated), which were often sold by itinerant dealers, or chapmen, at markets or country fairs.
They provided simple and entertaining reading matter for those with limited literacy skills and included fairy and folk tales, episodes from British history, true crime and jestbooks.
Many of these works were printed around the area of Fleet Street, just to the south of King’s present-day Maughan Library, and are they currently the subject of much research interest.
Irina has written a blogpost about her work and her research has resulted in public deliverables, including an online exhibition .
She also delivered a hybrid online and in-person talk, hosted by colleagues at Shoe Lane Library in London.
We are delighted to be partners in a major transnational and inter-institutional ‘digital repatriation’ project, Repatriating a lost archive of the Spanish Pacific .
Co-funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council in the UK and the National Endowment for the Humanities in the USA, the project will combine digitisation, research and community engagement to create a digital version of the lost library of San Pablo in Manila, Philippines, which was ransacked and dispersed during the Siege of Manila in 1762.
Other project partners include the universities of Princeton and Indiana, the British Library, the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS), the University of the Philippines and the San Agustín and Lopez libraries in Manila.
Founded in 1607, the library of the Augustinian monastery of San Pablo in Manila had by 1762 amassed a collection of over 1,500 manuscripts, maps and printed books relating to the Philippines and other parts of Asia which the Spanish missionaries aspired to convert to Christianity.
However, during the Seven Years’ War (1756-63), a complex struggle for global supremacy between the European powers, Manila, then a Spanish possession, was seized by British naval forces.
The library was ransacked and most of its contents ended up in the possession of the hydrographer and book collector, Alexander Dalrymple (1737-1808).
After his death his library was largely dispersed through auctions and scattered around the world.
The project aims to identify, digitise and study as many of the original contents of the San Pablo library as can be found.
Along with project partners the University of Indiana, the British Library, SOAS and the Lopez Library, we have items in our collection which we believe came originally from the San Pablo library (in our case they were bequeathed by Dalrymple to his friend William Marsden, who later gave his collection of books and manuscripts to King’s) and these will be digitised for the project.
The image shown above is from the first Spanish-Iloko dictionary, Bucabulario yloco , compiled at a date after 1621 by missionary Francisco Lopez.
He records many different Iloko terms for that staple of Filipino cuisine, rice (‘arroz’ in Spanish).
History Day is a collaborative initiative of the Institute of Historical Research and Senate House Library alongside members of the History Research Libraries Committee.
Staff across Libraries and Collections, and particularly Archives and Special Collections staff, work together to present on the day and create and highlight digital content we have produced.
A link to resources, content and videos created over the past few years is available here: King's College London, History Day
Information from other institutions is available here: Discover collections: History Day
We are pleased to welcome Ms Almendra Cremaschi and Dr Guilherme Bianchi, both pictured here, as this year's beneficiaries of a library visiting fellowship scheme, jointly offered by King’s and Canning House .
Ms Cremaschi, from the National University of San Martín (UNSAM) Buenos Aires.
will be focusing on the project: Argentina.
‘Fairtrade and open source in agriculture: learning across movements and regions’.
Dr Bianchi, from the Universidade Federal de Ouro Pret, in Brazil will be focusing on the project: ‘Rethinking indigenous agency in post-conflict Peru: a historical-comparative approach of peace-building in the Peruvian Amazon’.
We are looking forward to assisting them in their studies.
More information on Canning House and the fellowships
The fellowship supports post-doctoral research on Latin American studies in London for up to three months, with the expectation that the fellow will make good use of the library collection of Canning House , which is housed both in the Foyle Special Collections Library and in the wider collections at the Maughan Library.
This collection was transferred to King’s in 2012 and has been described by historian Hugh Thomas as 'one of the jewels of Latin American Studies in the United Kingdom'.
For more information about this scheme, please see here: Canning House and King's College London visiting fellowships.
Please also see below for details of the work and publications of the 2019 visiting fellow, Dr Adriana Massidda.
Canning House is the UK’s leading forum for informed comment, contacts and debate on Latin American politics, economy and business.
It is a non-governmental body which aims to foster understanding, cultural interaction and commerce between the UK and the Spanish and Portuguese-speaking worlds.
We enjoyed welcoming Tom Mitchell, our 2022 MA intern from the Department of History at King's to the Foyle Special Collections Library.
His internship ran from January until the end of April 2022.
Tom explored themes of empire and colonialism through the prism of our collection of rare 19th and 20th century periodicals.
The FCDO Historical Collection , which contains over 350 runs of rare – and in some cases apparently unique – periodicals, were the principal sources he drew on.
Many of these titles have yet to be explored by the scholarly community and thus provide real potential for original research.
While the FCDO Historical Collection was the principal focus of the internship, Tom also explored themes of empire and colonialism across our special collections.
As well as submitting an assessed essay for his course, Tom created:
We created a video overview of our holdings relating to botanical gardens - please see below.
This was included as part of a Youtube mix of 24 videos on the theme of environmental history from libraries, archives and collections.
We would like to thank George Lunt from King's College London's Audio Visual Department for producing this video.
We have contributed material from our collections for inclusion in the British Association for the Advancement of Science Wiley Digital Archive platform.
The content is now available to access here: Wiley Digital Archives
Items from our Wheatstone Collection and from our Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office Historical Collection.
are available in this collection.
Find out more about this collaborative project here.
We welcomed Conal Priest to the Foyle Special Collections Library as our 2020 MA intern from the Department of History at King's.
Conal's internship saw him spend 100 hours working with primary source material and involved the transcription and digitisation of an important first-hand manuscript account of an early British diplomatic and commercial mission to the kingdom of Madagascar.
The manuscript was purchased with the support of the Friends of the National Libraries and is a 93-page bound volume in the hand of Lieutenant Thomas Locke Lewis (ca 1780-1852), a member of Britain’s 1817 mission to King Radama of Madagascar.
Lewis tells the story of the mission and gives extensive descriptions of the island and its topography, climate, peoples and languages.
Conal conducted research on the historical background to the manuscript and wrote a contextual introduction and notes.
He worked with staff to digitise and publicise the manuscript online and it is now displayed in our online exhibitions portal.
We were delighted to welcome to King's Dr Adriana Massidda, who was the first beneficiary of a new library visiting fellowship scheme, jointly offered by King’s and Canning House .
Adriana came to us from Centro de estudios Urbanos y Regionales, Buenos Aires and her research is concerned with the housing of the urban poor, with particular reference to Argentina and Peru.
She was based within the Department of Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American Studies
During the fellowship, Adriana delivered two seminars (one at King’s and one at Canning House) and established contact with the academic community at King’s and with Canning House members and guests.
She also organised a roundtable event for Canning House and produced a peer-reviewed article from the research.
Her blogposts during the fellowship are recorded below:
Adriana also published a book chapter, informed, in its theoretical framework, by the research she undertook as a Fellow: 'Entre invisibilidades y dirigencias: mujeres en villas de Buenos Aires (1958-1967)'.
In Historia y memoria de villas y favelas , edited by María Cristina Cravino.
Both Canning House and King’s College London feature in the acknowledgements and were presented with a complimentary copy in 2022.
This year's MA History intern from the Department of History at King's was Ed Thompson, who we very much enjoyed hosting in the Foyle Special Collections Library.
The focus of Ed's internship was on the photographic representation of the British Empire, as reflected in the historical library collection of the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO).
Ed surveyed this collection for original photographs depicting life in the British Empire in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
The online exhibition, which Ed curated from his research and which includes reproductions of the photographic material he has discovered is available below:
Representing the unfamiliar: Photography in the British Empire 1866-1938
specialcollections@kcl.ac.uk
020 7848 1843 / 020 7848 1845
Foyle Special Collections Library, The Maughan Library, Chancery Lane, London WC2A 1LR
Katie Sambrook
catherine.sambrook@kcl.ac.uk
020 7848 1845
Adam Ray
adam.ray@kcl.ac.uk
0207 848 1843
John Wilby
john.wilby@kcl.ac.uk
William Wood
Brandon High
Kathryn Peak
Annabelle Hondier
Emma Poole

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/collections/exhibitions:
24 March to 28 September 2025.
The Weston Room, Maughan Library, Chancery Lane, London WC2A 1LR
Open daily: 10.00-17.00.
Free entrance.
The Weston Room has step free access via an accessible lift.
How has the world been mapped since the advent of the printed book in the late 15th century?
In this exhibition we invite you to explore a range of maps from the past 500 years, from street maps of London to maps of the constellations.
We look at the role of the map in spreading geographical knowledge, demarcating national boundaries and facilitating developments in transport and medicine.
Exhibits include a hand-coloured map of the world from 1548, one of Galileo’s star maps, wartime maps of Greece and Iraq, a military board game and a London map of 1855 which proved crucial in the fight against cholera.
We also explore how developments in today’s digital technologies can increase our understanding of historical maps; watch the short film at the end of the exhibition to see how 3D imaging can lead to new discoveries.
Please either download and complete an entry ticket or, alternatively, ask the Security team at the main entrance to the Maughan Library for one , and complete it on arrival.
Exhibition closure dates:
We hold regular free exhibitions in the historic Weston Room at the Maughan Library, open to both King's staff and students and the wider public.
Our exhibitions range widely in theme, drawing on the breadth and depth of our special collections and archives, and often also include items borrowed from other private or institutional collections.
We digitise many of our exhibitions and also create online-only exhibitions.
Please visit our online exhibitions website to explore them.
The Weston Room incorporates many features from the former Chapel of the Masters of the Rolls, including three 16th and 17th century funeral monuments.
One of these is a terracotta figure of Dr Yonge (Master of the Rolls and Dean of York, who died in 1516) which was sculpted by Pietro Torrigiano (1472-1528) who also created Henry VII’s tomb in Westminster Abbey and is said to have broken Michelangelo's nose in a tavern brawl.
There are also memorials to Richard Alington (who died in 1561, a brother-in-law of a Master) and Lord Bruce of Kinloss, a Master who died in 1616.
From 1902 until 1986 the rebuilt Chapel, now deconsecrated, provided a Museum for the Public Record Office.
Stained-glass windows showing the armorial bearings of some of the 17th century Masters had been preserved, and more were added in 1899.
Restoration work for King's College London has revealed a fine mosaic flooring, probably laid in 1898.
A memorial to former staff members of the Public Record Office who died in the First World War is also sited in the room.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/collections/image-library:
The Image Library is available to all King's College London staff at digitalassets.kcl.ac.uk .
All King’s College London staff are reminded that images are cleared for university use only.
If the images are required for any other purposes, contact must be made with the Copyright team to ensure that the copyright owners’ rights will not be infringed.
If you are in any doubt as to the copyright status, please email the Copyright team .
Geoff Browell
Christine Ayre
Ellie Stewart
Paul Dorney
Jack Stonebridge
Further advice on use of the Image Library  can be obtained  from the Archives team
020 7848 2015

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/collections/digital-collections:
King's College London Libraries & Collections holds extensive and internationally important Archives and Special Collections.
We are working hard to make these collections as open and as accessible as possible, and this includes using new technologies and platforms.
Below you will find details of collections we have digitised and disseminated online, digital scholarship projects, catalogues and datasets, and our social media and outreach activities.
Digital Scholarship encompasses the increasingly diverse application of digital technology to scholarly activity emphasising openness and cross-disciplinary collaboration, as well as the challenging of traditional and established methodological norms.
Freely accessible King's items on JSTOR.
Reclaiming the Lost Archive of the Convento de San Agustin.
19th and early 20th century history of medicine from the Foyle Special Collections Library.
Research resource for the history of genetics, including the digitised papers of Maurice Wilkins.
Access to thousands of nationally significant historical archives on servicemen and their families.
King's unique calendars providing a wealth of information on college life between 1831 and 1986.
Curated collection of unique digitised photography from the Sir Ian Hamilton Collection.
Celum - King's Digital Asset Management System.
King's College London has a long tradition of research in the digital humanities, going back to the early 1970s.
The Department for Digital Humanities started as the 'Centre for Computing in the Humanities' in 1992 and King's Libraries & Collections has been pleased to collaborate with it ever since as well as contributing our own projects, tools and expertise.
The Department has been highly influential in areas of digital information management and digital research methods, and today its expertise in digital archives and libraries is still in high demand.
Joint project between Archives and the Department of English exploring the Strand community.
Explore research and projects in the Department of Digital Humanities.
Explore how the King's College Chapel was preserved in 3D and play with the model.
*Start the "Using Archives In Your Studies" module on Keats* This module is designed to support learners and researchers develop their understanding of how Archive services operate, how they're structured, and how they can support your learning and research.
(KCL ID required)
*Start the "Using Special Collections In Your Studies" module on Keats* This module is designed to support learners and researchers develop their understanding of how a Special Collection operates, how they're structured, and how they can support your learning and research.
*Reach out to us* Under archives@kcl.ac.uk (for queries about archival materials) or specialcollections@kcl.ac.uk (for queries about our rare books).
Highlights of the College's uniquely rich and growing collections.
Follow the King's College London Archives on Instagram!
A digital map exhibition by Eleanor Smith, MA History Intern 2024-25.
Created with ArcGIS Storymap.
Marking the 50th Anniversary of the Liddell Hart Centre for Military Archives in 2014.
The first Bible to be printed in a Native American language.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/further-support/student:
We offer online learning modules and guides as well as face-to-face and online appointments and workshops to help you excel at your studies.
You have access to our wide range of online databases, journals, ebooks and other online material - including digital content held by Archives and Special Collections .
We are making good progress working with publishers to make these resources available off campus wherever possible.
Have a look at our Getting Started guide
Online tutorials and forums available 24/7; to help you find academic materials for your topics and…
Resources on academic and related skills.
Referencing tools and styles
Free courses provided by King's
Information on choosing referencing software

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/further-support/staff:
General info about libraries for staff
Libraries & Collections provides a range of interactive e-learning activities, short lectures and workshops (as part of a blended learning offering) to help students enhance their academic skills and digital literacy.
The Reading List system allows for the creation of electronic versions of reading lists.
This enables direct-linking to ebooks, ejournal articles, library holdings of print items, webpages, digitised content, and a range of other documents.
They can be accessed on any desktop or mobile device from anywhere in the world.
Reading Lists exist to direct students to those readings which will help them to succeed in their studies at King’s.
They are not intended to be comprehensive bibliographies as students can find a long unstructured list daunting.
Reading Lists allow you to give clear information about why the items appear on the list and to encourage students to make use of other academic libraries in the London area to find information for extended essays or dissertations.
Individual books, DVDs, CDs and ebooks that have been requested by staff for all six libraries are purchased for the Library collection.
Academic staff ordering reading list resources should see information about the Reading List system.
Research support is available to assist with managing your research publications, including use of King’s institutional repository system Pure and the Research Portal by which King’s showcases its research to the world.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/further-support/nhs:
Libraries & Collections can help you with finding materials (books, journals and more) relevant to your CPD, research and patient care as well as providing a place to work.
The NHS staff guide can also help you with using online resources and learning skills in handling evidence.
King’s College Hospital staff can request tailored evidence updates and literature searches on patient care via KnowledgeShare.
Are you trying to develop a search strategy?
Struggling to access the full text of a journal article?
Looking for reviews, guidelines or summaries of evidence?
Searching for information but getting lots of irrelevant results or nothing at all?
-
The Finding Evidence course will help you find the evidence you need to inform patient care or service development, update guidelines or policies, support assignments or professional development and inform research.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/further-support/disability-support:
In line with the University's Equalities Policy, Libraries & Collections are committed to providing inclusive, user-oriented services to support students and staff during their time at King's.
Library staff are available to help users make full use of its services and facilities.
For further details, please check the sections below and get in touch.
Assistive Technology (AT) rooms spread across the five King's library sites.
AT rooms are bookable by registered users only.
To register, contact the Disability Support and Inclusion Team by email disability@kcl.ac.uk
For more information about the software below please see Assistive Software information on the Disability Support and Inclusion Team (DSIT) webpages .
Each room is equipped with ergonomic workstations with adjustable desks and chairs, a scanner and a printer.
You will need to bring your own Dragon headset - contact disability@kcl.ac.uk if you do not have a headset of your own to discuss options.
Software on each PC in an AT room
Each AT room is marked AT on the floor plans linked below:
Use your King’s ID card to access the AT rooms at all the library sites.
SensusAccess is a self-service option for accessible formats.
It allows you to convert documents that would normally be inaccessible.
These include image-only PDF files, scanned documents, pictures of text and Microsoft PowerPoint presentations.
Documents can be converted into a range of alternate formats, including:
You can make an accessible copy if you own the copyright (eg.
it's your own work), have permission from the copyright holder, if the copyright has expired , or if it's for someone with a disability preventing or impeding access to printed material.
If so, you need to agree that:
More information can be found on the King’s copyright pages .
You can also contact copyright@kcl.ac.uk for advice.
SensusAccess is available to all King’s College London students, staff and alumni who have a King’s email address (i.e.
…@kcl.ac.uk ).
SensusAccess provide useful Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs), videos and guides .
Please contact the Disability Support and Inclusion Team if you have a print impairment and would benefit having access to core reading in an accessible format
Using SensusAccess to convert a file
(If the box below is blank, you will need change your cookie preferences - click on the blue and white cookie icon on the bottom left of the screen to make changes and then refresh this page to view the SensusAccess file convertor)
Video magnifiers are available in some of the AT rooms, please check the AT room descriptions when booking.
These machines allow you to:
If you are registered with the Disability Support and Inclusion Team (DSIT) , we can collect items from the shelves in your home library for you.
All you need to do is request them from Library Search .
If you are registered with the Disability Support and Inclusion Team (DSIT) , we can transfer items available at another site to your home library for you.
All you need to do is request them from Library Search.
Inter-site books are supplied under the following conditions:
All College staff and students, as well as staff from affiliated NHS trusts, may make requests for books, chapters or journal articles.
Material available at King's cannot be requested through this service.
Before making a request, please check Library Search to make sure that the item you require is not already available at King's or at Senate House Library.
For further information and a link to our Interlibrary Loan request form, please see our Interlibrary Lending FAQ page.
Any disabled student who has recorded a disability on their student record will receive extended library loans (1 week loan extended to 2 weeks).
If you have an Academic Support Worker to assist you, we can arrange access to the Libraries for them.
If you are planning a library visit, check the individual location webpages for AccessAble details, including accessible routes and parking information.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/about/strategic-plans:
King's has set out a compelling vision to ‘make the world a better place’ in its strategy for 2029.
The strategic drivers that will enable its delivery mean that Library Services must position itself as a provider of access to world-class resources and learning spaces in order to support research and teaching.
We will need to take a leading role in the emerging digital landscape at King’s, create services to support the full research life-cycle and Open Research as well as empowering students in digital literacy.
We must place our Archives & Special Collections at the heart of King’s cultural offering and create opportunities for multi-disciplinary study in new learning environments.
In order to do this, we have recognised that our current services need to evolve and grow in full collaboration and partnership with the university.
As the university changes around us, it is imperative that we work together to ensure that Library Services can realise and deliver the ambitions of Vision 2029.
Working with our stakeholders, we have created a plan, Library Evolution, which will enable us to fittingly transform our services, our resources and our spaces as we move towards 2029.
Library Evolution is the journey along which we shall travel over the next decade to deliver a library for King’s that is fit for the 21st century.
Library Evolution 2029 paper (PDF)
Our vision is to make the world a better place.
Let us know how we're doing, good or bad.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/about/service-delivery-standards:
King's College London Libraries & Collections is committed to ensuring your needs are the focus of our services, collections and resources.
We have a number of service delivery standards that set out the levels of service you can expect from us in key areas of our activities.
We will publish performance against our service delivery standards on a monthly basis.
Where service falls beneath our high standards we will tell why and what we are doing to rectify our performance.
Library staff can help you get the most out of services, collections and resources, and if you any feedback about the service you have received please have your say .
December 2020 (PDF)
November 2020 (PDF)
October 2020 (PDF)
September 2020 (PDF)
August 2020 (PDF)
July 2020 (PDF)
June 2020 (PDF)
May 2020 (PDF)
April 2020 (PDF)
March 2020 (PDF)
February 2020 (PDF)
January 2020 (PDF)
December 2019 (PDF)
November 2019 (PDF)
October 2019 (PDF)
September 2019 (PDF)
August 2019 (PDF)
J uly 2019 (PDF)
June 2019 (PDF)
May 2019 (PDF)
April 2019 (PDF)
March 2019 (PDF)
February 2019 (PDF)
January 2019 (PDF)
December 2018 (PDF)
November 2018 (PDF)
October 2018 (PDF)
September 2018 (PDF)
August 2018 (PDF)
July 2018 (PDF)
June 2018 (PDF)
May 2018 (PDF)
April 2018 (PDF)
March 2018 (PDF)
February 2018 (PDF)
January 2018 (PDF)
The standards below set out the levels of service you can expect from us in key areas of our activities.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/about/people:
Head of Library Frontline Services
Associate Director (Research & Impact)
Head of Operations
Head of Archives & Research Collections
Learning and Teaching Librarian
Subscriptions & Access Manager
Head of Clinical Library Services
Collections Manager
Senior Library Assistant (Marketing & Communications)
Digital Collections Manager
Metadata and Digital Preservation Coordinator

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/about/policies:
The Libraries & Collections Policies exist to help create and maintain an environment conducive for study and apply to all library users.
Please note that any activity involving use of spaces, services, facilities or resources provided or managed by Libraries & Collections including libraries, archives, third-party and online services, constitutes ‘use of the Library’ and is covered by these Policies.
The following document outlines:
•	Library fines & account blocks
•	Inter-library loan charges
•	Archives charges
•	Special Collections charges
•	Payment methods
Find out the ways you can get in contact with us

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/library/about/privacy:
This Privacy Notice (Notice) explains how King’s College London Libraries & Collections (King’s, the College, L&C, we, our, us) processes the personal data of our users.
It should be read alongside the King’s College London Privacy Notice and the Student Data Collection Notice .
All data processing is carried out in compliance with King’s Data Protection Policy .
This notice applies to all users of Libraries & Collections including:
King’s College London is the data controller of your personal data.
The College has appointed a Data Protection Officer, who can be contacted via email at info-compliance@kcl.ac.uk and via post at Information Compliance team, King’s College London, Room SW1.09 Somerset House, Strand Campus, WC2R 2LS.
We may collect and process the following data about you:
We collect most of the personal information we hold about you via:
How we use the information we hold about you, and the legal basis for processing your data under GDPR ( General Data Protection Regulation –  the legislation which governs how data is protected)
We need the information listed above primarily for the provision of Libraries & Collections services and resources.
We may process your data to enable King’s to meet our commitments to you, such as teaching, support with your research or assessment.
In some cases, we may use your personal information to pursue a legitimate interest of our own or those of a third party, provided your interests and fundamental rights do not override that interest.
The “legitimate interest” is generally the interest of King’s (or third party) in providing or supporting the provision of higher education.
The situations in which we will process your personal information are listed below.
We use the information we hold about you to :
Your personal data will also be processed by L&C for compliance with any legal obligations or as part of the wider King’s public interest task.
For example:
We use log information on your access to our library journals (such as username, IP address, country, city, time and HTTP status) to enhance existing log file analysis and therefore protect against cyber-attacks and fraudulent activities.
The analysis will identify King’s accounts that may have been compromised, so that these accounts can be secured before King’s is blocked from accessing the journals or third parties using the account for fraudulent activities such as journal theft and sending phishing emails.
The legal basis for the processing activities is our legitimate interest to protect against cyber-attacks and fraudulent activity.
We will only use your personal information for the purposes for which we collected it unless we reasonably consider that we need to use it for another reason and that reason is compatible with the original purpose.
If we need to use your personal information for an unrelated purpose, we will notify you and we will explain the legal basis which allows us to do so.
We may process your personal information without your knowledge or consent, in compliance with the above rules, where this is required or permitted by law.
All L&C users must comply with our Library Policies .
If you do not abide by our regulations we may share your personal data with other departments in King’s or your home institution.
If we are required to issue an invoice for a missing item, your data will be shared with King’s Finance.
We may also use your data to provide library usage statistics to King’s or your home institution.
We do not pass your data to third party e-book, e-journal, database, reference management software or booking service providers.
Where a third-party service provider requires you to create an account, your contract is with that provider and your data is stored by them, not by King’s College London.
Where access to e-books, e-journals and databases is via UK Federation, OpenAthens or College username and password, your data will be anonymous at the point of use of the third party authentication service.
Your feedback may be used anonymously for marketing purposes.
Your information is stored in line with the King’s retention schedule .
We will only retain your personal data for as long as necessary to fulfil the purposes we collect it for.
For access to your library account sign in to Library Search .
You will be able to see the contact information we hold about you and your borrowing history.
If you wish to request copies of the data we hold about you please contact us .
We reserve the right to update this privacy notice at any time, and we will provide you with a new privacy notice when we make any substantial updates.
We may also notify you in other ways from time to time about the processing of your personal information.
If you require further information regarding your personal information and how this is used by King’s Library & Collections please contact us via kcl.ac.uk/library/contact
For more information about how King’s College London processes your personal data, including your rights and who to contact to make a complaint, please see our Core Privacy Notice

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/events/lost-found-in-hong-kong-the-unsung-chinese-heroes-at-d-day:
16 July 2025 09:00 to 03 September 2025 17:00
The Exchange, Strand Campus, London
As we mark 80 years since the end of the Second World War, we invite you to discover the recently unearthed history of a select group of 24 Chinese naval officers who took part in the D-Day Landings and Operation Dragoon in the liberation of Southern France.
At the upcoming exhibition Lost and Found in Hong Kong: The Unsung Chinese Heroes at D-Day , stories, objects, and multimedia displays walk us through this fascinating area of military history.
In 2015, a group of history enthusiasts accidentally stumbled upon a diary in a soon-to-be demolished residential building in Hong Kong.
The diary belonged to Lam Ping-yu, who was amongst the group of officers sent to Britain for training during World War II.
As their first mission in Europe, many took part in the D-Day Landings and Operation Dragoon in the liberation of Southern France.
Lam Ping-yu’s diary appears to be the only known primary source on Chinese participation in D-Day.
It reveals numerous first-hand stories about the realities of war, countless depictions of excitement, frustration, envy, and even romance!
Moreover, Hong Kong features in Lam’s voyage.
In 1945, he took part in Operation Armour, an operation devised by the British government to alleviate Hong Kong’s dire situation following Japanese occupation.
His writings provide us with a glimpse into the city’s post-war recovery.
'Lost and Found in Hong Kong' has been curated by Angus Hui and John Mak .
After its first stop in Hong Kong, the exhibition is travelling to the UK and will be open to the public here at King's College London throughout the summer.
There's no need to book.
Here are our opening dates and times:
16 July to 3 September
Please note that the exhibition is not open on the following dates:

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/researchsupport/open-access/pure-for-ref.aspx:
Pure is the King’s institutional repository and enables King’s research to be showcased and accessible to all via the King’s Research Portal.
Pure is also the platform through which the King’s REF submission will be delivered.
The Library's Open Research Team offers regular online drop-in sessions where researchers can ask any questions they may have about using Pure and about compliance with the REF open access policy.
To attend, please register on SkillsForge .
Quick guide to getting details of your research added to Pure and the full text version uploaded
Publication records on Pure
Pure records are not automatically generated.
A Pure record must be manually created, or the publication details imported from an online source.
A Pure record created by a King’s author will populate any of their King's coauthor(s) Pure accounts.
To make a journal article or conference proceeding eligible for REF 2029 an author must ensure that they have:
Creating a publication record on Pure
Upload your full text to the publication record
Research Support will check all the details, add a coversheet and validate the record.
Once the record is marked as 'Validated' it can no longer be deleted, dates cannot be altered (although dates for new publication statuses can be added) and earlier deposited versions of the ‘Author’s Accepted Manuscript’ cannot be removed (though they can be ‘closed’ to leave the correct version accessible).
These measures are to ensure records already compliant with the REF 2029 open access requirement are not unintentionally rendered non-compliant through loss of data.
Validated records can still be edited and we encourage authors to update their Pure records adding volume, issue numbers, pagination and publication dates as these data are released by the publisher.
If a larger change is needed for any reason, please contact librarypure@kcl.ac.uk
The Pure record will be live on the Research Portal soon after creation.
There is a takedown policy on the Research Portal in case the copyright status of a full-text document is challenged.
The current REF open access policy requires that full-text versions of articles published in journals, and conference papers published with an ISSN must be deposited to a suitable open access repository within three months of their acceptance.
The version that needs to be uploaded is the final accepted manuscript, after peer-review but without publisher's typesetting.
At King's, to ensure compliance with the policy, researchers upload their papers to Pure, King’s institutional repository.
Data and full-text from Pure populates King's researchers' profiles on the King’s Research Portal , making the outputs openly available.
At King's, Pure enables your papers to become eligible for submission to REF 2029.
Please ensure eligibility: act on acceptance and deposit on Pure!
Key features of the current REF open access policy
Complying with the policy at King's
Qualifying research must be deposited in an acceptable repository such as Pure at the point of acceptance.
See our 'Deposit' tab for a quick guide.
Further support with creating or modifying Pure records is available from the Library Research Support team at librarypure@kcl.ac.uk .
If you have any questions about complying with open access requirements for REF, please contact the Research Support team at openaccess@kcl.ac.uk
If yes, then complying with the current REF requirements alone will probably not satisfy your open access obligation to your funder.
If you are funded by Wellcome Trust, UKRI, BHF and/or CRUK, please also complete this form to see how to ensure compliance with your funder's requirements.
We will also be able to advise on eligibility for block grant funding to cover APC costs.
To submit any journal articles and conference proceedings with an ISSN to REF2029, authors must comply with the REF open access policy.
The policy is summarised on the Act on acceptance tab and how to comply one-page guide .
While failure to deposit the appropriate version within the time limit will render an output ineligible for submission to the next REF, Research England recognise that their requirements may for various reasons not always be achievable.
Consequently, in certain circumstances an output may be excepted from the open access requirements and still be submissible to REF2029.
For instance, as long as the exception is claimed, they will accept articles appearing in journals that do not permit deposit in repositories - as long as the author considers that journal the most appropriate publication for the output.
Similarly, if the journal will permit deposit in a repository, but only after more time than Research England consider acceptable (more than 12 months for STEM subjects; more than 24 months for Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences), it will also be possible to claim an exception for an output.
Several other circumstances, both personal and technical, may prevent deposit within the time limit, or deposit at all, and Research England have recognised many as exceptions.
Below is a summary of the exceptions that can be claimed to the open access portion of the policy for the next REF.
They are ordered from those we expect to be most commonly used to those we expect to be used rarely.
If you are not able to deposit as required and think one applies to you, it will be necessary to report it.
Please click on the statement below that you believe applies to you and follow the instructions within to claim an exception for a given publication.
253b The publication concerned requires an embargo period that exceeds the stated maxima (12 months for STEM subjects; 24 months for Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences), and was the most appropriate publication for the output.
Please create a record for your research output in Pure , uploading the Author's Accepted Manuscript version of your paper to the Pure record.
The deposit of an author’s accepted manuscript version must be made at point of acceptance (or in the following 90 days).
Then fill in this exception form , including a statement to support the chosen journal as the most appropriate.
253c The publication concerned actively disallows open-access deposit in a repository, and was the most appropriate publication for the output.
252b It was not possible for me to secure a copy of the Author's Accepted Manuscript version from the submitting author in time.
Please note that you are expected to take reasonable steps to secure the Author accepted manuscript version - e.g.
contacting the first author and requesting a copy; checking the institutional repositories of other authors, checking subject repositories.
Please see this page for guidance on securing author accepted manuscripts from other authors.
Create a Pure record for your article upon receipt of acceptance email as usual.
Fill in this exception form .
252c I was not employed by a UK HEI at the time I submitted this output for publication.
If, for a given output, you became employed by a UK HEI after it was possible to comply with the REF2029 policy, but would like to submit it to the next REF, please create a record for it in Pure, uploading the Author's Accepted Manuscript version of your paper.
Additionally, please fill in this exception form – attaching evidence of your previous employment.
254a At the point of acceptance I was at a different UK HEI which failed to comply with the criteria.
If you have joined King’s having previously been employed by a UK HEI which did not comply with open access policy for the next REF, then it will still be possible to submit any outputs from that period even though they did not adhere to the policy.
First, please create a record for any such output in Pure, then upload the AMM of your paper.
Finally, please fill in this exception form – attaching evidence of your previous employment.
252d It would be unlawful to deposit, or request the deposit of, the output.
Fill in this exception form , including supporting evidence of the potential unlawfulness of deposit.
252e Depositing the output would present a security risk.
Fill in this exception form , including supporting evidence of the potential security risk of deposit.
253a The output depends on the reproduction of third party content for which open access rights could not be granted (either within the specified timescales, or at all).
Please create a record for the output in Pure, upload the Author's Accepted Manuscript version of your paper, and set "Public access to the file" for the paper to "Closed".
Fill in this exception form.
254c A failure of an external service provider prevented compliance (for instance, a subject repository did not enable open access at the end of the embargo period, or a subject repository ceased to operate).
We recommend that all potential REF submission be uploaded to Pure within the timeframes required.
Please contact openaccess@kcl.ac.uk if you have any related questions.
254b The repository experienced a short-term or transient technical failure that prevented compliance with the criteria (this should not apply to systemic issues).
Contact puresupport@kcl.ac.uk if you are unable to access Pure.
If the problem remains unresolved, please fill in this exception form – and please attach the Author's Accepted Manuscript version to the form.
255a 'Other' exception - for circumstances beyond an HEI's control
Where an output is unable to meet the criteria due to circumstances beyond the control of the HEI, including extenuating personal circumstances of the author (such as periods of extended leave), industrial action, closure days, and software problems beyond those listed in the technical exceptions, this exception should be used.
If this is the case, please contact us at openaccess@kcl.ac.uk to discuss your circumstances or fill in this exception form .
252a The individual whose output is being submitted to the REF was unable to secure the use of a repository at the point of acceptance.
Creating Digital Object Identifiers (DOI) for grey literature.
In addition to creating and maintaining DOIs for datasets, Libraries & Collections can also create DOIs for ‘grey literature’ items.
While Libraries & Collections has created and maintained DOIs for datasets for several years, we can now offer DOIs also for ‘grey literature’ items.
Grey literature might include outputs, such as working papers, protocols, reports and other items which do not have a traditional publication route (e.g., journal or book format), but where the research findings might benefit from being made more widely accessible and/or in a format possibly more suited to non-academic audiences, such as a pamphlet.
A DOI can be created and added to the document and it will then be published on Pure and made immediately accessible via the King’s Research Portal .
What is a DOI?
DOI stands for Digital Object Identifier which is a unique online reference to an object which contains details of how that object can be accessed.
Why should you get a DOI?
By assigning DOIs to research outputs, researchers can benefit from easier citation which can be tracked and measured more consistently.
It means that the output will remain persistently accessible for the long term and will not fall victim to broken links and Error 404.
By assigning a DOI to research outputs King's is committing to make this item persistently accessible and to as wide an audience as possible.
King’s also commits to undertake any updates that may be required to deliver this.
How to get a DOI?
If you have something that might fall into the grey literature category or think this format might be helpful in disseminating findings of your research, then please get in touch.
If you have an active Pure profile, then please add details of the output to Pure and forward your request to us – making sure to include the Pure ID (email: research.data@kcl.ac.uk ).
Please go to our Pure for REF page to see how to deposit and add details of a research output to Pure.
More generally, for more information or to find out if your output is eligible for a DOI, please contact the Research Support team (email: research.data@kcl.ac.uk) .
openaccess@kcl.ac.uk
To speak to a member of the team, please email us using the address above to arrange a Teams call
Information about King's publisher agreements

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/researchsupport/managing/index.aspx:
Prepare to look after your data during and after your research by writing a Data Management Plan
How to name, structure, describe and check your data
How and where to store your data to make sure it is accessible, backed-up and secure during your…
How to select, prepare and archive data for long-term preservation
How and when to share data to increase impact, re-use, and meet funder requirements
Guidance and resources for understanding and working safely with health data
RDM training, tools and resources

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/researchsupport/research-impact.aspx:
What is ORCiD?
Open Researcher and Contributor ID ( ORCiD ) is a personal identifier that uniquely distinguishes you from other researchers, even if they have the same name.
It enables authoritative links to be created between you and your research activities (e.g.
your research outputs, grants and employment history).
ORCiD is a non-profit, community-driven project, open to any researcher at any career stage and at no cost.
Why should I use ORCiD?
Using ORCiD means you can guarantee credit for your achievements.
As ORCiD becomes more widely adopted, data sharing between administrative systems such as Pure and Researchfish will become much easier, reducing the reporting burden on everyone.
Many funders and publishers already require or are strongly recommending ORCiD and it is likely to be used for the next REF.
The College therefore recommends that academics, research staff and research students should sign up to ORCiD, as detailed below.
Can an ORCiD be created for me?
No, a core principle of the service is that researchers create and manage their ORCiD profile throughout their career.
How do I get an ORCiD?
The best way is to create one from your Pure account.
This will make sure that your new ORCiD is linked to the university’s internal systems.
If you already have an ORCiD, please use Pure to make a link to King’s so that you get the maximum benefit.
Here is a brief presentation runs through the short simple steps required to link your Pure profile to an ORCiD profile - or create an ORCiD from scratch.
In brief:
I already have an ORCiD ID - how do I link my ORCID to my Pure account?
When will the changes take effect?
As details of your new outputs are added to Pure, your ORCiD account will be automatically updated on a weekly basis - not in real time.
Please note that this synchronisation runs one way only - from Pure to ORCiD and not vice versa.
Who should be able to see the information added to your ORCiD record?
Please make sure that your ORCiD profile is configured to show information publically.
This can be set via the group icon in Account settings.
ORCiD housekeeping & maintenance tips:
ORCiD can send a significant number of emails to users.
It is possible to stop these through the Preferences settings.
Access these by logging in to Orcid>Account Settings>Email and Contact Preferences.
You can change email frequency to "Never":
Or fine tune with the ORCID inbox notification settings:
If you are publishing a book where King's College London, or a department, is the nominal publisher, Libraries & Collections may be able to provide you with an ISBN.
An International Standard Book Number is a 13 digit number which uniquely identifies a publication, and makes it easier for the publication to be searched for within catalogues and bibliographic databases.
There is no legal obligation to have an ISBN, but you may find it helpful.
You can apply to Libraries & Collections for an ISBN by emailing research.data@kcl.ac.uk in the Library Research Support team, but please first ensure your item qualifies for publication through your academic department.
Please note the following when applying:

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/careers/supporting-you/my-career-journey:
Every student and recent graduate will have their own career journey.
Our resources can help you no matter where you are on that journey.
While all of our services are available to all students at any time, we would encourage you to prioritise the following activities, as they have been hand-picked to help you to get the most out of your career journey.
Our advice for first year undergraduates is the same whether you are in the discover, focus or action stage of your career journey.
Once you’ve explored these activities, and if you feel you have the capacity to do more, read our first year Careers Essentials checklist on KEATS for additional extras we recommend based on your stage of career thinking.
Once you’ve explored these activities, and if you feel you have the capacity to do more, read our middle year Careers Essentials checklist on KEATS for additional extras we recommend based on your stage of career thinking.
Once you’ve explored these activities, and if you feel you have the capacity to do more, read our final year Careers Essentials checklist on KEATS for additional extras we recommend based on your stage of career thinking.
If you are an international student, our dedicated page can support you with your future plans (for example, navigating UK visas).
If you are aiming to change careers, we recommend reading our guide for career changers on KEATS .
Find our events, appointments, opportunities and digital pathways.
Explore our careers and employability resources on KEATS.
Explore online careers information, resources, courses and tools.
Visit Shortlist.Me, our interview preparation tool.
Visit CareerSet, our CV and cover letter checking tool.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/careers/supporting-you:
We’re here to help you shape your future with confidence.
Whether you’re figuring out your first steps, exploring new ideas or ready to put your plans into action, our team is here to guide and support you every step of the way.
You can build your employability skills and career plans in a way that fits around your studies, in your own time and at your own pace.
Our dedicated careers professionals and integrated approach will help you discover your strengths, make informed choices and move forward through a mix of interactive online resources, one-to-one appointments, events and workshops.
We offer impartial advice and opportunities for all King’s students, researchers and recent graduates to help you plan your next steps and achieve lifelong career success.
Make the most of our support wherever you are on your career journey.
Find part-time work, graduate jobs, placements and more.
Explore our support for job applications, assessments and interviews.
Explore extracurricular and meaningful work experience opportunities.
Learn more about our employability workshops and developing your skills.
Explore our employer educational, networking and promotional events.
Find out how to book in-person and virtual careers appointments.
Explore our tailored careers support for international students.
King's CareerConnect is our online careers portal.
It allows students, recent alumni and researchers to engage with our services, including our vacancy board, events calendar, self-paced learning pathways, skills activities and one-to-one appointments.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/careers/after-graduation:
Whether you are a recent graduate looking for support or want to connect and give back, we can help you.
Many of the services, events and opportunities we offer are available to King's alumni (including students who have had their studies interrupted or have left without completing their course) for two years after you finish your course.
Wherever you are on your career journey, we are here to help.
You'll need to create an alumni account on King's CareerConnect to engage with our services, including book onto careers events and book appointments.
Recent alumni can continue to access our services for up to two years following completion of your course, or reconnect to support current students benefit from your expertise and opportunities.
Learn how to use King's CareerConnect as an alumnus.
Access tailored King's offers and opportunities as a recent graduate.
The Graduate Outcomes survey aims to improve the experience of future students.
We ask all graduates to share their perspectives 15 months after graduation.
This helps to build a national picture that UK universities and colleges can use to innovate their services.
League tables, Prospects and The Complete University Guide also use Graduate Outcomes data to help students make decisions about their future.
Be part of helping us build success for our graduates and look out for an email or phone call from Jisc.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/careers/supporting-you/staff:
Our teams are dedicated to supporting students, doctoral and postdoctoral researchers, research staff and recent graduates as they navigate their career journeys, offering expert guidance, resources and opportunities to enhance their employability.
Academic and Professional Services colleagues are key to integrating career development into academic programmes and services, ensuring students are well-equipped for the world of work.
Together, we can help empower the next generation of professionals.
King's Careers & Employability is here to support students, doctoral and postdoctoral researchers and recent graduates on their career journeys.
Our services include:
We have a team dedicated to supporting researchers at King’s and consequently, supporting a positive research culture through good career management.
We work closely with the King's Doctoral College and the Centre for Research Staff Development to provide effective support for researcher development at King’s, ensuring we meet the King’s commitment to the Researchers’ Concordat.
One-to-one appointments
We provide one-to-one appointments across Denmark Hill, Guy's and Strand Campuses.
These 30 or 60-minute impartial and confidential appointments can be used to discuss career options, support you articulate the value of your research experience, clarify career goals and ambitions, develop confidence, discuss career change or many other things.
Workshops and events
We offer a variety of events to develop your skills in career management, increase career confidence and hear from experts in many different sectors.
While all of our services are available to all students at any time, we encourage students to prioritise specific activities based on their stage of career thinking.
These activities are outlined in our Careers Essentials checklists .
They have been hand-picked to help students make the most out of their career journey, whether they are in their first, middle, or final year of their undergraduate programme.
Postgraduate students can also review our Careers Essentials guide to help plan their masters programme.
Many of our services for students and researchers, including appointments, events and job adverts, are located on King's CareerConnect.
Staff can also access the platform via single sign-on to view what's available and demonstrate to students how the platform works.
The Employability Toolkit is a comprehensive guide to integrating employability at King’s.
It covers how we work with you and support in areas such as:
You can also download our guide to the core employer events and activities (pdf) running this academic year.
Many of the digital tools we have procured for students are accessible by staff also, to support their own career journey.
Explore some of the systems on our website .
Organisational Development plays a vital role in empowering, developing and supporting our community of over 10,000 staff to thrive .
Review the staff intranet pages for information on their offering, including:
View events, appointments and opportunities to support your students.
Understand our services, access careers data and find support for...

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/employers:
Meet
Recruit
Raise your profile
Get in touch
Our multi-sector fair is open for booking!
Share experiences and new opportunities at our free autumn Networking…
Recruiting casual roles?
Attend our fair on 30 Sept
Publish your opportunties to thousands of students for free...
We’re ranked 31st in the world by QS
Book your space for our flagship events and fairs
Our specialist Advisers are here to support employers
Your trusted partner of choice in sourcing and developing diverse global talent.
King's College London is one of the world's top universities (31st, QS 2026), the fourth oldest in England and a founding college of the University of London.
Located at the heart of the capital across five campuses and arranged across nine faculties, it has an outstanding reputation for world class research and teaching across the humanities, social sciences, law, medicine, business and science.
Recruiting at King's (PDF Guide) Access your King's CareerConnect profile
Advertise opportunities, recruit our students and alumni and host interns or placements.
Engage in the curriculum or through bespoke work-related learning programming.
Explore innovative physical, virtual & hybrid events or promote your own activity at King's.
Enhance your brand at King's through activities to maximise your exposure to our audience.
King’s has been named the 31st best university in the world and 5th best in the UK in the QS World…
30 September 2025
Our Part-time Work Fair provides you with an opportunity to meet and recruit our students, offering…
07 October 2025
Help unlock our students' awareness of the roles and options available across financial services in…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/careers/supporting-you/kings-careerconnect:
It allows students, recent alumni, staff and employers to engage with our services and make the most of what we offer.
Your access to King's CareerConnect will be available after you have completed the full enrolment task and received your King’s ID card (either physically or digitally).
All students should have access by Friday 26 September .
If you are a current student, you will automatically be registered for King's CareerConnect with your 'K' number (for example, 'k012345678') once you have enrolled online and received your King's ID card (either physically or digitally).
To log into King's CareerConnect:
You'll find recommended roles, events and organisations listed on your home page, based on the profile settings you select.
You will also have the option to sign up for vacancy alerts from a separate service called targetjobs which is not run by King's Careers & Employability.
You'll retain access throughout your studies, until a few weeks after you complete course, including if you are on a year/semester abroad or in industry.
You will have access for up to two years following the completion of your course.
Visit our careers page for alumni for more information on the services you can access.
You will have access for up to two years following registration.
We periodically review access and will automatically remove accounts which have not logged in during the previous three months after two years.
We periodically review access and will automatically remove accounts which have not logged in during the last three months after two years.
You can update or change these in your profile settings at any time in accordance with our Terms & Conditions and Privacy Statement .
If you are experiencing issues accessing the system please let us know so that we can investigate it for you.
When you contact us, please try to include a screenshot image of any error messages you receive, the web browser you are using (for example, Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge, Firefox or other), where you are trying to access (for example, on campus, in a student residence or off site) and whether you have experienced any problems with other King's website which require your single sign on (KEATS, for example).
targetjobs is a commercially provided product from our supplier and data processor, Group GTI.
It is not part of King's Careers & Employability and is not associated with using King's CareerConnect, however you may be provided the option to register for this service when you create or update your profile.
You must opt-in to register for targetjobs and neither King's Careers & Employability, nor King's College London accepts any responsibility for the content of its provision or its use of your details.
You can opt-out of receiving the service at any time by updating your King's CareerConnect settings.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/careers/get-in-touch/policies:
King's Careers & Employability is a member of a number of professional bodies and organisations which support and enable our work.
The Association of Graduate Careers Advisory Services (AGCAS)
The Institute of Student Employers (ISE)
The Work-Integrated Learning Association (ASET)
The National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE)
The Sustainable Recruitment Alliance
Our services are regularly accredited by external bodies, including:
King's Careers & Employability has been awarded the AGCAS Membership Quality Standard.
This demonstrates high levels of professionalism in quality careers education, employer engagement and student engagement.
For policies applying to King's College London, please visit the Policy Hub .
Our Guide to Running Events & Engaging Employers at King's (pdf) is available on KEATS.
King's Careers & Employability's Strategic Plan (2025-28) is available on request.
Please get in touch with us at careers@kcl.ac.uk to request a copy.
Services provided directly by King's Business School Careers team will be covered by different localised policies.
Contact the Business School Careers team for information.
Policies, terms and conditions and privacy statements relating to employers, industry and external partners can be found on the Employer Engagement policies page .
We'll be happy to support you.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/careers/get-in-touch:
Our teams are available between 09:00 and 17:00 UK time from Monday to Friday (excluding when King's is closed ).
You can also reach us by email at: careers@kcl.ac.uk .
You can access our digital careers education resources 24/7 or find us at our events, workshops and appointments across King's.
Current students, research staff and recent alumni can discover more about our appointment options and book online 48 hours in advance of the appointment time using King's CareerConnect .
Our Enquiries team, staffed by students, are your first point of contact.
They can help direct you to the most appropriate information, advice or guidance on using our services, or put you in touch with the relevant contact.
Email us at: careers@kcl.ac.uk .
King's Business School (KBS) operates its own careers service , which delivers some activity, appointments and provision directly.
Please get in touch with them directly if you have queries about this provision.
KBS students are also welcome to utilise the wider services of King's Careers & Employability.
You can email our Enquiries team who will help direct you to relevant information and guidance on finding careers services.
Our dedicated Employer Engagement team collaborates and partners with organisations across the world.
Our specialist knowledge across a range of industries helps organisations connect with our world-class students and graduates.
We support employers in reaching all students, including King's Business School.
Get in touch with us by emailing: employers@kcl.ac.uk
Prospective students can find information on our key careers services on our student web pages .
You can find out more about studying at King's on our study pages .
For information on the types of roles and graduate outcomes of different King's courses, use the Discover Uni website .
Our Work-Based Learning team can support you with sourcing your own internship or answer questions about our own work experience programmes.
We can also answer questions you may have about King's host agreements.
Get in touch with the team by emailing: internships@kcl.ac.uk .
The King's Edge team oversees the King's Experience Awards, the King's Undergraduate Research Fellowship (KURF) and the Student Opportunity Fund (SOF).
Get in touch with the team by emailing: ke@kcl.ac.uk .
Our Global Placements team can answer your questions about the year-in-industry provision which we facilitate working with colleagues in both Natural, Mathematical & Engineering Sciences (NMES) and King's Business School (KBS).
Get in touch with team by emailing: global-placements@kcl.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/it/new-to-kings:
Once you have received your invitation to enrol you will receive information on how to activate your King's account.
Find out more via Student Services Online .
From there you'll be able to find guidance on use and access of our University systems including:
For any IT-related queries, please get in touch with our IT Support centre that operates 24/7, 365 days per year.
Come and see us for in-person, on-campus IT support between 10am - 4pm, Monday to Friday.
Find us in the Maughan Library, New Hunt’s House Library (closed Thursday until 1pm) and EUS Hub Waterloo (room 2.32).
Helix is the online self-service portal, where you will be able to find answers to frequently asked questions, submit requests for assistance or report issues, and where you can monitor the progress of your existing tickets.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/it/help-and-support:
Having difficulties logging into your e-mail, connecting to Wi-Fi or navigating through a tricky application?
Get in touch with the King's IT Service Desk - available 24/7 all year round.
88888@kcl.ac.uk
Find us in the Maughan Library, New Hunt’s House Library (closed Thursday until 1pm) and Room 2.32 of the Franklin Wilkins Building, Waterloo.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/it/services-and-software:
*Please note: Short course students may not be eligible for all of the benefits listed.
Having difficulties logging into your email, connecting via Windows Remote Access, connecting to Wi-Fi or navigating through a tricky application?
Get in touch with the King's Service Desk - our IT-support team are available 24/7 all year round.
Get up to 30 minutes of free charging time for your personal devices -  including phones and tablets Simply turn off your alarms, lock your device and charge!
Currently available at our Strand, Waterloo, Guys and Denmark Hill Campuses.
Simply turn off your alarms, lock your device and charge!
Find out chargebox locations via the Library
Borrow a laptop from King's; library loan system
library loan system
Manage your library account and access library guides here
Guide to King's Libraries and Collections
Follow Me Printing allows students to print to a variety of locations across the university.
Use your King’s ID card or King’s email address.
Please note there is a charge for printing.
Send your printing from your personal device by attaching your document and sending an email from your King’s account to emailprint@kcl.ac.uk Default printing is double-sided and in black and white.
To make changes to these settings, you must click on the ‘properties’ tab before you print.
This may incur an additional cost.
Default printing is double-sided and in black and white.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/it/grad-scheme:
King’s IT needs enthusiastic graduates to support the ambitious academic, research and service strategies that will help deliver King’s Vision 2029.
We have exciting opportunities for graduates interested in an IT digital career in the higher education sector.
We welcome applications from graduates from any academic discipline, and in particular encourage applicants from King’s with a degree in IT or Business.
Watch our video to find out more!
King’s College London is one of the world's top universities, ranked 35th in the Times Higher Education World Rankings 2023, with a vision to make the world a better place.
The university is leading an ambitious programme of digital transformation, investing significantly in the Digital Environment to support world-leading education, research and service to society.
Graduates will receive on-the-job and formal training and will work with IT specialists, gaining a broad, and hands-on experience.
The IT team have developed indicative career paths, with the intention of supporting graduates to rapidly progress their careers, and they have seen many graduates secure roles after the Scheme in many areas within King’s.
Reporting to the IT Graduate Scheme Manager, the 2-year rotational Scheme aims to grow graduates’ technological and business skills and experience.
Graduates will have the opportunity to develop in several areas of IT and build the foundation of their career.
Graduates will work day-to-day under the direction of an Assignment Manager, and they can be assigned to any of the following IT teams (subject to change):
Assignment area: Service Design.
Assignment areas: Business Analysis, Agile Centre of Excellence, Portfolio, Education, Digital & Data Solutions and Service Transition.
Assignment area: End User Services.
There may or may not be vacancies, but let us know of your interest as we'd be glad to hear from you.
You must be eligible to work in the UK to apply as this post does not offer sponsorship.
Shortlisted applicants will be contacted and invited for a two-stage panel interview.
Please email andreas.eleftheriou@kcl.ac.uk (IT Graduate Scheme Manager) with 'King's IT Graduate Scheme' in the subject line and we'll come back to you!
Many graduates have successfully completed the Scheme and secured roles within IT and across King’s Faculties and Departments.
Here are what a few had to say about their experiences:
"The Grad Scheme is a great stepping stone into the world of IT.
I gained contextual knowledge in project management, confidence and communication skills."
"This Scheme has been exciting, challenging & motivating.
Experiencing different aspects of IT to understand what I want to achieve going forward."
"The Scheme is a wonderful opportunity to partake in various training which develops you both professionally & personally making you more employable."
"This experience helped me choose which career path to take, so the creative variety was perfect for me and I have met really great mentors along the way."
Help to find and apply for the role that best suits your skills, qualifications and career goals.
Here we offer some tips on writing your application and supporting statement.
Follow this link for ways you can benefit from being a part of King's team.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/it/apprenticeship-scheme:
You could join our Desktop and Audio/Visual specialists in supporting our staff and student communities at King’s College London.
You’ll work across our five central London campuses whilst studying for your qualification and there are plenty more training opportunities too - you can gain Microsoft and other industry standard certifications as well as customer service and technical skills training, meaning you’ll have all the skills and tools you’ll need for a lasting career in IT!
All apprenticeship applicants must be eligible to work in the UK.
Over the course of your apprenticeship, you can expect to work at some of our five London campuses, You’ll be primarily helping us run our onsite TechBars, helping our staff and students with all of their IT needs and providing advice and assistance for the software and services we provide.
You’ll also be working closely with our End User Services teams providing 2nd line IT Support for our Apple and Microsoft computing estate.
Some of our current and recent IT apprentices share apprenticeship experiences, and Tom Berry, EUS Techbar/Apprentice Manager, and David Pople, Head of IT Supplier Management, explain why hiring apprentices is so important to King’s College London.
We love hearing from potential apprentices!
You can search for current apprenticeship vacancies at gov.uk .
Current vacancies are advertised on our King's Apprenticeships Instagram account, along with details on how to apply.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/it/help-and-support/hybrid-and-remote-working-equipment.aspx:
Here you will find links and resources to the equipment and software you need to work and teach remotely.
Please be aware some of these resources are only available internally to King's.
Hardware: t he kit you need, costs and ordering process for working remotely (internal)
Software: There are various routes to accessing software;
Building your online working skills: Visit our Digital Skills Hub (internal)
Complete our self-service forms to order equipment/software or raise a query about exactly what you need.
Helix the online self-service portal, where you will be able to find answers to frequently asked questions, submit requests for assistance or report issues, and where you can monitor the progress of your existing tickets.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/digied/for-students/essentialdigitalskills.aspx:
Technologies
For students
For staff
Community engagement
The Essential Digital Skills Programme aims to ensure that King’s students learn the digital skills required to support their academic, professional, and personal development.
The programme focuses on teaching five main themes:
Students will work through the online content, and complete short assessments (such as quizzes) to measure and reinforce learning.
The 25/26 course will be available to enrol onto next week.
Students will learn:
Additional benefits include:
The programme will be available to enrol onto next week.
If you have any questions please contact us on
digitalskills@kcl.ac.uk
Happier, more relaxed, more confident
Anonymous student
Information about LinkedIn Learning at King's.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/digied/index.aspx:
DigiEd's aim and vision for Digital Education at King's.
DigiEd's impact on teaching and learning at King's.
DigiEd team members.
To support colleagues in designing and delivering flexible learning, a series of workshops and self-paced resources are available.
Online KEATS resource hub offering guidance on learning technologies, staff training sessions and external resources.
We have developed an online programme designed to prepare King's students for success by supporting their academic, professional and personal development.
Faculties have dedicated digital education colleagues for support with faculty specific queries.
Information on DigiEd's Faculty Liaison team, their roles, remit and contact details.
King’s Digital Education blog is a centrally supported space to capture and share best practice, pedagogical and technical developments and news from King’s community and across the sector.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/begins-at-kings:
From the discovery of DNA to the application of AI, King's has been at the forefront of world-leading research impact since it's beginnings in 1829.
Our breakthroughs and discoveries have influenced policy, practice, business and enterprise for nearly 200 years.
From our labs to our libraries, our enquiry starts with addressing world questions leading to King's answers.
The Research begins at King’s video series showcases some of our most prestigious research talent at King’s, from AI and intelligent computer systems, to health and disease – find out more about the ideas behind the impact.
Exploring work-family research, gender and other social inequalities.
Examining one of the most complex neuronal systems of the brain.
Advanced imaging to reveal how cells function in health and disease.
Voting behaviour, public opinion and diversity in political recruitment.
Find out more about non-linear optics and optical spin-orbit effects.
How to help people live with climate change.
Examining the impact of discrimination within health services.
Exploring digital entanglement by examining 'the AI loop'.
Building new kinds of computing platforms for smart and green AI.
Helping people understand social science research.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/kings-news:
The World Association of Social Psychiatry awarded the 2025 Pelicier Prize to Emeritus Professor Dinesh Bhugra for his lifetime contributions to social...
New research from the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience (IoPPN) at King’s College London, in partnership with the University of Bath, has...
During the summer, a group of 15 young participants from the Baytree Centre attended an Insight Day at the King’s St Thomas’ Campus, where they engaged in a...
An AI tool could help cardiologists identify and target cells that trigger arrhythmia in patients with ventricular tachycardia, a serious heart condition.
Dr Rosa Andújar, Senior Lecturer in Liberal Arts in the Department of Interdisciplinary Humanities, has been appointed as the Pedro Henríquez Ureña Chair...
A new study reveals how Western men use Thailand’s Muay Thai fighting scene to perform masculinity, navigate vulnerability, and assert dominance
Government policies that encourage property speculation are a key driver behind boom and bust house price cycles, according to a new study.
Genetic testing of IVF-created embryos could help more women over 35 have a baby in less time, a clinical trial by researchers from King’s, King’s College...
A new academic study has revealed that when it comes to import tariffs on clothing, it is it is as often as not men, not women, who face higher taxes,...
King’s will play a central role in supporting anti-doping efforts at the Women’s Rugby World Cup 2025, which takes place in England and begins on Friday.
A new study has shed light on how a type of drug works to reduce liver damage in alcohol-related liver disease, by reshaping the architecture of the tissue....
A new report from the King’s Centre for Military Health Research (KCMHR) has explored the outcomes and experiences of UK Armed Forces personnel who were...
Discover King's courses, events, fees, London life, applying, and more.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/spotlight:
A series of features and stories highlighting the impact King’s has on the world's greatest challenges and for the benefit of society, working to save and improve lives, enhance the economy, advance discussion and debate, influence policy and shape the cultural landscape.
As the world changes, often in unexpected ways, it can be valuable to cast a critical eye back in time and ask what we can learn from the scientific,...
30 July 2025
Success for Black Students (SFBS), a King’s mentoring and outreach programme for aspiring Black engineers and physicists that began in September 2022, has...
25 July 2025
In our Spotlight on Arts & Humanities piece, we look at how King’s collaborations with cultural institutions and educational programmes have led to new...
18 July 2025
Decisions should be made for people based on a firm foundation
Could the armed forces reduced appetite for risk be holding it back?
Dr Sophy Antrobus’s research suggested in recent decades a culture of risk aversion had...
The recent DWP Green Paper, entitled ‘Pathways to Work: Reforming Benefits and Support to Get Britain Working’ has provoked a great deal of discussion from...
In the latest Spotlight on Arts & Humanities, we look at the work of Dr Emily Pillinger, who works in the Department of Classics and in the Department of...
13 June 2025
09 June 2025
In this Spotlight on Arts & Humanities, we detail the project that details what connects people across millennia — the search for shelter from war.
02 June 2025
Visual media can play a dominant role in shaping our understanding of politics – sometimes without us even noticing.
In this Spotlight on Arts & Humanities,...
30 May 2025
Dr Ylva Baeckström’s research highlights how gender stereotypes affect women, both as consumers of financial advice and as professionals within the financial...
29 May 2025
This makes it essential that they and the loved ones who care...
08 March 2025
The role of King’s Global Institute for Women’s Leadership (GIWL) is becoming increasingly urgent.
Recent reports show an increase from 100 to 136 years until...
05 February 2025
As part of our Spotlight on Arts & Humanities series we delve into the Making Sense of Visual Art — a project led by classicist, Dr Ellen Adams.
23 January 2025
It accounts for considerable death, disability and healthcare...
Talk by Dr Bina Agarwal co-hosted with LSE on gender and farming.
Dame Helena Morrissey talks to Julia about how she got to the top in the...

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/personalised-nutrition-more-effective-than-generalised-diet-advice:
08 May 2024
Personalised nutrition approaches can improve several key health metrics including lower weight, lower cholesterol, better mood, improved gut health, lower heart disease risk and better metabolic health.
Improvements for those following personalised guidance were also greater in some areas than for those following current, generalised government advice.
Numerous chronic diseases and health issues can be linked back to our diets, including stroke risk, heart disease and some cancers.
New research emerges all the time, deepening our understanding of how nutrition affects our health.
Changing our diet can make us healthier and reduce the risk of chronic disease, but it has been found that people often don’t follow generalised health advice.
There is also wide variation in how people’s bodies respond to food, even between identical twins.
Despite this, little research has been done into the effectiveness of personalised dietary approaches.
In this study, researchers from the School of Life Course & Population Sciences wanted to see if a personalised diet plan, tailored to an individual’s biology, lifestyle and health history, would have a greater impact that generic nutrition advice such as to avoid red meat.
The personalised diet programmes were created by ZOE, a science and nutrition company co-founded by King’s Professor Tim Spector which aims to help members improve their health with personalised advice.
347 Americans took part in the study, with researchers comparing the effects of following an 18-week personalised program to generic US government-issued nutrition advice.
While both groups improved their health overall, participants on the personalised diet plan lost more weight than the control group and lowered their triglyceride levels more – decreasing their risk of heart disease.
Participants following the personalised diet plan were also twice as likely to report improved mood, twice as likely to feel less hungry and more than four times more likely to report better sleep quality and energy levels compared with the control group.
"It is clear that some current population advice isn’t working as well as it could, with many people struggling to stick to it.
ZOE advice shows that thinking about foods in a totally different way with the emphasis on quality, personalisation and gut health can have massive benefits if adopted more widely."
"ZOE's METHOD trial builds on growing evidence that a personalised dietary approach can be an effective tool for improving health.
Personalised approaches can improve both how well people follow advice, as well as the efficacy of the advice.
Targeting multiple features of personalisation is key to success, including people’s biology, lifestyles, barriers and preferences."
The research was published on 8 th May in Nature Medicine .
Professor of Genetic Epidemiology
Professor

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/kings-surgical-ai-spin-out-hypervision-surgical-secures-6.5m-seed-investment:
01 June 2023
A spin-out company originally formed by clinicians, medical imaging and artificial intelligence (AI) experts at King’s has raised £6.5 million in seed investments to develop advanced technology for improved surgical and patient safety.
Hypervision Surgical Ltd (HVS) , a MedTech spin-out from King's School of Biomedical Engineering & Imaging Sciences (BMEIS), is harnessing AI and advanced imaging to create a platform for real-time tissue analysis in the operating theatre that aims to make surgeries more precise, safer and faster.
Thanks to the newly secured funding, HVS will accelerate the development of its cutting-edge vision technology and be used to attain regulatory clearance in the United States and Europe.
The company will expand collaborations with leading surgeons, renowned surgical centres, and strategic industry partners on both sides of the Atlantic to ensure a successful market launch and smooth integration into clinical practice.
HVS is also set to complete UK clinical evaluation studies on colorectal and neurosurgery in the coming year to further enhance its evidence base and proof of concept.
We are incredibly excited about the transformative potential of our Hyperspectral Intelligence platform.
Imagine a complex tumour surgery where surgeons can rely on precise measurements and tissue property information to distinguish between healthy and unhealthy tissue.
Our technology makes the invisible visible, empowering surgeons to make confident decisions with enhanced precision and ultimately improving patient outcomes.
Hypervision Surgical, as one of the first commercial spin-outs from the St Thomas' MedTech Hub, marks an exciting milestone for King’s and points us towards future ways of working with MedTech Entrepreneurs.
I extend my heartfelt congratulations to the Hypervision Surgical team and express my gratitude to all those at King's who have supported this venture and contributed to its success.
The innovative Hypervision Surgical technology holds tremendous potential to positively impact the lives of patients in the UK and beyond.
This latest successful bid for funding was supported by King’s IP & Licensing department, which specialises in driving new technology and commercialisation opportunities for spin-out companies such as HVS that have been created by King’s academics and researchers.
The funding round was led by a syndicate of highly experienced European and American HealthTech investors, including HERAN Partners, Redalpine, LifeX Ventures, and ZEISS Ventures, the corporate venture arm of the ZEISS Group – a global technology leader operating in the fields of optics and optoelectronics.
In conjunction with the funding announcement, HVS has also welcomed Martin Frost CBE, Founder and former CEO of CMR Surgical, to its board of directors.
Frost has an extensive track record as a technology executive and director, having spent decades building and leading multiple companies, including through initial public offerings.
Notably, he founded CMR Surgical in 2014 and swiftly scaled it into a globally recognised unicorn in the field of surgical robotics.
In recognition of his exceptional contributions to Robotics and the British Industry, Frost was honoured with a CBE in Queen’s Birthday Honours 2020.
HVS was founded by King’s researchers and clinicians:
Assistant Principal (Innovation)
Professor of Interventional Image Computing
Clinical Reader in Neurosurgery

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/leucid-bio-gains-clinical-trial-approval-for-new-car-t-cell-therapy:
29 September 2023
The King’s spin-out will dose its first patients by the end of 2023 in order to test its new CAR-T Cell Therapy, designed for the treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory solid tumours.
King’s spin-out Leucid Bio has received official authorisation to conduct a clinical trial of its new CAR-T Cell Therapy.
The trial, titled ‘AERIAL’, will evaluate the safety and tolerability of LEU011 for the treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory solid tumours.
Permission for the combined phase 1 and 2 clinical trial was granted by the UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), with patients expected to receive their first dose towards the end of 2023.
The announcement follows promising preclinical data for LEU011 in a range of solid tumour models.
AERIAL will evaluate the autologous NKG2D-targeted Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-cell (CAR-T) therapies called LEU011 in patients with relapsed or refractory solid tumours.
The open-label, single patient cohort ascending dose design aims to rapidly identify the maximum tolerated dose for LEU011.
The trial's approach will look to swiftly find the most effective dose without unnecessarily exposing patients to suboptimal doses.
Building on this, Leucid hopes to evaluate the innovative cell therapy's vast potential across various cancer types in which the ligand NKG2D (the molecule that binds to the CAR T-cell receptor) has been detected.
The design of the AERIAL trial, which was inspired by our exciting preclinical data for LEU011, is aimed at assessing the broad potential of the innovative cell therapy across several solid tumours expressing NKG2D ligands.
We look forward to initiating the AERIAL study over the next few months and providing preliminary first-in-human data for LEU011 in 2024.”
CAR T-cell immunotherapies refer to the process by which T-cells – cells from the immune system – are modified to target and destroy cancer cells.
This requires editing the T-cell genome to create the CAR protein, enabling the T-cell to specifically bind with, and attack, cancer cells.
Leucid Bio is a spin-out from King’s based pursuing the development of CAR-T cell therapies using the Company’s proprietary Lateral CAR platform, following the pioneering research of Dr John Maher.
Consultant and Senior Lecturer in Immunology

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/impact/ref:
Research England have announced that the Research Excellence Framework will take place in 2029, with submission in late 2028.
Further information can be found here: REF2029
King’s is developing its plans for REF2029.
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK universities and higher education colleges and replaces the Research Assessment Exercise (RAE).
The first REF exercise was run in 2014 , and the second one was run in 2021 .
King’s made an institutional submission to REF, which is broken down into disciplinary units known as Units of Assessment (UOAs).
The key purposes of the REF are:
King's preparations for REF 2021 were led by Professor Reza Razavi , Vice President and Vice Principal (Research), and co-ordinated by Jo Lakey (REF and Research Impact Director) and Adelah Bilal (REF Policy Officer)
King's achieved excellent results in REF 2021, sustaining the College's position amongst the world’s best universities for research excellence and power.
Some of the key data is highlighted below:
Achievements by individual Units of Assessment:
The full REF results can be accessed at ref.ac.uk and examples of our impact case studies can be seen at https://www.kcl.ac.uk/news/spotlight .
1 The Power score takes into account both the quality and the quantity of research activity, with a weighting applied only to research at 4* and 3*.
2 The Quality Index is similar to the GPA but gives an additional weighting to the proportion of research at the higher star level.
The index that the College has used is % 4* x 9, % 3* x 3, divided by 9.
Different league tables may use different proportions for this.
3 GPA (Grade Point Average) represents an average score (out of four) for the submission to a unit of assessment and is derived by multiplying the percentage of the submission at each of the levels (4*, 3*, 2*, 1*) by the number of the star ranking and dividing by 100.
REF assessments are a process of peer review, carried out by an expert sub-panel in each UOA.
Every element submitted to the REF was graded on a 5 point scale going from unclassified (did not meet REF criteria) to 4* (world leading).
REF 2021 submissions consisted of three main elements:
The REF 2021 Oversight Group (chaired by Professor Reza Razavi) had strategic oversight of King’s submission to the REF and was responsible for ensuring that progress was made, and oversaw and signed off arrangements for matters related to the university’s policy for submission.
The Group reported to the Senior Management Team and to the College Research Committee.
Submissions to each of the four REF Main Panels were coordinated through a Main Panel Co-ordination group, whose responsibility was to determine the internal policy for submissions across all the Units of Assessment related to that Panel.
The College Impact Committee (CIC) brings together the expertise of academic and professional services staff across the College to support the development of research impact activities and to share best practice for impact development and evaluation in all research carried out at the College.
The Chair of the CIC is the Dean of Research Impact, Professor Nigel Pitts.
Membership of the CIC includes Academic Impact Leads for each faculty and the Professional Services Impact Leads.
King's lawful basis under GDPR for collecting and using personal data
The REF is the UK's system for assessing the quality of research in UK...

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/multidisciplinary:
Well-supported and large scale multidisciplinary programmes are essential in addressing the major challenges facing societies and the planet.
The interfaces between disciplines are where some of the most creative and exciting new research develops.
King’s has made multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary connections central to our strategic ambitions.
We aim to provide an environment that supports multidisciplinarity at every level.
This extends from major institutional partnerships and collaborations, to new bilateral links, to help our staff and students realise their full potential in research and innovation.
Advancing AI and data science to power social change
Research, education and training towards to a new Global Health agenda
Multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary research can need more support to develop.
Since 2016 King’s has funded twelve rounds, providing over £5m to new collaborations to help them progress to external funding.
As well as success with grant and fellowship awards, the programme has also helped boost careers, external profile and impacts.
More details can be found here:

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/pcer:
Public and Community Engagement with Research (P&CER) refers to the many ways that public and community groups can interact with and shape research.
Our ambition for P&CER at King’s is to build a culture of engaged research through support, training, reward and recognition and impact capturing.
This hub sets out our P&CER Strategy, what P&CER means at King’s, along with a range of case studies, resources and key contacts to support your P&CER journey.
Explore different types of P&CER and the impact they can have
Enabling King's research community to facilitate meaningful engagement
Find out more about the King’s Engaged Researcher Network
Discover a range of patient and public involvement activities
Ensuring research is informed by and relevant to real-world contexts
A collection of resources to support engagement work at King's
King's Engaged Research Awards
The annual King’s Engaged Research Awards (KERA) are now open for...
The new exhibition from King’s Culture and the Digital Futures Institute...
New research from a team led by Dr Louise Smith and Professor James Rubin...
From fortune-telling with ChatGPT to the cybersecurity of fairy tales,...
King’s College London has again ranked among the top English universities...
An exploration of the Divergent Sounds project, a sonic exploration of...
The inaugural King’s Engaged Research Awards ceremony brought together...
35 nominees from across eight King’s faculties have been shortlisted for...

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/science:
Omega fatty acids could protect against Alzheimer’s disease in women, new...
Toothpaste made from your own hair may offer a sustainable and clinically...
A groundbreaking cancer drug could enhance how patients respond to...
2025 marks 100 years since the first discoveries in quantum mechanics – an area of science which explores nature at a scale smaller than the atom.
King’s has played a pivotal role in the history of quantum research.
Professor Charles Coulson (Chair of Theoretical Physics at King's College London from 1947 to 1952) was one of the pioneers in the application of quantum mechanics to understand how atoms bond together to form molecules.
Fast forward to the 21st Century, King’s has its own dedicated quantum research centre, bringing together scientists from across different sciences to shape the future of technology for the next 100 years and beyond.
King’s Quantum is driving this complex area of science –  guided by the UK government’s National Quantum Strategy.
The centre’s research spans many areas of science, from black holes, quantum computers and quantum-powered healthcare.
'Quantum Untangled', presented by King’s Culture, will reveal the power...
Exploring the impact quantum research could have on the world's greatest...
New London Quantum Technology Cluster positions capital as a global hub...
Hear from Dr Sadra Sadeh, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology &...
Hear from Dr Martin-Martinez, Faculty of Natural, Mathematical &...
Dr Shyam Balaji shares his top tips on viewing the fastest and brightest...
Science has the power to solve the world’s most urgent challenges.
We know interdisciplinary collaboration across the sciences and beyond is critical to accelerate breakthrough discoveries.
King's has a rich history of pioneering cutting-edge science.
Our scientists discovered the structure of DNA, developed electromagnetism and delivered the first human-to-human blood transfusion.
We are now ushering a new era of scientific innovation.
Uniting our collective expertise, we are responding to urgent global questions that extend from net zero carbon futures to quantum technologies.
We aim to become the UK’s leading university for future-facing science education and a global powerhouse in cross-disciplinary scientific research.
We are advancing connections across the sciences to deliver teaching and research that inspires solutions to complex global issues.
By nurturing, attracting and bringing together talent working at the interface of fundamental and applied science, we are shaping an ethos of discovery rooted in interdisciplinary thinking.
Underpinning solutions for addressing key environmental issues
Transforming understanding of the fundamentals of life
King's world-class science degrees deliver future-facing education, taught by leading academics in cutting-edge facilities.
Students learn how to solve major societal challenges through an interdisciplinary lens, gaining the skills and experience needed to work within emerging and future industries across the science spectrum.
Our flagship Natural Sciences degree programmes are rooted in scientific problem-solving.
Through embedded training in entrepreneurship skills, students develop innovative, agile thinking that enhances their future employability.
Empowering students to solve societal challenges
Interdisciplinary teaching focused on scientific problem solving
Designed for students with a passion for science and discovery
Interdisciplinary science is fundamental to solving global challenges and developing the scientific breakthroughs of the future.
Building on our heritage of ground-breaking discovery, we are embracing synergies at the interface of the physical and life sciences to strengthen our position as a world-leader in interconnected science research.
Our expert scientists are already propelling new research forward.
We are now creating the conditions needed to stimulate new discoveries by recruiting talent, providing the infrastructure for novel collaborations and incentivising research efforts that have potential to change the world.
World-class science teaching
Pioneering breakthrough science research
Investment in education, talent and facilities

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/kings-innovation-enterprise:
We are committed to produce knowledge that meets the needs and aspirations of society.
We have a strong culture of innovation, connecting our research to new ideas, new products and skills.
From patients to local communities, industry and international business to national governments, perspectives from across society inform our research.
Our Innovation Institutes encourage innovation and create impact.
Through close collaboration with policymakers, business, industry and the cultural sector, our research is turned into actionable policy and our discoveries become marketable products.
Importantly, our staff and students are encouraged to realise their potential as social and commercial entrepreneurs.
Our dedicated function, ‘King's Innovation Catalyst', brings together the IP & Licensing Team, Industry Research Partnerships Office and Translational Research Office to support research from its earliest stages to commercialisation alongside the Entrepreneurship Institute.
If you can't find the information you need, get in touch and we will get back to you as quickly as possible.
Explore our portfolio of spinouts launched by King’s researchers.
The Policy Institute at King's College London works to solve society's...
Bringing together students, staff and alumni at King's who engage with...
Nurturing collaborative mindsets and sparking new ways of thinking

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/kings-maintains-position-among-worlds-best-universities-for-research-excellence-and-power:
12 May 2022
King’s has today maintained its position among the UK’s best universities for research excellence and power
King’s increased its percentage of world leading research (4* rated) to 55.1% and maintained its sixth position for ‘research power’.
King’s has also been rated third in the UK amongst multidisciplinary institutions for impact, with 67.8% of its research impact rated outstanding.
In addition, King’s was the top rated university in two Units of Assessment – Allied Health and Classics, with Chemistry achieving the highest score for impact and King’s Business School scoring among the top ten Schools in the country.
For this submission, King’s included 2008 members of staff in 25 units of assessment and 4399 outputs of 16 different types, covering journal articles, monographs, compositions, patents and websites.
The 137 impact case studies which were included, covered the breadth and depth of the university’s research from innovations in healthcare which have saved thousands of lives, cultural impacts which have transformed public understanding, to impacts which have changed government policies, laws or advice.
Examples include migraine research which has produced five new affordable drugs to help the 1 billion people globally who suffer, pregnancy research helping to alleviate the 20 million births around the world which are affected by serious pregnancy complications, research into wildfires by mapping, monitoring and understanding where they occur to help communities protect themselves and enabling policymakers to develop legislation that protects victims of modern slavery and holds those responsible accountable.
Today’s results are down to the incredible hard work and dedication from everybody at King’s, with professional services and academic colleagues working together to make significant and impressive achievements.
The 137 impact case studies we included in the submission speak to the very heart of our mission as a university to make a defining contribution to knowledge with purpose that is benefitting society.
We look forward to continuing to build on these achievements to help ensure that as a university we will continue to drive forward education, discovery and global impact, and are able to meet the needs of our students and society for many years to come.
I am very proud of today’s results which reflect the strength of the interdisciplinary nature of our research, encapsulating vital contributions from early-career researchers and beyond, as well as the vibrant research culture we foster at King’s.
Vice-Chancellor & President of King's College London
Vice President (Research)

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/trusted-research:
‘Trusted Research’ is a framework of guidance and advice from the UK Government which focuses on protecting the UK’s intellectual property.
It helps identify potential risks to research, which may arise from international collaborations and partnerships.
It also provides guidance on reducing these risks.
This includes protecting sensitive research, people and infrastructure from potential theft, manipulation and exploitation – including instances of interference by hostile actors.
The framework was developed by the National Protective Security Authority (NPSA) and the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) .
The guidance has been developed to help individual researchers and host institutions.
It serves to identify and manage legal and national security risks from research activity that involves international collaboration.
Hostile states are increasingly targeting academic research and innovation activity in the UK.
The Trusted Research guidance seeks to mitigate this risk.
It also seeks to help researchers comply with the law while minimising the impact on the open, collaborative and cross-border nature of academic research.
In the UK, Open Research thrives on transparency and trust.
Trusted Research is underpinned by several acts of legislation which King’s research activities are bound to comply with.
Such legislation includes:
This was passed to increase national security, and gives the Government powers to scrutinise and potentially block international transactions which are deemed to pose a security risk.
International academic research collaborations (involving key areas of the economy) can potentially fall within the purview of this Act.
Researchers should check the export control lists and the NSI sector lists .
Tools such as the Goods Checker Tool are available to help establish if specific items are controlled (for export).
If the research falls under one of these sectors or the control list then it is more likely that there will be national security considerations.
If the work does not fall into one of these categories it does not mean that there are no national security issues.
Researchers must also carry out due diligence in relation to their collaborators / partners / funder.
Remember – collaborator/ partner /funder risk overrides subject risk (i.e.
if there are security concerns about a collaborator / partner / funder, then the subject matter of the research is largely irrelevant).
Enacted to increase national security, and to restrict exports that could be used to suppress human rights or exacerbate conflict in non-democratic countries.
Designed to ensure that international students and post-docs in UK universities who are researching in sensitive subject areas do not inadvertently contribute to the development of weapons of mass destruction, or advanced military technologies in hostile nation states.
Enacted to protect personal data and privacy of UK citizens.
King's College London has formed a Trusted Research Committee to oversee university-level decisions related to the Trusted Research agenda and the UK government framework.
This committee addresses cases involving export controls and the National Security and Investment Act when necessary.
The committee is chaired by Professor Sir Bashir M.
Al-Hashimi CBE FREng FRS, Vice President (Research & Innovation).
Members include academic and professional staff with expertise in areas such as cyber security, export control, research compliance, and geopolitical matters.
The panel carefully considers financial, legal, and reputational risks to both the University and individual researchers in its decision-making process.
A support model has been developed to provide the King’s community with timely guidance around Trusted Research.
Additional information is available for staff at King's on the Trusted Research Intranet page .
In line with guidance published by the NPSA, Professor Sir Bashir M.
Al-Hashimi is the named individual responsible for the risks associated with Trusted Research at King's.
The National Protective Security Authority have published a range of useful resources to support academia in navigating international collaborations.
This includes guidance on:
For further queries on Trusted Research at King's, please contact RMID-Help@kcl.ac.uk
Determining whether Government authorisation is required for research.
Overseeing assurance services for King's Research & Researchers function

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/research-environment/professional-development:
King's College London is committed to developing the next generation of researchers and to helping them achieve their potential, before, during, and after their time with us.
To make sure our doctoral research students and research staff get the most out of their time at King's, we offer a wide range of training and development opportunities that will help you develop your career in research.
Each year the King's Doctoral College delivers hundreds of courses free of charge to doctoral students to hone their research skills, along with other transferable skills, such as include project management, communication and entrepreneurial training.
The university is also committed to making the Doctoral Training Centre experience the model for PhD study.
Find out more about the King's Doctoral College and the training and development opportunities it offers.
The Centre for Research Staff Development - provides professional development support for research staff to achieve their potential, before, during and after their time at King’s, with active support from the most senior staff in the university.
The CRSD also supports research staff networks that operate across King’s, both at faculty and school level and maintains two-way communication with research staff, ensuring that key information is provided about events, careers, funding and training, and that research staff have platforms to contribute their views and feedback.
Research Staff at King’s are postdoctoral staff, research assistants, technicians and teaching fellows, in fact all those other than PhD students who are engaged in research and who do not yet have an independent, permanent academic or managerial position.
Leading Researchers is a development course established in 2017 as part of the King's Research Strategy; co-designed by King's with external facilitators, 64MillionArtists, it has proved so effective that 64MillionArtists now work with several other Russell Group universities to deliver a version of the course to their academic communities.
The King's Leading Researchers course brings together a cohort from across the 9 King's Faculties who are typically recent Professors, or on a trajectory toward a promotion to Professor in the next 1/2 years.
All are research active, and selected because they are on the cusp of strategic research awards; those who have completed the course have gone on to significant grant capture wins which they attribute to inspiration and techniques gained during their time on the course.
The course considers leadership behaviours, sharpens the cohort's focus on their personal research trajectory, and gives them plenty of interaction with a range of speakers, including King's own research leaders from across our range of research disciplines.
In addition to the six-day in-person course, the cohort has regular virtual spotlight sessions on particular areas of need, and all cohort members are offered confidential 121 coaching.
Since 2017 the Leading Researchers course has taught more than 150 colleagues.
Course members have gone on to significant research achievements, from research leadership positions within King's at departmental and Faculty level, research leadership positions within UKRI, and strategic awards including ESRC Centres, Chan Zuckerberg awards, NIHR awards of more £6m, and awards from across UKRI, Leverhulme and Wellcome funding schemes.
King's encourages applications from those with diverse experience, and recognise that research excellence and strategic grant capture varies between disciplines.
For more information please contact the King's lead for the course, Dr Camilla Darling via camilla.darling@kcl.ac.uk
Internal colleagues can read more information on the intranet pages .
We are proud to be a founding signatory of the Technician Commitment.
In 2017, we pledged our commitment to ensuring visibility, recognition, career development and sustainability for our technical services staff, who play a vital role in the success of our university.
Find out more about King's and the Technician Commitment
King’s Academy offers a range of professional development opportunities tailored to the learning needs of early career researchers undertaking teaching for the first time as well as the development of more experienced academic staff and clinical educators.
Find out more about the King's Academy programmes.
The King’s Future Leaders Programme is designed to develop individual leadership skills and capability to deliver the university's aspirations through increased self-awareness, reflective learning and applying the learning in practice.
The King's Doctoral College runs training for new doctoral supervisors and refresher courses for experienced academics to ensure that all research students receive outstanding supervision during their research degree.
More information and booking details can be found on the King's Doctoral College Hub under Supervisor Professional Development (login credentials required).
We place great importance on encouraging academic staff to seek opportunities to refresh and develop their knowledge, skills and thinking in contributing to the advancement of their subject and the objectives and interests of King’s as a place of learning.
King's offers the opportunity for eligible staff to apply for leave of absence for approved academic purposes.
Such academic study and research leave may be paid or unpaid, may be for short or extended periods of time, and may include secondments to other institutions.
Supporting research staff to achieve their potential.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/researcher-development/kcato:
King’s College London hosts a thriving community of research-active health professionals.
Across King’s Health partners, we employ and train almost every kind of health profession, representing a unique multidisciplinary environment in which to forge a clinical academic career.
The King’s Clinical Academic Training Office (KCATO) offers advice, best practice and information on navigating a clinical academic career.
It is open to all health professionals who are based at any of the organisations of King’s Health Partners – KCL, Guy’s and St Thomas’s, King’s College Hospital or South London and Maudsley NHS Trusts.
Our strategic priorities are:
The KCATO Brochure outlines the various training and resources open to health professionals across King's and our NHS Trust partners via the KCATO.
Further information and resources on training, development, funding and careers are available on the newly launched KCATO Hub.
For colleagues in any of the King's Health Partners who wish to access the KCATO Hub, please request access via this form .
You can contact the KCATO Team at kcato@kcl.ac.uk .
KCATO also administers the NIHR Integrated Academic Training Programme at King's College London.
If you have any queries on the IAT Programme, please contact IATadmin@kcl.ac.uk .
Health professional researchers will receive monthly newsletters from the King's Clinical Academic Training Office.
If you have not received the newsletters and would like to be added to our mailing lists, please sign up to our newsletter via our online form .
All doctoral research students in the Health Faculties at King’s enrolled on a DClinPsy, MPhil, MRes, PhD, or other PGR degree, automatically receive monthly email updates from KCATO.
Connect with us on LinkedIn
Are you a postdoc from a nursing, midwifery or professions allied to healthcare background who has had a break from research but wants to return to academia?
Sign up for Return to Research, a new initiative from King's Clinical Academic Training Office to:
Many healthcare professionals struggle to continue doing research after they complete their PhD and return to a clinical career.
You may have lost contact with research colleagues and feel like there’s no easy way back in.
The research funding landscape may have changed during your time away from academia, or you may feel that your academic skills are rusty
Whatever challenges you’re facing in returning to research, KCATO is here to help.
Our first Return to Research meeting is on Wednesday 3 September 2025, 11:00–12:30 at Counting House, Guy’s Campus, where you will:
Please note that you must be currently working in a King’s Health Partners organisation
Let us know you can attend the first meeting, or register your interest in the group here .
Prof Lucy Chappell join KCATO and Grand Rounds on Wed 2 October 2024 to talk about clinical academic careers and specifically the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR), the government’s major funder of clinical, public health, social care and translational research.
Prof Chappell is the Chief Scientific Adviser for the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) and the Chief Executive of NIHR as well as Professor of Obstetrics at King’s College London, Honorary Consultant Obstetrician at Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust.
Recording of the lecture is available on the KCATO Hub (internal link).
Colleagues in our Trust partners, please sign up to access here .
The recordings of the past sessions are available on the KCATO Hub (internal link).
Colleagues in our Trust partners, please sign up to access here.
Have you ever wanted to know more about research?
Have you wondered how to engage in research yourself?
The session will provide you with the opportunity to have your questions about research answered by a panel of clinical academics across different health professions within King's Health Partners.
We will cover areas such as benefits of research for clinical practice, how to get started in research and different ways of gaining research experience, and planning your career in research.
It can be difficult to know where to get started once you have developed interest in research.
Many programmes and fellowships require the applicants to design a research project and to independently find supervisors to support their project.
This session will provide you with clear guidance on how to best approach these tasks and submit a project to a pre-doctoral or doctoral fellowship competition.
The speakers include supervisors who are currently supporting health professional researchers as well as current students who have been successful in obtaining fellowships.
This short session will provide insights and tips on how to put together a competitive fellowship application, aimed particularly at health professionals who are making their first applications (e.g.
for pre-doctoral or doctoral fellowship schemes).
This webinar offers broad guidance that can fit to many different funded fellowship applications, including NIHR, MRC, Wellcome and KHP CTM Pre-doctoral Clinical Research Excellence Fellowships and NIHR Maudsley BRC Preparatory Clinical Research Training Fellowships.
The speakers include colleagues who have recently secured competitive doctoral fellowships and academic colleagues who sit on funding decision panels.
This webinar will introduce the NIHR INSIGHT Programme South London aiming to inspire students and professionals from registered healthcare, social work or public health disciplines (not doctors and dentists) to pursue research careers.
This year there are 30 masters scholarships available and the webinar will cover eligibility, applying and the courses offered across the four university partners King's College London, London South Bank University, Kingston University and St George's University of London.
Watch the webinar recording here.
The HEE/NIHR Predoctoral Award offers nurses, midwifes and other allied health professionals a fully funded fellowship during which they can gain the research skills and undertake preliminary work needed to apply for a funded PhD.
The next round for applications will open in February 2025.
Nurses, midwives, other allied health professionals, clinical leaders, managers and education and training leads from King’s Health Partners and elsewhere are welcome to find out more at our workshop.
We'll explain about the Award and how we can support potential fellows through the application process and beyond.
During the workshop you will:
This session will aim to demystify fellowship funding opportunities for postdoctoral clinical researchers aiming to transition to independent investigators.
There will be insight from panel members for key funders including NIHR, MRC and Wellcome.
We will also be joined by recent recipients’ sharing their experience in applying for relevant funding (Clinician Scientist, Advanced Fellowships).
This is an in person session with networking/ refreshments following the event.
This session is open to Centre for Translational Medicine (CTM) Postdoctoral Fellows and NIHR IAT Clinical Lecturers, and other clinical researchers across KCL who are at this career stage.
This one-day course is for health professionals across King's Health Partners (King's College London, South London and Maudsley NHS Trust, Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Trust, King's College Hospital NHS Trust) who are conducting individual research or working in a research team.
The morning session consists of a workshop with Stefy Vaga (CoFactor Science) about the publishing process in the health sciences.
In the afternoon, participants participate in a pomodoro writing workshop with tailored support from Dr Verna Lavender (GSTT Head of Nursing for Research and Education in Cancer and Surgery).
NIHR Insight Discover Research event will showcase the breadth of research priorities across South London and provide a platform to connect with research support and professionals.
You can expect:
This event is designed for early career allied healthcare professionals interested in starting or advancing their research journey, and researchers from local NHS Trusts looking to share ideas, build collaborations, and explore innovative projects.
Whether you are new to research or an experienced professional, this event offers a unique chance to inspire and be inspired.
Mark your calendar and don’t miss out on this valuable opportunity!
KCATO is hosting an in-person workshop on mentoring for clinical academics followed by a networking event.
We know from clinical academics that mentoring can be a really powerful support for your career; join us to understand more about the practicalities of mentoring as well as planning your own personal learning.
This will give you also a chance to share experience and learning with other clinical academics from a range of health professions.
The session will be led by Alexis Hutson who has been coaching and mentoring people for over 15 years and has been running her own independent coaching & mentoring practice since 2009.
Some of the organisations she is supporting currently include Academy of Medical Sciences, The Francis Crick Institute, The Wellcome Trust, Oxford University and University College London.
We are excited to invite students and professionals in health and care to a workshop on public and community engagement in Health and Social Care research .
This interactive session will delve into the significance of involving the public in research, offering valuable insights and practical strategies for effective engagement.
Whether you're new to this area or looking to deepen your knowledge, this workshop provides a unique opportunity to enhance your approach to engaging the public and communities in research.
The half-day online workshop is designed for clinical academics who already have an interview date (or are hoping to be called to a panel interview).
This session will help you to:
The session will rely heavily on using real examples of successful pitches from researchers we have worked with in the past.
These range from PhD students to Professors and cover a broad variety of clinical disciplines.
Join us for the inaugural King's Clinical Academic Research Symposium.
Hear from Professor Annette Boaz (Director, NIHR Health and Social Care Workforce Research Unit and Professor of Health and Social Care at King's College London); Simon Denigri (Executive Director of the Academy of Medical Sciences); Dr Marietta Stadler (NIHR Clinician Scientist at King's College London) and more!
You'll have the chance to present your research either in a poster or short talk ; meet other clinical academics from a range of disciplines across King’s Health Partners; and learn more about what it takes to progress as a health professional researcher.
There will be prizes for the best posters, the chance to nominate your supervisor for their work in supporting you, as well as opportunities to highlight the best practices for Patient and Public Involvement and Engagement (PPIE).
Whether you’re a student or health professional thinking about embarking on a short piece of research or a PhD; someone already enrolled on a PhD and looking to understand postdoc funding; or a postdoc approaching consultant level, this is a fantastic opportunity to understand how your career can evolve, see your research valued, and be inspired to take your next steps.
KCATO and CRSD are delighted to host this event designed to help you find and apply for appropriate research fellowship funding opportunities.
You will hear from key funders across health to introduce their fellowship schemes, explore the application process and share some top tips – and will include the NIHR, MRC, AMS, Wellcome and CRUK!
You can also hear from current fellowship holders about their experiences, from application to managing their award and take the opportunity to ask questions in a panel setting, and network with other health professional researchers.
Get thinking about future research funding applications!
KCATO is partnering with a range of colleagues across King’s College London to help you dip into the wealth of support and information available to you as you embark on your funding journey.
Date and time
Topic
Speaker/s
Tues 24 June 12:30-13:00
Narrative CVs
Dr Lindsay Parker, Careers Consultant for Researchers
Tues 1 July 12:30-13:00
Using Research Professional
Amalie Stenfeldt-Jurgensen, Research Professional
Tues 8 July 12:30-13:00
Costings for Funding applications
Manon Devreese and Gemma Jones, Women and Children’s Health Programme, King's Health Partners
Tues 15 July 12.30-13:00
Cultural Competency in Health Research
Dr Edward Ademolu, Lecturer, King’s Cultural Competency Institute
Tues 22 July 12.30-13:00
Translational Research: what is it and does my research fit?
Dr Mike Lyne, Director of Translation at the Translational Research Office, King's Innovation Catalyst
Watch the webinar recordings here .
KCATO Director
KCATO Deputy Director
KCATO Associate Director (Professions Allied to Heathcare)
Director of KCATO (Strategy)
KCATO Partnerships Manager
KCATO Manager
KCATO Operations Assistant
KCATO Communications and Engagement Manager
IAT Programme Officer
At King’s we train the future generation of Health Professional research leaders across many disciplines.
Here, we introduce you to some of our Health Professional Researchers at King’s.
We interviewed them to get an insight into their journey into a PhD and how they manage dual careers.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/jobs/search:
The Department of Defence Studies is part of the School of Security Studies within the Faculty of Social Science and Public Policy at King’s College London.
Defence Studies is dedicated to a multi-disciplinary understanding...
THIS VACANCY IS OPEN TO INTERNAL APPLICANTS ONLY
The King’s community is dedicated to the service of society.
King’s Strategic Vision 2029 sets out our vision for the future, shaped around five priority areas: educate...
Philanthropy & Alumni Engagement (P&A) provides a fundraising and alumni engagement function in support of King’s College London.
We are proud to work with colleagues across the university and its health partners to help...
King’s College London is a leading University with nine Faculties.
As part of King’s Health Partners , we have an excellent environment for...
The Faculty of Life Sciences & Medicine at King’s College London seeks to appoint a computer scientists (Breast Cancer Now Unit) in the Comprehensive Cancer Centre, which is the academic arm of one of the leading cancer...
The School of Neuroscience is UK’s 2nd largest Neuroscience school with over 500 researcher and 200 PhD students.
It is one of three schools at the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience.
We are ranked 4th in the...
The School of Global Affairs (SGA) is a dynamic hub of multi-disciplinary scholarship that seeks to address the most pressing issues facing our world today.
We wish to appoint a Business Support Officer to...
The role sits within the School of Biomedical Engineering & Imaging Sciences, and specifically within the Research Department of Imaging Chemistry and Biology based at St Thomas’ hospital campus.
The School of Biomedical...
The Facilities Management team is the largest E&F team, with the largest budget and is responsible for delivering all FM services across the whole University.
It...
King’s Strategic Vision 2029 sets out our vision for the future, shaped around five priority areas: educate to inspire and improve; research to inform and...
At King’s we seek to recruit and retain skilled and engaged colleagues to deliver the competitive advantage.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/explore/kings-research-portal:
The King’s Research Portal showcases the breadth and diversity of King’s research, from researcher biographies and research group profiles to funding details and research outputs such as published books and peer-reviewed journal articles.
The data for the Portal is drawn from Pure, our Research Information System.
It offers:
It is also our Institutional Repository providing access to the full text of research publications and other outputs including, where possible, postgraduate research theses.
Copyright and moral rights for the publications made available in King’s Research Portal are retained by the authors and/or other copyright owners and it is a condition of accessing publications in King's Research Portal that users recognise and abide by the legal requirements associated with these rights.'
If you believe that any material held in King’s Research Portal breaches copyright, please contact us providing details, and we will remove access to the work and investigate your claim.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/artshums/research/impact:
In the Research Excellence Framework 2021 , 95 per cent of our research impact was judged 'world leading' (4*) and  'internationally excellent' (3*).
Our researchers create impact through enhancing public access, understanding and engagement — through shaping programming, creative and critical practice in the performing, literary and visual arts — in theatre, music, film and literature.
Our research also influences policy, engages in political and educational practice, and promotes diverse forms of social engagement.
Upcoming talks, lectures and workshops from the Faculty of Arts & Humanities
11 June 2025
King's PhD researchers collaborated with mental health charities to provide AI art tools to people…
4 June 2025
Participants in the Activist-in-Residence Scheme at King’s joined together for a celebration of…
Arts & Humanities researchers at King's showcase real-world impact through the Impact Acceleration…
A series of features and stories highlighting the impact King’s Arts & Humanities research has on the world's greatest challenges and for the benefit of society.
The Arts & Humanities Impact Acceleration Account at King’s is a grant provided by the Arts & Humanities Research Council, part of UK Research & Innovation, for creative impact activities linked to research.
This projects aims are to:
More information about the projects can be found on the project pages listed.
Professor Daniel Orrells & Freud Museum London — an exhibition that explored Freud's fascination…
Dr Ella Parry-Davies & Voice of Domestic Workers on dangers faced by trafficking survivors.
An exhibition by Dr Kate McMillan exploring forced migration and the climate crisis.
A Network and Documentary Film Project brought together by Dr England, Dr Ikpe, and Professor…
Dr Zimmermann, Dr Wood, Dr Hughes, Science Gallery London, the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, and…
A multi-sited London exhibition, showcasing groundbreaking artworks by leading women artists working…
Dr Richard Ashby in collaboration with Australian-Jewish theatre practitioner, Deborah Leiser-Moore…
Creating a Repertoire of Choral Music for Side-By-Side Community Projects
A project from Professor Green, Dr Borges, Collateral Global and the Institute of Development…
Led by Dr Alana Harris, the project creatively re-imagined 19th-century asylum photographs to…
As conspiracy theories become more prevalent in digital and social spaces, teachers are increasingly…
How research can directly inform and improve welfare initiatives in practical, community-focused…
A project seeking to create connections between grassroots practitioners and established…
Developing a community music making toolkit to help organisations run music workshops that support…
Adapted classical literature to equip indigenous women activists in the Amazon with mediation skills…
Exploring how visual media was used to shape public opinion in Brazil during the Cold War.
Exploring how communities and policymakers in Scotland can co-produce meaningful climate adaptation…
Bringing together poets, translators, publishers and activists to explore how language shapes power,…
Highlighting the impact King's Arts & Humanities research has on, and for, the benefit of society.
Bringing world-leading expertise of arts and humanities on some of the world's most pressing…
Our vision showcasing a range of programmes and solution-focused initiatives.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/business/research:
Since our launch as a Business School in 2017, our research community has grown and flourished.
Our work spans the disciplines of management, business, economics and finance and embraces King’s ambition ‘to make the world a better place’.
Over 90 per cent of King’s Business School’s research output has been judged ‘world leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ by the 2021 Research Excellence Framework.
The School was one of the ten highest scoring institutions for business and management studies overall and ranks fourth on its research environment.
Driven by this strong sense of purpose, our five strategic research themes address some of society’s grand challenges:
Digitalisation: Reshaping Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Global Business for a Sustainable World
Governance, Risk and Regulation
Rethinking the Future of Work, Public Services and Business
Reducing Social and Economic Inequalities.
Find out about our research, events and teaching addressing health and care challenges.
8 April 2024
Understanding what drives your feelings about money can help you to take action
28 March 2024
Research Brief
22 March 2024
Leading voices on sustainable business give their views

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/dentistry/research/impact:
The impact of our research reinforces our position as a world-leader in dentistry, oral and craniofacial sciences.
We’re equally successful at finding ways to turn research into practical solutions that make a difference to society through improvements in health, economy, environment or culture.
We recognise that this isn’t something we can do alone.
We aim to make as profound an impact as possible by working with partners from industry, government, policy, and health services.
Not just in London, but by building global networks.
Having been recognised in 2018 as a King's College Exemplar for Service, the Alliance for a Cavity Free Future (ACFF) continues to make waves and demonstrate impact globally.
So who are the ACFF, and what do they do?
'Impact is now rightly regarded as an integral part of research excellence.
It is important to appreciate that broader impact links beyond the research enterprise to also include education, service and working with external partners to facilitate beneficial changes across society.'
Dental phobia is the world’s most common phobia, affecting approx.
10% of the population worldwide.
Health psychologists collaborating with King’s academics, clinicians and patients have developed a model using cognitive behavioural therapy to enable phobic and anxious patients to access dental care.
The CBT service is now available at many NHS facilities across the UK.
We’re committed to service in society.
Dental decay is a huge hidden burden – not often life threatening, but still the most common disease in the world with huge social and economic burdens.
The King’s-led Global Collaboratory for Caries Management works with the Alliance for a Cavity Free Future, the ICDAS Foundation and other partners to reduce this burden across "upstream" changes in global and local policies to guidance for healthcare teams providing preventive dental medicine in clinical and community settings.
We have led the setting up of the Erosive Tooth Wear Foundation, a new charity in which 4 International Universities are working together with 3 multi-national oral health companies in a unique forum which allows academia and industry to work together for public benefit.
How cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) is helping many people overcome their fear of visiting the…
How King’s College London is enabling a shift in the prevention and treatment of tooth decay…
How King’s academics are changing practice and informing patients, dentists and the public about…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/lsm/research:
Research is core to what we do and how we educate.
From postgraduate research students to senior academics, our community collectively and collaboratively address the major health challenges facing society today.
Our research is strategically aligned with King's Health Partners, bringing together academics and clinicians to ensure efficient translation and adoption of research innovation into clinical practice.
Answering fundamental questions about biology in health and disease.
Using advanced engineering research to deliver the best care for patients.
Improving patient response through fundamental science discovery.
Advancing clinical practice with world-leading cardiac and vascular biomedical research.
Understanding how the immune system functions in times of health and disease.
Exploring the life course of health and disease.
The Research Interest Groups bring together thematic knowledge and expertise from across the Faculty and, in some cases, from across the University.
Browse the pages below for a closer look at each interest group’s members, their labs and the projects they are currently working on.
CARICE is a new centre of excellence within the faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine (FoLSM) at…
The King's MechanoBiology Centre provides a common platform for FoLSM researchers with complementary…
The King's Centre for Lung Health (KCLH) brings together expertise across the Respiratory Sciences…
The Cancer Research UK City of London (CoL) Centre is a world class hub for cancer biotherapeutics.…
British Heart Foundation Centre of Research Excellence based in the School of Cardiovascular and…
Diverse research teams training sophisticated AI algorithms to create new healthcare tools.
The London Advanced Therapies (LAT) brings together the London scientific community working in the…
The Centre focuses on bringing together teams from multiple scientific disciplines who work together…
The King's Institute for Artificial Intelligence brings together the diverse and growing community…
Our research tackles global issues and adds value to the UK economy.
At King's, we define impact as…
Pioneering breakthrough research.
Interdisciplinary science is fundamental to solving global…
Over the last decade researchers at King’s have been working on ground-breaking ways to tailor Acute…
Since the mid-1940s, cervical screening in the form of Pap smears began to promise women the chance…
King’s researchers oversee The South London Stroke Register (SLSR) and The Sentinel Stroke National…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/nmpc/research:
Our research community leads on excellent and impactful research which aims to transform health and care.
95% of our research output was judged ‘world leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ by the 2021 Research Excellence Framework.
Local and global communities benefit from the new knowledge we create which spans the fields of nursing, midwifery and palliative care.
Through interdisciplinary and applied research, our research community develops and improves sustainable services and interventions across health and care.
By tackling the challenges of tomorrow and today, our research takes account of the whole person in their context, builds research capacity and future leaders, and enhances education.
Our research covers four main themes:
Our world-leading research impacts and influences healthcare experiences and outcomes for patients, wherever they are cared for.
We build knowledge, lead policy and practice and improve outcomes for patients and those important to them.
Our academics work with other universities, industry, healthcare providers and policy makers both locally and globally, to ensure that our research is relevant and influence policy and government on nursing, midwifery and palliative care.
In 2016, Dr Clare Ellis-Smith conducted a systematic review which…
Research from King’s is transforming…
How do you improve healthcare services for…
How patients teamed up with researchers,…
The drug-free support helping people cope with…
The online resource supporting survivors, their…
Brighten someone’s day by joining King’s Volunteering and Art Explora for a creative card-making…
Discover more about the Nursing, Midwifery & Palliative Care Research Projects
Find out more about research divisions in the Faculty of Nursing, Midwifery & Palliative Care.
The Faculty of Nursing, Midwifery & Palliative Care welcomes applications from potential visiting…
How King's is working together to create a better world.
See how our research tackles global issues and adds value to the UK economy.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/ioppn/research/impact:
Our world-leading research impacts and influences on how we understand, prevent and treat mental illness and other conditions that affect the brain.
Our academics work with other universities, industry, healthcare providers and policy makers both locally and globally, to ensure that our research is relevant and influence policy and government on mental health care.
Making a difference is at the heart of what we do at the IoPPN.
Research from the IoPPN has led to the creation of much needed therapies for some of the most severe mental disorders and changes in how governments around the world think about mental illness
The recent DWP Green Paper, entitled ‘Pathways to Work: Reforming Benefits and Support to Get…
AVATAR therapy has shown significant promise in reducing the frequency and impact of distressing…
When an adult with severe mental health problems can no longer be supported at home, they can be…
The burden of mental illness is felt profoundly in communities who have less access to mental health…
The King’s Centre for Military Health Research (KCMHR) is the main source of independent…
Human trafficking is the use of threat, force, deception, or manipulation to recruit or move people…
Historically menopause has been overlooked and trivialised.
Though a natural process, for some…
Autism is a spectrum of developmental conditions that affect how people communicate and interact…
Over the past decade, King’s researchers have navigated the delicate but essential line between…
The World Health Organisation (WHO) considers…
The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that 450 million people are affected by mental illness…
The Mental Health Act (MHA) is the legislation which covers the care and treatment of people with a…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/law/research-expertise:
Research is key to what we do and how we educate.
Our research addresses some of the most pressing questions of our time relating to equality and human rights, the legal implications of climate change, globalisation, international relations, trade, competition and global finance.
Members of the School advise governments, serve on commissions and public bodies and are seconded to national and international organisations, helping to shape policy and practice nationally and internationally.
Find out more about research projects exploring the major legal issues of our time.
Find our more about our research and its impact on society.
The Dickson Poon School of Law has integrated some of our areas of expertise into problem-based research centres and initiatives which focus on issues of global legal significance.These centres and groups provide a framework for researchers to work across both the School and the University.
The doctoral research community of around 90 students is a core component of the School.
We see these students as the foundation of future national and international research networks and for transmitting the School’s vision and standards into the wider community.
Our students are accomplished and fully committed to research.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sspp/research:
Research within the Faculty of Social Science & Public Policy (SSPP) seeks to address the greatest challenges facing our world today.
The breadth, depth and diversity of our faculty means we have a huge variety of theoretically, empirically and methodologically innovative, collaborative, inclusive and ethical research that aims to make major contributions to the social sciences and to create a better world.
Research in our Schools of Global Affairs, Education, Communication and Society, and Politics and Economics explore political trends, social and economic challenges, inequalities, global poverty, fairness, social justice, health inequalities, race, mental health, social care, education, youth work and gender.
At a time of heightened geopolitical tensions and ongoing conflicts, our School of Security Studies as well as colleagues in Political Economy and Global Affairs explore international relations, diplomacy, war, cybersecurity, AI, ethics, justice, peace and reconciliation, risk, space and migration.
You can get a taste of some of this work on the Department of War Studies podcast series that showcases their expertise.
Our School of Global Affairs has a wealth of expertise on environmental challenges such as the impacts of climate change, water insecurity, wildfires, energy policies, urbanisation and globalisation.
The Department of Geography in particular is emblematic of the nature of a productive diversity of approaches coming together in SSPP, in this case, between human and physical geography.
For example, our cross-disciplinary Climate Research Hub and the King’s Water Centre unite cutting-edge research from across the faculty and indeed beyond.
Our Policy Institute provides expertise in the development, implementation and evaluation of public policy, making key contributions to knowledge exchange and impact across the Faculty and beyond, while delivering its own portfolio of research on, e.g, values, polarisation, the changing nature of work, and hosting the ESRC-funded UK in a Changing Europe hub, the NIHR-funded Health & Social Care Workforce Research Unit, the Global Institute for Women's Leadership, and the School for Government.
In all our research, collaboration with others within and beyond King’s is crucial to our approach.
This includes working closely with communities, public institutions, business, industry and policymakers to ensure our work has maximum impact and brings about positive change.
The Policy Institute, for example, has strong ties with public institutions and industry, while many of our departments have close links to UK Government Departments and non-departmental agencies (such as Defence Studies/MoD; War Studies/Cabinet Office & FCDO; Geography: DEFRA), international governments, and multilateral organisations.
Across the faculty we work closely with our international partners through research that spans the planet.
Much of our research focuses on and collaborates with the Global South and, through our Global Institutes and the Department of International Development, we have strong expertise on China, Brazil (and wider Latin America), Russia, India, Africa, and Australia - as individual countries and/or regions and in relation to their broader geopolitical, economic and socio-cultural interrelations.
As interdisciplinary social scientists, we are leaders in mapping research methods across the full spectrum of quantitative and qualitative research methods.
These draw on arts-based methods (see for example the Visual and Embodied Methodologies Network ), use chemistry labs and policy labs, and engage students in research and teaching.
We have produced research methods guidance such as the Centre for Society and Mental Health’s toolkit , and a policy lab framework to influence public policy-making.
SSPP works according to our long-established principle of equality, diversity and inclusion and works hard to maintain and advocate for high standards of research integrity.
The high calibre of our research and its demonstrable impact means we attracted £23million in research income during 2022-3.
This included competitive funding from a variety of sources including UKRI research councils, primarily the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC), the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) and the Natural and Environmental Research Council (NERC), as well as the European Commission, and a wide range of national and international charitable and other organisations such as the Nuffield Foundation, Wellcome Trust, the British Academy, The Leverhulme Trust and many more.
Meet some of our SSPP research grant winners
The Faculty of Social Science & Public Policy held its 2023 Impact Awards to recognise and celebrate…
An inclusive and supportive environment
Our faculty is committed to creating and sustaining a diverse and inclusive research environment that celebrates a diversity of ideas, opinions, knowledge, and people.
All colleagues are therefore expected to adhere to our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Principles in Research .
Researchers applying for funding are supported by a dedicated Arts & Sciences Research Office as well as by professional Research Officers in their own departments.
Our ESRC-funded London Interdisciplinary Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership (LISS-DTP) supports social science research students by offering them advanced training programmes based around 15 research themes and by helping  to establish networks across the College (including the Institute of Psychiatry).
Research support & enquiries
Have an enquiry about our research?
See our contact details .
Drop in at this informative and interactive exhibition to learn about the previously unknown role of…
28 August 2025
Discover more about Global Health & Social Science BA here at King's College London.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/nmes/research:
We have a wide range of research interests in science, technology and engineering, ranging from the very small to the infinite.
From nanophotonics to cosmology, mechatronics to wireless communication, cell biology to theoretical physics; we are working at all levels to understand our universe and to change it for the better.
Our research centres in Net Zero , the Physical Science of Life , King's Quantum and Urban Science and Progress (CUSP) bring together researchers from different subjects across the faculty and university, with the aim of advancing innovative, interdisciplinary solutions to complex societal and environmental challenges.
Our thriving ecosystem of enterprise and innovation enables researchers to work with a range of industrial, public sector, cultural, and academic partners.
Get updates from us
Be the first to hear about our events, new research, and opportunities to collaborate.
The latest news from the Faculty of Natural, Mathematical & Engineering Sciences.
See how we're exploring new chemistry frontiers to deliver fundamental solutions.
Learn how we're driving discovery and applied research to solve problems.
Unearth a broad range of sub-disciplines of Computer Science research.
Explore our leading centre for mathematics research in the UK.
Discover the work of our research-intensive department.
Find out more about the Faculty of Natural, Mathematical & Engineering Sciences' Net Zero Centre.
CUSP applies data science and visual analytics to challenges in and for London.
Leveraging multidisciplinary expertise and knowledge across King's in quantum science.
Research groups, units and centres are led by academics seeking solutions to society and industry's most demanding challenges.
Whether responding to local or regional environmental problems, maintaining clean water supplies, or producing novel materials for the industries of the future, they are asking big questions with global implications.
Postgraduate researchers play a vital role in furthering our world-leading research and teaching in chemistry, engineering, informatics, mathematics and physics.
Find out more about postgraduate research
Explore opportunities to collaborate
Upcoming events in the Faculty of Natural, Mathematical & Engineering Sciences.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/impact/kef:
The Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF) is a national exercise introduced by Research England, with the first results released in 2021.
The aim of the KEF is to assess, evaluate, and evidence the Knowledge Exchange (KE) activities of English universities over a three-year period.
Participating universities are grouped into clusters of similarly sized and focused institutions, and compared against a resulting cluster average.
The KEF is not a league table or ranking system.
It evaluates the work of the university as a whole, rather than individual faculties, departments, or academics, and is designed to be low burden and light touch.
King’s has performed strongly in this year’s Knowledge Exchange Framework exercise, scoring in the highest quintile (top 20% of universities) in two of seven perspectives and being at or above the average for our cluster in six of seven perspectives.
This year King’s has maintained strong results in research partnerships, working with business, working with public and the third sector, and IP and commercialisation, and public and community engagement.
Read more in our news statement.
King's also scored highly in a number of perspectives in KEF 1, 2 and 3.
Read our news releases from 2021, 2022 , 2023
King’s KEF 4 results - the dashboards are freely available on the KEF website .
The KEF is a unique exercise that tracks, evaluates, and evidences the Knowledge Exchange activities of English universities.
It allows us to:
The KEF is predominantly built from data already collected in the Higher Education Business and Community Interaction survey (HEBCIS), with additional financial and quantitative data provided through Elsevier and Innovate UK.
Five of the perspectives are entirely based on this dataset.
Two of the perspectives cannot be properly evaluated in financial and quantitative metrics, so are instead evaluated through narrative statements.
These narratives are not evaluated externally, and instead function as self-evaluation exercises.
A further, shorter statement providing institutional context is also provided by each institution.
Participating universities are grouped in clusters of institutions of similar size, focus, and research strength.
Each cluster is ascribed an average, and performance is judged against this average within each cluster, rather than against the sector as a whole.
Results are divided into five quintiles, ranging from 1 (very low engagement) to 5 (very high engagement).
The results of the KEF are divided into seven perspectives.
Individual scores are given for each, and there is no overall total provided.
The perspectives are:
*Public and community engagement is judged entirely by a narrative statement, and the quantitative metrics used in the local growth and regeneration perspective are supplemented by a narrative statement that provides additional context, but no score.
Universities are divided according to their size, research focus, and particular strengths.
Re-clustering exercises take place every two to three years, to accommodate changes in research performance and focus.
There are seven clusters in total:
King’s belongs to Cluster V, which is defined as:
Cluster V encompasses 17 institutions in total, including Imperial, UCL, Queen Mary, Oxford and Cambridge.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/climate-sustainability/research-innovation:
King's academics are at the forefront of research to deliver climate and sustainability knowledge and solutions.
From generating new technologies and business models to detecting wildfires and reducing health risks from climate extremes, the impact of King's research and innovation can be felt across the globe.
Researchers are moving beyond advocacy of problems towards tangible solutions at scale, including informing critical adaptation planning, breaking down and repurposing plastic waste, examining climate impacts on politics, security and conflict, and much more.
Together, our community of world-leading scholars mobilises a broad range of knowledge and perspectives to create a more sustainable future for all.
Get in touch if you would like to learn more about sustainability and climate action at King's, have a question or would like to collaborate.
The King's Climate & Sustainability Seed Fund supports existing staff to...
Find out more about King's researchers working on the climate crisis
Find out more about our innovations in sustainable research
Find out more about King's work on COP29, including news, events and more.
For 200 years, King's has been at the forefront of global change.
Our world-leading climate researchers study across disciplines to meet the challenges we face at this critical time for our planet.
Welcome to the Centre for Ageing Resilience in a Changing Environment:...
Climate change and environmental degradation are two of the most urgent...
Bringing together research disciplines to shape a critical perspective on...
Business, society and environment in the pursuit of a sustainable future
CUSP London is a joint initiative from King’s College London and the...
Addressing the world's most pressing environmental challenges.
Studying climate change through the relationship between science, policy...
Researching water, environment and development.
Our centre spans the...
Transforming the scientific and practical understanding of wildfire...
The MACC hub aims to address climate risks by examining the levers of...
The Net Zero Centre serves to highlight, nurture and facilitate discovery...
The unit conducts research to minimise to minimise the impact of...
A research group examining cities, climate, and capital in the Greater...
The Climate Finance Group is a collaboration between the Qatar Centre for...
Exploring environmental, political and social questions in relation to...
The Earth Observation and Environmental Sensing (EOES) Hub is an...
The Environment and Public Policy Group
This research group focuses on Brazil’s contributions to global...
The Environmental Security research group brings together scholars from...
The links between war and conflict with the environment have been under-...
Enhancing understanding of processes, drivers and impacts in water, land,...
The Political Ecology, Biodiversity & Ecosystem Services (PEBES) group...
Advancing understanding of risk and perception, as well as communication...
Examining urban futures through a conceptual, analytical and...
Self-healing roads, made from biomass waste and designed using AI, could...
The partnership will leverage King’s expertise in energy systems and...
A new consortium led by Dr Iain Marshall at King’s College London has...
The new method could help slash carbon emissions in hard to reach...
Enabling societal transition to environmental sustainability is a...
Building sustainability into King’s actions and operations
Embedding sustainability into education and the student experience

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/business/research/impact:
King's Business School is dedicated to addressing business and societal challenges through responsible, rigorous, inclusive, innovative, and socially relevant research.
The School was highlighted in recent Research Excellence Framework evaluation in 2021 as being the fourth best research environment for business and management studies in the UK, with 90.3 per cent of research being 'world leading' and 'internationally excellent'.
The research impact case studies highlighted below show how King’s Business School is influencing policy and practice, ranging from education and training, to healthcare, personal effectiveness at work, and finance.
There are major challenges facing the world – from climate change and new digital technologies to advancing equality and inclusive business models.
Solutions require a new research approach which we are trailblazing at King’s.
It requires working closely with businesses, governments, trade unions, policy bodies and civil society organisations.
It also means embracing open forms of collaboration on research ideas and engaging with diverse partners to produce real impact.
Discover how our research is making a real-world difference—connecting academics and practitioners, and engaging diverse audiences across sectors
Learn how our academics improve societies around the world in the face of economic, environmental, social and political challenges
Learn more about the impact our academics made during the COVID-19 pandemic
The King’s Business School Impact Team helps our faculty members to develop activities and engagement that will inform policy, practice and public understanding.
It also provides guidance on measuring and evidencing  impact.
The team’s activities include assistance with grant applications and a programme of training, workshops and events on impact.
Please contact the team for more information, or to talk to us about how academic research could benefit your organisation.
Professor Damian Grimshaw, Associate Dean for Research Impact damian.grimshaw@kcl.ac.uk
Helen Wright, Faculty Impact Manager helen.a.wright@kcl.ac.uk
King's research identifies ways to stop dedication…
Study has laid the foundation for better training…
Verbal and non-verbal communication skills are key…
Our research shows that investment by overseas…
Research by Professor Alison Wolf has contributed…
King's Business School research helps address the…
Many hands can make light work of apprenticeship…
King’s Business School economists help statistics…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/law/research-expertise/impact:
The Dickson Poon School of Law is distinguished by its problem-based approach, exploring the role of law in solving today’s global problems.
Currently we work closely and have greatest impact in:
At The Dickson Poon School of Law we are committed to serving society through multi and interdisciplinary collaborations addressing the many and diverse challenges of our time.
Donations from the Dickson Poon fund (£40 million) and the Yeoh Tiong Lay family (£7 million) have enabled a range of initiatives, including most significantly the founding of research centres for Transnational Law, and Politics, Philosophy and Law.
How do we clarify the law on Assisted Dying?
Research by Professor Penney Lewis has contributed…
Modern slavery is a major global problem, but it remains largely hidden.
King’s research has helped…
The European Commission has sweeping powers in relation to internal market rules that limit the…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/spotlight/understanding-behaviour-during-crises:
23 January 2023
Over the past decade, King’s researchers have navigated the delicate but essential line between providing timely yet rigorous evidence in times of crises.
King’s expertise has informed the UK Government, Local Authorities and Executive Agencies in developing policy and contingency plans that prepare the country to handle major national incidents and emergencies, including flooding, terrorism, attempted assassinations and disease outbreaks.
When disasters occur, people’s behaviour plays a major role in determining the overall health and social impact of the event in question.
The Health Protection Research Unit (HPRU) in Emergency Preparedness and Response at King’s College London was set up to increase our understanding of how people react in a crisis.
The Unit is a partnership between King’s, UK Health Security Agency and the University of East Anglia and is supported by a £9 million National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) grant.
Through its work, the Unit has informed national contingency planning, effective public communication and incorporation of mental health impacts into emergency response plans.
King’s researchers continue to help the UK Government prepare for potential emergencies and major incidents.
They have become ‘go to’ advisers when such events occur, and are called upon to support the national emergency response in real time.
Our HPRU undertakes research to minimise the impact of emergencies.
Understanding people’s behaviour is a key part of that.
The Unit has studied everything from the factors that affect people’s willingness to receive the COVID-19 vaccine, to how government leaks about upcoming lockdowns affect transmission rates, to the experiences of diplomats serving overseas during a crisis.
The research has real-world impact: our aim is always to improve wellbeing in the current crisis and to learn how to mitigate the impact of the next one.
During the 2009-10 ‘swine flu’ pandemic, King’s researchers worked with the UK Department of Health (now the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC)) to analyse data from 39 nationally representative surveys assessing how the UK public were reacting.
Through these analyses, the researchers identified that the design of DHSC surveys could be improved to more accurately capture public perceptions and behaviour.
In 2012-13, King’s researchers were granted NIHR funding to develop better survey tools , grounded in psychological theory, that could be rapidly deployed during a future pandemic.
Using stakeholder workshops, qualitative interviews and two baseline national surveys, they designed, tested and refined a survey in collaboration with the DHSC and Public Health England (PHE) that provided a more accurate assessment of whether the public were understanding and following official advice.
The way that information is communicated in an emergency can influence how people behave and, if done effectively, can reduce the risk of harm to the public.
King’s findings revealed that reassurance during crises is counterproductive to reducing public concern.
During the 2006 polonium-210 incident in London – following the poisoning of Alexander Litvinenko – King’s researchers conducted a rapid survey of a large representative sample of Londoners to identify how they were responding to the incident .
They revealed that while only 12% thought their own health might be at risk, concern was higher among people directly caught up in the incident who felt authorities attempted to “reassure”, rather than inform, them.
These findings on the importance of giving information rather than reassurance influenced future public health communication, including during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Professor Sir Simon Wessely joined experts to discuss how people respond to crises and what COVID-19 can tell us about human behaviour:
In the immediate aftermath of a disaster, King’s research found that most people are resilient to crises and that mental health resilience can be supported within the community.
After the 7 July 2005 bombings, King’s researchers found that most people are resilient to a terrorist attack in their community , do not need psychiatric support and can turn to their informal support networks for help.
However, specific groups need more support: King’s, in collaboration with the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine (LSHTM) and PHE, showed that severe flooding can have long term impacts on mental health.
Following the 2013-14 floods, 36% of those flooded reported symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) .The mental health impact extended to people whose lives were disrupted by flooding even if no water entered their homes.
Research highlighting the importance of community support in developing mental health resilience amongst the public was utilised following the 2017 London Bridge terrorist attack.
King’s findings informed and guided Southwark Council’s plans for managing the psychological consequences of the attack.
Drawing on King’s research, Southwark Council’s Humanitarian Assistance Steering Group coordinated support for those affected, with a subgroup focused on the multi-agency response for psychosocial and psychological interventions including public facing communications.
King’s research has highlighted that, not only are people resilient to disaster, but they are likely to demonstrate altruism in the face of disaster.
In 2018, the Cabinet Office commissioned King’s to review evidence on how the public are likely to respond in a crisis to help inform official planning.
King’s researchers demonstrated that altruism, rather than panic or mass criminality, can be expected and promoted.
For the first year of the COVID-19 pandemic, with no innate immunity, no vaccine and no treatment, prevention of the predicted worst-case scenarios required people to adhere to a challenging set of behaviours and endure substantial social, economic and psychological costs.
King’s research contributed in real time to the UK’s public health response.
Throughout the pandemic, King’s researchers were members of the Government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE) and New and Emerging Respiratory Virus Threats Advisory Group (NERVTAG) for COVID-19, which considered the scientific evidence supporting the Government’s pandemic response.
Several members of the HPRU for Emergency Preparedness and Response at King’s participated in and co-chaired the Independent Scientific Pandemic Insights Group on Behaviours (SPI-B) , a COVID-19 SAGE subcommittee providing behavioural science advice to improve adherence to recommended interventions.
The scientific advice provided by these groups has been pivotal in informing the evidence base supporting policy decisions on the UK’s pandemic response.
In February 2020, the DHSC asked King’s to support the national COVID-19 response by activating the pandemic research response plan and providing advice and analysis using the DHSC’s weekly polling data.
This became the COVID-19 Rapid Survey of Adherence to Interventions and Responses (CORSAIR) study .
King’s work was cited in at least 50 SAGE papers on adherence to self-isolation, hand hygiene, levels of distress and stigma in the community, the importance of ventilation and barriers to NHS Covid App uptake, in turn informing urgent policy decisions.
As part of the CORSAIR study, King’s research identified that most people who reported symptoms of COVID-19 were not fully adherent to self-isolation guidance .
This research was crucial in identifying the factors associated with non-adherence , including poor knowledge of guidance, lower socio-economic status, financial hardship and having to work.
Consequently, SPI-B was commissioned to produce a report on how to improve rates of adherence to self-isolation which drew on King’s findings.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, people were asked to do many things they weren’t previously used to, like wearing a face covering and staying away from people in other households (physical distancing).
We worked with the Department of Health and Social Care for over two years to investigate how the pandemic was impacting people’s lives.
Our results informed policy and communications, and helped to support people to carry out behaviours that would slow the spread of infection.
Professor James Rubin was a witness for the The House of Commons Science and Technology Committee in April 2020 as it explored the effectiveness and longevity of social distancing measures in the UK and the wider implications of these measures for the population:
King’s systematic review of evidence from past infectious disease outbreaks identified that the negative impact of self-isolation can be reduced by good financial, practical and emotional support, as well as by helping people to understand the rules and reasons surrounding quarantine.
This review informed online resources to support self-isolation as well as public messages of thanks from the Chief Medical Officer .
King’s rapid and responsive research continues to contribute in real time to the UK’s response to emergencies and major incidents, including the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.
Through working to understand how the public behave in a crisis, King’s researchers have been a leading authority in guiding public health policy, communication, emergency response and contingency plans.
Professor of Defence Mental Health
Regius Professor of Psychiatry
Post-doctoral researcher, UK Health Security Agency
Professor of Psychology & Emerging Health Risks

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/spotlight/clearing-the-smoke-the-evidence-behind-vaping:
04 December 2022
The World Health Organisation (WHO) considers the tobacco epidemic to be one of the biggest public health threats the world has ever faced, killing more than 8 million people per year worldwide.
E-cigarettes and vaping products offer a substantially less harmful alternative, but there has been a heated debate about their use and there is variation in approaches to regulation.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) considers the tobacco epidemic to be one of the biggest public health threats the world has ever faced, killing more than eight million people per year worldwide.
Smoking and exposure to second-hand smokes cause 65,000 deaths per year in England alone.
It remains the largest single risk factor for death and ill-health, and is a leading cause of health inequalities in England.
E-cigarettes (vaping products) offer a substantially less harmful alternative, but there has been a heated debate about their use and wide variation in approaches to regulation.
Against a backdrop of controversy and disparate knowledge, the Nicotine Research Group at King’s has provided a much-needed body of research to enable an evidence-based approach to policy-making in this area.
Ann McNeill , Professor of Tobacco Addiction at the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience (IoPPN), said: "As Professor Michael Russell from the, then, Institute of Psychiatry said over 40 years ago, ‘Smokers smoke for the nicotine, but die from the tar’.
Since then, various less harmful nicotine delivery systems have been developed.
However, e-cigarettes were the first to mirror the act of smoking whilst delivering decent doses of nicotine, and they quickly became popular alternatives to tobacco cigarettes".
Our Nicotine Research Group at King’s quickly picked up the gauntlet to study vaping products, investigating who was using them, how and why, as well as synthesising the global evidence on their impact on public health.
The evidence indicated that when appropriately regulated and used, e-cigarettes helped smokers to stop and offered a much less harmful means of continuing nicotine use for those that wished to do so.
By 2010, e-cigarettes had entered the market as a means of delivering the main addictive substance in smoking – nicotine - whilst avoiding many of the harmful ingredients of cigarettes.
In 2022, about eight per cent of adults in England used e-cigarettes, and tobacco use had dropped from 19.8 per cent of adults in 2011 to 13.9 per cent.
The increased use of e-cigarettes was surrounded by debate, fueled by misconceptions that nicotine was the harmful ingredient in tobacco and that these products were simply replacing one harmful addiction with another.
The best evidence that was available in 2015 demonstrated that e-cigarettes are unlikely to exceed five per cent of the harms associated with smoking tobacco.
In this controversial area, there was an unmet need for robust, meaningful research to cut through the noise.
By addressing the unanswered questions around use and impact of e-cigarettes, King’s research provided an evidence base for policy decisions and public health recommendations.
Globally, King’s researchers were one of the first groups to study e-cigarette use.
Their research in this area identified not only that e-cigarette use helps tobacco smokers quit smoking, but also that the type and frequency of e-cigarette use impacted the likelihood of reduced smoking harm.
For example, daily e-cigarette use was associated with reduced tobacco smoking and a higher number of attempts to quit smoking altogether during the next year.
Furthermore, those using e-cigarettes with a re-fillable liquid tank daily were more likely to have quit smoking compared to those not using e-cigarettes.
King’s researchers revealed the consequences of widespread misperceptions about the relative harm of e-cigarettes.
These findings provided valuable insights into the level of knowledge amongst smokers about the harm of e-cigarettes compared to traditional smoking.
We know that more than half of all long-term smokers will die early because of smoking.
But in England, seven out of ten adult smokers think vaping is at least as harmful as smoking or are unsure.
Such misperceptions were even worse in smokers from more disadvantaged groups and among smokers from black and minority ethnic groups.
These figures show a failure to communicate the evidence to those affected by the harms of smoking.
A primary element of the debate around e-cigarettes is the concern that young people who did not previously smoke will start vaping, and this use of e-cigarettes could increase the subsequent risk of tobacco smoking.
King’s research has found that there are associations in both directions between trying an e-cigarette and trying tobacco smoking.
According to the latest data from the Action on Smoking and Health (ASH) 2022 survey commissioned by YouGov, over the last two years the number of 11- to 18-year-olds who vape has increased from 4.8 per cent in 2020 to 8.6 per cent in 2022.
Nonetheless, 98 per cent of young people who have never smoked are also not currently vaping.
The Nicotine Research Group continues to monitor e-cigarette use by young people given the rapid evolution of vaping products on the market.
Public Health England (PHE - now Office for Health Improvement and Disparities and UK Health Security Agency) existed to protect and improve the nation’s health and wellbeing by providing evidence-based professional, scientific and delivery expertise.
Based on King’s ground-breaking work in the area of vaping, PHE commissioned King’s researchers to summarise the evidence on e-cigarettes in six independent evidence reviews.
These reviews - published in 2015 , 2018 , 2019 , 2020 , 2021 and 2022 - received global attention.
They have informed policy and are the means by which the government monitors the use and impact of e-cigarettes among adults and youth, as well as identifying areas of interest for future research and policy.
The reviews underpin the UK government’s Tobacco Control Plan for England , authored by the Department of Health and Social Care, which includes aims to support harm reduction with alternative forms of nicotine such as e-cigarettes.
The impact of King’s research and these reviews has spread wide within England.
NICE guidance and advice for ‘stop smoking services’ has been informed by King’s research and the King’s 2018 PHE evidence review, and now uses recommendations on e-cigarettes as a harm-reduction strategy.
Evidence from the 2015 and 2018 King’s reviews underpins the National Centre for Smoking Cessation and Training (NCSCT) stop smoking practitioner training, which includes a section on e-cigarettes.
In 2018, the NCSCT produced a series of five public health information films for PHE, ‘E-cigarette safety: the facts explained’.
The films aimed to counter misperceptions about the harms of e-cigarettes highlighted in King’s research.
One of these features Professor Ann McNeill which, to date, has 457,629 views on YouTube.
Based on King’s PHE Reviews, PHE have issued advice on the use of e-cigarettes in the workplace and public spaces to help employers and organisations develop their own policies.
The Royal College of General Practitioners (RCGP) position statement on e-cigarettes directs UK GPs to the King’s 2015 PHE Review and to the NCSCT training as means to inform GPs of the use of e-cigarettes as part of a harm-reduction approach.
The impact of King’s research also reached further afield.
On the basis of King’s PHE Reviews, the New Zealand Ministry of Health recommended that the government support smokers to switch to significantly less harmful nicotine alternatives.
This was instrumental in New Zealand legalising nicotine vaping products in 2018.
The 2021 PHE review showed that perceptions about the relative harms of smoking and vaping among adult smokers are increasingly out of line with the evidence .
Among adult smokers, only 29 per cent believed vaping was less harmful than smoking, while 38% thought they were equally harmful and another 15 per cent believed vaping to be more harmful than smoking.
The most recent 2022 PHE review is the most comprehensive to date, reviewing the potential health risks of nicotine vaping.
Although the report highlights that vaping is not risk-free, particularly for those who have never smoked, vaping poses a small fraction of the risks of tobacco smoking in the short and medium term.
The 2019 Government Green Paper ‘Advancing our health: prevention in the 2020s’ cites the 2018 King’s PHE Review, stating that e-cigarettes are a helpful contribution to a harm reduction strategy in smokers, and recommending their use.
It stated: ‘We are setting an ambition to go 'smoke-free' in England by 2030.
This includes an ultimatum for industry to make smoked tobacco obsolete by 2030, with smokers quitting or moving to reduced risk products like e-cigarettes.’
Statistics from NHS Digital showed that in 2018 - 2019, ' stop smoking services' supported 236,175 attempts to stop smoking .
Those attempts in which clients used e-cigarettes have achieved the highest self-reported quit rates compared with prescription medication and Nicotine Replacement Therapy, indicating that the revisions of training based on King’s research has saved countless lives.
Professor of Tobacco Addiction
Professor of Addictions & Public Health
Senior Lecturer in Tobacco Harm Reduction
Research Assistant

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/spotlight/a-decade-on-from-the-misogyny-speech:
07 November 2022
October 2022 marks the 10th anniversary of Julia Gillard’s famous speech on misogyny to the Australian Parliament.
A decade later, Julia chairs the Global Institute of Women’s Leadership at King’s, continuing her work to provide a platform of equal access to women of all backgrounds.
October 2022 marks the 10th anniversary of Julia Gillard’s famous speech on misogyny to the Australian Parliament, an address that would resonate around the world.
A decade later, Julia, the only woman to have served as Prime Minister of Australia, is chair of the Global Institute for Women’s Leadership at King’s (GIWL), an institution that works towards a world in which women of all backgrounds have equal access to leadership positions.
The speech
‘I will not be lectured about sexism and misogyny by this man.
I will not’.
So begins Julia Gillard’s iconic speech to the Australian Parliament, a response to opposition leader Tony Abbott’s accusation of sexism in the midst of a no confidence motion to remove then-Speaker, Peter Slipper, over misogynistic texts he sent to his aide.
I will not be lectured about sexism and misogyny by this man.
I will not.
What follows is, as The Guardian put it, ‘a masterful, righteous put-down’ that considered Abbott’s own sexism and hypocrisy as emblematic of existing issues in society at large.
The speech would rise to viral fame, becoming a cultural phenomenon that signalled a landmark moment for women in politics.
The Macquarie Dictionary of Australian English changed its definition of ‘misogyny’ in its wake, from ‘hatred of women’ to ‘entrenched prejudice against women’.
Sarah Hanson-Young, a Greens Senator, stated in its immediate aftermath, ‘When I first heard it, I really thought, ‘Thank God she’s finally said something’’.
In 2020, it was voted by Guardian readers as the number one most unforgettable moment in Australian television history.
Julia’s words were a rallying cry from the highest office: misogyny and sexism should not be tolerated – women are entitled to a better standard in private, public and professional life.
A legacy in research
The speech continues to reach further into our collective consciousness to this day.
10 years later, Julia is still working to provide a platform for women to fairly enter leadership positions.
Globally, women make up just 32% of national parliamentarians, 21% of news media leaders, 31% of senior managers and 20% of corporate board members.
Gender equality progress has been slow but, alarmingly, in some cases it is reversing.
In 2015 the World Economic Forum estimated the economic gender gap would be closed by 2133, but in 2022, they revised this estimate to 2173.
The Institute aims to change this in three keys ways:
As a research-based organisation, GIWL utilises its evidence-centric approach in a diverse range of areas under the gender equality umbrella, including building inclusive work cultures, tackling under-representation and negative stereotyping in the media, measuring and mapping gender inequalities, and supporting women’s leadership in grassroots, local, national and global institutions.
Their ‘Essays on Equality’ anthologies, which are published annually, encapsulate the Institute’s research as a collection of ruminations on women’s leadership and gender equality, written by both researchers from GIWL itself and leading experts working in the field.
Improvement through empowerment
Looking back, Julia assesses the speech’s societal impact and the change that it initiated thus: ‘I think what we’re doing better is naming and shaming when we see sexism and misogyny.
I think it’s impossible to imagine in Parliament today that a woman could be called the things that I was’.
The Global Institute for Women’s Leadership is at the forefront of this changing landscape, and is working to ensure that the legacy of that famous speech continues to be one of improvement and empowerment.
I think what we’re doing better is naming and shaming when we see sexism and misogyny.
I think it’s impossible to imagine in Parliament today that a woman could be called the things that I was.
In November 2022, GIWL hosted an in-conversation event featuring Professor Mary Beard and Julia Gillard to celebrate the speech’s legacy, and look ahead to what comes next in the fight for equality.
You can watch back a livestream of the event here .
You can find out more about GIWL here .
This article is part of the Research in Action series, which tells the story of the transformational impact that King’s is striving to achieve through research and the researchers who make it happen.
You can read more stories like this here .
GIWL’s work is only made possible through the generosity of King’s alumni and supporter community.
Philanthropic support for their mission is vital, whether it’s through supporting one of their projects aiming to breakdown systemic barriers to leadership, funding an early career researcher to look at how gender intersects with race, or joining their closest supporters in their Founding Circle – a visionary group of 20 philanthropists coming together to provide £1.5 million in seed funding – your involvement and partnership can effect real change.
Click here to find out more about how you have a transformational impact on society by donating to King’s.
King's College London has a long and proud history of serving the needs and aspirations of society.
We are committed to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as a university, and we use them as a framework for reporting on our social impact.
The SDGs are a set of 17 goals approved by the 193 member states of the United Nations (UN) which aim to transform the world by 2030.
This research supports SDGs 5 and 10 .
Chair
Why is that India's voters appear to place curiously little emphasis on health when it comes to voting decisions?
Professor...

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/spotlight/where-does-data-come-from:
21 July 2022
The origin, or 'provenance' of data is important to gaining trust in policies and processes that are data driven.
When it comes to food, wine or art the idea of provenance is widely understood.
It’s a way of verifying that a painting really is by a famous artist or that Cornish pasties come from Cornwall.
We know because someone can trace back the painting or the pasty to its origins.
For the person who is buying a pasty (or Jersey Royal potatoes, or French champagne) or the museum or collector acquiring a valuable painting , provenance is what allows them to trust that they are getting the genuine article.
Exactly the same principles apply in the digital world.
Each year we rely on data to drive more and more areas of human activity.
As processes become ever more sophisticated it is important to be able to trace data back to its origins, to allow people to trust what the data is telling them.
Provenance is a fundamental building block of data governance.
It tells us about the entities, activities, and people involved in producing a piece of data , which can be used to form assessments about its quality, reliability or trustworthiness.
This information is typically obtained by tracing the relationship between agent, entity, and activity, and the time that the activity started and ended (who did what when, where and how).
Academic research on provenance has led to the development of a computerised standard called the PROV data model, or PROV-DM (https://www.w3.org/TR/prov-dm/).
The PROV standard is published by the World Wide Web Consortium.
Fundamentally provenance is about trust in the integrity of data.
The adoption of a common international standard, PROV, has opened up boundless possibilities for using data to drive services that benefit everyone ”.
King’s has worked in this area for more than a decade, laying groundwork for the adoption of the PROV standard, and conducting world-leading research that builds on PROV to deepen the understanding of provenance, develop software engineering methodologies and techniques to deploy provenance, and to conceive provenance-based techniques for systems to produce explanations about their decisions.
What started as conceptual work is now widely used in practice, in sectors including health management systems, automated decision systems in finance and command and control systems in the US Navy.
The need became more acute In the UK with the introduction of new General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in 2018.
Organisations managing data have comprehensive responsibilities for ensuring the accuracy and protection of data.
This is overseen by the Information Commissioners’ Office (ICO) , the government body responsible for upholding individuals’ information rights.
It has drawn on work led by Luc Moreau, in setting out its guidance to companies on explaining decisions made with AI .
– a fundamental step in improving trust in AI and the processes it drives.
In health care, Imosphere Ltd is a software company that develops tools for health, care and education organisations.
Its flagship project, Atmolytics produces interactive reports from patient cohort data.
Atmolytics incorporates elements of provenance template technology developed by Professor Vasa Curcin, Reader in Health Informatics, to add new functionality to the product.
He said:
“Provenance templates can be used to generate a model-driven service interface for domain software tools to routinely capture the provenance of their data and tasks.
It is exciting to see templates being widely adopted to support health analytics.”
The new, provenance-enabled version of Atmolytics was launched in 2018 and by November 2020 had more than 4,000 users in the UK and USA, managing data for more than one million patients.
The product allows care providers and services to use reliable, trusted data to identity patients at risk of certain conditions, track disease markers for patient cohorts, identify gaps in provision and assess the impact of new services.
Among its many uses the South London Stroke Registry is using the programme as a front end providing sophisticated data exploration, visualisation and data analytics.
The CEO of Imosphere, says:
“Using the PROV standard and provenance templates….
saved us years in design and development time and ensured we are standard compliant for any further extensions, reducing time to market by approximately one year….
It has also improved the software engineering aspect of our data analytics portal, as it promotes good practice in reusing and documenting analytical components across reports, avoiding duplication.”
The term provenance was first used in the English language in the late 18 th century, to describe the origins of historical artefacts.
Now, 250 years later, the concept has been extended to protect and enable the newest data driven innovations.
Professor of Health Informatics

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/research-culture:
A culture where people thrive and are valued.
A place where great research practice is our everyday norm.
An environment where innovation flourishes, impactful discoveries unfold and everybody feels part of a richly diverse community.
This is our goal.
Together with stakeholders from across the sector, King’s is a driving force in shaping research culture.
A culture that not only meets the highest academic standards but also embodies the principles of inclusivity, integrity, and collaboration.
Our Research community includes everyone engaged in or facilitating research - from students to technicians and those employed in professional services.
Our work in research culture is supported by our Research Culture team, who collaborate on projects across King's research community, as well as the wider Higher Education sector.
The Research Culture team work closely with the Research Ethics , Research Governance and Research Integrity teams, within King's overarching Research Management and Innovation Directorate.
As well as the work we do in our central team, we also make funds available to other faculties and directorates across King’s to help inform and enable local strategies.
The faculty-level work is supported by our network of Vice-Deans for Research, Research Integrity Champions and Research Integrity Advisors.
In our Strategy 2026 delivery plans , we acknowledge the importance of cultivating an inclusive and welcoming community, providing room for professional development and amplifying voices that might otherwise go unheard.
These factors are crucial in enabling everyone involved in research to perform at their best.
As such, people (rather than targets or output volume) are central to our Research Culture vision, which is underpinned by our Principles in Action.
We commit to learning from our past experiences and the experiences of others, and support a culture of learning both within King’s and across the sector.
Recognising potential, supporting development and empowering colleagues.
Encouraging individuals to contribute their unique perspectives.
Championing transparent and reproducible research methodologies.
We believe in the importance of understanding what does and doesn't work in creating culture change.
We're committed to monitoring, evaluating and sharing our work in ways that are open and transparent, and will use a range of approaches including surveys, audit, analysis of routinely collected data and prospective studies.
We'll hold an annual event where we’ll share the learnings from our research culture work with our community and others working in the research culture space across the wider community.
With many different initiatives designed to enhance research culture, it’s hard to identify robust indicators of change.
We’re developing an evaluation framework with several strands: 

•	Helping develop strong indicators of Open Research with the UK Reproducibility Network.
•	Participating in VITAE-led workshops to create indicators for People, Culture, and Environment.
•	Finding indicators for new and developing policies and processes that positively impact research culture.
•	Working with our King’s community to identify meaningful and valid measures.
A focus on embedding inclusive practices, funded by Wellcome.
Supporting research technical professionals, funded by the EPSRC.
Upskilling high quality research practices, funded by Research England...

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/research-environment/rgei:
The department is led by Director of Research Governance, Ethics and Integrity, Miss Marice Lunny, with senior academic guidance provided by the Dean of Research Culture, Professor Tim Newton.
The teams within our department are committed to enabling the good and proper conduct of research and researchers.
We support the King’s research community to ensure that all research conducted is safe, lawful, and of the highest standards of integrity and rigour.
These standards are based on certain principles and professional responsibilities that are central to the protection of the research community, research participants, and the reputation of King’s.
Our aim is to ensure public trust in the research that we produce.
Our department provides training and guidance to all research-active staff and students on matters related to research governance, research ethics, research integrity and international regulations, and we develop and monitor relevant policies and procedures to support our research community.
More information is available on our training page .
Provides advice and guidance on research data management and regulations.
Committed to ensuring safeguarding for research activities involving humans
Research integrity is about research excellence
Guidance on the UK government's foreign influence registration scheme.
We offer guidance and training to all research-active members of the...
Read King's annual statement on Research Integrity.
Learn about these new faculty-based Research Integrity support roles.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/research-environment/policy-governance:
The College Research Committee is the committee of the Academic Board responsible for advising the Board on quality assurance and regulatory issues, on the sharing of good practice and on the development of College policy affecting research.
Find details on meeting dates, terms of reference and membership of the research committee .
The committee is instrumental in making sure research staff across King's and their concerns are represented.
Raising the profile of research staff as a vital and distinct community within King's and ensure that their views reflected in institutional policies and decision making at faculty and university level.
The RSRC's work also informs various other committees, including Faculty Athena SWAN committees, research committees, and the UK Research Staff Association .
The Research Excellence Framework is the system for assessing the quality of research in UK higher education institutions.
Find out more about the REF at King's .
All research involving human participants, undertaken by university staff and students, must have ethical approval.
Find out more about research ethics guidelines .
The Biological Services Unit provide facilities, services and advice for all research scientists within King's who need to carry out research using animals.
Find out more about King's policy on the use of animals in scientific research.
UKRI’s Open Access policy requires in-scope journal articles and conference proceedings and in-scope monographs, book chapters and edited collections published on or after 1 January 2024 to be compliant.
See the Open Access pages for more information and help .
King's College London is dedicated to ensuring research data created and used within the university is managed and curated to the highest standards throughout its lifecycle, and with due regard to relevant legislation on access and privacy, and the possibility of beneficial re-use.
Find out more about Research Data Management.
Research funders require recipients of grants to provide information on outcomes of research in order to demonstrate the value and impact of publicly funded research.
Research Councils UK, NIHR and several major charities have harmonised their data collection to an online system called Researchfish .
Find out more about how to use the system (internal) .
King's staff can find further information about research policy and governance on our internal pages .
Read King's policy on employing staff on fixed-term contracts.
A central repository for core King's policies and regulations

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/explore/managing-research:
Research and innovation are central to King’s College London’s vision to make the world a better place, as set out in our Vision 2029 .
The Vice President (Research & Innovation) portfolio and the Research Management & Innovation Directorate work in partnership to develop our research and innovation agenda, providing an optimal environment for our staff and doctoral students.
We work in collaboration with academic and professional staff across our Faculties and central Directorates to enable impactful research and innovation.
Areas of focus include research and innovation strategy and delivery, partnerships, talent development, research sustainability, research infrastructure, responsible research practices and governance, research funding, research performance, reporting and systems.
We are dedicated to enabling a positive research culture that emphasises not just the outcomes but the journey of research and innovation, within an environment where all staff and doctoral students can flourish.
We invite you to explore the exciting research and innovation taking place across our nine faculties .
Learn about how we are serving society through innovation, engagement and partnerships , the impact of our research and our sustainable research ambitions.
Read about the King's Doctoral College and our Centre for Research Staff Development .
If so, email:
Professor Sir Bashir M.
Al-Hashimi

Through Bashir’s leadership, the Vice President's Research & Innovation portfolio team collaborates with colleagues across King’s to shape and advance the institution’s research and innovation ambitions, to deliver on the University-wide strategy.
Areas of focus include ensuring excellence across all disciplines, driving strategic initiatives, building strong partnerships nationally and internationally, and translating research and innovation into impactful outcomes for the benefit of society.
Dr Bryony Wakefield 

Bry leads the Research Management & Innovation Directorate (RMID), a dynamic team of expert research professional staff.
To deliver on our strategic ambitions, areas of focus include ensuring a robust research and innovation service delivery model that prioritises continuous improvement and the effective utilisation of technology, to ensure sustainable growth.
Collectively, research professional staff across King’s provide support internally, and to our national and international partners, to enable creative and impactful research and innovation.
Dean of Research Excellence Frameworks
Dean of King's Doctoral College
Deputy Dean of King's Doctoral College
Dean of Research Culture
Dean of Research Infrastructure
Staff in the Research Management & Innovation Directorate (RMID) play a key role in delivering the King’s vision, working to provide an optimal environment for research and to support our staff and doctoral students.
If you have a question about research management or innovation at King's, email:
Associate Director of Stakeholder Engagement
Director of e-Research
Director of Innovation Transformation
Director of King’s College London (KCL) and Guy’s & St Thomas’ NHS...
Director of King's Health Partners Clinical Trials Office
Interim Director of King's Innovation Catalyst
Director of Operations, King's Clinical Trials Unit (KCTU)
Director of Research Grants and Contracts
Director of Research Governance, Ethics and Integrity
Director of Research Platforms
Director of Research Strategy & Performance
Director of Research Talent
Head of Research Information Systems
Interim Director of Research Sustainability
Director of Research Sustainability
Director of Service Improvement and Operations
Unlocking commercial opportunities to create impact from innovation.
Ensuring RMID achieves its mission efficiently.
Compliance and integrity within a positive research culture.
Managing the financial and legal aspects of our research projects.
Providing advice, facilities, technical services and technology platforms.
Enhancing our research through strategy, funding and impact.
Equipping future leaders in research and beyond.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/research-environment/developing-research-proposals:
The Research Strategy & Development team at King’s provides a central, dedicated research support function for each of the academic Faculties.
We support high-quality, distinctive research with real impact, aligned with the College’s Research Strategy and funders’ strategic priorities.
Our externally-funded research portfolio brings in an annual income of £290 million (2020-21; £220m awards and £70m Research England formula funding).
We support collaborative and global research, working with over 130 countries and hundreds of research institutions, industrial, cultural and health service partners and businesses.
Our Research Development managers focus on the co-ordination of major institutional funding applications, improving research in priority areas, provision of support and advice to academic staff, and input into research strategy.
They offer:
Camilla is Director of Research Development for Arts & Sciences.
Our Arts & Sciences Faculties are: Arts & Humanities, Business, Law, Natural & Mathematical Sciences and Social Sciences & Public Policy.
Alasdair is Director of Research Development for Health.
Our Faculties are: Dentistry, Oral & Craniofacial Sciences; the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience; Life Sciences & Medicine; and Nursing, Midwifery & Palliative Care.
The Dickson Poon School of Law & King's Business School Research Development Manager
Life Sciences & Medicine (Biomedical Engineering & Imaging Sciences, Life Course Sciences, Cardiovascular Medicine& Sciences, Population Health & Environmental Sciences), Nursing, Midwifery and Palliative Care Research Development Manager
Arts & Humanities Research Development Manager
Life Sciences & Medicine (Immunology & Microbial Sciences, Cancer & Pharmaceutical Sciences, Basic & Medical Biosciences), Dentistry, Oral & Craniofacial Sciences Research Development Manager
Social Sciences & Public Policy Research Development Manager
Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience Research Development Manager
Natural, Mathematical & Engineering Sciences Research Development Manager
Natural, Mathematical & Engineering  Sciences Research Development Manager
Research Development Officer (Arts & Sciences)
Research Development Officer (Health)
If you can't find the information you need, get in touch and we will get back to you as quickly as possible: RMID-help@kcl.ac.uk
King's staff - For demand management or quality assurance, some schemes...
The KTP was awarded a prestigious Certificate of Excellence from...

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/funding/applications:
King's College London provides a complete Pre and Post Award support service to all researchers applying for research funding or negotiating contract-funded research.
Led by the Director of Research Grants & Contracts, Paul Labbett, with Director of Research and Consultancy Contracts, Laura Weiss, and Director of Research Award Administration (Pre- and Post-Award), Eva Björndal.
The Pre-award Office is the specialist office at King's responsible for submitting, approving and signing-off research applications and research projects sponsored by external funders.
The Pre-award Office expertise covers funders that support research via competitive peer-review (national and international), including but not limited to:
Costings, approvals and management of research awards that fall under the remit of the Pre-award Office are managed in the research management system adopted by King's College London, which is called Worktribe.
Further information and how to use the system can be found on the Worktribe hub pages (internal webpage).
Overall the Pre-award Office support covers the following:
If you are a member of staff applying for external research funding, please see our internal pages where you will find in-depth guidance on Preparing a Proposal , Costing and Pricing a Proposal and details for all the Pre-Award team contacts .
Director of Research Award Administration (Pre- and Post-Award)
Health Faculties Lead
Arts and Sciences Faculties Lead
International Team Lead
Specialist Team Lead
The Contracts team is responsible for providing costing and contractual support for Industry and Government research funding (excluding NIHR), Consultancy projects (advisory and fee-for service and contractual support for non-financial agreements, such as data transfer, confidentiality (non-disclosure) and material transfer agreements.
Director of Research and Consultancy Contracts  -  If you are external to King's please contact Laura
Team Leader and Senior Contracts Associate, responsible for: Division of Neuroscience at the IOPPN – Basic and Clinical Neuroscience and Neuroimaging
Team Leader, responsible for: School of Cancer & Pharmaceutical Sciences – Cancer and Analytical, Environmental & Forensic Sciences School of Life Course Sciences – Diabetes, Twin Research & Genetic Epidemiology
Team Leader and Senior Contracts Associate, responsible for: Strand based Faculties/Schools, St Thomas’ based FoLSM Schools, Nursing, Midwifery and Palliative Care, SPHES and the Centre for Education
If you are unsure who to contact, please email us: RGCContractsTeam@kcl.ac.uk
For King’s members of staff please see the Contracts Team internal pages Contracts Team Support where you will find in-depth guidance on industry research, studentships, consultancy and other contract types within the Contracts Team’s remit, including contact details for all Contracts Team members Contracts Team Contacts
Once your award has been formally accepted by King's College London, our Post-Award team will manage the financial administration of your award.
The team offers expert management of research funding to ensure compliance with funder’s terms and conditions and the university’s financial procedures.
Post-Award provides support on accounvt management, forecasting, budgetary control, financial reporting, risk management and audit as well as providing financial and business management information on all research projects.
The team is also responsible for:
If you are a member of staff with a question about an active grant or contract, please see our internal web pages for contact details for team members.
Director of Post-Award
Senior Research Grants Manager
Research Grants Manager (Denmark Hill)
Research Grants Manager (Strand Campus)
Research Grants Manager (Guy's Campus)
Research Grants Manager (Cross-Campus)
Research Studentship Manager
King’s College London, in order to be compliant with the US government Public Health Service requirement for the disclosure and management of financial conflicts of interest, have published ‘Disclosure of Financial Interests & Management of Conflicts of Interest, Public Health Services Research Awards Policy & Procedures’.
As part of the policy, this document is required to be made publicly available.
The policy & procedures document can be accessed here.
A further requirement of the policy is to make certain information relating to Senior/Key personnel publicly available.
The definitions and scope relating to this requirement are laid out in the policy and procedures document.
When information within scope needs to be made available it will do so here.
Internal page confirming contact details, key documents and code of...
Internal pages to help staff gGet in touch with our Pre-Award teams.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/funding/doctoral-opportunities-funding:
King's is a world-renowned research-intensive university with over four thousand postgraduate research students across its nine faculties.
Ranked 7th in the UK for its research and named 38th in the world top research institutions (Times Higher Education World Rankings 2024), King's College London offers doctoral students a unique chance to work with top class researchers in a city that offers unrivalled opportunities for collaboration.
As well as world-leading research and supervision, King's Doctoral College provides university-wide support, advice, and training for postgraduate research students, ensuring our doctoral students are equipped to excel as research leaders in the academy, in industry, and beyond.
To find more information about PhD opportunities at King's, browse this page's links to search our research areas, find a potential supervisor, browse our range of MPhil/PhD courses, and explore your funding options.
Equipping research students to excel

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/funding/homeeu-funding:
Prospective doctoral students with Home fees status are predominantly funded by the UK Research Councils.
This funding is provided through studentships in academic departments or through Doctoral Training Centres and Partnerships (DTCs & DTPs).
Applications for these funding opportunities are made either centrally, via a university department or faculty, or directly through the Research Council funded Doctoral Training Centre.
As well as providing studentship funding, Doctoral Training Centres and Partnerships offer tailored research training courses and professional development pathways for their funded doctoral students and, in some cases, for students without funding.
King's has a number of Doctoral Training Centres, in a range of disciplines and research areas.
The university is also a member of a number of multi-institution Doctoral Training Partnerships.
To discover more about the Doctoral Training Centres and Partnerships based at King's, and to explore their current PhD and funding please see our funding database .

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/funding/seedfund:
King’s Together is a seed-funding scheme offering support for the development of multi and inter disciplinary projects that address our strategic research themes:
This internal competition provides seed-funding for research projects which will lead to external research grant applications that are strategic in nature – thanks either to their size, or their importance to the departmental, School or Faculty research landscape.
The goal is the development of large, innovative, externally-funded research projects that showcase King’s’ research expertise.
King's works in close partnership with three leading NHS Trusts, through King's Health Partners.
Round 13 of the King's Together Fund closed in November 2024.
We anticipate that the next round will open later this year, with a deadline in autumn 2025.
More details can be found in the King's Together Fund - Guidance for applicants page ( internal only )
If you have questions about the scheme, please get in touch with kingstogether@kcl.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/funding/astar-phd-studentships:
Up to three 4-year fully funded ‘Joint A*STAR - King’s College London Studentships’ are available to support PhDs commencing in October 2025 (two studentships at UK Tuition Fees and one studentship at International Tuition Fees), covering tuition fees, stipend, and bench fee.
Applications are accepted from citizens of the UK, the EU, the USA, Canada, Latin America, and Australia.
Students must plan to commence an approved PhD project under this studentship programme in October 2025.
Projects available for funding can be found in our Project Catalogue (provided below).
Students recruited to these studentships must spend a minimum of 18 months and a maximum of 24 months at an A*STAR Research Institute in Singapore with the named A*STAR supervisor(s) as part of the research and training programme.
All tuition fees will be fully covered by the Studentship.
Students will receive a tax-free stipend for each year of study.
Whilst at King’s College London, the stipend will be in line with the UK Research and Innovation rate (for the year 2024/25, was set at £21,237 per annum).
A Research Training Student Grant (RTSG) will be provided for research consumables and for attending UK and international conferences.
At King’s College London consumables allowance (at the Research Council rate) and consumables allowance £5,000 for 1 st and 4 th year, as well as and travel & conference allowance £300 for 1 st and 4 th year.
Whilst at A*STAR, the following allowances are provided: One-time airfare allowance: S$ 1,500; one-time settling in allowance: S$ 1,000; one-time IT allowance: S$ 800; monthly housing subsidy (for awardees staying off-campus): S$300; monthly stipend: S$ 3,200; conference allowance; medical insurance; miscellaneous research costs of the PhD work is covered by the A*STAR Research Entities and related visa costs.
Applicants must have or be predicted to obtain a high-quality BSc degree with a 1st or a high 2:1, or a master’s qualification at Merit/Distinction grade.
If English is not your first language, you will be required to provide evidence that you meet the minimum English requirements of the faculty (B and D) as prescribed by the University’s English Language requirements.
If you are unable to provide this confirmation before applying any offer you are made would be conditional upon you meeting these requirements prior to enrolment and no later than the 31 August 2025.
Further information on English Language Requirements
Students recruited to these studentships must spend a minimum of 18 months and a maximum of 24 months in Singapore at an A*STAR Research Institute with the named A*STAR supervisor on each project as part of the research and training programme.
To apply for the A*STAR and King’s College London Studentships, consult our ‘How to Apply’ guidance below.
Applicants must complete and submit an online admissions application, via the King’s Apply system.
You will need to register an account to log onto the system.
In addition to filling out the online application form, you will also be required to upload your CV and write a personal statement.
For detailed instructions on the application process and guidance on filling out the form, please download the A*STAR Application Guidance document .
Application Stage
Applications Open
21 January 2025
Applications Close
23 February 2025, 23:59 UK Time
Invitations to Interview
By 21 March 2025*
Interviews
Week commencing 07 April 2025
Interview Outcomes
By 11 April 2025**
Acceptance of studentship offer
By 25 April 2025
* If you have not received a response regarding your application by 25 March, please contact King's Doctoral College .
** If you have not received a response regarding your interview by 14 April 2025 please contact contact King's Doctoral College .
Please do not contact the team regarding the outcome of your application before this date.
Do I meet the residency requirements for funding?
Please contact the Postgraduate Admissions Team to determine whether you are eligible for an award before you start the application process.
What are the academic requirements?
Applicants must have, or be predicted to obtain, a high-quality BSc degree with a 1st or a high 2:1.
Alternatively, students must have a master’s qualification at Merit/Distinction grade.
How do I apply?
All applications must be submitted via the King’s Apply Portal.
We will not accept any other form of application.
How many references do I need?
On your application you must provide the contact details of two academic referees.
If you feel it would be more appropriate, we can accept one reference from a non-academic research environment, e.g.: an employer from a research institution or company.
Note: academic references must list a university email address and employer referees should list the official email address of the company.
If you already have two references, you can scan and upload these directly to King’s Apply instead (note that they must be signed and on headed paper).
Note: it is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure we have received the references by deadline for references; ensure to start your application before the deadline and contact your referees to let them know we will be requesting a reference from them.
When will my referee receive notification to submit my reference?
Referees will only receive a notification to submit an applicant’s reference once the applicant has submitted their application.
Referees will not be contacted whilst the application is still in progress.
When is the deadline for applications?
We will be accepting applications up until 23:59 (GMT) on Sunday 23 February 2025.
Applications submitted after this date will not be considered.
We advise that you do not wait to submit your application until close to the deadline, in case there are problems with uploading documents etc.
Applications missing mandatory attachments may not be considered for shortlisting.
Do I need to complete the research proposal section of the application form?
In the Research Proposal section, under the ‘Project Title or Reference’ field, please enter the funding code that corresponds to the theme in which your first-choice project is listed (see below for an example).
Note that the funding codes are listed on page 2 of the Project Catalogue.
Project Title or Reference : Insert funding code: e.g., “THEME1_2025”.
Please then also list three projects of interest in order of preference in the free-text box under the Research Proposal section (see below for an example).
This should include the number that is assigned to the project and the project title, for example:
1.1 ‘’Project Title’’
2.1 ‘’Project Title’’
Do I need to take my IELTS test before I submit my application?
You do not need to take an English Language Test before making submitting the application.
However, should you be successful in gaining a studentship, this will become a condition of your offer and an IELTS test must be taken before we can make an unconditional offer.
How do I know my application is complete?
Please be sure to complete the following sections of the form with all relevant information (all questions with an asterisk are mandatory and you will not be able to submit without answering these):
If you have any questions about the King’s Apply portal, please get in touch with the Admissions Team directly via the messaging service on the portal.
Discover undergraduate study abroad funding opportunities.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/funding/fellowships-for-early-career-researchers:
Join a vibrant, dynamic community of postdoctoral and early career researchers at King's College London, a world-leading institution in the heart of London.
We welcome outstanding applicants to external research funding schemes.
Click below for more information and details on how to apply.
Please contact us for the latest deadlines and scheme details if you are interested in applying for any of these opportunities.
The Emerging Leader scheme seeks to support outstanding early career scientists to develop their research interests and establish a research programme at King’s College London.
Individuals will be based at the Roger Williams Institute of Liver Studies and will be encouraged to develop collaborations with laboratories across King’s College London as well as partner institutions such as The Francis Crick Institute.
This scheme provides 24 months of funding which will comprise salary according to King’s College London pay scales and research expenses.
The focus of the proposed research may be in any scientific discipline of relevance to liver biology and disease, with a preference for proposals aligned with the priority areas of the Institute.
Click here for further information.
Closing date - 5pm Thursday 31st July 2025
This scheme provides a five-year fellowship of up to £1.5million to promising independent researchers with a proven track record of excellence in the field of rheumatology or related musculoskeletal or inflammatory disease.
King's is allowed to submit one application to the Trust, therefore we will hold an internal selection process to select our applicant for this round.
External applicants (including overseas) are welcomed; internal deadline for completed applications is 22nd September 2025.
For an expression of interest form and further information please contact: Healthresearchdevelopment@kcl.ac.uk
The King’s Prize Fellowship is awarded bi-annually to outstanding post-doctoral scientists.
The award seeks to encourage individuals with a strong research interest to become leaders in their field.
The award is supported by the Anthony and Elizabeth Mellows Charitable Settlement, in association with King's College.
One of the fellowships per year will be awarded the Professor Anthony Mellows Medal.
The awards may be held in any part of King’s College London but must be focused on biomedical or health-related research.
The King’s Prize Fellowship is awarded twice a year and provides 18-24 months of funding including a generous salary and running expenses.
The award aims to support the Fellow's transition to an independent research career.
It is awarded through an annual competition, advertised widely and open to both internal (King's) and external candidates.
The next deadline is 27th November 2025
Further information
The UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships scheme is designed to support outstanding early career researchers and innovators to complete an ambitious programme of research and innovation which allows them to transition to independence, across the UKRI research remit.
The scheme is open to those who currently hold a position but have not yet received substantive grant funding as PI.
The scheme potentially offers up to seven years of funding (on a 4 & 3 model), with a budget in the first four years which reflects the project (no minimum or maximum); in the past, UKRI has funded projects valued from £300k to £2m at FEC.
The scheme allows applicants to apply to hold their FLF award at King's, moving from other HEIs or from industry and we welcome conversations with potential applicants not currently affiliated with King's.
King's is running an internal process to select candidates to put forward for Round 10 (which has a funder deadline of 18th June 2025).
We are capped at a maximum of 8 applications as an institution.
For this round, each Faculty's selection process will take place by the end of February 2025, with a final College-level decision in March.
Expressions of Interest will include a narrative CV & publication list; and an expression of interest setting out the core components of the proposed research project.
Applicants will also need to provide email confirmation from local leadership (Head of Department or Head of School) that the application is approved, and that the requirement for % salary and long-term position will be met.
For full details on how to apply and who to contact, please see the guidance document below - you must speak to the Research Development Manager for your Faculty to obtain the application templates and confirm deadlines.
Internal deadlines for Expressions of Interest were in February 2025.
Individual Fellowships (IFs) are a great option if you are an experienced researcher looking to give your career a boost by working abroad.
There are two types of IFs: European and Global.
Internal candidates: more detail about the scheme can be found through the Research Support intranet pages and the guidance below.
The internal deadline for the latest round was 27th June.
The internal guidance can be found below for information.
Please note: this internal process is only applicable to the Faculties of A&H, SSPP, NMES, Law & KBS.
This scheme provides funding to cover a 3 year fellowship.
The purpose of the award is to enable the award holder to pursue an independent research project, towards the completion of a significant piece of publishable research.
The deadline for the internal selection process for the 2026 round was 16 th July 2025.
Further information about the scheme
These fellowships are for three years, on a full-time basis.
They are intended to assist those at a relatively early stage of their academic careers, and it is hoped that the appointment would lead to a more permanent position for the individual, either in the same or another institution.
Our internal deadline for the 2026 Fellowships is 2nd October 2025.
Please see below for details.
Further information about the scheme & how to apply
The International Fellowships enable researchers to work for two years at a UK institution with the aim of fostering long-term international collaborations; they aim to attract the most promising early career postdoctoral researchers from overseas in the fields of natural sciences, social sciences and the humanities.
The British Academy deadline for the 2025 round was 18th March 2025; our internal selection deadline was therefore 10th February 2025.
The internal guidance document for the latest round can be viewed and downloaded below.
This scheme provides funding for early-career researchers from any discipline who are ready to develop their research identity.
Through innovative projects, they will deliver shifts in understanding that could improve human life, health and wellbeing.
By the end of the award, they will be ready to lead their own independent research programme.
Please inform your Research Development Manager, if you'd like to apply.
Susie Cornick-Willis, Research Development Officer, Arts & Sciences Research Office
susanna.cornick-willis@kcl.ac.uk
Kate Smith, Research Development Officer, Health Faculties
kate.s.smith@kcl.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/funding/doctoral-training-centres-partnerships:
King's College London is part of a number of Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs) and Doctoral Training Centres (DTCs) , either as a member of a consortium with other institutions or as the main host for the centre.
These are supported by the UK Research Councils, in order to provide studentship funding for PhD study as well as to provide structured training programmes that include research skills and enhancing employability.
DTPs and DTCs also offer their funded postgraduate researchers the chance to be part of a cohort of students and common research community.
The funding provided by these centres is primarily for those registered as Home students.
However, some funding for international students may also be available.
Prospective students should read carefully the eligibility requirements for funding before applying.
King's is the host for a number of Doctoral Training Centres which provide Research-Council funding, studentships, and training for doctoral students at King's.
King's is also a member of a number of multi-institutional Doctoral Training Partnerships.
To find information on the latest opportunities, funding, and training offered by these centres, explore the quick find menu on the right.
The London Arts & Humanities Partnership is an AHRC-funded doctoral training partnership supporting doctoral studies in arts and humanities.
LAHP brings together three global leading UK Research Organisations: Kings College, London, University College London (UCL), the School of Advanced Study, University of London (SAS).
Find out more about LAHP and apply for a studentship
The Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) funded London Interdisciplinary Social Science DTP (LISS DTP), led by King’s College London, in partnership with Imperial College London and Queen Mary University of London, provides social science research students with a unique opportunity to join and develop a research community that springs from the interface between the social science disciplines with health and medicine, the natural and physical sciences, engineering, and the arts and humanities.
The LISS DTP provides studentships in the social sciences, allowing students to work with some of the world’s leading experts in areas that include 1) health, well-being and social inclusion 2) economics and business 3) language, culture and education 4) the environment and urban life and 5) security and governance organised into 13 Thematic Pathways.
Find out more information and apply for a LISS-DTP studentship
Located in the heart of London, King’s College London and our associated NHS partner hospitals provide a vibrant and globally renowned biomedical research community.
Our integrated and multi-disciplinary approach to medical research offers a wealth of cutting edge training opportunities in fundamental discovery science, translational research and experimental medicine.
Our students undertake projects drawn from across all our Health Faculties in areas as diverse as: structural biology, stem cells, cancer, HIV/AIDS, mental health, population genetics and bioinformatics, therapeutic development, as well as interventional clinical trials.
The cohort-focused philosophy of our programme ensures that our graduates experience the full diversity of our scientific endeavour, learn how to collaborate, communicate and think creatively, and leave King’s equipped to tackle key biomedical challenges in a rapidly changing world.
Find out more information and apply for an MRC-DTP studentship
The HSDTC provides training and development for the 1,700+ doctoral research students in the four Health Faculties at King’s College London, irrespective of funding stream.
The HSDTC: is structured around seven interdisciplinary research themes; delivers a bespoke programme of training in research methods and skills, communication and impact, and careers and employability; encourages collaboration and cohort building across the Health Faculties, via funding opportunities, networking events, a buddy scheme, and more.
All doctoral research students in the Health Faculties at King's are automatically registered with the HSDTC, and receive a monthly newsletter which highlights upcoming workshops, events, and other opportunities.
Find out more about the Health Sciences Doctoral Training Centre
The London Interdisciplinary Biosciences Consortium is one of the largest BBSRC funded Doctoral Training Partnerships in the UK.
Representing an exciting collaboration between six of London's world-class universities and specialist institutions, the consortium provides students with a unique opportunity to pursue innovative interdisciplinary research projects in the heart of one of the world's most vibrant cities.
This 4-year programme is aimed at graduates with a strong interest in multi-disciplinary research.
We invite applications from highly motivated students from a wide range of academic backgrounds including biological, biomedical, veterinary, physical, computational, engineering or mathematical disciplines.
Find out more and apply for a LiDO studentship
The EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Data-Driven Health (DRIVE-Health) leads the formation of the next generation of health data scientists - a crucial component in the drive towards sustainable, equitable global healthcare.
Co-created with over fifty partnerships with NHS, patients, health tech and pharma, DRIVE-Health will train at least 85 doctoral students and equip them with the practical knowledge and skills needed to navigate the intersection of healthcare, data science, and technology.
There is a rapidly growing demand for experts who can harness the power of data to advance healthcare delivery and improve population health.
The interdisciplinary programs provided by DRIVE-Health will ultimately lead to better healthcare outcomes for individuals and communities across the full breadth of socio-demographic groupings, and drive innovation and adoption in global patient care and population health.
Find out more and apply for an EPSRC DRIVE-Health studentship .
The EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Smart Medical Imaging provides a comprehensive interdisciplinary PhD programme in medical imaging, specifically designed to meet the challenges in healthcare and medical imaging.
King's College London and Imperial College London, two world leading research-focused universities, collaborate to create an interdisciplinary training approach specifically designed to provide a unique PhD experience.
The Centre builds on strong existing collaborations between King's and Imperial, including substantial joint grant funding, joint publications and current joint supervision.
The CDT is funded by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.
Find out more and apply for a studentship
The mission of CANES is to train future research leaders in the understanding, control and design of systems far from equilibrium, based on rigorous training in theoretical modelling, simulation and data-driven analysis, and a breadth of awareness of common themes across disciplines.
Additionally, CANES functions as a UK Centre of Excellence for the research and research user community, and a national and international hub in the area of non-equilibrium systems.
The CANES training programme consists of a first year combining taught courses and research projects, leading to the award of an MSc.
In years two to four, leading to a PhD, the programme will include open question sandpits, master classes, journal clubs and an annual retreat.
Students will also be able to undertake internships at a broad range of industrial and international academic partners.
Find our more about CANES
The LSGNT is made up of 53 mathematicians in three London Universities, with interests in different aspects of number theory, geometry and topology.
We already work together in many ways, which include research collaborations and joint seminars and working groups.
The training that we offer as the LSGNT differs from a traditional UK PhD in pure mathematics in a number of respects, and is closer to the US graduate school model (though you will not have to do anything like as much teaching as a typical US graduate TA).
In the first year, we offer a broad mathematical training, with an emphasis on topics in geometry and number theory.
We also establish an ethos of working and learning together in a friendly and supportive environment.
Towards the end of the first year, you will have to agree on projects and supervisors and before the start of year 2, enrol at an agreed College out of the three: UCL, King's and Imperial.
The collaborative spirit established in the first year will be maintained by a number of mechanisms including cross-College supervision teams, junior seminars and working groups.
Students are encouraged to organise other activities, such as an LSGNT colloquium, an annual retreat and an annual conference.
We expect to recruit students with a wide variety of mathematical backgrounds: some will already have clear ideas about a research project and the necessary knowledge to start right away, while others will not yet have decided where their interests lie.
The first-year training will be flexible enough to accommodate and support everyone in the transition from undergraduate to research-level mathematics.
Find out more and apply for a LSGNT studentship
The London NERC DTP is a partnership of nine prestigious research organisations across London, funded by the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC).
Our aim is to attain new standards of excellence in environmental science research training, and deliver a transformative inter-disciplinary experience for PhD students in the heart of London.
We currently fund 142 PhD students in the natural sciences.
Our students are trained at World-leading research centres, which cover a the breadth of environmental science research, from those driven by contemporary environmental challenges to those exploring complex questions about the evolution of planet Earth.
Our PhD programme is focussed on eight key research themes: Biodiversity & Ecology, Earth, Atmosphere & Ocean Processes, Environmental Pollution, Evolution & Adaptation, Natural & Biological Hazards, Past Life & Environments, Solid Earth Dynamics and Pan-disciplinary research.
Find out more about NERC DTP
The goal of this programme is to train a new generation of researchers in regenerative medicine.
PhD supervisors have been selected across departments from King’s campuses, for their expertise in core areas of relevance to regenerative medicine.
Collectively, the supervisors provide knowledge in diseases of unmet clinical need, in innate and adaptive immunity, in organ transplantation and clinical trials of cell and gene therapies.
Supervisors also have scientific expertise in relevant models of endogenous tissue repair, and knowledge of bioengineering, disease modelling, drug screens and cell tracking in patients.
Students of this programme will address these questions with access to King’s world class resources such as the Nikon Imaging Centre, Wellcome Trust – EPSRC Centre of Excellence in Medical Engineering and the MRC Centre for Transplantation.
This programme will equip students to further translate science into regenerative medicine so that they graduate with excellent career prospects.
Click here for further information & to apply for a studentship

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/funding/epsrc-doctoral-training-partnership:
The Engineering and Physical Science Research Council (EPSRC) Doctoral Training Partnership at King’s College London offers PhD Research Studentships across the Faculty of Natural, Mathematical & Engineering Sciences and the Faculty of Life Sciences & Medicine, particularly in the School of Biomedical Engineering & Imaging Sciences.
The Faculty of Natural, Mathematical & Engineering Sciences allocate a number of EPSRC Doctoral Training Partnership studentships per academic year across its departments.
DTP students in the School of Biomedical Engineering and Imaging Sciences can undertake research projects as part of the Surgical and Interventional Engineering programme, that have been developed around 4 central themes: smart sensors and actuators, computer-assisted interventions, computational modelling and materials and theranostics.
The School also offers DTP projects in areas such as Image Acquisition and Image Reconstruction, Imaging Biology and Imaging Chemistry, Medical Image Computing, Imaging Robotics, Machine/Deep Learning.
A key strength of our DTP consists in its world-leading teaching facilities embedded within St Thomas' Hospital in the heart of central London.
Students will also enjoy access to wider School infrastructure such as the new London Medical Imaging & Artificial Intelligence Centre for Value-Based Healthcare and London’s first high-field 7 Tesla MR Centre.
Further, the students have access to the state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities and mock-operating theatre of the Department of Surgical and Interventional Engineering.
Details of upcoming project calls are circulated via email to all academics in the School.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/funding/international-phd-scholarships:
King's College London is one of the world's leading research institutions with a diverse research community producing internationally recognised work.
King's are dedicated to attracting, retaining, and developing top international postgraduate research talent to study alongside our renowned academic supervisors.
If you are interested in a postgraduate research degree (MPhil/PhD) at King's.
there are a range of funding opportunities for international postgraduate researchers at King's, including:
You can learn more about these opportunities through our postgraduate funding database .
More information about International Postgraduate Entry Requirements
Find out more about our English language requirements.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/funding/wellcome-trust-biomedical-vacation-scholarships:
The Wellcome Trust’s Biomedical Vacation Scholarships (BVS) provide promising undergraduates from underrepresented groups with hands-on experience of research at King’s College London during the summer holidays, with the aim of encouraging a career in research.
You can read more about the Wellcome Trust’s initiative on their website: How we can give a more diverse group of undergraduates hands-on research experience .
Information on the Wellcome Trust Science remit
Contact: outreach@kcl.ac.uk
You’ll gain professional experience through a funded internship, gaining knowledge and experience in your chosen subject.
It will help support your application for postgraduate study and other research jobs.
You’ll be paid the London Living Wage for working 35 hours per week.
If travel/accommodation is a barrier to you taking up the internship, then there may be additional provision to support this.
The seven-week BVS placements for summer 2025 will run from 7 July to 22 August.
The first week is a soft start for inductions and ‘settling in’.
A closing meeting will take place on 22 August for the BVS scholars to present their work to each other and other mentors involved with the scheme.
The research project may be done in the laboratory, office, clinic or field and may involve experimental or theoretical approaches, depending on the type of research a supervisor undertakes.
The project catalogue will be available in March listing all the projects for summer 2025.
The summer 2025 project catalogue is available here: Wellcome Trust Biomedical Vacation Scholarship Scheme Project Catalogue 2025 .
Scholarship applicants are requested NOT to contact the supervisors listed regarding their BVS applications, unless requested to do so by a member of the BVS administration team.
If you have any queries about the scholarships or applying, please contact outreach@kcl.ac.uk .
No – you do not need to be studying at King’s to apply for this scholarship.
However, please read the below criteria (at least twice) to make sure that you are eligible before you apply.
Six scholarships will be offered each year and they are competitive.
We received 100 to 200 applications per year for summers 2021- 2024.
Please ensure that you read through the below application criteria fully and answer the application questions carefully.
To apply you must:
Where a scholarship is oversubscribed, preference will be given to those who:
Applicants who do not meet any of the above criteria are still eligible to apply.
Please note, you are ineligible to apply if you :
We are now OPEN to APPLICATIONS for Summer 2025.
Application DEADLINE: 23:59 on 31 March 2025.
Please read through the projects available in this: Wellcome Biomedical Vacation Scholarship Project Catalogue - Summer 2025 .
If you are interested in applying - please read through the BVS Summer 2025 Application Directions in their entirety.
The link to the APPLICATION FORM is at the end of the Application Directions.
After you click submit you should see this message and can save your application form.
“THANK YOU for your application to King's College London Biomedical Vacation Scholarship (BVS).
We wish you every success!
Due to time constraints, we will NOT be able to: (1) make any changes to application forms after they have been submitted, (2) consider applications if the requested transcripts have not been provided, (3) provide individual feedback on applications.
Please do NOT contact project supervisors regarding your application to the BVS Scheme unless requested to do by someone from the BVS administration team.”
After submitting an application - if you have not received an email with further instructions by 16 May 2025, then unfortunately your application for a Biomedical Vacation Scholarship (BVS) has been unsuccessful.
If you have been short-listed, then:
You will receive an email from a member of the BVS administration team (around 16 April 2025) requesting you contact:
One or two referees asking them to supply references to an email address (to be confirmed).
Your two top supervisor choices for an online video meeting.
The email will have a clear deadline by which all reference letters must be received, and supervisor meetings must take place, for your application to be further considered.
There may also be an online meeting with a member(s) of the BVS admin team.
A BVS Panel will then meet to award the six scholarships.
All candidates will be informed if they have or have not received a scholarship by 16 May 2025.
If you have any queries about the scholarships or applying, please contact outreach@kcl.ac.uk.
If you are interested in receiving updates regarding King’s College London’s Wellcome Trust’s Biomedical Vacation Scholarships Scheme, e.g.
when projects are posted or applications open, then please complete this FORM to subscribe (or unsubscribe later) to the mailing list to receive timely updates regarding the scheme.
If you work as a researcher at King’s and you are interested in offering a project as part of the Wellcome Trust’s Biomedical Vacation Scholarships Scheme, then please review the supervisor criteria listed in this FORM and complete it to subscribe (or unsubscribe later) to the mailing list to receive updates regarding the project calls.
Read our scholarships project catalogue

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/funding/vacation-scholarships-across-kings-college-london:
The Wellcome Trust’s Biomedical Vacation Scholarships provide promising undergraduates from underrepresented groups with hands-on experience of research at King’s College London during the summer holidays, with the aim of encouraging a career in research.
Find out more information by visiting the webpage.
For more information please contact us using the details below

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/funding/research-professional:
Research Professional provides searchable details of all funding opportunities open to UK academics.
King’s has an institutional subscription, making it available to all King's staff and students, and affiliates, with a King's email username and password.
You can access the site when on campus at King's without logging in, but to set up alerting you need to register for an account, which you can do using your King's username and password (the same that you use for email and for accessing King's subscribed databases and journals).
King's staff with sufficient publicly accessible research data can also access to Research Professional's 'Fingerprinting' feature.
The service uses an advanced, personalised algorithm based on publicly available research data to identify funding opportunities which are directly relevant to each academic’s interests.
These are condensed into a weekly email alert of the most relevant funding opportunities.
Existing registered users of Research Professional can switch from using the username and password with which they originally registered, to using their King's account.
After logging in with your Research Professional log in details click Link to your single sign on account under your name on the right in a yellow box.
A link to Research Professional
Searchable details of all funding opportunities open to UK academics.
If you have any problems please contact Chris Bird.
For fewer and more focused funding opportunity emails it is important to specify your requirements effectively.
After searching, you can save the search criteria and create a funding alert.
New opportunities will be emailed to you weekly.
Research Professional also provides emailed research news, eg Research Fortnight and Research Day, on subjects of interest, as well as more general UK, European or international research newsletters.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/facilities/biological-services-list:
Biological Services is a multi-disciplinary core research facility providing services and advice to research scientists and clinicians carrying out animal research.
Access: Applicants must complete a personal license or tissue only ethical review form, and attend an induction before they can register as a user of the BSU.
Contact the facility for details.
Training: Training is mandatory for all prospective licensees and Schedule 1 users, and is available in a modular form, consisting of theory and practical based learning.
Location: The BSU has six separate facilities across King's Contact: bsucentral@kcl.ac.uk
King's Health Partners Cancer Biobank can supply human samples and data for research projects.
We undertake a variety of histology services, including sample handling, FFPE and freezing, microtomy, cryotomy, H&E staining, Immunohistochemistry and slide scanning.
The facility has recently introduced a Hamamatsu S60 scanner with brightfield and fluorescence capability, offering either a complete scanning service or the option for users to scan their own slides.
Please note the facility is unable to store scanned images.
Access: Contact the facility to discuss requirements.
Training: H&S and operational inductions are provided before using the equipment.
Location: Innovation Hub , Cancer Centre, Great Maze Pond, London SE1 9RT | Guy’s Campus Contact: For general enquires contact Cancer Biobank , or for Slide Scanner enquires, contact Aasiyah Oozeer
The Fly Facility offers fly media preparations of vials, bottles, trays and grape plates, for maintenance of lines and experiments with drosophila melanogaster as a model organism.
Access: Contact the Facility Manager.
Location: Room 1.23 Centre for Developmental Neurobiology -Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, New Hunt’s House , Great Maze Pond, London, SE1 1UL | Guy’s Campus Contact: Facility Manager: Marisol Gonzalez-Melendez
A centre of expertise for cell characterisation using high throughput imaging and high content analysis of cellular models.
The stem cell hotel provides guidance, expert advice and bespoke services to users, including assay development and assistance in overcoming technical challenges.
It advises researchers in the best practice of sample preparation for imaging, imaging expertise, analysis pipeline design and quantification of the results.
Introductory training is provided to all new users and bespoke training for complex cellular models is available.
Access: To access the booking system, create an online account by completing the registration form .
Training: To qualify as an independent user, individual training can be arranged based on project requirements.
Location: 28th floor, Centre for Gene Therapy and Regenerative Medicine, Tower Wing, Guy’s Hospital , London SE19RT| Guy’s Campus Contact: Email the facility at info-sch@kcl.ac.uk
King’s CL3 Facility provides specialist laboratory space for working with aerosol-transmitted pathogens under enhanced containment and biosecurity conditions, designed to support high-impact infectious disease research.
We offer expert guidance, comprehensive training, and state-of-the-art infrastructure for regulated infectious disease studies.
Access: Researchers are encouraged to contact us early—especially before submitting grant applications—to discuss how we can support your work.
Location: 5th Floor , Hodgkin Building , Great Maze Pond, London SE1 1UL | Guy’s Campus Contact: Facility Manager: Andrea Zelmer
The Drug Control Centre (DCC) is accredited by the UK Accreditation Service (UKAS) as a testing laboratory across a range of sports, analysing both domestic and international athletes in accordance with WADA's prohibited list of substances.
Access: Contact the sample throughput officer to discuss requirements.
Location: Franklin Wilkins Building , Stamford St, London SE1 9NQ | Waterloo Campus Contact: Sample Throughput Officer: Jayla Mehmet
DNA@King’s is a UKAS-accredited (No.
7850) and Ministry of Justice-approved laboratory, specialising in forensic DNA analysis, including complex kinship testing, low-level forensic casework, and forensic genetics (phenotyping, geographic ancestry, canine breed identification, and human age estimation).
Led by Professor Denise Syndercombe Court, our team has over 50 years of expertise in human identification and relationship testing.
We also offer CellCheck@King’s, cell line authentication and urine DNA analysis for anti-doping investigations.
The Forensic Genetics group is the main provider of population frequencies for forensic purposes in the UK and sequence population frequencies worldwide and is one of a small group of international laboratories that are leaders in the use of massively parallel sequencing (MPS) internationally.
Our expertise also includes Y-chromosome and mitochondrial DNA testing , particularly useful in analysis of hairs and bones in criminal cases, disaster victim identification (DVI), sexual assault investigations, and genealogy research.
Access: We provide a range of specialist services to the legal and academic communities as well as to the public.
Researchers can access support in two ways:
Training: We offer a wide range of workshops and bespoke training with project opportunities.
Location: 4 th floor, DNA@King's, Franklin-Wilkins Building , 150 Stamford Street, London SE1 9NH.
Waterloo campus , (Part of the Analytical, Environmental & Forensic Sciences Department, FoLSM).
Contact : dna.analysis@kcl.ac.uk Facility Manager: Lesley Nott
The GEEC facility provides state-of-the art support for any projects involving genome editing and has a successful track record in the creation of transgenic animals.
It also provides a general mouse embryology service for the cryopreservation and re-derivation of lines.
Access: Contact the facility to discuss project requirements.
Location: New Hunt’s House , Great Maze Pond, London, SE1 1UL | Guy’s Campus Contact: geec@kcl.ac.uk
The IoPPN Genomics & Biomarker is a core research facility at King's, offering a range of high-throughput genomics and biobanking services from sample preparation to bioinformatics support.
The facility is a CSPro certified provider of Illumina's platforms and assays for genotyping and gene expression and provides epigenetic profiling using the 450K BeadChip and immunoassays via MSD assays for cytokines and chemokines, with state-of-the-art robotics and LIMS tracking of samples.
We have also established Oxford Nanopore high-throughput next-generation long reads sequencing platform, PromethION to provide whole-genome sequencing, transcriptomics and methylome sequencing.
Access: C ontact the facility.
Location: NIHR BioResource Centre Maudsley , SDGP Centre , Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience ( IoPPN ), 16 De Crespigny Park, London SE5 8AF | Denmark Hill Campus Contact: Email kclgenomics@kcl.ac.uk for enquiries, and sample.processing@kcl.ac.uk for sample handling and biobanking.
The HTS facility is equipped with state-of-the-art instrumentation to perform high-throughput and high-content functional genomics screenings using a range of libraries.
The platform can accommodate cell-based screenings using diverse cell models to address a wide range of biological questions.
Access: Contact the facility manager to discuss project requirements.
Location: The James Black Building , 125 Coldharbour Lane, London SE5 9NU | Denmark Hill Campus Contact: Facility Manager Miguel Mano
Provision of human tissue for neuroscience research.
Access: Contact the facility for all tissue and training enquiries.
Training: Training offered in the use of human tissue for neuroscience techniques, neuroanatomy training and brain banking.
Location: SDGP Building , Memory Lane, Denmark Hill, London SE5 8AF | Denmark Hill Campus Contact: brain.bank@kcl.ac.uk
This facility enables users to undertake parallel analysis of the two major energy pathways in the cells mitochondrial respiration and glycolysis, in real time, quantifying oxidative phosphorylation, fatty acid oxidation, extracellular acidification, glycolysis, substrate utilisation evaluation and other key bioenergetic measurements in live cells.
The instruments available are:
Visit Agilent for help with designing your experiments.
Access: Contact the Facility Manager to discuss access.
Training: Training is required for access to the facility and the equipment booking system.
To book onto the next training sessions, email Aakruti Kaikini .
Hands on training takes place over 2 days and is provided by an Agilent expert.
This is followed by a data handling training session.
Location: Hodgkin Building , Great Maze Pond, London SE1 1UL | Guy’s Campus Contact: Facility Manager: Dr Hannah Rosa
Biomarker Research and Imaging for Neuroscience (The BRAIN Centre) is a world leading facility for preclinical in vivo and ex vivo neuro-imaging of experimental animal models of neurological and psychiatric disorders.
While the main focus is on magnetic resonance (MR) – structural & functional imaging and spectroscopy, the centre also provides assistance with small animal brain PET scanning as well as variety of post-mortem imaging and in vivo techniques such as microdialysis, electroencephalography, behavioural testing, histology and autoradiography.
Access: Contact the facility for enquiries and costings for grant applications.
Training: Full training is provide, or assistance with imaging experiments is also possible for untrained or inexperienced staff or students.
Contact the facility for more information..
Location: The BRAIN Centre , Neuroimaging, James Black Centre, 125 Coldharbour Lane, London SE5 9NU | Denmark Hill Campus Contact: F acility Manager: Dr Diana Cash or email the brain@kcl.ac.uk
The Single Cell Omics Platform (SCOP) is a state-of-the-art facility located at New Hunts House, King's College London, equipped with advanced instrumentation and staffed by expert scientists.
With years of experience in single-cell omics, the SCOP team provides high-quality services tailored to the needs of King’s and the wider research community.
We specialise in single-cell sequencing technologies, utilising both microfluidics and microwell-based approaches.
Our platform includes the 10x Chromium X, a microfluidics-based system supporting Next GEM and GEM-X 3’RNA and 5’RNA V(D)J assays, on-chip multiplexing, Multiome ATAC, and Fixed RNA Profiling Flex.
Additionally, we offer the BD Rhapsody, a microwell-based single-cell analysis system designed for high-efficiency targeted gene expression and multiomic profiling.
Access: Our facility offers open access to state-of-the-art equipment for single-cell research.
Induction and training provided.
Please contact our facility regarding access, training, and costing.
Location: King's College London, Guy's Campus, Lab 1.29A, Office 1.32A, New Hunt’s House , Great Maze Pond, London SE1 1UL | Guy’s Campus Contact: SCOP Manager - Dasha Freydina , or for general questions, email single-cell-platform@kcl.ac.uk
The King’s College London Infectious & Inflammatory Diseases Biobank (KCL IIDB) was established in 2007 and is supported by funding from the School of Immunology & Microbial Sciences (SIMS).
The aim is to make medical research easier, more efficient, and faster by serving as a centralised sample resource for researchers to access.
Research conducted across SIMS, and elsewhere, covers many aspects of virology and immunology, providing a dynamic environment for scientists and clinicians to interact in translational research.
Access: Interested applicants should contact the facility to discuss the nature of their proposal.
If feasible, applicants will then be asked to submit a full Biobank application form to undergo review by the Biobank Governance Committee.
Location: Borough Wing, Guy’s Hospital , London SE1 9RT | Guy’s Campus Contact: biobank@kcl.ac.uk
The facility is part of the School of Immunology & Microbial Sciences (SIMS) and has two QPCRs available for researchers to book.
Access: Bookings can be made via Clustermarket for Internal and external researchers.
Training: Training is provided on an individual basis and facilitated by experienced SIMS colleagues.
Location: 3rd Floor Borough Wing, Great Maze Pond, London, London SE1 1UL | Guy’s Campus Contact: Facility Manager , Stelios Papaioannou or Rui Pedro Ribeiro Galao

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/facilities/clinical-trials:
The UKCRC accredited King's Clinical Trials Unit collaborates on academic led clinical trials, providing expert methodological, operational and IT systems support.
The unit primarily supports NIHR funded definitive multicentre trials, but support can be provided in some cases for other study designs and funding bodies.
Access: Visit www.ctu.co.uk and complete a support request form Training: The CTU offers a range of online training resources Location: 2nd floor, Main building, IoPPN, 16 De Crespigny Park, SE5 8AF | Denmark Hill Campus Contact: ctu@kcl.ac.uk
The Commercial Team at the King's Health Partners Clinical Trails Office (KHP-CTO) provide a streamlined service for commercial sponsors & Investigators wishing to conduct clinical trials within KHP to ensure that there are common, efficient processes for the set-up, approval, administration and financial management of clinical trials.
Access: Contact the facility.
Training: The training team provide a range of training courses and events for KCL, KCH IoPPN / SLAM and Guy's and St.
Thomas' Trust staff involved in the conduct of Clinical Trials.
Location: Reception, 16th floor, Tower Wing, Guy’s Hospital , Great Maze Pond, London SE1 9RT | Guy’s Campus Contact: A full list of contacts are available on the KHP-CTO webpage
The Quality Team at the King's Health Partners Clinical Trails Office (KHP-CTO) manage the Sponsor responsibilities for Clinical Trials of Investigational Medicinal Products as defined in UK legislation, for trials (co)sponsored by one or more of the KHP Organisations - (KCL, Guy's & St Thomas', King's College Hospital or South London & Maudsley NHS Foundation Trusts').
Location: Reception, 16th floor, Tower Wing, Guy’s Hospital , Great Maze Pond, London SE1 9RT | Guy’s Campus Contact: khpcto.crateam@kcl.ac.uk
The Joint Research Office (JRO) brings together the collective expertise of King’s Research Management and Innovation Directorate (RMID) and Guy’s & St Thomas’ Research and Development Directorate to co-create solutions and innovative efficiencies that accelerate the initiation and enhance the delivery of translational and clinical research across the two organisations.
Access: Visit https://jointresearchoffice.org .
Location: Reception, 16th floor, Tower Wing, Guy’s Hospital , Great Maze Pond, London SE1 9RT | Guy’s Campus Contact: JRO Director
The OCRU Clinical Facility contains two private clinical rooms with dental chairs and associated equipment for clinical studies in dentistry, oral medicine and oral cancers.
Use of the facility is costed on a "per participant visit" basis.
To access the OCRU Clinical Facility, please send a summary of your study to the Research Portfolio Manager.
Access: To access the OCRU Clinical Facility, please send a summary of your study to the Research Portfolio Manager using the below email address.
Location: Guy's Hospital , Tower Wing Floor 26, Rooms 302 and 304, Great Maze Pond, London, SE1 9RT | Guy’s Campus Contact: Research Portfolio Manager
Providing facilities for both basic neuroscience and more applied clinical research studies, incorporating structural, functional, pharmacological MRI techniques.
A dedicated team support the development of fMRI paradigms and associated ancillary equipment, and we can provide access to a range of clinical and non-clinical spaces for use during scanning sessions.
Training: Individual consultations to discuss technical and logistical requirements and pilot scanning session provided.
Location: Centre for Neuroimaging Sciences , DeCrespigny Park, London, SE5 8AF | Denmark Hill Campus Contact: scanningcostings@kcl.ac.uk
Training: Full training is provided, or assistance with imaging experiments is also possible for untrained or inexperienced staff or students.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/facilities/molecular-characterisation:
The Biacore T100 instrument is a versatile biophysical tool for characterising molecular interactions, enabling real-time and label-free binding studies.
Access: Contact the facility lead.
Training: Training is provided on an individual basis.
Location: New Hunts House , Great Maze Pond, London, SE1 9RT | Guy’s Campus Contact: Facility Lead: Professor Jim McDonnell
The Centre brings together advanced instrumentation in NMR and a number of other biophysical techniques to provide a set of facilities to promote the study of biological molecules, from proteins to metabolites, both in basic and medical science, and for projects that translate these advances into clinical understanding and benefit.
It provides expertise and state-of-the-art biophysical facilities to King's research groups and external users.
Access: Contact Facility Lead Training: : Training is available and assessed on an individual basis.
Location: New Hunts House , Great Maze Pond, London, SE1 9RT | Guy’s Campus Contact: Facility Lead: Professor Sasi Conte
The Chemistry Research Facility offers analytical services, including both Mass Spectrometry (MS) and Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR).
The instruments included in the service are a Q-TOF HRMS, GCMS and 400 MHz NMR spectrometer all managed by specialist instrument technicians.
Applications for these instruments span from routine analysis, such as accurate mass measurements and structural characterisation, to more bespoke applications available on request.
For more information, please reach out to discuss your research needs.
Access: Contact the facility manager for general enquiries.
Location: Britannia House , 7 Trinity Street, London SE1 1DB | Guy’s Campus Contact: Facility Manager: Isabel Cruz-Gallardo | MS: Oscar Ayrton | NMR: Thomas Hicks
The FACS Facility offers a FACS with red, yellow/green, blue, violet and UV laser, capable to perform 2-way or 4-way cell sorting, and cell sorting into 6, 12, 24, 48 and 96 well plates.
The FACS is operated by the facility manager.
Access: Contact the facility manager for enquiries and bookings.
Location: Rayne Institute, 123 Coldharbour Lane, London SE5 9NU | Denmark Hill Campus Contact: Facility Manager: Tsz Kan Fung
The facility offers an open access 400 MHz spectrometer for small molecule NMR.
After a safety induction, users receive an account to submit samples, which are run in automation.
Access: Users are given an account or use a group account to submit samples which are run in automation.
Charges are either by the hour or a flat fee for annual access.
Contact the facility manager to arrange access.
Training: The facility provides a safety induction and some tips on best practice but do not provide training in use or spectra interpretation.
Location: Franklin Wilkins Building , Stamford Street, London SE1 9NQ | Waterloo Campus Contact: Facility Manager: James Mason
ITC is considered the gold standard for quantitative measurements of biomolecular interactions.
A single ITC experiment allows the determination of binding affinities and stoichiometries, and the thermodynamic parameters (ΔH, ΔS) of an interaction.
We offer access to three Malvern ITC instruments including the fully automated PEAQ-ITC.
Training: Training provided on an individual basis.
The facility houses the latest version of Wyatt Technology's SEC-MALs (DAWN & OPTILAB, coupled with the Agilent's HPLC) and DynaPro Plate Reader instruments to study the molecular mass and size of biological molecules in solution phase.
Access: The facility is available to all King’s researchers.
Contact the Centre for enquiries.
Training: Training is available upon request.
Location: Lab 3.3, New Hunt’s House , Great Maze Pond, London SE1 1UL | Guy’s Campus Contact: Dr Tam Bui and Professor Sasi Conte .
The NMR Facility is a core research facility that provides researchers access to four state of the art, high-field spectrometers, supporting a range of experimental techniques dedicated largely to the study of biological systems, including investigating protein structure and dynamics, metabolomics and mixture analysis, small molecules, drug screening and biological solids.
Access: Contact the facility manager.
Training: Services are generally provided by facility staff but users can be trained to operate equipment independently.
Location: Hodgkin Building, Guy’s Campus , London, SE1 1UL Contact: Facility Manager: Agrim Gupta
Chirascan and Chirascan Plus instruments are multimode spectrometers capable of measuring absorption, fluorescence and light scattering properties for ordinary, linearly and circularly polarised light for the same sample over the 170-1200 nm region.
Applications include the assignment of absolute stereochemistry, the analysis of biopolymer conformation, quality control of biologicals, the study of molecular interactions and 1 ms stopped-flow kinetics.
Location: New Hunts House , Great Maze Pond, London, SE1 9RT | Guy’s Campus Contact: Facility Technician Tam Bui
The Proteomics Facility is a core research facility that provides state of the art protein mass spectrometry support for researchers at King's and external institutions, offering a range of services from the simplest protein identification to very complex large scale biomarker discovery and verification studies in a wide range of biological matrices.
Access: Contact the Facility Manager for enquiries.
Training: All research work is carried out by experienced facility staff members.
The facility hosts monthly informal drop-in clinics to discuss how proteomics can help researchers and potential projects.
Location: The James Black Centre , 1 25 Coldharbour Lane London SE5 9NU | Denmark Hill Campus Contact: Facility Manager: Steven Lynham
X-ray crystallography analyses the x-ray diffraction patterns and quality of crystallisation to determine the atomic and molecular structure of protein in crystals.
Training: Training is available and assessed on an individual basis.
Location: New Hunt’s House , Great Maze Pond, London, SE1 1UL | Guy’s Campus Contact: Facility Manager: Risa Mori
The Proteomics Facility at Denmark Hill holds regular drop-in clinics providing you with an opportunity to meet the team, tour...

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/facilities/imaging:
The facility incorporates a bespoke multiphoton microscope system optimised for multicolour imaging with two excitation lasers and a delay line.
Suitable for live-cell, in vivo and thick tissue imaging.
Image analysis workstations are equipped with Imaris and Zen software.
Available for external use, both academic and commercial.
Access: All users of the microscope undergo training by the facility manager prior to access.
Training: Resources for considering how to plan imaging experiments can be found on the webpage.
Location: Hodgkin Building, Great Maze Pond, London, London SE1 1UL | Guy’s Campus Contact: Facility Lead: Robert Knight
Imaging and characterization of samples, especially of hard tissues, using microscopy and spectroscopy techniques.
Equipment available, Raman micro spectrometer (Renishaw inVia Reflex), Spinning disk confocal microscope (Tracor Northen Tandem Scanning Microscope + Andor iXon X-2617 EMCCD), Optical Coherence Tomographer (Michelson Diagnostics VivoSight).
Access: Contact the technical operations manager.
Training: Inhouse training upon application to use equipment.
Location: Microscopy & Imaging, Guy’s Tower , Great Maze Pond, London, SE1 9RT | Guy’s Campus Contact : Technical Operations Manager Peter Pilecki
CARL Facility
The Cyclotron and Radiochemistry Laboratory (CARL) is a national research-dedicated facility for radionuclide production and radiolabelling.
Available radionuclides include 18 F, 11 C, 64 Cu, 44 Sc, and 52 Mn with additional productions being developed (e.g.
124 I and 203 Pb).
CARL has an 11 MeV cyclotron, HPGe detector, ICP-OES, 6 hot cells, radiosynthesis and radioanalytical modules.
Training: General H&S and radiation safety induction is required for using the facility.
Additional equipment specific training will be provided before users can operate the specialised equipment independently.
Location: Lambeth Wing, St Thomas Hospital , London SE1 7EH Contact: Facility Team carlfacility@kcl.ac.uk
The micro-CT scanner uses X-rays to obtain high-resolution 3D images of small specimens from 3mm to 45mm in diameter and up to 450mm in length.
Images can be captured of both hard tissue (e.g.
bones, teeth) and soft tissue (with the aid of a suitable stain).
Voxel size can be adjusted from 1 to 45 microns.
Access: Contact the facility manager for more information on scanning samples.
Training: Training is provided by the facility technician.
Users will need to complete the 'Basic Ionising Radiation Safety' module online prior to access.
Location: Guy's Hospital , 27th floor, Tower Wing, Great Maze Pond, London SE1 1UL | Guy’s Campus Contact: Facility Team: techteam-ccrb@kcl.ac.uk or Academic Lead: Abigail Tucker
The Zeiss LSM980 is equipped with 6 lasers (405/445/488/514/561/639nm) and 4 objectives (10x/20x/40xW/63xO), as well as an Airyscan.
Access: The facility is available to King’s researchers.
Contact the Facility Manager for access.
Training: T wo to three training sessions are provided by the Facility Manager, including time to optimise individual samples, before a user can access the facility independently.
Location: Guy's Hospital , 27th floor, Tower Wing, Great Maze Pond, London SE1 1UL | Guy’s Campus Contact: techteam-ccrb@kcl.ac.uk
The CDN has two confocal microscopes, a Lightsheet (LSFM) and a Slide Scanner, available to users.
Equipment details:
Access: Contact the facility manager Training: Training sessions are provided to operate equipment independently Location: Centre for Developmental Neurobiology, New Hunt’s House , Great Maze Pond, London SE1 1UL | Guy’s Campus Contact: Facility Manager: Anneliese Jarman
Location: 28th floor, Centre for Gene Therapy and Regenerative Medicine, Tower Wing, Guy’s Hospital , London SE19RT| Guy’s Campus Contact: Complete the online enquires form or email the facility at info-sch@kcl.ac.uk
The Centre for Ultrastructural Imaging (CUI) is the central electron microscopy core research facility at King’s, offering electron microscope (EM) services for internal and external collaborators from academic, commercial and industrial fields.
Using advanced EM instruments, we perform and support various workflows, including room temperature preparation, through to full cryo-preparation and imaging, multi-scale correlative and volume imaging.
Access: Contact the Centre.
Training: Individual training for users to operate microscopes and prepare specimens is provided and the CUI hold regular seminars and workshops.
Location: New Hunt’s House , Great Maze Pond, London SE1 1UL | Guy’s Campus Contact : cui@kcl.ac.uk
The ExoviewR200 facility allow users the sensitive detection & characterisation of extracellular vesicles and viruses, including exosomes and lentiviruses.
The fully automated platform provides comprehensive measurements for particles; size analysis, concentration, phenotype, and biomarker colocalization.
Access: Contact facility manager for enquiries Training: The facility provides complete training by one of their experts Location: James Black Centre , 125 Coldharbour Lane, London, SE5 9NU | 8AF | Denmark Hill Campus Contact: Facility Manager: Sadia Ahmad
The imaging clinical research facility includes nine advanced MRI systems (0.064T, 0.55T.
1.5T, 3T, 7T) that are used to deliver clinical services to more than 5,000 patients per year, as well as a diverse range of imaging research projects.
Strengths are in cardiovascular, perinatal and ultra-high-field sub-specialties.
Access: Researchers may gain access to the scan suites that make up the Imaging Clinical Research Facility by requesting approval for an imaging project and completing a set of mandatory requirements, including MRI safety training to enable independent or supervised access.
Training: KHP passport and completion of GSTT statutory and mandatory training modules if access to clinical data / patients + completion of KCL workrite modules, MRI safety training and evacuation training + GCP training Location: Lambeth Wing, St Thomas Hospital , Westminster Bridge Road, London SE1 7EH Contact : Facility Manager Ramesh Valapil
King's College London & Guy's and St Thomas' PET Centre provides PET services for referred patients at a local and national level and performs clinically related research.
The Centre hosts three clinical PET-CTs and one simultaneous PET-MR, cyclotron and radiochemistry facilities, and associated equipment for state-of-the art imaging research.
Access: Visit the PET Centre webpage for further details.
Location: Lambeth Wing, St Thomas Hospital , Westminster Bridge Road, London SE1 7EH Contact: gst-tr.PETCentre@nhs.net
The Microscopy Innovation Centre is a core research facility that collaborates with academic and industrial partners to develop and house advanced microscopy instrumentation and analysis tools, offering cutting-edge microscopes to support advanced imaging.
Access: The MIC access policy includes details on access and eligibility.
Training: Individual training sessions are provided for all microscopes.
Location: Hodgkin Building , Great Maze Pond, London SE1 1UL | Guy’s Campus Contact: Facility Manager Andreas Bodén , or Deputy Manager Anisha Kubasik Thayil
The Nikon Imaging Centre, (NIC@King's) is a core research facility for light microscopy developed in partnership between King’s College London and Nikon Instruments UK.
Introductory training and ongoing support is provided and tailored to user needs.
Access: New users can create an account and book training via the NIC@King's webpage, or to arrange a consultation, contact the facility manager.
Training: 2/3 tailored training sessions are provided to support project initiation and and training to operate equipment independently.
Location : Hodgkin Building , Great Maze Pond, London SE1 1UL | Guy’s Campus Contact: Facility Manager, Dylan Herzog
The London Metallomics Facility (LMF) is a core research facility that provides analytical tools to understand the critical roles that metals play in biology with the ability to quantify and spatially map elemental isotopes in a wide range of challenging matrices using a combination of ICP-MS, LA-ICP-MS/MS, HPLC, and TXRF for solid and solution based samples.
Access: Once users have created an account , they can book services and equipment via the online booking portal .
Training: Regular symposiums available showcasing recent developments.
Check the LMF webpage for details.
Location: Franklin Wilkins Building , Stamford St, London SE1 9NQ | Waterloo Campus Contact: lmf@kcl.ac.uk
The Wohl Cellular Imaging Centre (WCIC) provides cutting edge light microscopy equipment, including confocal, multiphoton, light sheet and super-resolution microscopes, as well as tailored training for microscopical imaging and image analysis software and workstations.
Access: A facility induction is provided.
Training: Bespoke microscope acquisition and analysis training, plus a wide range of online learning resources , included courses available on KEATS for King's students and staff.
Location: Maurice Wohl Clinical Neuroscience Institute , 8 Cutcombe Road, Camberwell, London, SE5 9RT Contact: Facility Manager: George Chennell
Access: Email Risa Mori for facility enquiries.
Training: Individual training is provided for use of equipment.
Location: New Hunt’s House , Great Maze Pond, London, London SE1 1UL | Guy’s Campus Contact: Facility Manager: Professor Brian Sutton

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/facilities/materials-synthesis-characterisation:
Access: Visit the CUI user pages for access details.
A departmental scientific research facility, equipped with Scanning Electron Microscopy, Atomic Force Microscopy, Cathodoluminescence, Particle sizing and Thermal.
Access is available to both King's and external researchers.
Access: Contact the facility for enquiries, facility visits and to arrange training.
Training: Training is provided for users to operate our analytical equipment independently.
Location: Strand Building , Strand, London, WC2R 2LS | Strand Campus Contact: Jennifer Train

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/facilities/cellular-characterisation:
The Flow Cytometry Facility in the Departments of Immunobiology and Infectious Diseases offers a variety of services to both internal and external users.
We provide a cell sorting service operated by facility staff, or equipment is available to book by registered trained users.
We currently operate two analytical flow cytometers (BD FACSCantoIIs) and one cell-sorter (BD FACSAriaII SORP).
Cell sorting must be requested at least one week prior to your booking.
Please contact the facility manager to discuss your project, bookings are confirmed via e-mail.
Access: C ontact the facility manager to discuss your project and flow cytometry needs.
Contact should be made a minimum of one week prior to your required booking.
Training : Training is provided for the analysers as part of the induction and registration process and takes approximately 1.5 hours.
Location: Borough Wing, Guy’s Hospital , London SE1 9RT | Guy’s Campus Contact: sfy.haque@kcl.ac.uk
The Denmark Hill Flow Cytometry Facility provides access to advanced flow cytometry instruments for both cell analysis and sorting.
The facility operates across two locations on the Denmark Hill Campus: the Rayne Institute and the SGDP (East Denmark Hill Campus).
Access: SGDP Site: Contact Pro Chatzikyriakou Rayne Site: Contact Rebecca Newell or Thomas Seidl
Locations: SDGP Building , Memory Lane, Denmark Hill, London SE5 8AF | Denmark Hill Campus Rayne Institute: 123 Coldharbour Lane, London SE5 9NU | Denmark Hill Campus
General Enquiries: Giorgio Napolitani
The facility hosts a CyTOF XT Mass Cytometer.
We can acquire samples stained with metal conjugated antibodies, and provide help to customers with experimental design, protocols, and conjugation of antibodies.
Training: Training offered for staining protocols and antibody conjugations.
Location: SDGP Building , Memory Lane, Denmark Hill, London SE5 8AF | Denmark Hill Campus Contact: Giorgio Napolitani
Location: Hodgkin Building, Guy’s Campus , London, SE1 1UL Contact: Facility Manager: James Jarvis
Access: Contact the facility manager for enquiries.
Location: Centre of Excellence for Mass Spectrometry, The James Black Centre , 125 Coldharbour Lane London SE5 9NU | Denmark Hill Campus Contact: Facility Manager: Steven Lynham

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/facilities/hpc-digital-platforms:
The Hub for Applied Bioinformatics transforms big data into valuable knowledge, fostering scientific breakthroughs in different research fields.
It promotes collaboration, knowledge sharing, productivity, and innovation in bioinformatics.
At HAB we offer research-oriented bioinformatics support, training, seminars and data clubs, networking opportunities and a shared space to tackle bioinformatics challenges together.
Access: To access bioinformatics support, researchers need to complete a form that captures details about their project, experimental design, and data analysis requirements.
Researchers have two options for availing the support:
1) Grant-based support: Researchers can choose to include the cost of bioinformatician's time as part of their grant application.
2) Fee-based support: Alternatively, researchers have the option to directly pay a fee for accessing specific analysis packages or services.
Training: We offer a wide range of workshops, covering different aspects of bioinformatics: Basic skills and programming, cloud computing and pipeline building, analysis of different types of data, AI and machine learning.
Location: 5th floor Hodgkin Building , Newcomen Street, London SE1 1UL | Guy’s Campus Contact: hab@kcl.ac.uk
e-Research enables and facilitates computational- and data-intensive research across disciplines within King’s.
They provide the infrastructure and platforms required by a wide range of research areas.
Furthermore, they provide the specialist support to PhD and post-docs to develop their skills to use these systems effectively in their research projects each step of the way.
This bridge between the researchers and their technological need is separated into different aspects of this service.
The e-Research space is always changing to meet the need of researchers.
So far, the resources that can be used are:
An additional project that is in its pilot is the TRE (Trusted Research Environment) and is on track to becoming available at the end of the year.
Contact : If you have an enquiry into whether e-Research can help with your project, please email e-research@kcl.ac.uk
The King’s Digital Lab (KDL) is a Research Software Engineering (RSE) team hosted by the Faculty of Arts & Humanities at King’s College London.
We work in collaboration with our partners to develop innovative digital approaches to explore research questions, supporting researchers inside and outside King’s.
Our work is primarily in arts and humanities research as well as cultural heritage, with some projects related to social sciences.
We design and implement systems, infrastructure, tools, and processes needed to produce a heterogeneous range of high quality digital scholarly outputs (from historical databases and digital editions to data visualisations and infographics, from georeferenced maps to natural language processing workflows and immersive experiences).
We are open to new partners and multidisciplinary approaches.
Access: We strongly recommend researchers contact us as early as possible and at least 3 months before application deadlines.
Complete an online webform , or email the facility to get in touch.
Training: Workshops and seminars on topics such as digital methods and approaches are held throughout the year, based on requests received and project needs.
We also have a toolkit available for setting up and documenting our software development lifecycle in a research setting.
Location: Room 2.50, 22 Kingsway, London, WC2B 6LE Contact: kdl-info@kcl.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/facilities/genetic-analysis-and-manipulation:
The Gene Therapy Vector Facility (GTVF), Kings College London is a state-of-the-art facility established to provide end-to-end support to the scientific community in their delivery of the latest, cutting-edge gene therapies into the clinic.
With a legacy dating back to 2006, the GTVF is now one of the largest suppliers of lentiviral and retroviral vector material to clinical trials across Europe, and is opening a new facility dedicated to AAV vector.
Location: Rayne Institute, 123 Coldharbour Lane​, London SE5 9NU Contact: Head of Business Development Henry Pegram

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/facilities/london-centre-for-nanotechnology-at-kings-1:
The London Centre for Nanotechnology (LCN) is a UK-based multidisciplinary enterprise operating at the forefront of science and technology.
Its purpose is to solve global problems in information processing, healthcare, energy and the environment through the application of nanoscience and nanotechnology.
Founded in 2003, the LCN began as a joint venture between University College London and Imperial College London, based at the Bloomsbury and South Kensington sites; King's College London joined the collaboration in 2018.
The LCN @ King's spans the Faculty of Natural & Mathematical Sciences, Faculty of Dentistry, Oral & Craniofacial Sciences and Faculty of Life Sciences & Medicine and has over 70 affiliated academics.
The Centre has a unique operating model that accesses and focuses the combined skills of all three universities across several key departments; Chemistry, Physics, Materials, Medicine, Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Biochemical and Biomedical Engineering and Earth Sciences.
LCN research broadly focuses on three challenges; healthcare, planet care and information technology, and LCN researchers use a wide variety of techniques at the nanoscale to further our knowledge and understanding and explore innovations in these areas.
Research Project Manager & LCN Centre Manager
Professor Anatoly Zayats Professor of Physics Dr Wayne Dickson Reader in Experimental Nanophotonics Professor Maddy Parsons Dean of Research Excellence Frameworks Professor Roland Fleck Director of Centre for Ultrastructural Imaging
Professor of Physics
Reader in Experimental Nanophotonics
Director of Centre for Ultrastructural Imaging
LCN equipment at King's is housed in the Strand Research Facility, Centre for Ultrastructural Imaging, London Metallomics Facility and the Nikon Imaging Centre, offering a wide variety of tools for researchers working at the nanoscale, including:
Atomic force, electron and optical microscopy
Spectroscopy
Characterisation
Picosun R-200 Advanced Atomic Layer Deposition (ALD) System.
Used for depositing films of oxides and sulfides of Al, In, Ga, Hf and Ti as well as metallic gold.
Location: Strand Building S-1.23 Clean Room Leybold Thermal Evaporator Low-vac system for up to 100 nm coatings of gold, aluminium, silver and nichrome Bruker Dimension ICON Atomic Force Microscope AFM with tapping, resonance and contact modes for topographical and conductivity analysis JEOL JEM-F200 TEM The JEOL JEM-F200 is our current cryo-TEM and is used for screening of cryo-samples as well as room temperature applications such as tomography.
ICP-MS - NexION 350D ICP-MS ICP-MS - NexION 350D ICP-MS N-STORM super resolution Super resolution - Imaging at lateral resolution of approximately 20nm, and axial of 50nm can be achieved.
LA-ICP-MS/MS - Teledyne Iridia Laser with Thermo iCapTQ Laser ablation ICP-MS allows for spatial elemental mapping and quantification down to 1 micron resolution in both biological and inorganic solid samples TXRF – S2 PICOFOX The first and only transportable TXRF spectrometer with elemental detection limits in the lower pg, ppb and ppm range.
Zeiss EVO LS15 Scanning Electron Microscope with EDX Modular SEM Platform for Intuitive Operation Zeiss EVO LS15 ESEM ESEM with EDS analysis
Location: Strand Building S-1.23 Clean Room
Low-vac system for up to 100 nm coatings of gold, aluminium, silver and nichrome
AFM with tapping, resonance and contact modes for topographical and conductivity analysis
The JEOL JEM-F200 is our current cryo-TEM and is used for screening of cryo-samples as well as room temperature applications such as tomography.
ICP-MS - NexION 350D ICP-MS
Super resolution - Imaging at lateral resolution of approximately 20nm, and axial of 50nm can be achieved.
Laser ablation ICP-MS allows for spatial elemental mapping and quantification down to 1 micron resolution in both biological and inorganic solid samples
The first and only transportable TXRF spectrometer with elemental detection limits in the lower pg, ppb and ppm range.
Modular SEM Platform for Intuitive Operation
ESEM with EDS analysis
LCN outputs indicate that it is one of the best nanoscience centres worldwide.
Its investigators collectively publish over 400 papers per year, with more than 3% considered highly cited by the ASI index, attracting around 50,000 citations in the five-year period to April 2022.
The LCN covers a wide breadth of research themes, and researchers obtained more than £145M in new funding from 2020-2022, mainly from government bodies, but also a strong input from charities such as the Wellcome trust.
The LCN also has strong relationships with the broader nanotechnology and commercial communities and is involved in many major collaborations, nationally and internationally.
As the world's only such facility located in the heart of a metropolis, the Centre has superb access to corporate, investment and industrial partners.
It is at the forefront of nanotechnology training and enjoys a strong media presence around educating the public and bringing transparency to this far-reaching and emerging science.
Imperial College London
University College London
For more information about the London Centre for Nanotechnology at King's, please contact us at:

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/facilities/euro-bioimaging-uk-node:
Starting soon, the UK will offer open access to state-of-the-art biological imaging technologies through Euro-BioImaging.
The pilot UK Node is a distributed infrastructure consisting of seven initial sites located across the UK:
This Node will offer open access to a wide range of advanced bioimaging techniques including correlative, multimodal, high-content and super-resolution microscopy.
Users will have access to imaging instruments, expertise, training and data management services to complement those at their own institutions or among their collaboration partners.
The UK Node will welcome applications from all biological and biomedical research disciplines.
Projects will be prioritised based on technical feasibility and scientific merits.
Support will be provided for the entire experimental pipeline including (where appropriate) initial user consultation, experimental planning, full hands-on training, assistance with sample preparation, gathering highest quality imaging data and data analysis.
More information about the UK Node will be shared shortly, along with details of how to apply.
EuBI UK Node Manager: Georgina Fletcher

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/crick/landing-page:
The Francis Crick Institute, which is Europe’s largest biomedical research institute, was created through partnership with three leading London universities (King’s, Imperial College, UCL) and three medical research funders (MRC, CRUK, Wellcome).
The vision is for an institute that: supports outstanding discovery research across boundaries and at scale, with close university connections to strengthen clinical research and impact; develops links between biomedical research and the physical sciences, engineering and informatics.
The Crick is now home to 1500 staff and students that form over 120 research groups .
Partner university staff lead a third of these groups.
Research connections are developed through short and long-term attachments, joint appointments, and joint grant awards.
World-class technology platforms at the Crick complement the facilities run by the universities and many collaborations are based around these.
The Crick and its university partners have established a highly regarded PhD programme that has enabled researchers from the 4 institutes to develop relationships whilst supervising students, which has often led to applications for attachment and joint grant funding.
The programme welcomes 50 students per year registered across the 3 universities, including 5 doctoral clinical fellows who follow a condensed version of the programme.
The partnership between King's and the Crick has also led to the development of notable spin-outs and ambitious, large-scale research projects, such as GammaDelta Therapeutics - a pioneering biotechnology company focused on exploiting the unique properties of Gamma Delta T cells for immunotherapy - and the MAGIC consortium , a new initiative which has brought 15 international partners together to work towards transforming the treatment landscape for muscular dystrophies.
Francis Crick Institute
Medical Research Council
Wellcome Trust
Cancer Research UK
The King's-Crick Partnership team can be reached at the following addresses:

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/the-rosalind-franklin-institute-1:
The Rosalind Franklin Institute (RFI) in Harwell is a national Institute founded in partnership with King’s and other leading universities and funded by UKRI.
Its mission is to strengthen the life sciences through basic technology development and groundbreaking interdisciplinary research.
King’s aims are to widen and accelerate its research though novel collaborations both in fundamental technology and AI development, and in applying new technologies to challenging biological and medical problems.
We will collaborate in various ways, through secondments, research visits, joint studentships, and joint grants.
The RFI’s core research is organised around five themes, please see details below and follow this link for further information.
For queries about the Rosalind Franklin Institute please email:
Professor Mark Wallace is King’s Academic Lead for the partnership, and will be able to advise on suggestions for collaboration.
Contact: mark.wallace@kcl.ac.uk
Visits and exchanges : King’s can provide funding for materials, travel and local accommodation for research visits and pilots.
For further details on available funding, please follow this link (Intranet page).
Our partnership allows for King’s staff to work at the RFI on longer periods of secondment, for specific research projects.
RFI studentships : Each year ten core PhD projects are co-designed and supervised with University partners.
Planning usually starts in January.
Joint grants and consortia : The institute encourages collaborative grant applications, often bringing together several partner universities in multidisciplinary consortia.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/london/connecting/research:
Through collaborations with universities, businesses, agencies, institutions and policy makers across the capital, we ensure that King's research is informed by and benefits London and the communities around us.
Drawing on the lived experience of Londoners, King’s researchers develop life-changing ideas that respond to the diverse challenges faced in London, across the country and around the globe.
To discuss partnering with King's on a London research project email london@kcl.ac.uk
Translating cutting-edge research and practice into excellent patient care
King's is a founding partner for the UK's flagship for discovery research in biomedicine
A world class hub for cancer biotherapeutics
Dedicated to exploring Shakespeare and early modern literary works
Ensuring healthcare engineering research can rapidly benefit patients
Cross-university exchange between London-based political economy research centres
Responding to global challenges through nanoscience and nanotechnology
Cutting edge research to enable all children to live happy and healthy lives.
Applying data science and visual analytics to challenges in London
A consortium of academic, NHS and industry partners led by King's and based at St Thomas' Hospital
Bringing together the London scientific community working in cell and gene-based therapies
Working to disseminate knowledge and best practice about social work.
Informing excellent care across south London and beyond
A collaboration between the London's leading academic centres for gene therapy
Pioneering research and collaboration in cancer treatment and radiotherapy innovation.
Understanding and responding to health inequalities in Lambeth
Working with Westminster City Council to deliver innovative solutions with local data
Monitoring and promoting the mental health needs of local young people
Understanding the future of employment in the capital
Investigating whether reducing air pollution from traffic improves lung growth and respiratory…
Testing local and national responses to the cost of living crisis
Exploring how social, environmental and biological factors impact young people in London
Investigating the geography of micro-apartments in London
Understanding health inequalities in local communities
Addressing relationships between maternal and child physical health, and to investigate interactions…
Studying the link between depression and diabetes outcomes in people with newly diagnosed type 2…
CLAHRC South London's smoking-related projects as part of the new ARC South London
Bring together local healthcare partners to improve healthcare for children
Mental health and social support services for migrants, refugees and asylum seekers
Localised and transnational dynamics of violence against women and girls in Brazil and the UK

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/global/global-engagement:
At King’s we aim to engage and work collaboratively in every region of the world.
We do this through equitable partnerships with like-minded institutions, memberships in university networks and engagement with key regional and national stakeholders.
Regional strategies guide our global engagement priorities by informing our regional networks and partnerships, our internal hubs for engagement, the sharing of best practices and horizon scanning.
This commitment to international engagement provides enrichening educational and volunteering experiences for our students, fosters joint research that addresses global challenges and contributes to the prosperity of local and global communities.
globalengagement@kcl.ac.uk
Working with partners across the continent
Education and research partnerships across the region
Learn about our collaborations with European partners
Deepening research and supporting educational opportunities
Building research and education partnerships
Working with partners across the USA and Canada
Research and education collaborations
Partnerships rooted in research and student mobility
Prepare yourself for the global workplace
Discover our international university networks

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/kings-innovation-catalyst:
King’s Innovation Catalyst helps King’s College London’s researchers unlock commercial opportunities to create life-changing innovation and impact at scale.
We connect King’s research with industry and funders to transform innovation into real-world solutions that serve society and make the world a better place.
Can you see a commercial impact to your research at King’s?
Contact us as early as possible to secure its future.
Our three expert teams provide end-to-end support and management of the innovation pipeline.
While the journey from lab (or library) to market may take time, our team can guide you each step of the way: connecting you with the funding, opportunities and expert advice you need to succeed.
Talk to the King's Innovation Catalyst team.
Receive news of our innovation support, collaboration and investment opportunities.
Advice and strategic planning to transform research into products.
Expert advice on intellectual property and commercialisation pathways.
How to create real-world impact from your research.
How King's can support your pathway to innovation.
Explore opportunities for collaboration.
Invest in our spinout and licensing opportunities.
Request guidance on protecting your ideas and commercialising research.
Explore new applications for your research in real-world settings.
Access King’s research talent and world-class facilities.
Find out how we can help develop your skills and ideas.
Helping you take your MedTech innovation to market.
Explore our portfolio of startups and spinouts.
Exclusive access to King's cutting-edge ventures and spinouts.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/research/kings-innovation-catalyst/how-to-work-with-us/industry-partnerships:
The Industry Research Partnerships Office identifies and engages with industry partners to develop wider impact for research at King’s through funding, access to unique resources, or collaboration with industry researchers.
Through research collaborations, industry partners can gain access to King’s research excellence and breakthrough technologies which can provide a competitive advantage and deliver real world impact.
As well as supporting King’s researchers to find new industry partners for their projects, we can assist with initiating research partnerships and help to expand existing partnerships.
We regularly host information sessions to introduce you to companies or specific industries interested in collaborating with research at King’s.
Securing industry research partnerships provides our researchers with diversified research grant income, research technologies and infrastructure beyond our campuses, and helps create impact for societal benefit.
The Industry Research Partnerships Office engages with researchers and projects at various stages of the innovation pipeline.
Working closely with the Translational Research Office and the IP & Licensing Team, we are able to identify opportunities across teams to maximise industry and investment exposure for King’s research.
Vassilis leads the Industry Research Partnerships Office within King’s Innovation Catalyst.
Email: vassilis.georgiadis@kcl.ac.uk
Email: yiannis.tsamis@kcl.ac.uk
Email: alexandra.esteras@kcl.ac.uk
Email: rachel.m.parker@kcl.ac.uk
Miriam supports all faculties and institutes at King’s with innovation funding bids, with a special focus on Innovate UK and UKRI grant applications.
Email: miriam.canavese@kcl.ac.uk
Email: victoria.mcguinness@kcl.ac.uk
Talk to us about your research and intellectual property, collaborations, partnerships, and licensing King's technologies - We're here to help.
Email: innovation@kcl.ac.uk
Sign up to receive news of our innovation support, collaboration and investment opportunities, straight to your inbox and tailored to you.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/doctoral-training-entities:
Cohort-based training is widely thought to be a very effective way to train researchers.
Our cohort programmes typically recruit five or more PhD students each year (known as cohorts) over three or more years.
These programmes offer a fully-funded PhD for home or overseas students and provide:
A full PhD studentship covers tuition fees, a stipend/living allowance for three to four years and a funding to support research costs.
We call these cohort programmes Doctoral Training Entities (DTEs) as there are so many different names for them, depending on the funder and scheme:
King’s is part of over 20 DTEs funded by all the major research funders, in particular the research councils that make up UK Research & Innovation (UKRI) .
King’s leads some of these DTEs and is a consortium partner in others.
Many DTEs involve more than one university as well as other partners.
King’s also funds a number of Centres for Doctoral Training in our areas of world-class research.
We collaborate with industry partners to increase the numbers of King’s-funded scholarships available.
All King’s DTEs are listed below and have their own webpages providing full details, including how to apply for a PhD studentship.
AHRC London Arts & Humanities Partnership
ESRC London Interdisciplinary Social Sciences Doctoral Training Centre (LISS-DTP)
MRC Doctoral Training Partnership (MRC-DTP) in Biomedical Sciences (MRC-DTP)
BBSRC London Interdisciplinary Doctoral Programme in Biosciences (LIDo)
EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Smart Medical Imaging
EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training ‘London School of Geometry & Number Theory' (LSGNT)
London NERC Doctoral Training Partnership (NERC-DTP)
Wellcome Trust PhD Programme in Advanced Therapies for Regenerative Medicine
Wellcome Trust PhD Programme in Neuro-Immune Interactions in Health & Disease
UKRI Centre for Doctoral Training in Safe and Trusted Artificial Intelligence (STAI CDT)
EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Data-Driven Health (DRIVE-Health)
EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Advanced Engineering in Personalised Surgery & Intervention
King's Centre for Doctoral Training in Biological Physics Across Scales (BiPAS CDT)
King's British Heart Foundation Centre of Research Excellence
Leverhulme Trust Doctoral Scholarship Programme on 'Understanding the mechanics of Life'
Leverhulme Trust Doctoral Scholarships Programme 'Knowledge Orders before Modernity'
King's Centre for Doctoral Training in Digital Twins for Healthcare (DT4Health CDT)
King's Centre for Doctoral Training Multiscale Models for Life (MM4L)
King's Centre for Doctoral Training in Translational Research in Advanced Cell & Gene Therapies
EPSRC Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP)/Doctoral Landscape Award Programme
CRUK City of London Centre PhD Programme

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/contact-us:
For general enquiries from doctoral students, supervisors and staff.
doctoral-college@kcl.ac.uk
Dean for Doctoral Studies
Deputy Dean for Doctoral Studies
Associate Director (Doctoral Policy & Operations)
Associate Director (Doctoral Partnerships)
Associate Director (Doctoral Environment & Development)
General email for news submissions, website, updates, social media requests.
Enquiries about training, workshops, webinars, courses etc.
for doctoral students and supervisors.
doctoraltraining@kcl.ac.uk
hs-dtc@kcl.ac.uk
kcato@kcl.ac.uk
PostAward-Studentships@kcl.ac.uk
For queries relating to students who are funded by UK Research Councils.
​​​​​​​ukri-studentships@kcl.ac.uk
King's Doctoral College King’s College London 5-11 Lavington Street London SE1 0NZ
Map of Lavington Street

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/lienkie-diedericks:
30 September 2024
Virginia Fernandez
Dr Lienkie Diedericks tells us about her experiences as a PhD student at King’s and how this influenced her career.
She also shares advice to prospective PhD students, including those with a disability.
Lienkie completed her PhD in 2023.
My PhD looked at how colonial apartheid institutions, and that whole context and history, affects tuberculosis (TB) sufferers in South Africa today.
Any epidemiologist in South Africa will tell you that the leading cause of death is TB.
But this is the primary cause of death only for Black South Africans, not white South Africans.
So really, I was investigating the durable effect of racism in health systems.
During my PhD I found that there are very durable myths around TB that cause these health inequalities.
These myths relate to, not only how TB is seen as a disease construct in South Africa, but also how it is treated in global health, particularly by the World Health Organisation and the TB partnership.
For my undergraduate degree, I studied a mixture of languages and philosophy.
Then I started a postgraduate degree at the University of Cape Town, but during this time I got very, very ill.
I became disabled and I couldn’t walk.
Although I couldn’t finish my original postgraduate degree, I applied to King's for a different masters and got it.
While I was doing my master’s degree a King’s professor approached me and asked if I would like to do a PhD.
I got a mentor through the university mentoring scheme.
He is a past professor and he really helped me get through challenges that arose during my PhD, including when I was diagnosed with ADHD.
He is in his 80’s now and is still my BFF, we go out for a curry every six weeks or so.
I also have a really supportive partner, and a supportive family.
One of the reasons I chose King’s was because the Disability Services looked good.
That doesn’t mean that everything was easy, and there were some hurdles with my accommodation at the start.
Then I met the Head of Disability Services, and it was his first day at King’s as well.
So we learnt a lot about navigating King’s with a disability together.
This was so helpful because I was quite a complex case.
I would encourage them to go for it, but to choose their PhD wisely.
Start by thinking carefully about your needs and requirements.
Often these only become apparent when you start something, but it is better to anticipate them beforehand if you can.
Try to find out more about what it is like doing a PhD at the Institution, from non-disabled people or fellow disabled people.
Go and check out the disability services and make sure they have the funding and equipment you need.
This planning will never be perfect, but going in with your eyes wide open is so helpful.
Then start creating a network of support as soon as possible, and get to know your case officer in the Disability Services.
PhDs are challenging for everyone, whether you are disabled or not, so you will need to love the topic, be intensely interested in it, and be clear about your motivation for doing it.
Knowing this will help you get through any challenging times.
For example, I learned to podcast, which led me to a fantastic job after graduating – creating a podcast with funding and support from the King’s Doctoral College.
The podcast, along with other invaluable experience at the King’s Doctoral College and with the EDI central team, meant I got a job at the Royal Institute of British Architects as a Diversity and Inclusion Specialist.
The skills I learnt also helped me secure my current job, as Research Culture Manager back at King’s.
Throughout my PhD, I was also working for the King’s Doctoral College and as a Research Associate and assistant on various different research projects both at King’s and in collaboration with researchers from the Ethox Centre in Oxford.
I was also the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Lead for the King's Doctoral Students' Association, and I was a Disability Project Officer.
My work, and that of my colleagues, has changed college-wide post-graduate research policies to be even more inclusive and we created an online disability hub.
These working experiences really complimented my PhD and allowed me to get work experience outside of academia or adjacent to academia.
I never set out to do EDI work to further my career, I did it because it was the right thing to do.
I really wanted other people to have an even better experience than I did, and selfishly, wanted to improve some things for myself as well while I was here.
Then it ended up being instrumental in my career.
I joined Access King’s, the disability network, and I still have a huge number of friends there.
I also joined Proudly King’s, the staff LGBTQ+ network and that was so helpful too.
There are also loads of events going on.
I am not particularly religious, but the Chaplaincy has some really cool stuff going on.
They do walking tours, I went to an amazing one around St Paul’s Cathedral.
That was something I would never have normally done, but you meet such interesting and diverse groups of people.
The hobby clubs are also good, I went to the dance school, even with my legs.
It is so important to get out there, have fun and build these wider support networks, even when you feel time-strapped with your PhD.
Life is what you make of it.
The career services are a lifeline.
You have a careers advisor with you every step of the way and this stays in place for two years after you finish.
My careers advisor helped me find a field I wanted to work in.
He asked me, ‘What do you like doing?
Do you want to do science writing?
Journalism?’ So I looked at job descriptions to see what different roles involved and what sort of experience was needed.
After leaving my PhD my careers advisor read my job applications, and helped me prepare for the interview for the new job I just got.
I would also encourage PhD students to take the courses the careers service offers, like work experience workshops and chances to work on your CV.
I think I, like a lot of people, didn’t really appreciate what doing a PhD would be like.
When you are doing a PhD you are less like a student, you are an apprentice researcher.
Your job is to learn the craft of research.
I would stress the importance of how carefully you need to choose your supervisor because a PhD is a long time to work with someone.
It is like getting married to someone - you need to stay together through the good times and the bad.
You do ultimately have to take that leap of faith and choose someone, but don’t get married at first sight.
Find out about your future supervisor - read their work, talk to other students that were or are doing a PhD with them, and talk to their colleagues about them.
Make time to do things outside of your PhD itself because you will get a much richer experience and a wider view of the research community.
Doing this might also open up career opportunities you hadn’t thought of.
A lot of people doing a PhD don't end up doing research, many of us end up doing jobs adjacent to academia like I am doing now, and we're good at it.
These jobs provide an interesting and valuable career.
The last months where you need to write your thesis can be very stressful.
It can be the time that imposter syndrome really creeps in.
My top tip is to read other people’s PhD theses from the beginning of your PhD.
By doing this you can really see what you are aiming for.
Try also to seek opportunities to share your work with other people, even before your writing is in a polished form.
If you can, create a group of colleagues from across the faculty, and meet up with them to present and share your work.
I regret not doing more of this.
I had lots of self doubt while I was writing up, despite my supervisor saying it would be ok.
It was hard to believe her, but in the end my thesis was nominated as one of the best in the college.
This shows how profoundly dysfunctional your views of how you are doing can become, and why it is so important to listen to others and keep everything in perspective.
King’s Doctoral College
Disability support & inclusion
King’s Careers Service
Apply for a PhD

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/virginia-fernandez:
Gabriele La Malfa
Virginia Fernandez tells us about her experiences of being a postgraduate student at King’s, her work in public engagement, and the importance of working with a good supervisor and team.
My PhD is trying to address the data scarcity that we have in medical images, especially the lack of some annotated data.
We find there is data missing from images such as MRI brain scans, because it takes time to process and annotate them.
If we can create this data synthetically, then we might be able to better train AI to support clinical diagnoses.
In the longer term, this could help support clinicians to make a diagnosis, and save them time.
It is a funny story.
I was finishing my first master's without any clue of what I wanted to do next.
My master's supervisor was a board member of the interview panel at King’s, and he asked if I wanted to do a PhD.
My answer was no because everyone I saw doing a PhD was miserable.
He suggested I apply anyway, and I got an interview.
It was a full day interview, with a small journal club, a chance to present your work and an interview panel.
We were also shown around and introduced to people.
This completely changed my mind, because I loved the vibe.
They were also interested in my cartoons and drawing.
They told me they really value public engagement and people with this profile.
King’s also felt collaborative and there were opportunities to work with clinicians and industry.
Then when I was at my supervisor choice meeting, me and my supervisor clicked straight away.
It felt like the way he worked and the way he saw things was very complementary to the way I worked and saw things.
By then I was convinced, and here I am.
I had already done a master's at another London university, so initially I was quite reluctant to do another.
But the content was very useful and it helped me a lot.
It was also a very different experience to my first master's where there were 200 students on the course.
The King’s master's course was more intimate, there were fewer people in the classes and the teachers were more motivated.
It meant I was in a better place starting my PhD and when it came to writing my thesis.
King’s has an on-site public engagement team, and they send a lot of opportunities around.
So I met them when I first started and explained I like doing cartoons about my research.
Quite quickly they asked me to do big panels explaining AI which they shared on the King’s website and has been used in publications.
I have also been drawing the views of patient groups from other people’s research.
I try to get everyone’s feedback, opinions and comments into the drawing to summaries the patient group outputs.
I have also had the opportunity to represent King’s Doctoral College at the Great Exhibition Road Festival in South Kensington, where we had lively conversations with the public about AI and health.
I think they are a great mental health break from working on a research topic.
You also get to get your research out there and see people engage with it, and that is really valuable.
It helps you understand where your research fits in society and gives you even more motivation for your topic.
With AI there is so much misinformation, and people can be afraid of it.
I hope my work helps explain AI is a tool, and that it is nothing to be afraid of.
It is so helpful that my supervisor understands and supports my work in this area.
We have the Doctoral College at King’s that has lots of different groups and runs seminars, networking and social events.
These feel even more important because I started my PhD in 2020 when everyone had to stay at home.
The networks I, and others in my Department, have developed has resulted in some interesting research collaborations in the last years of my PhD.
These wouldn’t have happened if we hadn’t got to know these people.
We built an open source repository to help other researchers with code that could be shared and reused.
It is called MONAI Generative Models and has had interest from the big GPU company NVIDIA.
We couldn’t have developed this without collaboration with different people in and outside my department.
I attended a lot of courses at the beginning of my PhD as it was four years, with an MRes at the beginning.
One of the most useful was on advanced machine learning, which was a deep dive into machine learning methods.
Without that, I am positive that it would have taken me months before I got going with this for my PhD.
Another course I found useful was critical skills, which was a journal club.
The person who ran it made it very dynamic with a host and an interesting discussion.
It helped me to read papers quickly and find the most important information in them, including understanding the study strengths and limitations.
I didn’t think it would be this enjoyable.
I think this is because I had great supervision throughout, great collaboration and a lot of opportunities, and I have done so much more than my thesis.
I have been able to learn things valuable to my career, and I have been happy.
That is not to say I have not had imposter syndrome from time to time, but these have been happy years.
I have seen people who are only thinking about the research work when they are applying – their priorities are the best university possible, the best title or this exact topic.
I think it is just as important to find a good supervisor and a good team that you feel comfortable with.
My supervisor asks potential postgraduate students to meet not only him but his team.
Because he understands it is the team that is important during a PhD.
When you start it is easy to think you need to work 13 hours a day to demonstrate you are working hard – that is what everyone thinks a PhD is.
Then you see people getting burnout after three or four months.
I had that, and it is 100% not worth it, because it is not going to make your work go faster.
It is important to slow down, and also get out there and go to events and do different things outside your research.
They help you handle everything better.
I am hoping to do a Post-Doc with my team, I need to have an interview but I am hopeful I will get the position.
The new project will be on a different topic more applied to clinical use and will complement my skills.
I like the idea of seeing what it is like to deploy an AI algorithm into healthcare, and deal with clinicians and project partners.
Last summer I did an industry internship, so maybe in the future I would like to work in industry as well.
When my first paper was published.
I was at a workshop in a conference and it got an award for the best paper.
I published quite late compared to other people, and it was at the peak of my unhappiness as a PhD student.
I wasn’t feeling very confident, I was not sure where I was going and imposter syndrome was creeping in.
So getting a piece of research out there and having people value it, that was really good.
Whenever he saw I was struggling, he just grabbed me by the shoulders and said ‘look at what you're doing.
This is good.’ I think a good supervisor spots these things in students and helps them.
King's Doctoral College
Public and community engagement with research

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/gabriele-la-malfa-1:
Hannah Deasy
Gabriele La Malfa is a third year PhD student working on a project looking at AI and fairness.
He shares his advice for future PhD students, and also his experiences of organising events on Equality, Diversity and Inclusion.
I am in my third year of a four-year PhD at King’s Doctoral College, working on a project on safe and trusted Artificial Intelligence (AI).
AI is a very generic term to indicate a decision making process – something we can use to make a decision in place of humans.
When we do this we need to make sure that the decision the AI makes is ethically correct, or in my project’s case, fair.
No, it can also be subject to bias, depending on the data it is using.
To give an example, there was a famous case in the US where an algorithm was helping judges make decisions against defendants.
They found later that it was biased against some populations including Black people and it wasn’t fair in terms of gender.
I am finding ways to measure the fairness of AI decisions, then how we can work to enhance fairness.
We hope this will find ways to stop the damage unfairness could cause, by proposing rules that could change the way it works.
So my choice was very much related to my supervisor.
I always say that when you have an interview, it is always double-sided.
It was very important for me to ask questions too.
I liked my supervisor for his charm and his capacity to engage me in the topic.
I decided the topic was a good choice because I care about doing something that is useful for people.
The King’s Doctoral College is a good thing because it creates a group of people who come together to help each other through our PhDs.
Some of the training isn’t as relevant to your specific research topic, but it is important to have knowledge outside of your field.
I have been impressed by how reactive King’s has been to issues around Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI).
King’s is proactive about this and provides a protected environment, somewhere we are safe.
Where issues have arisen, they have been proactive in providing facilitation meetings to find a solution.
When we organise events, we try hard to make the environment safe for people.
For example, we had facilitators who were trained on managing sessions like this properly.
I have learnt so much about how important it is to be careful about the way you organise things.
We were running events on privilege, and topics relating to discrimination, inequality and racism – covering topics including ability and disability, and sexuality.
As an institution, King’s is already promoting EDI, and that is important.
But I always think that institutions are created by people.
I was inspired by someone else here doing a PhD, and she was very interested in this topic too.
So we co-organised these events together, and now she has graduated, I take the lead.
We related the events to a newspaper article or a video, so the topic was anchored in something.
Then we made sure it was engaging and interactive, so everyone was welcome to speak, and share their views and experiences.
The events were funded by the King’s Doctoral College and the Faculty of Natural, Mathematical & Engineering Sciences.
We are trying to expand the programme across the university now.
Get the most out of your time.
You come here and spend years doing a PhD, it would be a shame if you just wrote papers and your thesis then went home.
Try to get to know as many people as possible, and do as many projects as possible.
This helps you make friends, and focus on something other than your research.
I want to be to stay in academia, and I am thinking about which other universities I would like to work in.
My big dream is to go to the US, but the research is very different there and I would need to learn about it.
Asian countries are also very interesting at the moment, so doing a visit to Asia might be helpful.
At the beginning of my PhD I thought the hardest time would be at the end when the deadlines kicked in.
The truth is that is not where you will have the main challenges.
There are ups and downs you will face every week.
One week you have good results and are happy, then for a month you have no results and feel a bit lost.
But there are resources at King’s to help you deal with this.
There are societies you can go to that help you build a support network.
There is access to a gym which is less expensive than a normal gym in London.
There is a counselling service and even a GP on site.
My advice to everyone doing a PhD is to remember you were selected for a reason.
It is easy to wonder if you are the best person to do this, you ask yourself why didn’t they pick that other person with the master's in computer science?
And don’t, whatever you do, fall into the trap of comparing yourself to anybody else during your PhD.
This really doesn’t make any sense, we are all doing different projects and comparison is a waste of time and energy.
There are people that never publish and they are still very successful, and it doesn't matter.
Everything is very relative in the PhD, and in life in general.
We need to make sure we don’t push ourselves too much.
We have just one life and there will be no remake.
This is something that I always try to remember.
EDI at King's

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/hannah-deasy:
Jie Tang
Postgraduate student Hannah Deasy discusses the importance of time management skills for part-time PhD students.
I am looking at the experiences of boy choristers at Exeter Cathedral in the 18th century.
I was a girl chorister at Exeter Cathedral as a child, and I remember standing in the choir stalls wondering about the generations of choristers who had performed before me.
I wanted to know about their lives, how the Cathedral looked then, and how the music might have sounded.
Twenty years later, I decided to find out.
I chose the 18th century because it is a fascinating period of time and there is massive gap in music history in the 18th century in terms of church choral music.
I am a part-time Music PhD student, about half way through.
This means that I have done around three and a half years, with another three and a half to four years left.
My aim is to create micro-histories.
Rather than looking at ‘choristers’ as a generic term that includes anyone and everybody, I am looking at individuals from the 1660s to late 1700s.
One fascinating example is a chorister called Robert Hodge.
He sounds like an absolute nightmare, having ended up in jail three times, one time for debauchery.
Yet, he is still selected as the only chorister who is sent to the Chapel Royal to study under the composer, Henry Purcell.
There is a fantastic letter which Purcell sends to the Cathedral effectively saying, ‘I had to pay so much money for the chaos this boy caused, can you pay me back?’
I have also identified the point in time when schoolmaster, John Bradford was appointed in the local grammar school for the choristers.
This allowed the Cathedral to outsource their grammar education rather than doing it in-house.
I can see the exact books that the boys used to study, and I can see that the Cathedral paid for them.
I even know the names of the boys that used them to study.
I am probably the only person in 300 years to know this.
I am a singing teacher with 35 pupils under the age of 11 in a local Catholic school near Hammersmith.
They are hysterical and keep me on my toes.
I also have a church administrative job in Putney, and that's about three days a week.
I also sing in a church choir every Sunday.
Luckily I like being busy, and I think I am better as a busy person.
I was an undergraduate at King’s, and the supervisors and lecturers truly inspired me.
I had a lot of fun working with them, and my supervisor has always been a kind and caring soul.
I found out about her work - she's a medievalist and the way she writes is in line with how I'd like to write myself.
Cathedrals keep detailed records of every Dean and Chapter meeting, going back hundreds of years, with the 16th century records being in Latin.
I can sing Latin quite happily as a classically trained singer, but my recall when I am transcribing isn’t as quick as I would like.
I am in discussions with my supervisor to hopefully get some support in translating it!
Also, I am missing some records that I would have loved to use.
When the local school began educating the boys, some records were moved there.
In the Blitz of the 1940s the school was bombed and the records were lost, so now we only have what the Dean in the Chapter discussed .
Not having those records was a bit of a sucker punch, I should have expected it, but it is hard nonetheless.
I make sure I get out and about in London.
I go to the Institute of Historical Research for their evening lectures and talks, the timings work well with my jobs.
Making time around my jobs for working on my PhD has been the hardest thing.
I use school holidays for my work, and evenings.
But sometimes when you are exhausted from all the teaching you have done all term, it is important to prioritise having a break.
Finding the balance is something I am working on, and I am in a better place now than I was a year ago.
I have learnt to set myself boundaries and be very strict with them.
I usually find it easier to set boundaries than to keep them, but I am learning to do better.
Often it is about having open conversations with the people who care about you.
Saying things like ‘on Monday night after work I will be in the library for three hours, so don’t expect any communication from me.’ Nine times out of ten, people completely respect you for that.
Then you can actually enjoy the time that you do have with them, rather than thinking about work.
Because, the worst thing is when your head wants to be at work when you are with the people you love, or when you are at work feeling guilty about not spending time with family and friends.
I wish I had I clocked this a wee bit earlier and been able to say ‘this is assigned PhD time’ and given myself permission to be a bit selfish with it.
What you are undertaking is large, you can’t do it on a whim, and I don't think you should underestimate how much of you it will take to get through it.
I began during the end of the COVID pandemic.
I was based in Devon and had a very steady job.
Because of the pandemic access to resources was more limited, so my supervisor suggested part-time for six months.
As funding is limited, I stayed part-time when I moved to London.
I spent my undergraduate studying Music at King's, and I have a master's in History from UCL.
So moving back to London was actually always the plan.
It was a very comfortable move when I got around to it.
My department have been really good at making sure they include me and get me involved in things but working during the day can make it quite hard.
I need to find my community after work in the evenings or at weekends.
I have been discussing this with the Head of Postgraduate Study in Music as how involved I can be depends on timings of events or discussions.
For example, I particularly value the music colloquium that is held on a Wednesday afternoon.
They bring in guest speakers and afterwards there are cake and drinks.
It is a great time to catch up with my PhD community.
Unfortunately, it moved a bit earlier which meant I couldn’t attend.
A lot of people voiced their concerns about the change of timing, and so it is moving back to a time I can attend.
I am very excited to get back to it.
A very proud moment was when I won the People’s Choice Award in the King’s Three Minute Thesis competition in 2023.
The competition was good fun, but also a challenge.
With music, so much terminology is not in common use, so I delved into the storytelling aspect of my thesis.
I had to practice a lot with different people in my life to see what worked.
You haven’t got time to stumble, you need to walk out on that stage and have complete faith in yourself.
I would have said this was my proudest moment so far, but two days ago I presented at my first conference and got some excellent laughs for my jokes.
Everyone who presents at the conference will also be published, so that is very exciting!
My supervisor has been very supportive, for which I feel very lucky.
We have been able to have honest conversations about time management and what things work and don't work.
The Music Department at Kings have also been wonderful.
They are very chatty, smiley and happy to be a sounding board for ideas.
The challenge is making sure I have enough time to spend with them, I am planning to do this more frequently if work allows.
My parents have been supportive too.
I come from a very tight knit family, but none of my family are academics.
During COVID, I told my Mum I needed a job change.
Mum asked what I wanted to do, and when I told her, she said ‘that sounds like a PhD, so why aren’t you doing it?’ She got me and for that I am grateful.
I am lucky that my friends have always known me as busy.
They know I will put my head down for six months, but I make sure I put time in the diary to go for drinks or brunch.
It can be very easy to isolate yourself with all the things you need to balance.
But actually finding time to go out and see friends is really important.
It is also vital to find moments of headspace, time for reflection and for the things that bring you joy.
Even if your PhD is the thing that is bringing you joy, you still need some time away from it to allow it to grow.
Make sure you don’t miss the amazement of what is going on around you, be that social events or even appreciating a new part of London.
From King’s, even walking down the South Bank is a pretty cool way to spend your time.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/jie-tang-1:
24 October 2024
Lina Kramer
Final year PhD student, Jie Tang, tells us about her experiences as a Chinese PhD student at King’s, and shares tips for international students about finding a community.
I am finding out how we can better deliver drugs to cancer patients.
I am learning how to create nanoparticles with the cancer drug inside.
The blood vessels around cancers are leaky, and the hope is that the nanoparticles will fit through these holes, but not leak out in areas where there is healthy tissue.
My PhD is in three stages.
Firstly I created the particle with the cancer drug inside.
Then I attached a patch that will help the drug enter the body.
Finally, we used what we had learnt so far to adjust the drug doses to increase the chance of it working in the right way.
Too often, healthy tissues in cancer patients are damaged by cancer treatments, which leads to serious side effects.
If this technique works, we should be able to better target drugs to the cancer, sparing healthy tissue and reducing side effects.
The UK is a very popular country for Chinese students.
I had two UK universities to choose from to do my PhD.
King’s also encourages you to do things outside your PhD, beyond publishing papers, and I liked that.
It is common for PhD students to come to the UK and publish papers and go home without making friends, not getting any soft skills, but it isn’t like that here.
While I have been here, I have made different friends, broadened my horizons, and become more laid back about my expectations of myself.
This helps you be more comfortable when something in your PhD doesn’t work out as expected, and it helps you be happier.
I finished my master’s in China, graduating from Peking University.
I had been working with nanoparticles and cancer cells in that project too.
I applied for an international student scholarship and met a King’s academic at a conference.
She put me in touch with my future supervisor.
Attending conferences is always such a good thing to do and I found my next job there.
I like meeting and getting to know people, but as an international student, it can be easy to get isolated from both your fellow students and also wider society.
There are more than 4,000 Chinese students at King’s, which is a huge group.
I set up the China Dragon Forum to bring us together, to help us benefit more from UK society, and to help get our voices heard.
We have run many different events.
For example, we have taught people how to communicate with their supervisor, which is often a barrier to international students.
We have also run careers events to help international students find jobs in the UK.
Having a good social life is also really important, so we have run fun events such as a karaoke night and a summer picnic.
I think one of its biggest impact has been to help postgraduate students overcome some of the barriers that international students face.
For example, during their daily work, an international student might think it is their fault if they don’t understand something, or think they don’t understand it because of the language barrier, or feel too shy to ask a question.
These are all barriers that we can face which impact on our ability to learn and network with others.
The work of the China Dragon Forum is so important.
I am pleased to say I have found someone to take over and organise the events after I have finished my PhD.
There are lots of events and activities at King’s.
This was especially important to me in my first year when I moved to London and the UK was in lockdown.
I had to stay home alone for a long time and it was so hard.
I kept myself busy by competing in the Three Minute Thesis Competition – I prepared and practiced online with my supervisor and colleagues and even got to the grand final.
I attended so many courses in my first two years, and I really enjoyed those I selected.
‘Seven Secrets for Highly Successful PhDs’ was one of my favourites, and I even contacted the trainer and he ran a modified course for international students.
The other one I loved was ‘Negotiation Skills’.
I would like to go back to China to find a job in industry.
I want to use the soft skills I developed during my PhD.
I may also look for positions in the UK.
I have benefited from careers advice on many different topics.
I went to seminars that King’s Careers & Employability organised.
I also worked with the Careers team to organise events specifically for Chinese students, and they are now giving more specific career advice for Chinese students.
Do things outside of your PhD.
Some people don’t want to do anything unrelated to their research publications.
Yes, papers are good, but have you got other skills?
Can you communicate with your team?
Are you a team player?
UK society values this and when you finish your PhD you will realise that it is the things unrelated to science that help you find a job.
When you start a PhD, you have a clear idea in your mind of how it will go, but things don’t always go to plan.
This happened to me – in my third year, my supervisor and I realised that I was not getting good results, and it was not what we expected to happen.
It was hard to know what to do, but then we decided to write about the negative results.
A negative result is still an important result, and it can help someone else avoid doing the same thing.
We also applied for a six-month extension.
I would say: reach out, talk to friends and talk to colleagues, because you are not alone.
It is hard because, in reality, those who have struggled the most often find it the hardest to reach out.
But that makes it even more important for them to talk to people.
My supervisor is amazing.
When I met his colleague at the conference, she told me that my supervisor always tries to make everyone in his research group happy.
That seemed different from my master’s in China, where there was a lot of pressure.
I was almost shocked – I wondered if a supervisor like that would be possible?
It was one of the reasons I got in touch with him – because your boss influences your happiness in a job.
King's Careers & Employability

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/lina-kramer-1:
Maísa Edwards
Lina shares her experiences of her part-time PhD in public policy and machine learning, being President of the King’s Doctoral Students Association, and moving from Germany to London during the pandemic.
I use a type of machine learning, called multi-agent reinforcement learning, as a tool to help optimise taxation for different countries.
This sort of Artificial Intelligence (AI) could potentially help policy makers understand what could happen if they altered the tax system in different ways.
The goal is to help policy makers find the sweet spot between welfare and economic growth.
Machine learning can factor in details about the country, the citizens, and other forces involved in labour supply and the economy.
It could predict how citizens react to changes in taxation.
Use of AI in this field is very new, and it has not been used in the real world yet.
There are only two projects that have used AI like this in recent years.
I'm building on that research by adding further economic and political dynamics.
But the approach has limitations.
We can’t include cultural aspects, such as ‘my whole family votes Labour, so I will too’.
I am starting my final year in the PhD.
I started full time, and later switched to part-time.
There is flexibility around this, and you can change mid-way through your PhD if needed.
King’s is such a big university and very good at interdisciplinary work so that attracted me.
I also wanted to be in a vibrant city, somewhere I could see myself enjoy life.
I am from Germany and I don’t speak many languages besides English, so it had to be an English speaking country.
I worked in consulting for six years after my undergraduate degree and master's in Germany.
But I always wanted to go back to university and do research.
My degrees in Economics and Political Science were very broad and general.
We didn’t get the chance to go into a lot of depth.
I wanted to do something where I felt I could become an expert and a PhD was the way to do this.
My reason for doing a doctorate is quite personal, for me it is about self-fulfilment.
I started my PhD in the pandemic, and I had just moved to London without having lived here before.
That wasn’t easy at all, I didn’t know anyone, didn’t have any community yet.
Luckily the PhD community is great now, we were all so super desperate to connect.
I have a really good friend group now.
I went back into the university as soon as possible.
Once we were allowed to go back to the office, the PhD students started having lunch together.
I also took a Department Representative role which helped me make connections to other departments in my faculty.
I have friends in the Geography department, the War Studies department and others.
I have a big community and I feel very much part of King’s.
Then I was voted in to be President of King's Doctoral Students Association.
Through this I met a lot different people so I have an even bigger friend group now.
I also met my boyfriend through King’s Doctoral Students Association, he just finished his PhD in Biomedical Engineering at King’s.
It was a great experience, and I feel like I achieved a lot.
We wanted to build a good structure to represent all of the doctoral students.
So we brought in faculty representatives for every faculty and event coordinators for each campus.
We were a team of around 25 people, and were super active, running academic and social events.
We also worked with the University to improve the support for PhD students.
It filled me with joy and it is the sort of work where you see the rewards quickly, which is in contrast to a PhD.
It was good for my mental health, helping me out of the Covid blues.
I applied for the London Doctoral Training Programme and got a studentship from the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC).
It is fully funded and I felt lucky that I got it.
If you want to get a studentship in a competitive area you will need to apply early.
It might also help if your research is on a trending topic.
When AI became a topic of great interest to people, I felt like that helped my chances a lot.
You need to pick your supervisors carefully.
Try to meet with your main supervisor and have a proper discussion.
Also ask them: What is your supervision style?
How do you supervise students?
Then ask yourself, is that the way I want to be supervised?
If your PhD project is multidisciplinary, it is worth considering having supervisors from different fields to give you access to wider range of expertise and different supervision styles.
This can be very helpful, and I wasn’t aware I could do this at the start of my PhD.
My advice would be to start your PhD and only then pick your second supervisor.
You have about a month to confirm your supervisory team, and you’ll understand better what you need once you’ve settled into King’s and started your PhD project.
Yes, I have done a bunch of training courses like 'Writing A Literature Review for the Social Sciences' and 'The Seven Secrets of Highly Successful Research Students'.
King’s Doctoral College offers many useful courses for each area of the researcher development framework.
In addition, King’s offers free language courses to PhD students, and students can apply to audit undergraduate or postgraduate taught courses offered at King’s.
I am fascinated by the whole topic of AI, and I am considering applying to research institutes that work with AI.
But I can also see myself doing consulting work for the public sector again.
Besides that I enjoy teaching, so I would like to continue that on a freelance base.
Yes, King’s has an excellent careers and employability advice service.
The service has lots of useful resources, and you can even book one-to-one slots to get personalised advice.
I booked a career session this week to discuss a job I would like to apply for.
Even if you have no idea what you want to do, they can help guide you.
I think it is always worth it to start thinking about what you want to do next early to make things easier later on.
I also think it is important to understand that even if you have a clear idea of your project in the beginning, it’s likely to evolve as you learn more about the topic.
I was surprised about how many people changed the focus of their project, and I actually changed mine as well.
I held on to the original project focus for way too long.
I would have changed earlier if I knew it was ok.
King's is a very good university.
You can see the university trying to continuously improve the experience of PhD students.
They respond to student input, as I saw first-hand in my role of President of the King’s Doctoral Students Association.
Things get better every year.
I would recommend people get involved with the King’s Doctoral College and Doctoral Students Association during their PhD.
King's Careers Service
PhD candidate

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/maisa-edwards-1:
23 October 2024
Sanchika Campbell
Dr Maísa Edwards shares her experiences of her Joint International Relations PhD, split between King’s College London and the University of São Paulo, her love of research and teaching, and what it was like to work for a thinktank after her doctorate.
I am an international peace and security specialist.
My PhD was a joint International Relations PhD, awarded by King’s and the University of São Paulo.
My project analysed Brazil's membership of the Zone of Peace and Cooperation of the South Atlantic (ZOPACAS).
The aim was to examine Brazil's diplomatic and defence relations in the South Atlantic region, and especially with other members of ZOPACAS in South America and West Africa.
I passed my viva in June 2023, so just over a year ago.
It has been wonderful to finish my PhD!
Waking up and remembering that I have successfully completed it is a great feeling.
Now I'm in the process of finishing my book proposal.
I also had an academic journal article published last year, which I am super proud of.
You can find it in the Conflict, Security and Development Journal .
When I started my PhD at King’s, my main challenge was dealing with COVID-19.
I had been in Brazil for six and a half months during my second year and had to rush home to the UK.
I am half Brazilian, so I could have stayed there, but I am glad I came home and was able to be with my family.
Lockdown was challenging for all of us, but we all did our best to keep motivated in our research.
I was lucky because I was passionate about my PhD topic and had a great support system around me.
After my undergraduate degree in French and Spanish at University College London, I had the opportunity to work abroad in Guadeloupe and at CNN.
I later did my MSc at the King’s Brazil Institute.
My supervisor was excellent and he encouraged me to continue my research and pursue a PhD.
One of the best things with studying the joint PhD is that we get a dually awarded doctorate from King's College London and the University of São Paulo and we get to meet and work with some great people.
My cohort and I are such a close group of colleagues and friends.
We are all get on very well and hang out often.
We also collaborate on our research and share knowledge.
Doing a PhD can be quite a solitary task, so having a support network around you, beyond your supervisor and family, is really important.
They are the ones that really understand when you are agonising over your theoretical framework, for example!
My mum is Brazilian, so as a child I travelled to the country to visit my extended family.
I speak fluent Portuguese and also have Brazilian nationality.
So I knew the city of São Paulo very well already when I went there for my second year of my PhD.
It was more of a case of just adapting to living there for a longer period.
I also have family in São Paulo state who I could visit.
Yes!
Whilst I was doing research at the Brazilian Foreign Ministry archives in Brasilia, I found out that there had been a planned ZOPACAS ministerial meeting in Benin in 2003 that no one knew about.
While it didn’t end up taking place for mostly logistical and financial reasons, it was quite a pearl to find in the archives  –  and really fascinating for those of us in this field of work.
Also, by some incredible stroke of fate, the ZOPACAS had its eighth ministerial meeting in 2023, at the end of my PhD.
That's after 10 years of dormancy.
It felt truly incredible for this to happen when it did, and has led to lots of good things.
I was invited to speak, for example, with a senior desk offer at the UK Ministry of Defence, as well as at a meeting with the Political Section in the Brazilian Embassy in London.
I also had a virtual meeting with representatives from the US Embassy in Brasilia.
Getting invited to talk about my research was very cool.
A week after I passed my PhD in June 2023, I began working at ResPublica and the Lifelong Education Institute as a Policy Researcher.
I was then later promoted to Senior Policy Researcher.
This role was alongside my teaching commitments at King's in the Departments of War Studies and European and International Studies as a graduate teaching assistant.
I also had the opportunity to teach in July 2023 and July 2024 as an academic tutor at the King’s Pre-University International Relations Summer School and continue to teach now in the 2024 – 2025 academic year.
I am currently teaching in the Departments of War studies and History departments at bachelor's and master’s level as a graduate teaching assistant and an hourly paid lecturer.
I really like teaching, and I am always trying to get the most out of my students.
I like them to be focused, but also inject an element of fun into the sessions.
I love active learning, so sometimes my students engage in debates, group work, or sometimes a game that teaches them key concepts.
King’s is a very prestigious place and one of the most reputable for the study and research of International Relations and War Studies.
I also wanted to keep working alongside the wonderful professors and lecturers that I worked with during my PhD and who taught me during my master's.
King’s also has an excellent Brazil Institute which is where I did my master’s and PhD.
I have also been a part of events and undertaken research for King’s as part of the Circle U European University Alliance.
King’s is one of the members, along with institutions like the University of Pisa, the University of Oslo and the University of Humboldt.
I was a part of a funded research project on Digital and Media Literacy, where I was awarded a €2,000 grant to do research and produce a report for the World Expression Forum (WEXFO).
I am also part of a group project which received a €10,000 grant to examine how hierarchies can affect interdisciplinary research.
The careers events I have been to have always great.
I have been to many over the years, including those focusing on defence and employability, and working in government.
I have had a lot of one-to-one appointments as well.
My careers advisor was always super friendly, and overall just amazing and helpful.
The support advisors provide is so instrumental to career development.
This is so important now when so many more people are going to university.
It means we also need to marshal the skills that we are developing to suit the job market.
Academic publications have a huge currency in our field, but I wanted to show that I could also write policy papers and think pieces, which helped me land the job.
I saw it advertised on LinkedIn through a friend's profile who had been working there for about a year.
I sent him a message asking whether I should apply and if I'd be a good fit for the role.
He said, absolutely!
The job was great, and focused on education policy and skills development.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, we were all dealing with stress and anxiety.
I am not normally an anxious person, but it felt like the world was collapsing on itself.
Doing a PhD at the same time, whilst feeling so personally responsible for my own commitment and drive, was a challenge.
I was therefore lucky to have access to the King's counselling services.
My counsellor was great.
It was awesome to feel like I had somebody who could guide me through the professional angst and stress, but also have a giggle with!
I always knew that doing a PhD would be a lot of work, but now I realise just how committed you need to be to get through it.
A full time PhD is normally four years and requires a lot of dedication, so that is a lot of time to commit.
I think you have to always work to stay motivated.
I've applied for a quite a few lecturer positions.
It's very competitive, especially in International Relations.
You have to keep your spirits up when you get rejections and not get put off.
I am going to continue applying.
Meanwhile, I've got two articles that I need to finish editing before I send them off to journals.
But I am keeping my options open; my experience at the thinktank was really useful for my development and I now have a written a lot of policy papers and think pieces.
I am definitely keeping an eye on what is out there!
I wish I'd known more about how lonely doing a PhD can be  – even if you have great friends and a wonderful community within your research department.
My friends and I feel like PhD warriors who have survived and thrived through these years of intense research and study.
Anyone and everyone can have a bad day, where they can’t face looking at their work anymore, but the experience is instrumental in teaching you how to be your own biggest cheerleader.
There is also something I have heard that is really helpful to remember.
During your PhD, you don’t need to achieve something enormous or groundbreaking.
You don’t need to win a Nobel Prize, go to the moon or cure cancer; you only have to make a good contribution to your field, even if it is something small.
The main thing is that it is original.
And this is something you can forever be proud of.
So don’t be hard on yourself, whatever you bring to the table counts!
If you are thinking of doing a PhD, you should shop around.
See what is available and check that the PhD is linked to funding.
If you get a funded PhD, that is a huge load off your mind knowing that you and your research are funded and you have money to live and pay your bills.
Read the work of academics you are interested in and see if they are taking on PhD students.
If there's anyone you think would be good to do a project with, reach out to them.
Send them an email, introduce yourself and let them know you want to do a PhD.
It is also worth giving yourself the space and time to decide and choose.
I have friends who did their undergraduate degree, then a master’s and then a PhD back-to-back.
Pretty much all of them ended up feeling utterly exhausted by the end of this academic marathon.
As much as having PhD at 26 or 27 is super cool and flashy, it is fine to do it later.
I personally submitted at 30 and defended at 31; and I have friends who are doing their PhDs in their 40s.
The time needs to be right for you.
Doing a PhD is a massive commitment, so you should do it only if you really want to.
Don’t do it to put a cherry on top of your education, but because you have something that really interests you.
It isn’t like an undergraduate degree, where you might pick something that gives you the chance of a good job.
The aim of a PhD is to advance research in some way, shape or form, and spending four years on the same topic requires real determination.
Having my PhD is something that I will be forever proud of.
My grandmother passed away in February 2024, so she was alive to see the photographs of my PhD graduation in the Royal Festival Hall in January.
I will always be grateful that she was able to see that.
I'm her youngest grandchild and while she would tease me, saying I would have made a wonderful medical doctor, I was able to tell her, "Granny, I wanted to study international peace and security and I did a PhD in it.
So I am a doctor in another way –  the PhD kind, instead of an MD".
I had dinner with an old school friend a couple of weeks ago.
We have both done PhDs and agreed that as younger women, having a PhD in a professional setting can make a big difference.
This can especially be the case in male-dominated fields.
Being addressed as Dr Edwards boosts equality and reminds me that I have earned my place at the table and that my contributions should be listened to.
Bringing greater visibility to excellent women pursuing PhDs who are in academia is important.
I organised an event in April 2024 for the King’s Brazil Week called ‘Women in Academia: A Spotlight on Brazil’.
My fellow panelists and our chair spoke in depth about our experiences as women in academia, in particular as women who are Brazilian and studied in Brazil and abroad.
There were many stories about how as women, we have to work so much harder to prove ourselves in academia.
This can be also more challenging in male-dominated professions or in certain countries.
Having a PhD from King’s is a huge help, as it is a world renowned university in International Relations and other disciplines.
It was a really good experience which a great platform to shine a spotlight on us as women doing really interesting research!

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sanchika-campbell-1:
08 November 2024
Lienkie Diedericks
Sanchika Campbell shares her experiences of engaging local communities in her work, how she made the transition from clinical settings to research, and tips for balancing the demands of a PhD alongside being a parent.
My PhD is looking at how people cope through religion and spirituality and how it affects their mental health and help-seeking.
The project was focused on members from Black Majority Churches in South East London.
I used both qualitative and quantitative methods.
I worked with members from the community who were directly concerned by the research; people who identify as being Christian, from Black racially minoritised backgrounds and who had some experience of mental health or mental illness.
This is known as a participatory research approach.
I had been working in acute and forensic psychiatric units in the NHS when I decided I wanted to shift into research.
In applying for research roles, I came across the Health Inequalities Research Network (HERON) , based at King’s.
They had a lot of community engagement going on, and I thought it sounded so meaningful.
I had lived in South East London for a long time, and I was drawn towards initiatives that challenged inequality.
So, I started a Research Assistant role for the South East London Community Health study (SELCoH) , helping to recruit study participants.
I always wanted to work with people who would be directly impacted by the research project, I feel their voice has to be central to any study.
I also knew I wanted to work on health inequalities, and I wanted to develop my PhD proposal to include participatory research.
I met my PhD supervisor while I was working as a Research Assistant for SELCoH, and I was inspired to do a PhD with her.
My PhD didn’t happen right away, I spent time putting the idea together after doing a master's, and then applied for funding twice.
In the meantime, I had a baby and worked as a research assistant.
So, it took about three years for me to actually start applying for a studentship.
I did my undergraduate degree at another London university, but I chose King’s because there was a collaborative research atmosphere here.
So, I wanted to stay.
My Health Inequalities Research Group (HIRG) colleagues were happy to share their expertise and were very encouraging.
There is an emphasis on inclusivity and sharing knowledge.
Research shouldn’t just take, it should give back to the individuals and communities who take part.
I have always been a strong advocate for reciprocity, and this is something my supervisor has cemented and pushed for during my PhD.
Giving back can include sending participants an update on the outcomes of the research, or a newsletter through the research process, to providing job references, and opportunities to engage in sharing findings and developing their networks.
I am currently preparing an infographic summary of the research findings to share with those who took part and circulate the findings locally.
I used this approach to keep participants updated mid-way through my project, in 2022, when I sent out a booklet with our emerging findings to participants.
The Research Assistant role was really helpful to give me a taste of research and help me transition to a doctorate.
When I first started as a Research Assistant, I felt like I was jumping into the deep end.
I had to learn really quickly.
Our team had protocols for everything, and I had to be incredibly organised.
The role really taught me project management skills.
A PhD is never easy, but having these tools and the experience has helped.
During my Research Assistant role, I also met my future PhD supervisor.
She asked me what I wanted to do in the longer term, and whether I would consider a PhD.
When I said I would, she recommended doing a master’s first.
During that time, I took another Research Assistant job and kept in touch with my supervisor.
Later, I put together the PhD proposal with her support and guidance from colleagues, and applied for LISS-DTP funding.
As an early career researcher in the centre, I had access to lots of training, support and other opportunities, and I recently received a bridging fund to work on a publication for my PhD, after submitting my thesis.
I submitted my thesis in June and I have just passed my viva.
It felt transformational to hand in my thesis, and achieve that, and a next level feeling of relief and joy after passing my viva with minor corrections.
I was a bit worried about how we would engage with more insular organisations such as churches because there has been a lot of historic mistrust between institutions of power such as universities and community organisations.
To start with, I created a clear recruitment leaflet to recruit three co-researchers.
Then I contacted various local grassroot organisations like Black Thrive that were already working on challenging health inequalities for Black and other racially minoritised groups.
This was also the time that the Black Lives Matter movement was resurfacing.
So, there were a lot of anti-racism workshops which I engaged with, and I approached some of these organisations to circulate the recruitment leaflet and an interest form.
When people got in touch and sent across the role interest form, I met them and spoke to them informally as a chance to get to know each other.
I wanted to make sure it wasn’t a formal interview, just a chance to connect and to understand what the project could mean to those interested.
It was about building a connection.
Well, I'm Christian myself, and that created a level of connection and understanding.
Because of the pandemic, all our meetings were online, so it was amazing when we finally got to meet in person at an engagement event we co-facilitated.
It felt so natural as if we had always known each other.
Just before our event, we joined hands and prayed together.
It felt quite radical and special to bring that sort of community bonding and allow an expression of authentic individual identity in an academic space.
I have had so many informal mentors who have been incredibly kind and generous – I have never been short of people who were happy to help.
I try to do the same for others, to pay it forward.
I also went to an anti-racism book group which started in autumn 2020 by a friend and colleague.
I developed some close friendships through that space.
There were a lot of deeper connections formed by sharing our personal experiences with other peers in the HIRG.
We continue to support each other now and celebrate our challenges and successes together – we shared the PhD journey and navigated the hurdles together.
Yes, I attended lots of courses, from skills relevant to my research, such as quantitative and qualitative methods, to some more unique ones like 'Drawing for Scholars' which brought a new, creative element to the research.
Another brilliant one was run by Adrian Blau, about how to write concisely.
It changes the way you write about science.
Now I always think about how I can shorten my sentences and keep my writing simple.
The doctoral training opportunities were good.
I got crucial support from my two supervisors.
I started my PhD when my son was just over one year old, then lockdown happened almost straight away and I had had to navigate childcare and a PhD at home.
In my second year, I had a lot of personal life events couple with the impact of the pandemic, and it was a lot to cope with.
My supervisors encouraged me to take some time off for my health and wellbeing.
They could see the toll it had taken on me in a way I couldn’t see.
It meant a lot to have supervisors show such care, both for my doctoral journey but also my wellbeing.
I was due to submit my PhD last year.
But I was pregnant and wasn’t able to submit before I had my baby.
My supervisors supported me work around that too.
They are aware that people have lives outside of PhDs and academia.
I always say that if you get an opportunity, you should take it.
Being from a racially minoritised, migrant background, I was taught to believe education can offer you keys to a different life which can challenge some of the inequalities we face.
My advice to parents of young children taking on a PhD is to think carefully about the support structures around you, and the level of financial stability you have.
Because even a funded PhD doesn’t pay that much if you are living in London with children.
And I found PhDs are rarely completed within three years of funding, they are usually four years when you factor in writing.
I would work late at night after my kids go to bed, but this negatively affected my health.
So, there is that tough balance to get right of making sure you can look after yourself, can look after your children and do what you need to at home as well as meet the PhD deadlines.
I think that it is important to work with your supervisors and your departments to get the flexibility you need to balance home and work responsibilities.
Mixing up where you work can also be helpful.
Working from home can save time on commuting, but I also found going into the office and having a change of scene was helpful.
My Mum as a working-class single parent poured so much into us to give us her quality of time and encourage us in our education.
When we immigrated to the UK, she initially worked night shifts and she would come back home, take us to school, pick us up, and go back to work.
So, for me a massive part of the PhD is a thank you to her - it is because of her.
My passion is in co-production and participatory research, and I am looking at such roles after my PhD.
I have a couple more months left in my research assistant role now, and I am starting to look for my next role.
Doing a PhD is the one of the rare times you will get to manage yourself.
In almost every other role you have a manager, but in a PhD you have supervisors guiding you, so you have autonomy and get to be creative with your methodologies and work.
You have so many opportunities to learn and develop new skills.
You can think about what motivates you most and how you can do work that feels fulfilling.
I also think it is important to take stock regularly during your PhD.
Having time to reflect and look back will help you spot milestones to celebrate, remind you how far you have come, and notice all the things you have learnt and achieved.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/kings-supervisory-excellence-awards-2024:
17 December 2024
We are delighted to announce the winners of the 2024 King’s Supervisory Excellence Awards.
King's Doctoral College awarded the prizes at a celebration event on Thursday 12 December.
The Supervisory Excellence Award faculty winners were chosen from over 200 nominations from doctoral students and staff across King's College London.
Reflecting the high calibre of nominees many faculties opted to share their award between two outstanding supervisors or in the case of the Faculty of Social Science and Public Policy an excellent supervisory team.
The 2024 faculty winners are:
Each faculty winner will receive £1000 for their own professional development, which is shared if two winners are selected.
The overall Supervisory Excellence Award Winner 2024 is:
Dr Áine McMurtry , Reader in German, who was nominated for the award by students and staff in the Faculty of Arts & Humanities for her continued dedication to doctoral students.
On reflection about her excellent supervisory practice Dr McMurtry said,
PhD supervision has been one of the most rewarding aspects of my career at King’s and I’ve been lucky to work with all my postgraduate students.
The chance to accompany a project from its conceptual beginnings, support the gradual emergence of an overarching thesis, and keep faith as it takes flight is both a privilege and a responsibility, especially when working in a minor discipline in the contemporary Humanities.
Professor Rebecca Oakey , Dean for Doctoral Studies said,
Dr Áine McMurtry was selected by the King’s Doctoral College judging panel from all of our faculty winners for going above and beyond her role as supervisor.
The nominations received highlighted how she has built a profound sense of community in the Department of Languages, Literatures and Cultures.
Dr Áine McMurtry has supported students personally and through regularly organising career development events, workshops, summer schools and conferences, she also played an instrumental role in practically implementing the delivery of a joint PhD programme.
King's Doctoral College runs the annual Supervisory Excellence Awards to recognise and celebrate the role that doctoral supervisors play in King's College London's outstanding research culture and the success of its doctoral students.
The high quality of nominations we received this year reflects the hard work and dedication that our supervisors offer to doctoral students.
These awards acknowledge the excellent level of supervision provided at King's and promote and disseminate best practice in supervision.
The awards have been run annually since 2006.
King's Doctoral College continue to consider how we can best support supervisors and their professional development, which is one of the key reasons that we are one of five core university partners in the Research Supervision Next Generation Research Project .
The winners of the King's Doctoral Support Awards , Dr Lucien Heurtier, Professor Helen Fisher and Boma Campbell also received their awards during the celebration event in recognition of the support doctoral students receive from staff outside of their supervisory team.
Congratulations to all our award winners and nominees.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/kings-awarded-doctoral-training-funding-from-three-uk-research-councils:
18 November 2024
Biological sciences, environmental sciences and physical sciences at King’s will all benefit from a share of over £500 million invested in doctoral students, announced by UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) on 13 November 2024.
This investment from UKRI, through the Biotechnology and Bioscience Research Council (BBSRC), the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) and the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC), supports doctoral students to develop their skills and experience across many of King’s areas of research strength.
Skills the students develop will prepare them for a diverse range of careers, both in research and innovation and across the public and private sectors.
At least 25% of studentships will be delivered in collaboration with non-academic partners.
King’s is a key partner in two consortiums that are receiving significant funding.
The London Interdisciplinary Doctoral training consortium (LIDo), will support 130 PhD bio-scientists over the next five years.
In addition to this UKRI funding, LIDo will create additional studentships funded by external partners including from industry.
LIDo works closely with external collaborators across multiple sectors, including Unilever, Royal Botanic Gardens Kew, the Natural History Museum, Animal and Plant Health Agency, Food Standards Agency, Discovery Park, and the Alan Turing Institute.
LIDo has been training PhD students since 2012.
The new funding will include projects combining bioscience with artificial intelligence and advanced computation.
Professor Jeremy Green, Centre for Craniofacial Regeneration and Biology, the King’s lead for the LIDo consortium said:
The renewal of LIDo funding by the BBSRC is great news for King’s.
LIDo continues to be a leader – not only in its longstanding emphasis on combining biology lab experiments with computational and other “dry” science approaches to biotech and bioscience, but also at the forefront of student equality, diversity and inclusion, cohort development, and international recruitment.
In an increasingly competitive funding environment, this is a testament to the excellence of our PhD training provision.
The Training Research and Equity in Environmental Sciences (TREES) Doctoral Landscape Award , will support 65 environmental science PhD students over the same period.
King’s is working in partnership with nine other academic institutions, led by UCL, and aims to address critical environmental challenges through interdisciplinary environmental sciences.
The TREES Doctoral Landscape Award will train the next generation of researchers to address global challenges, including climate change, biodiversity loss, and ecosystem resilience.
TREES will empower students to develop innovative, cross-disciplinary solutions while fostering impactful partnerships with over 80 external collaborators, including NGOs, charities, industry leaders, and public sector organisations.
Professor Mark Mulligan, the King’s academic lead for TREES, said:
We are delighted that NERC have funded the TREES Doctoral Landscape Award, in which King's is a key academic partner.
The award will enable collaborative PhD projects between the ten hosting partners and a wide range of collaborating organisations.
It will help us develop a dynamic new PhD training and research programme that will equip the next generation of environmental scientists to tackle today's critical global challenges.
Both programmes were awarded funding following a national competition for 2024 Doctoral Landscape Awards led by BBSRC and NERC.
In total, BBSRC and NERC are investing £293 million in more than 2,300 studentships over five years.
In addition, the EPSRC is investing £279 million in university doctoral landscape awards over the same period.
King’s EPSRC Doctoral Landscape Award (~ £6.8m) will support more than 60 new PhD students across key strategic themes in science and engineering, e.g.
Net Zero technologies, Quantum technologies, AI, computational modelling applied to health sciences and imaging sciences, engineering biology, and studies of human and synthetic minds.
At least 25% of EPSRC DLA projects will be in collaboration with industry partners, offering doctoral students valuable opportunities to enhance their collaborative and interdisciplinary skills through practical, work-based experiences.
This enables access to world-class industrial facilities and expertise, encourages contributions to real-world problem-solving, and helps students establish and grow professional networks, expanding their career prospects.
Dr Nigel Eady, Director of Research Talent, said:
EPSRC doctoral funding enables us to attract the very best students to King’s, develop close & productive partnerships with industry and produce world-leading research that transforms society.
King’s is fully committed to empowering the next generation of researchers to achieve their ambitions and our Doctoral College is at the heart of this commitment.
Both LIDo and TREES are now accepting applications for PhD studentships starting in autumn 2025.
Partner Institutions:
The TREES partnership includes King’s College London, UCL, Birkbeck, Brunel, Queen Mary University of London, the Natural History Museum, Royal Botanic Gardens Kew, Royal Holloway, University of London, University of Portsmouth, and ZSL Institute of Zoology.
LIDo comprises eight leading London universities: King’s College London, UCL, Queen Mary University of London, Royal Veterinary College, Birkbeck, University of London, the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Royal Holloway, University of London and University of Greenwich's Natural Resources Institute.
Professor of Developmental Biology
Professor of Physical & Environmental Geography

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/news/kings-doctoral-support-award-2024:
21 October 2024
We are pleased to announce the winners of this years King's Doctoral Support Award; Dr Lucien Heurtier, Professor Helen Fisher and Boma Campbell.
This award recognises all the non-supervisory members of staff who make important contributions to doctoral student success.
The winners each receive £1000 to use on their professional development as recognition for the excellent support they offer to doctoral students in their faculty, school or department.
This year's winners represent the broad range of staff at King's who support doctoral researchers' success, with Dr Lucien Heurtier, a member of research staff from the Faculty of Natural, Mathematical & Engineering Sciences,  Professor Helen Fisher, an academic from the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, and Boma Campbell a professional services staff member from the Faculty of Life Sciences & Medicine.
The three winners were selected from over 100 nominations received from doctoral students and staff from all faculties across King's due to their high quality of support for doctoral students.
Lucien has demonstrated exceptional care to PhDs.
His enthusiasm for the personal and professional development of doctoral students is truly appreciable.
His proactive engagement includes providing invaluable advice during job searches and teaching all PhDs in the group to build personal websites that enhance their professional profiles.
His empathy and availability during challenging times ensure that students feel valued and supported, contributing to a positive and nurturing academic environment.
Helen is incredibly generous with her time and is proactive in her approach to supporting doctoral students that she doesn’t supervise directly.
This includes, feedback on draft chapters, fellowship applications, job applications, and papers; a monthly ‘ask me anything’ initiative; signposting to opportunities; mocks vivas and job/fellowship interviews; and a training programme that spans a wide range of topics – from impact and media engagement to grant writing and research governance – available for all Centre-affiliated students at the ESRC Centre for Society and Mental Health to attend.
Boma has been instrumental to bringing together support for doctoral students within a very large and complex faculty that is FoLSM.
Working with all relevant teams across King's to build relationships and get things done.
She makes a huge impact on the support we offer doctoral students, taking on safeguarding , managing support for study meetings and holding their hands during the induction process.
She heavily supports our clinical doctoral students with research passports and makes sure that students who need occupational health and/or DBS checks are supported in getting access to these facilities.
This kind of activity makes a huge difference to individuals as they join the doctoral community at King's.
The King's Doctoral College introduced the Doctoral Support Award in 2023 to recognise all the non-supervisory members of staff who make important contributions to doctoral student success.
Approximately 4,500 postgraduate research students are registered at King’s, drawn from all parts around the world and researching across all disciplines.
Each year, hundreds of doctoral students complete their degrees and graduate, going on to become leaders in academia, research, industry, and beyond.
This is only made possible by the hard work and dedication of all the staff who support doctoral students at King's.
Postdoctoral Research Associate
Professor of Developmental Psychopathology

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/classics:
Research & Expertise
Connections & Outreach
Classics (1984) alumnus wins Arts & Culture Award
Students make replicas as part of the Phosphor Bronze Coin Die Experiment
Research shows first skeletal evidence of gladiator bitten by lion
Students visit Athens
One of the UK’s largest communities of Classics researchers
The Department of Classics at King’s is one of the largest, most prestigious and innovative centres for the study of antiquity in the world.
We have been teaching undergraduate courses in Classics since 1831.
Join our postgraduate courses to study literature, history, cultures and influences of ancient civilizations around and beyond the Mediterranean.
A vibrant community of Classicists achieving the very highest standards of research and education.
The Department of Classics offers two Intensive Courses in Ancient Greek and Latin.
The Department of Classics is a vibrant and exciting centre for research both in the UK and…
The Centre for Hellenic Studies at King's College London is a unique grouping of academics in…
Learn more about current postgraduate students in the Department of Classics and the successes of…
Our alumni traditionally embark upon an exceptionally diverse range of careers.
Discover our international partners across the globe and see how we work with them.
The Department of Classics outreach projects play an integral role in our community and beyond.
Department of Classics partners include the British Library, the Centre for Hellenic Studies and…
Our top priority at King's is to be accessible to all talented and enthusiastic students.
King's MaLiCH project celebrates success as the historic Old Town of Ghadames, Libya is removed from…
As the Managing Libya’s Cultural Heritage (MaLiCH) project, funded by ALIPH (the International…
9 June 2025
Classics students had the opportunity to make replica Roman coins as part of the Phosphor Bronze…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/cmci:
Dr Shelley Galpin explains
Open until 2 July
Read our report
Read more on The Conversation
Seeking to explore connections between activism and academic research.
Specialising in the relationship between culture, media and the creative industries, we are a vibrant, research-led department approaching a new subject area with traditional academic rigour.
Explore through our exciting range of postgraduate degrees how creative and cultural industries such as film, the performing arts, media and publishing influence our society today.
Become an expert in how the cultural and creative industries operate, the ways in which media shapes our lives and how we, in turn, influence the media and creative sectors.
Specialists and experts from the Department of Culture, Media & Creative Industries.
Engage with our world-leading impactful research.
Full lists of Department of Culture, Media & Creative Industries publications
In my former life as a teacher, I once had a job interview in which I was asked how I dealt with the…
23 June 2025
Recipients of the second round of the One King’s Impact Fund announced
5 June 2025
In the 250th anniversary of Jane Austen's birth, it would seem that every new generation wants its…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/ddh:
Explore our Career Accelerator
Attend the exhibition
Next intake on 22 April 2025
Our staff have a wealth of expertise which covers the full range of Digital Humanities disciplines.
Many Digital Humanities students take up the opportunity to study abroad with one our international connections around the world.
While studying for your degree with us, you can undertake internships, experience research-led teaching and more.
Our expertise covers various topics and research in Digital Humanities.
Explore current and past projects in the Department of Digital Humanities at King's.
See how research at King's Digital Humanities impacts society.
Access a full list of publications by the Department of Digital Humanities.
On a sunny afternoon, I was scrolling through social media when I came across a video of a young…
7 July 2025
Dr Rikke Amundsen, Lecturer in Digital Media and Culture in the Department of Digital Humanities,…
19 September 2025
Join us for this online event to present and discuss findings from our recent research on Menstrual…
15 January 2026
We invite submissions for the conference Quantitative Diachronic Linguistics and Cultural Analytics:…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/english:
Use the city as your classroom on our English BA
With our world-leading research and teaching, you can be part of a thriving postgraduate community at one of the oldest English departments in the country.
Our vibrant Department set in the heart of London offers you the chance to discover texts from all periods, genres, styles and manifestations.
Our partnerships with iconic cultural centres in London and higher education institutions around the world offer our students a truly global experience.
Get to know the Department of English at King's.
Learn more about current and past research projects from the Department of English.
Discover our wide-ranging expertise, from medieval literature to innovative writing forms.
Our links with London-based cultural partners offer enhanced opportunities.
4 August 2025
Dr Nick Makoha, graduate of the PhD in Creative Writing Research programme in the Department of…
Professor Abdulrazak Gurnah FRSL received the International Bing Xin Literature Award, presented by…
14 July 2025
Benjamin Wood, Senior Lecturer in Creative Writing in the Department of English, releases his new…
King’s College London hosted pre-conference events for the 34th Annual International Conference on…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/film-studies:
Read the story
Explore the event series
Read review by Prof Catherine Wheatley
Read review by Dr Belén Vidal
Read review by Prof Rosalind Galt
Enjoy lectures by some of the world’s leading film scholars
Study film studies in the very heart of London
Immerse yourself in the capital’s thriving cinema culture.
Our staff have a wealth of expertise which covering a range of Film Studies disciplines.
We are committed to ensuring that people of all backgrounds have the opportunity to study with us and feel welcome.
Research culture in the Department of Film Studies is vibrant and stimulating
How we work to advance knowledge, learning, and understanding in the service of society
A full list of Department of Film Studies publications
22 July 2025
In 2025, 58 UK Fellows, 30 International Fellows and 4 Honorary Fellows have been elected to the…
'Forever Girls: Necro-Cinematics and South Korean Girlhood' by Professor Jinhee Choi is out now.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/history:
Researching and studying the history of the world
Our teaching and research is renowned for its chronological breadth, global reach and diverse curriculum.
One of the largest History research departments in the UK.
We are a vibrant community of historians achieving the very highest standards of research and education.
Areas of particular academic expertise represented within the King's Department of History
Learn more about the impact of the Department of History's recent historical research
A selection of recently published books and edited volumes by academics and staff in the King's…
6 August 2025
The Archives and Policy Seminar Series aims to unite academics, archivists, policymakers,…
The annual summer school in global history took place in Sandbjerg, Denmark from 18-21 June.
28 July 2025
King’s College London is saddened to learn of the death of Professor Peter J.
Marshall, one of our…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/interhums:
Professional Education
Tailor your learning to your interests on our Liberal Arts BA
Read more
Our innovative Global Cultures MA is a fully online course delivered in partnership with academics from across the Faculty of Arts & Humanities, equipping you with the skills to become a better global citizen.
Tailor your undergraduate degree by combining modules from a huge range of options across the Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences on King's College London's innovative Liberal Arts BA.
Professional Education in the Department of Interdisciplinary Humanities can equip you with the skills and attributes to thrive in international workplaces and the global community.
Explore our teaching, research, and community in the Department of Interdisciplinary Humanities.
Departmental partnerships and connections, within King's and with institutions around the world
Discover current and past research projects in the Department of Interdisciplinary Humanities.
Browse publications from our academics from across the arts, humanities, and social sciences.
Jessie Sumroy, who graduated from the Liberal Arts BA this summer, received the Jelf Medal for the…
Development of a new James Bond film is underway at Amazon Studios, with the creater of Peaky…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/dllc:
Explore our degrees in Modern Languages, Comparative Literature and more
Discover world-leading research and the expertise from within the department.
Our department has connections around the world - Berlin, Montreal, Luanda and more.
Hear from alumni on what they went on to do after graduating from the Department.
Did you know many of the photos on the Department website are taken by our students during their…
17 July 2025
King’s hosted the Society for European Philosophy Annual Conference from 7-9 July, the largest…
12 June 2025
Academics from King’s participated in a collective enterprise with the University of Blida 2 in…
2 June 2025
The relationship between sin and creative literary production in the medieval era are revealed in a…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/music:
Lecture with Prof Jean Lambert
Book by Dr Emily MacGregor
Keep an ear out
Read the story by Debasmita Das
A center of multi-faceted research
We teach students to engage in innovative and interdisciplinary approaches to understanding musical experience.
See how our graduates have achieved inspiring careers.
Our renowned academic staff work broadly across multiple disciplines of Music
We are driven by the innovative research and compositional creativity of our staff
A range of research projects from the King's Music.
How we advance knowledge, understanding and the joy of learning in the service of society.
Discover our full list of publications
Barış Demirezer, a student pursuing a PhD in historical musicology in the Department of Music at…
19 May 2025
Dr Emily MacGregor’s new book, While the Music Lasts: A Memoir of Music, Grief, and Joy, is out now.…
15 May 2025
Dr Gavin Williams, Lecturer in Music, reviews Lim Cosmic Rhapsody for The Conversation UK.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/philosophy:
The BA has awarded a 2025 fellowship to Professor Papineau
’Man-Devil’ by Dr John Callanan
Develop your philosophical ideas and arguments in a focused environment
Study at one of the largest Philosophy departments in the UK
Learn more about one of the largest dedicated philosophy departments in the UK.
Open up a world of opportunities, studying with the King's Department of Philosophy.
Our renowned academic staff work broadly across multiple disciplines of philosophy.
Explore the current and past King's Philosophy research projects.
Examples of the impact of our department's sector-leading research
Access a full list of Department of Philosophy publications
Explore our expertise in the philosophy of mind, psychology and language.
31 May 2025
The British Journal for the Philosophy of Science (BJPS) have awarded King's Dr Alexander Franklin…
14 April 2025
The annual King’s Arts & Humanities Student Awards recognises outstanding contributions by student…
7 April 2025
Man-Devil: The Mind and Times of Bernard Mandeville, the Wickedest Man in Europe is a provocative…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/trs:
Dr King-Ho Leung writes for The Conversation
Sufi Recipes for a Life Lived Well
Co-edited by Professor Linda Woodhead and Dr Nicole Graham
Check out our new Master’s course in Global Religion and Society
Find out more about research at the Department
Forging new paths in Theology and Religious Studies.
Socially-engaged research and teaching, serving London and the world.
Study at a world-renowned university where Theology & Religion have been taught for over 180 years.
A world-leading community of researchers investigating religious history and modernity, religious identity and difference.
Discover areas of specialism from our staff in the Department.
Discover how our research makes a difference in society.
Explore our focused centres of research involving the department.
Read more about current and recent King's TRS research projects
Professor Mona Siddiqui, OBE, joins King’s from the University of Edinburgh for the start of the…
8 July 2025
Dr King-Ho Leung, Lecturer in Theology, Philosophy and the Arts writes for The Conversation
Dr Karen O’Brien-Kop, Lecturer in Modern Asian Religions has been awarded a Small Grant for her…
29 April 2025
Dr Kazuyo Murata, Senior Lecturer in Islamic Studies has been awarded a fellowship from the…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/bmb:
Dr Robert Seaborne from the School of Basic & Medical Biosciences at King’s has received a New…
People with low levels of vitamin D are more likely to be hospitalised with COVID-19, according to…
11 September 2025
The Biomolecular Interactions and Optical Spectroscopy facilities at New Hunt’s house in the Randall…
Join us for an exciting event exploring how your colleagues at King’s College London are leveraging…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/bmeis:
Apply now for intake in September 2025
All our latest news, research, clinical and social impact updates
News from the London Institute for Healthcare Engineering
Our undergraduate courses provide a solid introduction into the many ways science and technology are being used in modern clinical practice.
Our master's courses are highly practical, giving students real-world insight into clinical challenges through our work with St Thomas' Hospital and labs across King's.
We run multiple highly acclaimed research training programmes in the medical imaging and medical technologies sectors, supporting our long-term research projects.
Innovations in health technology have the potential to tackle the biggest healthcare challenges of our time.
The School of Biomedical Engineering & Imaging Sciences is advancing healthcare engineering research, teaching, and entrepreneurship by bringing life-changing medical technologies to patients and clinicians faster.
We are driven by the ambition to improve the way we deliver healthcare through advanced engineering.
The School trains the next generation of world-class biomedical engineers and prioritises collaboration between researchers, clinicians and industry.
Our students and researchers break down barriers between disciplines to deliver faster translation of research into the clinic.
By being embedded within one of the UK's largest NHS Trusts, we can improve the quality of life for patients around the world.
Our MedTech Innovation & Entrepreneurship MSc offers a unique opportunity to learn from medical practitioners, industry professionals, innovators, entrepreneurs, and study across business and engineering schools at King’s.
A new programme designed to better support Black school children in years 9 to 12 into engineering courses and Black undergraduate biomedical, electronic and general engineering students.
The programme's first iteration supported aspiring MedTech entrepreneurs from 21 project teams across 4 faculties at King's.
Researchers, led by Dr Rafael T.
M.
de Rosales and Dr Graeme Stasiuk, have been awarded £10 million…
A newly-published paper explores the influence of GenAI on how scientists practice science today and…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/scps:
Postgraduate study
Our departments
Improving patient response through fundamental science discovery
Bringing together world-class clinical services, research and education
From molecules to medicines: using science to transform healthcare
Keep up-to-date with the latest news from our School
Our School contributes to both the Medicine MBBS and MPharm Pharmacy course
Discover our leading postgraduate courses to take your career further
We have a multidisciplinary research portfolio across our School
12 August 2025
King’s has been awarded a share of a €4.7 million research grant to support a groundbreaking…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/scmms:
Our themes
The School of Cardiovascular and Metabolic Medicine & Sciences (SCMMS) provides an outstanding multi-disciplinary environment for the pursuit of cutting-edge cardiovascular and metabolic research.
We study the fundamental molecular, cellular, and physiological processes that underlie normal and abnormal cardiovascular and metabolic function and drive the translation of this strong basic science into advances in clinical practice.
Our research focuses on four main Themes ( Cardiac , Vascular , Cardiometabolic , Diabetes & Obesity ), with two cross-cutting Themes ( Basic and Clinical ).
The School is led by Professor Mauro Giacca and comprises over 65 clinical and non-clinical academic groups, hosting 400 personnel and 110 PhD students.
Our community of world-renowned researchers and educators have access to state-of-the art core facilities and expertise, including facilities for high-throughput screening and high content imaging, multimodality in vivo imaging, proteomics, integrative physiology and viral & non-viral vector production.
The School activities are carried out at three main locations: James Black Centre in Denmark Hill, St Thomas’s Hospital and Franklin-Wilkins Building in South Bank and the Hodgkin Building and New Hunt House/Randal Centre in Guy’s Campus.
As part of King’s Health Partners, we have an excellent environment for basic-clinical interaction and a strong focus on mentoring and career development.
The School hosts the British Heart Foundation Centre of Research Excellence at King's, which brings together a unique range of internationally recognised scientists and clinicians from across the School and King’s College London.
Mauro Giacca Head of School and Head of Section, Cardiovascular Sciences
The Cardiac Theme, led by Professor Elisabeth Ehler, focuses on all matters that concern the heart…
The Vascular Theme, led by Professor Cathy Shanahan, focuses on functioning blood vessels -…
The Cardiometabolic theme is led by Professor Manuel Mayr
The Diabetes & Obesity Theme, led by Dr Gavin Bewick, strives to improve the health of people living…
Our cross-cutting Basic Science theme is led by Professor Mike Shattock and underpins our research…
Our cross-cutting Clinical Theme is led by Professor Bijan Modarai and promotes translational…
Development, Diversity & Inclusion within the School of Cardiovascular and Metabolic Medicine &…
Department for Education within the School of Cardiovascular and Metabolic Medicine & Sciences
Our International Connections within the School of Cardiovascular and Metabolic Medicine & Sciences
Postgraduate Research within the School of Cardiovascular and Metabolic Medicine & Sciences
1 August 2025
In a correspondence letter to Nature Medicine, Professor Afshan Malik joins researchers across the…
More than a quarter of people with a deadly form of heart disease may be missed following current…
Academics at King’s and the University of East Anglia have released guidance for GPs on how to…
BHF Centre Technology Workshop with Dr Miguel Mano

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/sims:
The School of Immunology & Microbial Sciences conducts high-quality research, education and training in immunobiology, inflammation biology, infection and liver studies in the context of health and disease.
The School consists of four Departments: the Peter Gorer Department of Immunobiology, the Department of Infectious Diseases, the Department of Inflammation Biology and the Roger Williams Institute of Liver Studies.
Our collective mission is to advance human health and wellbeing by exploring the complexities of pathogens and the immune system.
We are proud to lead cutting-edge research into immunology and microbiology, focusing on areas such as autoimmune diseases, cancer immunotherapy, chronic inflammation, infectious diseases, transplantation and liver diseases.
Our research takes a multi-disciplinary approach, leveraging state-of-the-art technologies and collaborative expertise to uncover the mechanisms that drive and regulate immune responses and infection in their complex environments.
By investigating the interplay between immunity and pathogens, inflammation, and broader health challenges, we aim to translate our findings into meaningful clinical and societal impact.
Our commitment to translational science means that the discoveries made in our labs contribute directly or indirectly to new diagnostics, treatments, and preventive measures.
Our state-of-the-art facilities and access to King’s College London’s extensive infrastructure provide an ideal environment for innovation.
In particular, the close collaboration between discovery and clinical research drives our impact.
By fostering an open, collaborative research culture, we empower our scientists to pursue bold questions and tackle emerging challenges in the biomedical sciences.
The School of Immunology & Microbial Sciences is equally dedicated to education.
We are passionate about inspiring and equipping the next generation of scientists, researchers and clinicians to tackle the challenges of tomorrow.
Whether you are an undergraduate student taking your first steps into the fascinating world of immunology or a postgraduate researcher pushing the boundaries of scientific knowledge, our School offers the support and resources you need to thrive including mentorship from world-renowned faculty and a vibrant community of peers committed to excellence.
Whether you are a prospective student, a researcher seeking to collaborate, or simply curious about our work, we invite you to explore the School of Immunology & Microbial Sciences and join us in our mission to improve human health through science and discovery.
The SIMS DDI Committee thrives to promote equity and remove barriers for all staff within our…
We aim to understand the pathogenic mechanisms, diagnosis and treatment of infections.
We investigate mechanisms that cause and control inflammation, human health and disease
Investigating the development & function of immune cells and novel ways of improving human…
The Roger Williams Institute of Liver Studies (RW-ILS) is a unique clinical academic partnership…
A new study has shed light on how a type of drug works to reduce liver damage in alcohol-related…
A study led by researchers from King’s College London and Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust…
Three researchers from the School of Immunology & Microbial Sciences (SIMS) at King’s College London…
Professor James Galloway from the School of Immunology & Microbial Sciences at King’s College London…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/slcps:
A new study led by researchers at King’s College London, in collaboration with the University of…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/chemistry:
Life-changing ways to study Chemistry
See how a PhD at King’s could shape your future
Updates on our research, discoveries, and much more!
Opportunities to join our vibrant faculty
Find out about undergraduate courses in the Department of Chemistry.
Discover our masters of research programme
Find out about doing a PhD with us.
Our postgraduate research degrees build chemistry leaders of the future
Supporting PhD students to achieve their academic and professional goals
Fostering a fair and inclusive environment for all staff and students
We're one of the oldest Chemistry departments in the UK
Discover our research groups in the Department of Chemistry.
Our research draws on the interface between physical and life sciences to explore new frontiers and deliver fundamental solutions for a sustainable and healthy society.
We are known for our work on the chemistry of life and have growing expertise in chemical biotechnology and green chemistry.
Whether you’re a global corporate, a small to medium-sized enterprise, a public sector body or community organisation, we have the academic expertise, facilities and student talent to help you innovate and achieve your goals.
The new method could help accelerate the transition of the technology from the lab to everyday use.
Dr Clare Bakewell named winner of Sir Edward Frankland Prize in recognition of research brilliance…
The work overturns scientific consensus from the 1960s and points to potentially dangerous unknown…
King’s researchers establish principles for designing precise artificial membrane channels with…
Find out more about the Department of Chemistry, King's College London.
Learn more about the world-leading instruments and capabilities of the Chemistry facility.
Get in touch with your queries
Meet the Department of Chemistry, King's College London.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/nms/depts/engineering:
Discover innovative engineering education
See how a PhD in Engineering could shape your future
Research, discoveries and more!
See how our work is changing the world
Discover our undergraduate Engineering courses.
Discover our postgraduate taught degrees in the Department of Engineering.
Discover our postgraduate research degrees in the Department of Engineering.
Learn about our outreach programmes, which are targeted to working with young people.
We are building on our distinguished history of Engineering research, to focus on both discovery and applied research, leveraging the synergies between conventional engineering and leading-edge technologies to solve the problems of today and those we face tomorrow.
Our research supports global challenges and national prosperity, helping to make the world a better place and improve people’s lives.
We work across a wide range of disciplines and applications including mechatronics, wireless communication, signal and information processing, control, and user-facing engineering, with researchers working across multidisciplinary collaborations, with arts and humanities, law, healthcare, social sciences, as well as policy makers, cultural partners, and industry.
Research in engineering
Our internationally renowned department fosters a vibrant research environment that aims to equip and inspire researchers to address technological and societal challenges.
We welcome postgraduate researchers from the UK and all over the world to further their aspirations as part of this goal.
Whether you’re a global corporate, a small to medium-sized enterprise (SME), a public sector body or community organisation, our faculty has the academic expertise, facilities and student talent to help you innovate and achieve your goals.
Our vision for King’s Engineering is to foster collaborations and facilitate problem-solving research to address some of the most pressing engineering real-world questions, building a better, more sustainable world to the benefit of society.
We comprise of the Department of Engineering and the School of Biomedical Engineering & Imaging Sciences (BMEIS), working closely together with a shared ambition to make the world a better place through engineering innovation.
Find out more about the general engineering undergraduate courses available.
View a tour of the redeveloped Engineering Quad teaching spaces and labs.
Uncover a world of boundless opportunities through engineering at King's College London.
Find out more about the Department of Engineering.
Initiatives to support women in STEM
Meet the Department of Engineering, King's College London

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/informatics:
Meet the demands of a complex and rapidly evolving digital world
Discover our variety of courses, taught by renowned academics!
Learn how doing postgraduate research could change your life
See what’s happening in the Department of Informatics
See how King’s experts and students can work with you
Read our expert analysis on key informatics topics
Find out about computer science and AI undergraduate courses.
Discover our postgraduate courses in the Department of Informatics.
Explore PhD projects and funding opportunities.
See how an Informatics PhD at King's could shape your future.
Discover analysis of key issues from researchers in Informatics
Supporting interdisciplinary research and innovation in London using Data Science.
Our internationally renowned research covers a wide range of subjects including algorithms and data analysis, cybersecurity, AI, human centred computing, and software systems.
We aim to explore fundamental scientific questions alongside responding to key societal challenges and opportunities in an increasingly complex, digital world.
Explore opportunities to collaborate with us
New research has revealed that AI chatbots can be easily manipulated to encourage users to reveal…
Machine Learning Engineers’ own perceptions of their environmental impact could be an impediment to…
02 October 2025
An online programme for female and non-binary students
01 November 2025
Compete to design and build robots, supported by our world-leading scientists and engineers.
Find out how the Department of Informatics supports diversity and inclusion.
Find out about the Department of Informatics at King's

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/mathematics:
Study at one of the UK’s leading centres of mathematical teaching
See how a PhD from King’s could shape your future
Explore our research groups
Workshops, seminars, lectures, and more!
Browse our directory of mathematics researchers
Find out about undergraduate courses in the Department of Mathematics.
Discover our postgraduate courses in the Department of Mathematics.
Discover our outreach activities in the Department of Mathematics.
Discover our postgraduate research degrees in the Department of Mathematics.
Find out about the history of the Department of Mathematics, King's College London.
Information about how the Department of Mathematics supports diversity and inclusion.
A leading centre for mathematics research in the UK, we aim to foster a vibrant and innovative environment to explore new ways of looking at familiar issues and deliver new tools to solve complex problems.
Our researchers work in interdisciplinary research collaborations within King’s including with computer scientists, physicists and researchers in health sciences and medicine.
They also work externally with industrial partners such as EDF research, the Pensions Policy Institute and Unilever, as well as with the Francis Crick Institute.
Research in the Department of Mathematics
Tribute to Emeritus Professor Edward Brian Davies, who passed away 2 June 2025.
24 June 2025
King’s launches new undergraduate degree in mathematics to equip students with skills and experience…
22 May 2025
The grants will help accelerate the development of trusted AI models, advance our understanding of…
Find out more about the Department of Mathematics.
Contact details for the Department of Mathematics, King's College London.
Meet the Department of Mathematics, King's College London.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/physics:
200 years of Physics excellence informs our teaching
See how a PhD in Physics could shape your future
News on developments, from research to discovery
Explore research groups in our internationally renowned department
Find out about undergraduate courses in the Department of Physics.
Discover our postgraduate courses in the Department of Physics.
Discover our postgraduate research degrees in the Department of Physics.
Information about how the Department of Physics supports diversity and inclusion.
Find out more about the history of the Department of Physics at King's College London.
King’s College London has one of the UK’s best Physics Departments with the QS World University Rankings placing us in the top 10 universities in the country.
Our research-intensive department houses internationally renowned scientists working across diverse and interdisciplinary fields, including biological physics and soft matter, photonics and nanotechnology, the theory and simulation of condensed matter, theoretical particle physics and cosmology; and experimental particle and astroparticle physics.
Discover our research
30 June 2025
The Ariel Data Challenge 2025, led by a joint initiative between King’s and UCL, will help…
The exhibit delves into the innovative use of light to power sustainable chemistry
28 May 2025
MetaHUB will develop new forms of engineered materials for use in everything from green energy to…
Two free online workshops for GCSE teachers to support them to deliver classroom activities on the…
Find out more about the Department of Physics at King's College London.
Contact details for the Department of Physics, King's College London.
Meet the Department of Physics, King's College London.

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/cicelysaunders:
Research & impact
Addressing the gap
Findings from a new YouGov survey
Ensuring support is coordinated, compassionate and high-quality
Effective, drug-free support for patients and families
Research shows how rehabilitation transforms lives and saves NHS money.
Find out about our multi-skilled staff who work across care settings and disease groups.
Inspiring tomorrow's palliative care leaders around the world.
We pioneer the best clinical, applied and health services research and maximise our impact by…
Join monthly seminars, workshops and special lectures hosted by world-leading experts.
Public involvement is critical to our work and enables us to respond to the changing needs of…
Tools and guidelines for health and social care professionals.
Almost half (47%) of UK adults are worried that they or their loved ones will have a painful or…
In the first randomised controlled trial to report the outcomes for nurse-led palliative care…
King’s academics have been involved in a major new report calling for a national strategy to address…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/nmpc/departments/adult-nursing:
Preserving our heritage is key but moving our thinking forward is vital.
We want to create modern nurses who are curious, compassionate, intelligent, resourceful, excellent clinical decision-makers and leaders in healthcare practice.
By making our past relevant to the 21st century, we’re inspiring a new generation of nurses and using innovative thinking to overcome challenges in healthcare.
The Department of Adult Nursing has been making a significant contribution to nursing practice for many years.
​You’ll be taught by lecturers who are evidence based, innovative and research focused in delivering a rich and engaging curriculum.​ Our graduates are highly sought and respected by employers, and many have gone on to leadership, research and clinical roles.​
We offer a balanced programme providing you with knowledge, skills and values to be an excellent practitioner.​ The focus is on person-centred care, clinical decision making, health across the life span, mental health and wellbeing, and working safely and effectively.​ There is a diversity of clinical experience with links to world-leading NHS Trusts and other organisations, who we work closely with as our pratice partners.
​
Your educational experience is a focused on educational best practice and an assessment for learning strategy.
You will experience online and face to face seminars and lectures as well as skill, simulation and virtual simulation to foster your development.
The learning is one that is challenging in a supportive and engaging approach.
With a team of around 50 staff, the Adult Nursing Department is the largest in the Faculty.
We are a diverse and close-knit team of professors, senior lecturers, lecturers, teaching fellows, lecture-practitioners and clinical teachers.
Visiting lecturers, researchers and PhD students also share their expertise with us and our students.
We're all either adult nursing or allied health professional with a vast range of clinical and leadership experience.
Many of the members of the department have national and international recognition as leaders in their field of practice, research or education.​ Departmental staff are part of university and outside organisations and working groups related to their field of expertise.
We have a strong ethos of collaborative working with our colleagues in other health faculties at King's through our Centre for Team-Based & Practice Learning in Healthcare and areas such as our prescribing education.
Students studying in our Department will also have shared learning with the other teaching departments in our Faculty - Mental Health Nursing, Midwifery and Children's Nursing.
Our staff specialise in a whole host of areas, from accident and emergency to care for people in their own home, pain management to critical care, and specialist practice to leadership and management.
Their varied experiences give students a unique insight and exposure into the day-to-day challenges of nursing, healthcare and leadership.
Although many staff have decades of experience, we also have more recently qualified nurses in the Department too.
They bring fresh ideas, challenge our thinking and help us move forward.
As a team, we're always looking for new and innovative ways to deliver education.
During the pandemic for example, we quickly developed Labs at Home and Virtual Simulation learning online when our students could not come to campus due to the national lockdown.
The thing about King's is once you join us you don’t want to leave.
Our courses prepare students to become excellent nurses, but many come back as teachers or researchers.
We offer two routes to registration, professional development modules, masters degrees and research degree programmes.
Our courses give nurses the chance delve into in different clinical areas such as nursing in intensive care, the social and political context of nursing, and palliative care.
Alongside placements in our partner trusts, we give students the opportunity to complete a research elective.
This involves working with the team on a research project – some students even get their name on publications.
Being a King's nurse is held in high regard.
Ward staff always know when you’re a King’s student, and they always comment on how committed we are to learning and how we always get stuck into patient care and the patient experience.
People in the Department of Adult Mental Health Nursing.
Adult Nursing student Jack shares his experience of studying at King's.
UCAS code: B740
Duration: 3 years

This course offers students the opportunity to develop the proficiencies required for registration as an Adult Nurse.
View course details
UCAS code: B730
Duration: 3 years

This course offers students the opportunity to develop the proficiencies required for registration as a Children's Nurse.
UCAS code: B760 Duration: 3 years

This course offers students the opportunity to develop the proficiencies required for registration as a Mental Health Nurse.
UCAS code: B720
Duration: 3 years

The course will equip students with the skills to become a competent midwifery practitioners who are confident in promoting high-quality, evidence- based maternity care to women, babies and families.
UCAS code: B742
Duration two years full time.
This course offers graduates the opportunity to develop the proficiencies required for registration as an Adult Nurse.
UCAS code: B762
Duration full time two years.
This course offers graduates the opportunity to develop the proficiencies required for registration as a Mental Health Nurse.
UCAS code: B743
Duration full time two years.
The Master of Nursing (MNurs) course offers graduates the opportunity to develop the knowledge and skills required for a dual-award registration as an Adult Nurse and Mental Health Nurse.
Duration MSc: 3 years (max of 6 years), PG Dip: 2 years (max of 4 years), PG Cert: 1 year (max of 3 years).
This course is studied part-time.
For experienced healthcare practitioners in hospital and community settings.
The course builds on your existing skills and experience to enable you to lead and support the development and delivery of advanced clinical practice.
Duration MSc: 1 year full-time, 2 years part-time, or 3 years part-time.
In person or distance learning.
(classroom & online).
This master's course provides advanced study for those who hold a current registration as a nurse, either in the UK or an international healthcare setting.
Duration: 2 years part-time.
Primarily distance learning, with some classroom teaching at the Ngee Ann Academy in Singapore.
This course provides advanced study for those who hold a current registration as a nurse in Singapore.
Duration MSc: 2 years part-time.
Primarily distance learning, with some classroom teaching at the HKU SPACE in Hong Kong.
This master's course provides advanced study for those who hold a current registration as a nurse in Hong Kong.
Duration 1 year full-time, 2 years part-time.
For clinicians seeking to strengthen their skills and knowledge to support, deliver and integrate research into clinical practice.
View course
Duration: PG Cert 1 year distance learning, PG Dip 2 years distance learning, MSc 3 years distance learning.
The online Clinical Research Delivery MSc/PG Dip/PG Cert is a multi-disciplinary course aimed at experienced healthcare practitioners from any healthcare profession.
This course focusses on the practical elements of clinical research.
Duration MSc: 2 years, PG Cert: 1 year.
Distance learning online.
For healthcare professionals with a responsibility for the management of diabetes.
Duration 1 year full-time, 2 years part-time, in person or distance learning.
This course for healthcare practitioners provides the skills to critically appraise research and evidence on palliative care, conduct high quality research, improve clinical practice and develop services across the world.
Duration 2 year full-time, 3 years part-time.
This MSc is the professional qualification for nurses who wish to gain entry to part three of the NMC nursing register as a health visitor or school nurse.
Places on this programme are sponsored centrally through service commissioners and in partnership with health visiting and school nursing service providers.
The course is designed to furnish qualified nurses with the evidence to demonstrate eligibility to register their specialist practitioner status with the Nursing & Midwifery Council (NMC).
Duration 1 year full-time
The Specialist Community Public Health Visiting Postgraduate Diploma course offers the professional qualification for NMC-registered nurses (level 1) and midwives who wish to gain entry to the Specialist Community Public Health Nursing part of the National Midwifery Council (NMC) register.
Duration: 9 months part-time

For experienced nurses to develop their role as a competent intensive care nurse, and to enhance their understanding and application of research evidence.
Duration 1 year full-time, 2 years part-time

The Masters in Health and Social Care Policy at King’s College London is for anyone interested in health and social care policy in a local, national, or global context.
In partnership with the International School for Governmen, the MSc blends cutting edge insights into the policymaking process with practical, real world experience of clinical settings.
Duration 2 years part time, online

Become fully equipped with the knowledge and skills needed to address the complex health and care challenges of ageing populations globally with a multidisciplinary approach, addressing the full spectrum of ageing care.
This course covers prevention, rehabilitation and end-of-life support.
Duration three years full time, six years part time.
Along with three of the UK’s leading NHS trusts, we are part of King’s Health Partners, a UK Academic Health Sciences Centre.
Our Faculty contributes to the interdisciplinary centres which support and deliver high-quality research.
Together, we work to ensure our research breakthroughs lead to direct benefits for patients.
In the most recent Research Excellence Framework (2014) assessment, more than 90% of the Faculty’s research was rated as 4* and 3* (world-class and internationally excellent).
At King’s we’re relentlessly searching for ways to improve both the way in which we offer education, and the health of individuals, families and communities.
We work closely with staff in our Faculty's Research Divisions to ensure our education is evidence-based and contemporary.
Staff in our Department who specialise in both education and research are also in a Research Division and bring expertise and knowledge from their field of research into their teaching.
The award was developed to acknowledge and reward the significant contribution made by social care…
2 April 2025
Academics from across the Faculty of Nursing, Midwifery and Palliative Care and the Faculty of Life…
31 March 2025
Aby Mitchell and Behnam Jafari Salim won for their work on virtual placements.
14 March 2025
Sabrina is among five palliative care specialists appointed.
Our short courses get you up to speed with the latest changes in practice and develops your career.…

New sentences found on https://kcl.ac.uk/nmpc/departments/child-family-health:
Together, we shape, change and save lives through innovative education, research and practice.
At the heart of everything we do is our motivation to help children and their families – especially when their health and wellbeing are at risk.
The placements with our clinical partners in world-class hospitals attract many of our students.
But it’s only when they join us, they realise what it really means to be part of our nursing community.
We develop innovative teaching methods to prepare our students for practice.
Most importantly, we listen to what they say about our courses and the way they learn.
To make sure healthcare moves forward, we need to unravel challenges and find solutions.
That’s why it’s vital that we collaborate with other departments within the Faculty and wider university community.
The Department has a close-knit team of lecturers, researchers, lecturer practitioners and clinical teachers that teach across our pre- and post-registration courses.
Their expertise is invaluable to students who are beginning their journey and healthcare professionals taking the next step in their career.
Our researchers are central ito ensuring that excellence in research is translated into exciting learning opportunities for students.
Our clinical teachers facilitate pre-registration learning in the clinical environment, practice and simulation.
They bring learning alive and listening to their insight, students grasp how to tackle the everyday challenges they’ll face when they graduate.
We offer a curriculum that is engaging, allows for critical thinking and is a positive learning experience for our students.
We offer BSc and MSc routes to registration as a children’s nurse.
We also offer a specialist community public health nurse course and other professional development short courses.
Everything we do is geared towards preparing students for their career.
Alongside clinical placements, we offer simulated practice which is highly valued and enjoyed by our students.
For that extra boost of confidence before they graduate, we run transition sessions to make the move from student to professional as smooth as possible.
I wanted to be at distinguished hospitals like Guys & St.
Thomas’, King’s College Hospital, University College London Hospital & Imperial College London Hospital – nowhere else could offer me all of these.
People in the Department of Child and Family Health.
Postgraduate nursing student Hannah explains moving to studying nursing from a different…
Develop the proficiencies required for registration as a Children's Nurse
MPhil/PhD research to improve the quality of services and outcomes for patients.
To solve challenges in the healthcare sector, we collaborate with other teams within the faculty, the wider academic community at King’s and external partners.
The team shape guidance and quality standards in the profession.
They are responsive, innovative and adaptive.
Staff and students pride themselves in multiple achievements for example through research fellowships, publications and attending a variety of conferences.
Researchers from the Florence Nightingale Faculty of Nursing, Midwifery and Palliative Care are part…