# Site: https://www.keele.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 500
# --------

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk:
Sorry, but you must enable JavaScript to view the Keele website.
This is where it begins.
Whether you’re visiting us for an Undergraduate Open Day, or exploring further study options at a Postgraduate Open Event, we look forward to welcoming you to our campus.
As a campus university, Keele has over 2,600 bedrooms on site, with a range of accommodation available and all within a short walk of the centre of campus.
I came and had a look around and I just really loved the vibe of the place and the fact it was a campus that had everything I needed on it.
I had visited universities in some of the bigger cities, and they just felt overwhelming to me, whereas Keele felt like home.
Read Rebecca's story >
The latest news from Keele University.
View all news
Keele University combines the best of modern learning with a rich history on a stunning, green campus.
Our innovative courses are designed with employability in mind, offering placement opportunities that prepare students for real-world success.
Located near both a vibrant university town and a bustling city, Keele is a global community for both academic and personal growth, and our world-class research has impact regionally, nationally and internationally.
This is Keele
Established over 75 years ago, Keele created the blueprint for modern-day higher education in Britain.
Follow Keele University on social media
© Keele University
Title
Description

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/accessibility:
Keele University is committed to increasing the accessibility of information to all users, including visitors with visual or motor impairments.
This statement outlines our activities and achievements so far in increasing accessibility.
This accessibility statement applies to keele.ac.uk.
This website is run by Keele University.
We want as many people as possible to be able to use this website and are committed to ensuring digital accessibility for people with disabilities.
For example, that means you should be able to:
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
AbilityNet is a UK charity that exists to change the lives of disabled people by helping them to use digital technology at work, at home or in education.
We tested our website for accessibility during the design process, and we carry out similar testing on the live site.
We use and validate against HTML 5, whilst using structured semantic markup with CSS 2.1 and CSS 3 for page design.
Where Javascript, jQuery or CSS is used to present information, we strive to provide fallbacks.
Progressive enhancement is applied to all content and layout.
We know some parts of this website aren't fully accessible:
We’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
Please contact us at support.web@keele.ac.uk if you:
We’ll consider your request and get back to you within five working days.
If you are unhappy with the response you receive in relation to an accessibility-related issue, you can make a complaint to support.web@keele.ac.uk .
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
Keele University is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
No records are available.
This statement was prepared in January 2020.
It was last reviewed on 19th August 2025.
This website was last tested for accessibility in August 2025 by Keele University.
The next full review is scheduled for August 2026.
Our tests are carried out on samples of 50 pages, including our website scaffolding , by:
In January 2020, we also had a sample of key pages tested, both manually and automatically, for accessibility by the Digital Accessibility Centre .
We chose the sample of web pages to test by using Google Analytics (to test our most visited pages), as well as a random sample, and our website scaffolding (as mentioned above).
We have a rolling programme of updating content in accordance with the guidelines set out by the WCAG.
We continually monitor the accessibility compliance of our site and have made the fixing and improvement of the site part of our daily digital housekeeping activities.
All CMS Web Champions (editors) have access to our website style guide which includes guidance on how to produce accessible web pages and content.
This guidance is reviewed on a regular basis.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/foundationyears/foundationcourses:
Whether you have non-traditional qualifications, want to change your subjects, have had a break from education and wish to return or want a change of career – the foundation years at Keele provide an opportunity for those with diverse backgrounds to access an honours degree.
Upon successful completion, you will progress onto your degree programme in September.
The courses below are for September 2025.
You can also view our list of Foundation Year courses that start in January .
Please note, our January entry for Foundation Year offers a condensed programme (January-September).
Sorry, no matches found.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses:
Explore your academic interests and career aspirations through Keele’s breadth of courses.
For courses starting in September 2025, see our Undergraduate 2025 A-Z
Type in a subject to filter the list below.
or view our foundation year courses .
Haven't found what you're looking for?
Try our advanced course search .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses:
For courses starting in September 2026, see our Undergraduate 2026 A-Z

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/postgraduatestudy/postgraduatecourses:
Our postgraduate courses combine advanced level tuition with, if you choose a full master’s course, the completion of a research project and dissertation under the guidance of your tutor.
In most courses, you will take a mix of core and elective modules so that you can tailor your programme to your own interests.
The types of postgraduate taught programmes available at Keele are:
You will be awarded one credit for a minimum of 10 hours of study, including lectures, seminars, assignments, project work and private study.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/postgraduateresearch/researchareas:
Our postgraduate research A-Z lists the areas in which research degrees (PhD and MPhil) and professional doctorates are offered at Keele.
Find out about the types of research degrees available
Academic and non-academic criteria
Advice and important information to help with your application
Fees and funding support for all research degrees including Fellowships

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/cpdandleadership:
Keele University is internationally acclaimed for its academic and research expertise, with 80% of our research deemed world-leading or internationally excellent (REF, 2021).
It is through this expertise that we are able to assist businesses in the development and training of their workforce.
We are proud to introduce three entirely online MBA programmes that have been created for leaders and aspiring leaders of private and public sector organisations who want to unleash their career potential.
Find out more at online.keele.ac.uk.
Are you looking for ways to strengthen your business?
We can help you innovate your business by giving you access to our specialist professional and academic network.
The list below is our CPD standalone modules only.
If you are not studying one or more of those then for full information on the modules associated with your Postgraduate Programme, please go to the following link and select your course.
We are aware that some applicants may experience delays in receiving responses from the University, possibly due to NHS firewalls or limited access to work emails.
To ensure you receive important updates about your application, please include both your work and personal email addresses .
NUR-40068 Adult Chest X-ray Assessment, Interpretation and Reporting NUR-40134 Advanced Critical Care Practitioner NUR-40164 Applied Advanced Healthcare Leadership NUR-40091 Education for Clinical Instructors in Life Support Teaching NUR-40142 Facilitating the Learning Journey NUR-40115 Foundations in Neonatal Care Level 7 NUR-40014 Health Assessment in Clinical Practice NUR-40083 Heart Failure Management in Clinical Practice NUR-40047 Independent and Supplementary Nurse/Midwife Prescribing NUR-40033 Independent And Supplementary Prescribing For Allied Health Professionals NUR-40075 Practice-Focused Neonatal Intensive Care Level 7 NUR-40170 Preceptorship NUR-40200 Professional Advocate in Health and Social Care NUR-40117 Professional Nurse Advocate
NUR-30245 Applied Advanced Healthcare Leadership and Management NUR-30232 Foundations in Neonatal Care NUR-30148 Practice Focused Neonatal Intensive Care
HLT-40001 Research Methods in Health
PHA-40071 Independent Prescribing for Pharmacists
PTY-40102 Principles and Practice of Joint and Soft Tissue Injection
Many of our Law postgraduate diplomas and Master's degrees that will be of direct interest to practitioners are taught by way of four three day block sessions.
Each block meets the annual CPD requirement of 16 hours as currently set by the SRA.
As well as teaching about the local history of Staffordshire and surrounding area, we also offer courses on the methods and practice of local history study, as well as key skills such as document reading and analysis, and short courses on topical subjects that regularly attract students from overseas.
Of particular note is our long-running Latin and Palaeography Summer School.
Modules available for flexible study attendance in MA Education, modules available for CPD attendance in Social Science Research Methods.
Our Skills Bootcamps have been created to help you gain key sector-specific skills.
They have both been designed with input from employers and each bootcamp will be delivered by experts from Keele University and industry partners.
Skills Bootcamps are part of the Government’s Lifetime Skills Guarantee, helping everyone gain skills for life.
Keele University is offering short courses as part of a national pilot to provide flexible university study.
Developed in collaboration with local stakeholders the courses have been created with a clear focus on developing skills which are highly relevant to today’s fast paced and evolving work environment.
The courses are delivered over 12 to 16 weeks using hybrid learning, this normally includes face-to-face teaching sessions and self-paced online activities.
Depending on the course, face-to-face teaching will either be delivered on-campus or online.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/students:
Your single source of information for sexual violence and misconduct
How and when we might use your emergency contact information, and why keeping it up-to-date is so important.
It's so important that your time at Keele is spent feeling happy and healthy.
Our welfare support team are here for all Keele students.
If you are worried or have been affected by major global events then we are here to help you.
As a University, we understand that rising inflation and the cost-of-living crisis is having an impact on everybody within the Keele community, and as such we have put together a series of initiatives to support our colleagues and students over the months ahead as part of our institutional response to the crisis.
Let us know what we're doing well, what needs improvement, and what you think we should prioritise – or any other ideas that you have to improve the student experience, campus, and services at Keele.
At Keele, we’re committed to delivering an outstanding student experience based on real student feedback.
Read about recent improvements that we have made thanks to your feedback.
The latest campus news from Keele University.
Find out more about Lino print workshop
Find out more about Who are you?
Textile crafting with Shiv and Eve.
Find out more about Photo Weaving with Nilupa Yasmin
Find out more about Clay Guardians

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/students/welcome:
Congratulations on getting your place at Keele University.
We can't wait to welcome you!
These web pages have everything you need to help you prepare.
Here are key dates for the 2025/26 academic year >
Come along to our online pre-arrival event on Tuesday 9th September, 10am-6pm!
Find out more and sign up here .
Can't make it?
Don't worry!
We will make resources from the session available on these web pages after the event!
Important tasks you need to complete before you begin your studies.
Work your way through these sections to familiarise yourself with life at Keele
Work your way through essential tasks each week

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/students/lifeoutsideofstudy/welfareandwellbeing:
Our welfare support team are here for all Keele students - and you can get in touch with us in the same way as you contact all other Student Services .
From helping you settle in when you first arrive, to raising awareness of important topics, and getting you through exam time with Exam Plus, we are here to help you.
If you need to talk to someone, whether it’s about your studies or life outside of them, we have a Student Experience and Support team based within your Faculty to support you.
A free 24 hour confidential helpline and app available for all Keele students.
You can contact them about counselling, stress and anxiety, low mood, family issues, bereavement support, or many other support areas too.
Find out how our in-house team of qualified mental health professionals can help you.
They have a wide variety of backgrounds and expertise, and we try to match your current need with the most appropriate member of the team.
your academic skills
your course
time off
get in touch

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/students/let-us-know:
We read all submissions and aim to respond within 30 working days.
We’ll also publish all submissions and responses on these webpages for transparency, unless you ask us not to.
Submit your feedback or questions using our online form.
Read the latest 'Let us know' submissions and our answers.
You can tell us anything about student life – from feedback about our campus and services, to your general student experience.
Your comment must follow our student rules and regulations, and please remember that ‘Let us know’ is not a service helpdesk.
Please submit comments about your course or modules via module evaluations.
If you need help with a specific enquiry, then please instead get in touch with:
Student Services: student.services@keele.ac.uk Estates Service Desk: estates@keele.ac.uk Information and Digital Services: it.services@keele.ac.uk Campus Safety Team: 01782 733999
Submissions to ‘Let us know’ are not monitored 24/7.
Yes, you do not need to log in to use the form, and can access it off campus.
Your comments are read by us and we then pass them on to the relevant manager.
Depending on the nature of the comment we might pass it on to more senior levels of University management.
The person who receives the comment will consider your submission and write a response.
We will then send this response to you if you provide your contact details.
We also analyse your comments along with other data to inform us about how we are doing in certain areas.
These comments also feed into the University strategy.
You can submit a comment anonymously if you wish - simply leave the name and email address boxes empty when filling out the form.
This ensures that your comment will be kept anonymous.
However, we will not be able to reply directly to you if you don’t provide us with contact details.
We can publish your comment and the response on our website, but only if you have ticked the box agreeing to this whilst filling out the form.
We aim to respond to all comments within 30 working days.
Some comments may require longer than 30 working days to fully resolve but we will keep you informed of progress with your comment if so.
Yes of course - we love to hear about things that have made your time here at Keele a fantastic experience!
Yes, you may choose to reply directly or complete the form again.
Students are informed when submitting a comment that we reserve the right to redact or not respond to comments that are deemed to be unacceptable.
Comments may be unacceptable if they are aggressive, abusive, threatening, unnecessarily personal or emotionally damaging.
All comments submitted through this form are done so in accordance with the Student Rules and Regulations .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/library:
Opening times Book a study space Library news A to Z of Your Library
How to use the library, library resources, develop your academic and study skills, digital skills, and manage your references
Access the recommended reading for your modules
Browse activities, academic and study skills workshops, and events designed to support your Keele journey
Study spaces, borrowing, and facilities within the Library
Resources and support for your subjects
Academic resources designed to support your studies and research
Follow Keele Library

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/alumni:
We are proud and pleased to welcome graduates, former students, international and exchange students and former members of staff as our alumni and friends
Alumni is a Latin word derived from the verb alere , which means ‘to bring up or to nourish'.
The term was used to indicate "one who is nourished by a person who is not a natural parent." The word also referred to abandoned children, who were sheltered and raised by foster parents.
Therefore, alumni can be used to describe students who have been intellectually nourished at an educational institution outside their usual family circle.
In the 17th century the term began to be applied to graduates of a school, college etc.
A second definition suggests that the term "alumnus" originated in the Roman military to describe injured and retired soldiers who were supported by the Roman Empire after the expiry of their service.
A male is correctly termed an alumnus, a female is an alumna and in the plural they can be either alumni (males or mixed genders) or alumnae (females only).
Isn't Latin wonderful?
At Keele, we use the term 'alumni" to include a wider group including graduates, honorary graduates and staff.
We include any student who completed at least one semester of study at Keele – including our exchange students.
We include alumni of the University College of North Staffordshire (1949-1961) and of the University of Keele (from 1962).
We assign people to a "Class" - which is normally the year of graduation, completion, or leaving.
On request we can re-assign Class if, for example, someone did a year abroad and feels more connected to their original peer group year than their actual completion year.
But...being Alumni is more than a definition.
Keele is a key part of your life story and of who you are today.
And you are a key part of Keele’s continuing story.
Your relationship with Keele didn’t end on your graduation day or your leaving day...that was just a transition to a lifelong relationship with the University and with fellow Keelites.
If you are looking to progress your career further, Keele University now offers several online courses , including MBAs .
These courses are delivered 100% online, which means you can study from anywhere around the world, to suit your work and lifestyle commitments.
Find our more at online.keele.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/faculties:
Whether it’s Health, Humanities and Social Sciences or Natural Sciences, whatever your area of study, we deliver a unique and international learning experience.
We teach in small groups, provide one-to-one access to our academics and value the quality of our teaching as highly as our research.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/institutes:
Institutes are hubs of knowledge and innovation, shaping tomorrow's leaders and driving progress across disciplines.
They foster dialogue, discovery, and collaboration, fuelling advancements in science, arts, and societal challenges.
Also see our research institutes .
Our interdisciplinary institutes and centres are undertaking cutting edge research that aims to tackle some of society’s most pressing challenges.
They bring students, academics and researchers together from across the University, and serve as hubs that stimulate collaboration and debate.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/research/ourresearch:
Our research is changing the world for the better.
In collaboration with our global partners, we’re tackling some of society’s most urgent problems - including global health and the climate crisis - and we’re proud that 80% of our research is deemed to be world-leading or internationally excellent (REF, 2021).
The Centre conducts fundamental and applied research on vector-borne parasites and viruses of medical importance, the insect vectors of these pathogens, insect agricultural pests, and fish diseases and immunology.
The Astrophysics Research Centre conducts world-leading research in exoplanets, stars and nearby galaxies.
The Centre drives ambitious, fundamental, and collaborative research alongside training the future generations of glycoscientists.
Keele’s world-leading research into musculoskeletal health has an extensive range and includes the major research areas of osteoarthritis, musculoskeletal pain, inflammatory arthritis and osteoporosis.
The Keele Policing Academic Collaboration (KPAC) brings together one of the UK’s most significant academic policing research collaborations focused on partnerships between academics and regional, national and international policing partners.
Keele University has an exceptional track record in bench and bed-side Regenerative Medicine research, which is recognised across the University and in the wider national and international academic and clinical communities.
The recent Research Excellence Framework (REF, 2021) confirmed Keele's position as a leading university for research of world-class quality and international excellence.
80% of the research conducted at Keele was classified as world-leading and internationally excellent, with top-rated research in all three faculties.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/internationalstudents/yourcountry/asia/china:
Just one hour from Manchester, Birmingham and Liverpool, and 1.5 hours from London, Keele is located in the heart of England on a 600-acre campus that was voted as one of the most beautiful in the UK.
Keele was founded in 1949 by the former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford, and is world-renowned for the breadth of its teaching and research.
Everything is on your doorstep at Keele.
Our beautiful 600-acre campus is self-contained with student accommodation, teaching buildings, restaurants and cafés, a sports centre, and medical centre all within easy reach.
We deliver a unique and international learning experience.
We teach in small groups, provide one-to-one access to our academics, and value the quality of our teaching as highly as our cutting-edge research.
No.1 in the UK Britain's best university, as ranked by students Student Crowd University Awards, 2022
4th in England for Medicine (Guardian University League Table, 2022)
Global Top 250 for Law (Times Higher Education World University Subject Rankings, 2023)
Top 20 in the UK for Geography and Environmental Studies (Guardian University League Table, 2022)
Top 20 in the UK for Nursing and Midwifery (Guardian University League Table, 2022)
Top 20 in the UK for Pharmacy (Guardian University League Table, 2022)
Global Top 300 for Education (Times Higher Education World University Subject Rankings, 2023)
Top 20 in the UK for Health Professions (Guardian University League Table, 2022)
Hi, I'm Lynn, your Keele representative for China.
You can get in contact with me to find out about studying at Keele University.
Please email me at enquiries@keele.ac.uk.
You may wish to speak with one of our authorised agents who represent Keele in your country.
They can provide you with additional information, support you through the application and visa process and liaise with the University on your behalf.
Keele University China Office,  with a dedicated in-country team has officially started operating, it will now be responsible for the management and coordination of all agents operating in the Chinese market.
All future communications from agents' side will be handled directly by our China Office.
If you have any questions, please feel free to contact our China office marketing@keeleuni.cn or add our WeChat official account: 英国基尔大学.
In order to speak to agents, your personal data and information relevant to your application will be shared between the agent and the University for the purposes of assessing you for admission.
The agent you choose to work with will be copied in to all communications relevant to your application until you enrol at the University after which time they will only be included in emails to you with your express written permission.
Like the University, local representatives are data controllers in their own right but are expected to abide by the University's Code of Good Conduct which includes the safe handling of personal data.
Should you have any concerns regarding the services provided, please contact the International Office at international@keele.ac.uk .
Full details of how the University handles your personal data can be found at keele.ac.uk/informationgovernance/informationgovernanceforthepublic .
Have a question about our international entry requirements?
Email us at international@keele.ac.uk .
The actual grades you require in particular subjects will vary according to the degree course you wish to study.
You will also require an English language qualification .
If you do not meet the requirements for direct entry into Year 1 of our undergraduate (bachelor) degree courses you can apply for a place on our Foundation Year .
Information regarding A levels, BTEC, International Baccalaureate qualifications and subject-specific requirements can be found on our course pages .
We need to make sure that your level of English is good enough for you to study at Keele University.
Click here to view a list of the English Language qualifications we accept .
For UK students, we normally ask for a minimum of a grade 4/C in GCSE English Language.
For EU and International students, we accept qualifications from several countries, as well as a range of international qualifications and tests.
Senior Secondary School Graduation Certificate, plus Gaokao.
Or a recognised pre-university/ foundation year course.
ABB-BBC courses = Senior Secondary School Graduation Certificate with 80% overall plus Gaokao with 75%
BCC-CCC courses = Senior Secondary School Graduation Certificate with 75% overall plus Gaokao with 70%
Applicants to courses with a subject specific requirement will be considered on an individual basis.
The Senior High School Diploma, Chinese University Entrance Examination or 'Gaokao' must be supplemented with GCE A-levels in Biology and Chemistry and another subject, with grade A in each.
If you do not have Sciences and Maths at A level, you must have these at Gaokao for entry into Medicine.
English Language requirements must be met.
IELTS English required unless you have completed at least 1 year of study at a UK University.
Please check the requirement for your chosen course.
Further information can also be found on the English Language page.
We’re committed to rewarding excellence and potential and offer several scholarships for international students.
Students may be automatically considered for some awards, with no extra application necessary.
Please see our international fees and funding web pages for further details, including the eligibility criteria for each scholarship.
Our Undergraduate Global Scholarships are awarded based on academic achievement, and offer up to £5000 tuition fee discount across a wide range of subject areas (excluding medicine, veterinary medicine, foundation year and online programmes).
Discover more undergraduate scholarships .
Our Postgraduate Global Scholarships are awarded based on academic achievement, and offer up to £6000 tuition fee discount across a wide range of subject areas (excluding medicine and online programmes).
Discover more postgraduate scholarships .
Keele has been welcoming students from China to study with us for many years, and we are proud of the success our graduates have achieved in a wide range of occupations in government and industry.
Keele graduates are globally sought after and work in some of the world’s most prestigious organisations, from international governments to the World Bank, and in corporations from Apple to Volkswagen.
Keele offers a friendly and supportive environment for international students, with regular gatherings and events that help new students to settle in.
Keele delivers a unique and international learning experience.
We teach in small groups, provide one-to-one access to our academics, and value the quality of our teaching.
We were awarded the ‘Gold Award’ in the first teaching excellence framework - the highest rating.
We guarantee accommodation on campus for all September start international students who apply by 30 June, with the option to live on campus for the full duration of your course.
Our accommodation is clean and secure, with staff available 24 hours a day to offer support and advice.
There is a regular, direct bus service to the nearest town of Newcastle-under-Lyme which takes just 15 minutes.
Here you will find cinemas, restaurants, music venues and a range of shops and supermarkets.
There is also a direct bus from campus to the bigger city of Stoke-on-Trent where you can take a train to London (90 minutes), Birmingham (45 minutes) and Manchester (35 minutes).
Keele is home to a friendly and supportive Chinese Society which hosts regular gatherings and helps new students to settle in.
There is also an International Society, a Traditional Chinese Culture Society and an Asian Society!
World food, including Asian cuisine, is found in the Refectory Food Court.
Keele students from Asia also often shop at the two Asian Supermarkets in Stoke-on-Trent where they can find many familiar cooking ingredients (one supermarket offers a free shuttle bus service 3 days a week booked in advance).
There are also many large supermarkets closer to the campus.
The International Student Support Office is the first point of contact for international students for any problems they might have.
Immigration and visa advice is provided by the Advice and Support at Keele unit.
Our friendly Student Services Team give practical academic advice and also look after the welfare of our students.
All undergraduate students are assigned a Personal Tutor who will support and guide them through their studies at Keele.
Please submit your question in the form below and a member of our enquiries team will be in touch with you shortly.
Upon submitting this form, your enquiry will be forwarded on to our enquiries team who will contact you to answer your question and provide further details about the course that you are interested in.
Your Preferences
Please keep me informed via:
What we're going to do with your data and why?
We will securely store your data and send you essential information (examples include updates on an application or booking confirmations for events such as Open Days).
We would also like to send you useful information about studying at University (particularly Keele) and/or the courses that you have shown an interest in.
To do this we need your consent and information on which communication channels you would like to hear from us on (please see opt-in boxes above).
We will never sell your data to a third party.
We only ever share data with companies involved in helping us communicate with you or helping us to manage your data (examples include; Online forms, Printers, Postal services, other University partners etc).
How long are we keeping it?
We will keep your data for the year that you first enquire with us plus 6 subsequent years.
This is to ensure that you are legally protected should you have any issues with the use of your data.
Unsubscribe
By selecting no to the preferences above you will have unsubscribed, however, this does not mean that your data has been deleted.
If you would like to invoke your right to be forgotten please refer to the section below.
What to do if I change my mind?
To change your preferences after you have closed this form, simply reopen the link to this page.
For further information about how your data is held, including your right to be forgotten, please contact dpa@keele.ac.uk
Search for a course.
Fees and funding available to international students.
Guaranteed on campus accommodation for all September start international students who apply by 30 June.
Preparatory courses for international students.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/internationalstudents/yourcountry/asia/hongkong:
Hi, I'm Hannah, your Keele representative for Hong Kong.
Keele has been welcoming students from Hong Kong SAR to study with us for many years, and we are proud of the success our graduates have achieved in a wide range of occupations in government and industry.
All students are assigned a Personal Tutor who will support and guide them through their studies at Keele.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/internationalstudents/yourcountry/asia/india:
Hi, I'm Dhriti, your Keele representative for India.
CISCE / CBSE / West Bengal Class XII: 65% - 90% required depending on course.
Plus any subject specific requirements.
All other State Boards Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) / Standard Class XII: 70% - 95% required depending on course.
2 years of study must have been completed.
Check individual course for specific entry requirements
MBChB MEDICINE Entry Requirements
Graduates Applicants possessing a degree:
If you're unsure whether you meet the criteria, please contact the admissions office with a full academic history at medicine@keele.ac.uk
From a min.
3 year Bachelor degree - 55% or above OR CGPA 6.0/10.0.
The institution must be recognised on NARIC.
3 year Bachelor degree - 60% or above OR CGPA 6.5/10.0.
CISCE/CBSE Class XII: 70% or above in English if completed within the last 5 years.
All other State Boards Class XII (except Punjab and Haryana): 75% or above in English if completed within the last 5 years.
Study should be taught in English.
Otherwise IELTS is required.
Keele has been welcoming students from India to study with us for many years, and we are proud of the success our graduates have achieved in a wide range of occupations in government and industry.
"I am delighted to share that I was awarded the British Council GREAT Scholarship (2024) to pursue my master’s degree in Advanced Computer Science at Keele University.
Since relocating to the UK, my journey has been nothing short of amazing.
During my time here, I've successfully balanced academics and extracurriculars, leading to notable achievements.
Residing on the university campus has provided me with the opportunity to forge meaningful connections and friendships with fellow students.
Cooking together and sharing experiences have further enriched my university life, creating cherished memories.
Exploring various cities and actively participating in events organised by the Keele Postgraduate Association (KPA) have added depth and diversity to my overall experience.
I am immensely grateful for the opportunity afforded to me and am determined to make the most of it."
Anne, MSc Advanced Computer Science
"As an international student, I got a chance to increase my skills, confidence, and results of communicating effectively."
Hammad Orooj, MSc Environmental Sustainability and Green Technology
"Keele places a high importance on its students and strives to assist them both academically and personally."
Rohan Prajapati, MSc Marketing
Immigration and visa advice is provided by the Advice and Support at Keele (ASK) unit.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/internationalstudents/yourcountry/africa/kenya:
Hi, I'm Hannah, your Keele representative for Kenya.
Foundation Year required.
2 year Diploma from University or Polytechnic also accepted.
Please contact us for advice.
Bachelor degree with 2.2 (lower second class) / C / Satisfactory / 50% or above.
Keele has been welcoming students from Kenya to study with us for many years, and we are proud of the success our graduates have achieved in a wide range of occupations in government and industry.
"Embarking on my journey as an international master’s student in AI and Data Science at Keele University has been nothing short of transformative.
It’s far more than just academic pursuit; it’s about personal growth amidst a community that feels like family.
The program blends cutting-edge labs and real-life projects with an engaging curriculum, all while fostering a vibrant spirit of camaraderie among peers.
Keele’s comprehensive support system, covering everything from visa support, financial advice to mental health resources, has been a backbone through the complexities of this advanced discipline.
Beyond the classroom, getting involved in societies and embracing new hobbies has enriched my campus life, blending learning with personal interests.
Opportunities to dive into global challenge lectures and outdoor adventures with fellow students have broadened my worldview.
Keele stands out not just for its academic excellence, but for its warm, inclusive community that prepares you for the world beyond, bridging theory with practical application in a nurturing environment.
"
Gabriel, MSc Artificial Intelligence and Data Science
"I like so many things, I don’t know if you can give me time to say one by one!
One thing I like about Keele, Keele is beautiful – as an environmental student I like the aesthetic beauty of Keele University.
One, it’s very clean… you can’t find litter all over.
Two, it’s very green.
I came here when the trees were shedding – but right now you just see the beauty of the environment, the grass is so green.
The next thing is how we are taught in class, I really like the way tutors handle classes and students; it’s totally different from where I come from… it’s a tutor-student interaction, the relationship it’s very close; you can approach your tutor, you can approach any lecturer despite being your tutor or not, and the lecturer will be willing to advise you on the way forward, or concerning any issues that a student might face"
Meet Evelyne, MSc Environmental Sustainability and Green Technology
"Awesome, fulfilling, exciting and fun."
Meet George, MSc Environmental Sustainability and Green Technology
"I love the green, it’s really beautiful and peaceful – ideal for studying!
Also the resources available here: the library is open 24 hours and the staff are very supportive.
I feel very welcome in the community."
Meet Ruth, BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing
"I was looking for a course that cut across sustainability, while focussing on renewable energy.
After going through so many universities, I finally settled for Keele as it was offering exactly what I wanted."
Meet Betzy Bowen, MSc Environmental Sustainability and Green Technology
"I have been impressed by the classes which are in the form of seminars where there is continued interaction with all the lecturers and the fellow students."
Meet James, MSc Environmental Sustainability and Green Technology
"Keele has got the best sporting facility.
I like the gym and the entire sports complex, and have joined the volleyball team too."
Meet Joseph Oloo, Commonwealth scholarship 2016-17, PhD in Mathematics

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/internationalstudents/yourcountry/africa/nigeria:
Hi, I'm Grace, your Keele representative for Nigeria.
Our International Foundation Year is delivered on the Keele campus through Keele University International College.
Please see the KUIC website for academic entry requirements.
Keele has been welcoming students from Nigeria to study with us for many years, and we are proud of the success our graduates have achieved in a wide range of occupations in government and industry.
"Studying at Keele University has been an enriching experience.
The campus's serene atmosphere and modern facilities have provided the perfect environment.
The availability of resources like the 24-hour library and the Bloomberg terminal has been invaluable, allowing me to access real-time financial data and deepen my understanding of the subject.
One aspect that truly sets Keele apart is the support it provides for students' career development and the genuine interest in the progress of their students by ensuring we receive the support and guidance needed to succeed academically.
My experience as an international student at Keele University has been remarkable.
I am grateful for the opportunities and experiences that Keele has offered me, and I look forward to applying the knowledge and skills gained here in my future endeavors.
Oghenerume, MSc Investment Management
"The environment is clean and fabulous.
There is an excellent rapport between tutors and students.
I like the social aspect of Keele as there are various social events and places to unwind."
Meet Ndueso Akpan, MA Politics and International Relations (Global Security)
"Coming here, it was like you’re dreaming and then seeing the dream come true.
I entered Keele, and everything is green and cool.
So it’s okay in terms of academic too, I’ve attended some lectures and the conversation has been okay – it’s kind of a friendly interaction between you and your colleagues, even the lecturers!
It’s a big difference to where I come from and I appreciate the fact that I have an opportunity to learn in this kind of system."
Meet Olumuyiwa, MSc Environmental Sustainability and Green Technology

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/internationalstudents/yourcountry/asia/pakistan:
Hi, I'm Hugo, your Keele representative for Pakistan.
Bachelor degree (2 years)
70% overall = A Level grades ABB,
65% overall = A Level grades BBB,
60% overall = A Level grades BBC-CCC
Successful completion of Year 1 of a four year Bachelor degree between 55% and 65% (see University Tier information).
Bachelor Degree 3 years study is comparable to UK CertHE.
May consider for advanced standing.
We can also consider Diploma of Associate Engineer qualifications on a case by case basis.
Read our Funding and Scholarships information on the page below, and on our central International Scholarships page , to check your eligibility.
Please refer to the Tier 1, 2 and 3 universities accordion below to find your institution.
IELTS English or equivalent required - check the requirement for your chosen course .
Further information can also be found on the English Language page .
Scroll down to find your institution from the Tier lists below, then match against your qualification and grade in the Bachelor (Honours) equivalent table above in the Postgraduate taught entry requirements accordion.
Please note, Tier 3 universities consist of any institution not listed in Tier 1 or 2.
Any other institution not listed above.
Keele has been welcoming students from Pakistan to study with us for many years, and we are proud of the success our graduates have achieved in a wide range of occupations in government and industry.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/internationalstudents/yourcountry/middleeast/saudiarabia:
Hi, I'm Jacqui, your Keele representative for Saudi Arabia.
Please email me at enquiries@keele.ac.uk or WhatsApp on +44 7437 699 284.
Appropriate pre-university/ Foundation Year programme required.
OR
International Arab Baccalaureate (IAB) programme with 80% or higher (dependant on the course entry requirements).
Please contact us for further information.
Keele has been welcoming students from Saudi Arabia to study with us for many years, and we are proud of the success our graduates have achieved in a wide range of occupations in government and industry.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/internationalstudents/yourcountry/uk:
Hi, I'm Daniel, your Keele representative for UK International.
Please contact our International team for more information.
Keele has been welcoming students from all over the world, based in the UK to study with us for many years, and we are proud of the success our graduates have achieved in a wide range of occupations in government and industry.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/internationalstudents/yourcountry:
Keele has many applications from international students each year - from students in a wide range of countries from China to Canada, India and Malaysia.
Every year Keele welcomes students from more than 90 countries.
Follow the links below to find out more about Keele Representatives and Authorised Agents near you, our Fees and Funding, and what it's like to be an international student at Keele.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/visa:
Immigration Compliance and Advice (ICA) are here for all international students at Keele University.
We can provide advice on a wide variety of issues to do with your student visa and adjusting to life in the UK.
Visit us Monday to Friday* from10am to 4pm in the Student Services Hub, Claus Moser, or email: visa@keele.ac.uk; or telephone: +44 (0) 1782 734314
For any other support or issues you might need help with while you are a Keele student, Student Services are your one-stop-shop for information, support and guidance.
*except Bank Holidays and University closure days
Information for international students on the Self-Service Portal
Student Services are here to help all international students at Keele
Information for Keele University staff on the staff intranet

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study:
Explore student life at Keele
Student life at Keele is packed with opportunities to make the most of your time at university.
Our Continuing Professional Development (CPD) and leadership programmes are a flexible way to advance your career or to assist businesses in the development and training of their workforce.
Our suite of online Master’s programmes have been created for a global audience of ambitious and proactive individuals.
Your Money Matters
Going to university can be a daunting as well as an exciting experience.
Our Student Financial Support team offers confidential advice and guidance to help you to manage your money, so that you can make the most of your time at Keele.
We are here to support every single student throughout their time at Keele.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/research:
The latest research news from Keele University.
RaISE (Research and Innovation Support Enhancement) is responsible for supporting the development of academic projects.
Midlands Innovation brings together eight research-intensive universities in the Midlands.
The Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) is a £1.5 billion fund to support cutting-edge research that addresses the challenges faced by developing countries.
The Industrial Strategy sets out a long term plan to boost the productivity and earning power of people throughout the UK.
‌

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/society:
Keele has provided the blueprint for how universities can transform their local communities.
By reimagining our founding principles from 1949 and working with our partners, we’re leading one of the largest and most successful university-led regeneration programmes in the country - advancing our local NHS, supporting our SMEs, creating jobs, and generating £345m per year in the local economy.
We have reimagined our founding principles from 1949 that set about to foster societal recovery and reinvention, delivering a far-reaching regeneration programme that is having a significant impact on the regional economy.
Find out how our work is benefiting one of the most economically-deprived parts of England >
"There is so much for us to be proud of in Newcastle-under-Lyme, and Keele University is at the heart of our pride.
After 75 years of learning, teaching, thinking and sharing; Keele is very much a jewel in the North Staffordshire crown."
Adam Jogee, MP for Newcastle-under-Lyme, August 2024.
Read the latest news on how Keele University is helping to transform the local community.
From supporting the local NHS community to undertaking globally-significant research, improving the health and wellbeing of people both at home and across the world is one of Keele's key priorities.
Keele is helping to change the world for the better by engaging in research that makes a difference .
We’re tackling some of society’s most urgent problems, including ageing, global health and renewable energy.
Achieving a greater degree of social inclusion is of critical importance to the development of just, integrated, diverse, cohesive and thriving societies in an increasingly interdependent world.
The Keele Institute for Social Inclusion draws together a vibrant community of partners from across a variety of sectors to tackle the issues of inequality on a local, national and global scale.
By promoting and supporting a wide range of interdisciplinary research.
Founded over 10 years ago, CLOCK is a unique and innovative project bringing together universities, law firms, barristers chambers, mediation, charitable and court services to educate, assist, monitor and promote access to justice for disadvantaged communities.
Keele is proud to be leading the way with vital research, education and training that has positive impacts on the long-term sustainability of our societies, environments and ecosystems.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/business:
Whatever your needs, Keele University has the tools, expertise and resources to complement your business perfectly and allow it to reach its full potential.
gateway@keele.ac.uk | 01782 733001
Keele University is pleased to announce the first members of its Partner Programme - connecting the University, Science Park tenants, and extensive network of businesses and organisations at local, regional, and national levels.
To find out more information, please contact Stephen Roberts, Business Engagement Manager, on s.roberts2@keele.ac.uk .
We have an excellent track record of developing ideas with provision for research, consultancy, graduate placements and world-class facilities.
Learn about our programmes and opportunities
Get in touch with the team
Keep up to date with the latest news and events from the Keele Gateway
Please note that enquiries about working with Keele University as an agent for the recruitment of international students is not dealt with by the Keele Gateway Team.
Enquiries about this should instead be sent to international@keele.ac.uk .
Follow Keele Gateway on social media

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about:
We're Keele and we're different.
Founded 75 years ago to meet the demands of a new kind of society, economy and world, our principles resonate now more than ever.
We are a campus university with over 13,500 students, nestled in 600 acres of Staffordshire countryside and just an hour from Manchester and Birmingham.
It's a big campus but a small and cosmopolitan community, with space to think and plenty to do.
Keele University was born from a pioneering vision, one of a different kind of university.
Established in 1949 by Lord Lindsay - the former Vice-Chancellor of Oxford University - in a country still recovering from the Second World War, the University’s founding aim was to produce graduates who not only had the technical and specialist knowledge to move society forward, but who understood the social and political landscape that drove this need.
Fast-forward 75 years and this original ethos remains at the core of the University’s mission, and our global network of over 100,000 alumni in 120 countries is creating positive impact across the world in a range of diverse careers.
View a transcript of the text used in this video
Our research seeks to improve lives and address the most pressing challenges across our region, country, and world.
Our academics are actively studying matters of global importance: from food security, climate change and smart energy, to neglected tropical diseases, global health and sustainable futures.
It’s no wonder that 80% of our research is deemed world-leading or internationally excellent in the Research Excellence Framework (2021).
We were awarded the highest rating of Gold in the Teaching Excellence Framework 2023, maintaining the Gold that we achieved in 2017 – making Keele one of only 15 broad-based universities in England to have been awarded Gold in both exercises, demonstrating our consistent teaching excellence .
Ofsted awarded our skills bootcamps “ Outstanding ” in 2023, with an overall judgment of “Good” for our apprenticeship and skills provision.
Across Medicine and Health Sciences, Natural Sciences, and Humanities and Social Sciences, we offer a wide range of study options from foundation to postgraduate research, as well as apprenticeships, short courses, and online programmes.
Employability is built into all our taught provision, as is the opportunity to study abroad, and the majority of our undergraduate courses also include the option to study our exciting Global Challenge Pathways .
As well as developing academic expertise, we believe in educating the whole person, building skills for life, as well as for work.
As a university defined by our commitment to equity of opportunity and widening participation, we focus on ensuring all our students, regardless of background or circumstance, thrive and succeed .
Founded in 1949, Keele was the first new university of the 20th Century and remains true to its original mission today.
We are ideally situated right by Newcastle-under-Lyme, and minutes away from the city of Stoke-on-Trent.
How to find us, including parking maps.
Our postcode is ST5 5BG.
The Vice-Chancellor is the principal Academic and Administrative Officer of the University and ex officio Chair of the Senate.
At the core of our mission is the vision for a more sustainable world, driven by the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
Sustainability is embedded in everything we do at Keele, and this drive has led to us leading innovative trials in smart energy and green technology.
From hosting the first UK trial of hydrogen blending in a gas network, testing new smart energy technologies, to producing our own renewable energy on campus, we're proud to be leading the sector on sustainability.
Our efforts are recognised around the globe, a status which was cemented when we won the Global Sustainability Institution of the Year award at the Green Gown Awards in 2021.
Our impact is felt not only around the world, but closer to home as well - our academics and students benefit from close links with regional businesses, industry, and our local NHS trusts.
Over 5,000 Keele-trained nurses are currently working on the NHS frontline, with many who study with us choosing to stay local when they qualify.
More than 200 of our healthcare professors, lecturers and teaching staff also work clinically in the NHS, putting their expertise into practice day in, day out.
Outside of healthcare, our support for local businesses and SMEs is also unparalleled, with over 2,000 interactions between local businesses and Keele-led innovation programmes since 2017, contributing £345m per year to the local economy, and with over 50 businesses based on our campus Science and Innovation Park.
Making headlines around the world.
We are delighted to host a calendar of exciting public events.
The latest job vacancies at Keele.
If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to ask.
Double Gold for our consistent teaching excellence TEF 2023 | TEF 2017
Top 5 in the UK for multiple subject areas National Student Survey 2024, broad-based universities
Top 15 Keele ranks in a ‘Golden Quadrangle’ of the top 15 universities in England that excel in both teaching and research Teaching Excellence Framework 2023
80% of research world-leading or internationally excellent Research Excellence Framework, 2021
Top university in the world for its efforts to tackle pressing global challenges in an esteemed international ranking Times Higher Education 2024
Winner Global Sustainability Institution of the Year International Green Gown Awards, 2021
Over 100,000 alumni in 162 countries

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/clearing:
Find your place at Keele
UCAS Clearing is your opportunity to find a place at a university where spaces are still available.
Already have your results?
Apply online at anytime:
Apply now
Want to speak to us?
Call us on 01782 491120 from 8:30-6pm Friday 15 August 10-3pm Saturday 16 & Sunday 17 August 9-5pm Monday 18 August
Call now
For international callers, please dial +44 (0)1782 491120 .
For students who join us through Clearing, we guarantee you a place in University owned, managed or approved accommodation.
Some of the Keele team answer your questions about Clearing, in a live event recorded on August 2025
Tuition fees, funding and student financial support.
We're here to support every student throughout their time at Keele.
If you don’t have a confirmed university place, Clearing can help you find one.
UCAS will inform you if/ when you are in Clearing through your UCAS Hub account.
You’ll then need to contact universities to check course vacancies and whether they’ll accept you based on your achieved qualifications.
If you’ve already got your results, or once you have them, you can use the search tool on UCAS to find the course/s that you’re interested in.
Speak to the Universities that you’d like to find a place with.
When you've found a place you can add your Clearing choice in your application in UCAS.
See the UCAS website for the most up-to-date guidance and details on applying through Clearing.
We’ll ask for your Clearing number or UCAS ID, along with some basic personal details such as your date of birth, address, email, and information about your qualifications and grades.
All of this information will be stored securely on our Clearing database and we will only use the details to contact you.
Yes, you can still apply to Keele.
You can begin a UCAS application in the Clearing cycle providing you already meet the course entry criteria.
We don't make conditional offers in Clearing.
Alternatively, if you're only applying to Keele, we may be able to offer you a place directly.
You can begin this process by emailing our Admissions Team at admissions@keele.ac.uk stating which course you would like to be considered for and that you are not in the UCAS cycle this year.
We'll also need to see copies of your qualifications and a brief personal statement.
To enter Clearing you must have all of your official exam results from the relevant awarding body.
We only issue unconditional offers in Clearing so you need to have obtained all of your exams results (usually including any GSCE Maths or English results) before you can apply to us through Clearing.
If you've secured your place at Keele through Clearing unfortunately it's not possible to defer it.
Yes.
If you have already applied for Student Finance, it is easy to change your details by logging in to your account at https://logon.slc.co.uk/cas/login and going to: Your Account>Change your application>University/college course.
Your application will be re-assessed and you'll be informed about any changes to the amount of student finance you're eligible for.
If you haven't applied for Student Finance and have secured a place through Clearing you need to apply now.
This can take up to six weeks to be processed so the sooner you apply, the sooner you will receive your funds.
There will be a limited number of rooms on campus available if you're joining us through Clearing.
If our on-campus accommodation is full, our Student Accommodation Team will support you in finding accommodation in the local area and provide you with a free bus pass for the year* (terms apply).
Keele Student Pad is our local area accommodation hub, where we invite landlords, accredited by a landlord accreditation scheme, to advertise their properties.
There's a rigorous checking process in place ensuring we only advertise accredited landlords with valid safety certificates.
We can provide advice and guidance in finding you the right accommodation and are happy to talk through your choices over the telephone.
Visit our accommodation webpages for more information.
You can apply for accommodation if:
If after 48 hours, you are still unable to apply please contact the Student Accommodation Office on accommodation@keele.ac.uk .
*Please note that the offer of a bus pass does not apply to students living in University accommodation, living in the family home or students who find their own off campus accommodation and have not applied for University accommodation.
This also includes applicants who have declined or failed to accept an offer of university accommodation.
You will shortly receive an email from Keele, which will provide information on:
If you have not received an email regarding your offer after 2 hours of receiving the verbal offer, please email us at clearing@keele.ac.uk .
Please also check your SPAM folder.
Yes, we have an Open Day on Saturday 17 August, please visit our open day webpage for more information and to register.
You can also view our campus via our always-on virtual tour here at any time.
If you're unable to attend our 17 August Open Day , we will also have campus tours running.
Find out more and book your place on a campus tour .
For any queries about visits and events, get in touch with us at visits@keele.ac.uk .
Please see our scholarships page for information regarding student funding.
If you wish to decline your firm unconditional place and be released into Clearing you do this via your UCAS Hub account by selecting the 'decline your place' button.
Please see further information from UCAS on declining your place .
Please note: being released from your offer is a final decision.
You may not be able to reapply for your chosen course at Keele after being released.
If you do ask for your place to be reinstated at a later date, you may not be guaranteed campus accommodation.
View video transcript

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/postgraduateresearch:
Postgraduate students are central to our learning community, and we can guarantee a warm welcoming community and campus life.
We also offer a number of distance learning opportunities where we extend our warm welcome and strong ethos of quality supervision, research training and digital modes of working to students off campus.
80% of our research is deemed world-leading or internationally excellent.
REF 2021
95% graduate employability HESA Graduate Outcomes, 2019/20
93% of our international postgraduate research students reported overall satisfaction PRES 2019
Top 10 in the UK For research opportunities offered to postgrads, PRES 2019
Have a question about postgraduate research at Keele?

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
Looking to start your course in September 2025?
Take a look at our Undergraduate 2025 entry courses.
Our beautiful campus is self-contained with student accommodation, teaching buildings, restaurants and cafés, a sports centre, bars, and a medical centre all within just a few minutes walk.
As a campus university,  Keele has over 2,600 bedrooms on site, with a range of accommodation available and all within a short walk of the centre of campus.
There are so many ways to build your knowledge and enhance your career prospects at Keele.
From placements to employability support, study abroad and language opportunities; whatever your goals, our ambition is to prepare you for success!
At Keele, we’re proud to offer a diverse range of career-focused courses and a vibrant student life on our beautiful 600-acre campus.
If you need to talk to someone about your studies or life outside of them, we have a Student Experience and Support team in every Faculty, offering one-to-one support and helping you to access any additional support you might need, including financial guidance, support for disabilities, learning difficulties, wellbeing and counselling, or accessing our faith services.
Chat to one of our friendly student ambassadors to find out more about life at Keele.
You can also send us a WhatsApp message at 07437 699 284.
Located in the Staffordshire countryside, but within easy reach of a bustling town, vibrant city and our noisy neighbours of Manchester and Birmingham, Keele offers the best of both worlds: a close-knit campus community and an exciting local area to explore.
(NSS 2025, broad-based universities)*
International Green Gown Awards, 2021
University Compare rankings 2026

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025:
Join us for an Open Day
No.1 in the UK, Student Crowd University Awards, 2022
HESA Graduate Outcomes, 2019/20
Everything you need to know about applying for entry in 2025.
Undergraduate tuition fees, funding and Student Financial Support.
We’re here to support every single student throughout their time at Keele.
Everything’s on your doorstep at Keele.
You’ll soon feel at home and make friends wherever you go.
View video transcript >
Speak to our students
Keele offers the best of both worlds
4th in England for Forensic Science Guardian University Guide, 2025
Top 10 in England for Geography Guardian University Guide, 2025
Top 15 in England for Maths Guardian University Guide, 2025
Top 15 in England for English Guardian University Guide, 2025
Top 20 in England for Philosophy Guardian University Guide, 2025
Top 20 in England for Neuroscience Guardian University Guide, 2025
5th in England for Medicine Guardian University Guide, 2025
2nd in England for Nursing The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide, 2025
6th in England for Physiotherapy The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide, 2025
9th in England for Radiography The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide, 2025
Top 15 in England for International Relations Guardian University Guide, 2025
Top 20 in England for Geology (Earth and Marine Sciences) Guardian University Guide, 2025

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/postgraduatestudy:
Continue your studies at Keele and receive up to 20% alumni discount.
We believe your continued ambition deserves recognition.
That’s why we offer a simplified application process, and up to 20% tuition fee discount.
For postgraduates, our rural campus community provides an environment that is focused, relevant and mature.
You will have full access to our respected academics.
You will benefit from a reputation for excellence in research.
Our alumni can get up to 20% discount off postgraduate tuition fees, and that's in addition to student loans that are now available through Student Finance England.
We want to help you with all stages of the admissions process.
Information about applying for a Postgraduate programme with a January start date can be found on our January start Postgraduate pages .
Keele is in the Top 10 of UK universities for the research opportunities offered to postgraduate students (PRES, 2019).
Whether it's to continue studying a subject you love, broaden your horizons, or to boost your career, studying a postgraduate degree is a great next step.
Keele University is proud to introduce a suite of entirely online Master’s programmes that have been created for a global audience of ambitious and proactive individuals.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/foundationyears:
Improve your academic skills, expand your subject knowledge and prepare for an undergraduate degree with an extra year of study through a Foundation Year.
A valuable option if you don’t have the grades for direct entry on to an undergraduate degree, you're returning to education as a mature student or after a break, or would like to study a new subject with no prior knowledge.
Explore our foundation year routes - The stepping stone to your chosen degree at Keele
We offer guaranteed accommodation on campus for September entry undergraduate applicants who make Keele their firm choice, and who apply for accommodation by the deadline date.
Terms apply.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/opendays:
Whether you’re an undergraduate student visiting us for an Open Day, or a postgraduate student exploring your options at a Postgraduate Open Event, we look forward to welcoming you to our campus.
There's plenty to explore at Keele and we want to make sure you're able to get a good sense as to why Keele was ranked Top 10 for Student Experience (Times Good University Guide, 2020).
Whether you're looking for somewhere to stay overnight, or would like to chat to our current staff and students, our useful links below should help to answer your queries!
Open days at Keele
Visit campus and learn more about Keele and the subject that you're interested in studying.
Everything you need to know about applying
Directions to Keele by train, bus, car, bike and hot air balloon
Explore our campus on a virtual tour

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/accommodation:
As a 600 acre campus University, Keele has over 2,600 bedrooms on site, with a range of accommodation available and all within a short walk of the centre of campus.
We offer guaranteed accommodation on campus for September entry applicants who make Keele their firm choice, and who apply for accommodation by the deadline date.
With over 13,500 students from all over the world, our global community is welcoming and supportive, with plenty of opportunities to have a thriving social life at university.
Support for students due to move into Deakin’s Yard
We have been advised that a privately owned accommodation development in Newcastle-under-Lyme will not be able to open as planned today (Friday 15 August 2025).
We are supporting students affected by this and have a range of student accommodation available on our campus.
Affected students should contact us by emailing student.services@keele.ac.uk or call us on 01782 734481 – we're here to help.
We have a great range of room types to suit individual requirements, all within a short walk of the centre of campus.
Students who join us through Clearing are guaranteed a place in university-owned, managed, or approved accommodation.
We offer guaranteed accommodation on campus for September entry applicants who make Keele their firm choice, and apply by the deadline.
We offer a variety of room types and occupancy periods.
Find out from some of our current students.
For new and returning students, find out how and when to apply for your accommodation.
Courtyard by Marriott at Keele
Keele University accommodation is approved by the Universities UUK Code of Practice, which aims to ensure that students enjoy good quality accommodation.
All of our residences must comply with the regulations set by the Universities UK (UUK) Code of Practice for the Management of Student Housing .
An A to Z of all of your accommodation needs.
General accommodation frequently asked questions.
Download our latest accommodation booklets.
Contact the Accommodation Team.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/inspiring-alumni/rebeccamorgan-scott:
Rebecca Morgan-Scott, RFU Disciplinary Hearings Manager
“I’ve always loved rugby, and I remember chatting to a friend one day and saying to her, ‘wouldn’t it be great if there was a job that combined law and rugby together’?”
As it turns out, Rebecca Morgan-Scott's idea of a dream job did exist.
And she's been doing it for the last 14 years.
After graduating from Keele with a degree in Law & Criminology in 2005, Rebecca is now the Disciplinary Hearings Manager at the Rugby Football Union (RFU), the national governing body for grassroots and elite rugby in England.
In her role, she is responsible for the organisation and running of RFU disciplinary hearings, held when a player has received a red card, both at first instance and at appeal.
This includes appointing panels for all RFU hearings at national level, training panel members and attending all disciplinary hearings where she uses her expertise to provide specialist support to the proceedings.
Based in the RFU's headquarters at Allianz Stadium, England's national rugby union stadium and the venue for the England national rugby union team's home matches, Rebecca says she feels lucky to have a job where she combines her passion for rugby with her education, made possible with her degree from Keele.
She said: “If a player receives a red card in a match, then that report will come through to us – from semi-professional matches  up to Premiership matches.
It’s my job to look at the cases and appoint appropriate panels for each disciplinary hearing, taking into account whether the members have any conflicts of interest or expertise in a certain area which might be helpful for a particular case.
“The disciplinary hearings are usually held on Tuesday evenings and it’s my role to be at each one.
In terms of my job, I think of myself as being like a court clerk in a magistrates’ court.
Our panels are experts who know what they are doing, but I am there to provide advice and support on all aspects of the disciplinary process, and the rules and regulations for the sport.
“Once the disciplinary panel has reached their judgment, I’ll then proofread it, to make sure they’ve dealt with everything they should, send the judgement out and then co-ordinate on a press release with the communications team if necessary.
“I’ve always loved rugby.
All my family are Welsh, and I grew up supporting Wales, so when I told my dad I was going to be working for England rugby, he wasn’t too sure about the news!
I did play rugby a couple of times, but I got absolutely battered on the wing, so I think I’m a better spectator than I am a player.
“I really enjoy my job and it’s great I can combine my legal background with the sport.
Theres always something new that I come across and didn’t know about before, so it makes the job different and challenging at the same time, which I like.”
After graduating from Keele, Rebecca worked as a Crown Court case manager and then as a legal executive in family law.
In both positions, she said the job didn’t feel quite right for her, however, thanks to her degree, she was able to land what she describes as a “niche” role at the RFU.
Rebecca, who grew up in Shropshire, said: “I wanted to be a physio when I was young, but science was never my best subject and my parents said what about studying law, and it went from there really.
I grew up in Shropshire, about 30 minutes away from the Keele campus, and my dad studied at Keele in the 1970s so I knew about the University from what he had told me about it.
“I came and had a look around and I just really loved the vibe of the place and the fact it was a campus that had everything I needed on it.
“I moved into the accommodation at Holly Cross which was brand new at the time and there were about eight of us in our little block and I really enjoyed it.
I spent a lot of time in the Students’ Union in my first year and I’ve got some great memories from it.
“There were a lot of people on the course who had very clear career goals, they wanted to be a lawyer or barrister, and I was really enjoying what I was studying but I just wasn’t sure what I wanted to end up doing.
“After graduating, I got a job in a criminal law firm and worked there for about six months, and then moved to a family law firm where I spent five years and was training to become a legal executive but inside I still really wasn’t enjoying it and thought there has got to be more to work than this.
“Jobs combining law and sport were not really heard of when I was studying but they are much more common now and have really advanced in recent years.
It’s fantastic to be working in sport but still very much within that legal setting.”

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/news:
Keele University has been recognised as one of the top-performing universities in the UK for renewable energy generation and carbon reduction, according to newly published data.
A new study has revealed that the displacement of skilled workers by technology began nearly two decades ago - well before the recent breakthroughs in artificial intelligence.
Possible new treatments for a rare and aggressive form of cancer that primarily affects children and young people are being investigated by researchers at Keele University.
Keele University's strong ties with a prestigious Malaysian university have taken a significant step forward with the launch of a new joint centre to support research and education.
A Keele University professor has presented their comprehensive analysis of Islamophobia in the UK to a panel discussion in the House of Commons.
Keele Business School is celebrating the first anniversary of an outreach programme launched to raise students’ entrepreneurial and academic aspirations at schools and colleges across the region.
A new high tech Human Performance Laboratory has opened its doors at Keele University, providing a learning and research environment for students and staff studying sport, exercise and rehabilitation-related disciplines.
Works of art, created by talented people across Staffordshire, Shropshire and Cheshire, have gone on display as part of a new exhibition in Stoke-on-Trent.
A Keele lecturer has received a coveted national teaching award for her efforts to embed inclusivity, compassion, and support for students’ wellbeing in her teaching and delivery of programmes.
Women from ethnic minority backgrounds or areas of high social deprivation are at higher risk of postpartum haemorrhage (PPH), according to a new study led by Keele University.
Researchers have found that current care for musculoskeletal conditions like back pain and osteoarthritis is failing to close an important ‘inequality gap’ in pain and disability.
A new policy brief by a Keele University lecturer sets out recommendations for how decision making and management for the Chagos Islands and its coral reefs should be approached.
Researchers at Keele University have published the first investigation into the variation in the chemical make-up of calcifications caused by prostate cancer, in the hope of identifying new markers to improve early diagnosis.
Researchers led by a Keele University scientist have called on the public to help them monitor the population of swans in Cheshire with the launch of a new app project.
Gordon Mousinho has graduated with his sixth degree from Keele University, 50 years since his first graduation and just a day before his 71st birthday.
A student who switched to Keele after completing their first year at a different university said it was one of the best decisions they've ever made – as they picked up their first-class honours degree.
BAFTA award winner Toby Jones and beloved Keele University figure Neil 'Nello' Baldwin enjoyed a "Marvellous" reunion together – almost 11 years since the BBC’s touching drama about the life of Neil was released.
A dedicated student who balanced their university studies with being a carer for her mum when she became unwell is celebrating after graduating with a first-class honours degree.
A student who grew up in care and went to six different schools has overcome the odds to graduate from university with a first-class honours degree.
Harper & Keele Veterinary School, which has been ranked by students as No.1 in the UK for veterinary medicine in the latest National Student Survey, has marked another historic milestone with the graduation of its first student cohort.
A 28-year-old woman is celebrating graduating from Keele with a first-class honours degree – 12 years after her life was turned upside down when problems with mental health forced her to 'drop out' of education.
Harper & Keele Veterinary School has been ranked No.1 in the UK for Veterinary Medicine in the National Student Survey 2025.
The National Student Survey results have seen Keele University ranked among the Top 10 in England for no fewer than 15 subject different areas.
A cohort of students from an esteemed university in Bahrain have visited Keele’s sector-leading School of Medicine as part of an expanding international partnership.
An international team, including astronomers from Keele University, have performed a unique cosmic test to measure the mass of an ancient star which will help them learn more about the history of our galaxy.
A new tool has been created by a team led by Keele University to help people with a learning disability access urgent and emergency care more easily.
While all the focus and attention at the start of this weekend’s British Grand Prix will be fixed on drivers like Lando Norris and Max Verstappen and their ability to make a clean start, Dr Ian Roberts is often considered one of the most important people at the track.
A BAFTA winning actor, the first brother and sister to win medals at the same Olympic Games since 1908, and a Crown Court Judge who campaigns against discrimination and homophobia are among those to be awarded honorary degrees from Keele University.
A research consortium including a Keele scientist has welcomed an exciting new era for astronomy with the release of the first new images from a powerful observatory.
Keele University is one of 10 leading research-focused universities forming a new strategic partnership.
A new report by Keele University academics evaluates how 50 global fashion and homeware brands disclose the environmental impacts of artisan production.
Seeds from two trees that survived the atomic bomb attack on Hiroshima at the end of World War Two are being grown at Keele University, as part of an international project to promote peace and hope.
Keele University has placed highly for its graduate employability prospects in a new ranking shaped by student reviews, with 97% saying they would recommend the University.
The number of new cases of Dengue infection reached a record high in 2024, researchers have said, with cases topping more than 14 million last year.
Keele has been ranked among the top 10 universities in England to study Nursing and Midwifery in the Complete University Guide 2026, scoring 99% for graduates’ prospects upon completing their course.
Keele has been ranked among the top 5 universities in England to study Radiography, scoring 100% for graduates’ prospects upon completing their course.
Keele University’s Forensic Science programme has been ranked among the top 5 in England in the Complete University Guide 2026.
A programme to support students preparing to apply to veterinary school has been commended in a national award for widening access and participation.
The Events and Conferencing Team at Keele University are celebrating after beating competitors from across the country to win a major national tourism award.
An innovative group of staff in Keele’s student services team who support students affected by domestic abuse have been praised for their work by a national charity.
A Keele University-led initiative that connected undergraduate and postgraduate students with dozens of small businesses to help them grow and innovate is entering its second phase, following the success of the initial rollout.
A Keele student who is carrying out a placement year at one of the world’s largest and best-known automobile manufacturing businesses says the experience has changed her life and prepared her for the world of work.
A Keele University researcher is working with partners to ensure environmental initiatives such as single-use plastic reduction are inclusive and accessible to as many people as possible.
Scientists at Keele University have revealed for the first time that certain changes in prostate tissue - namely calcification - could be an indicator of cancer aggressiveness, offering a potential new method for doctors to test patients.
A Keele University graduate has spoken of his pride at championing the West Midlands in North America following the announcement of a trade deal between the US and the UK.
A Keele professor will co-lead a prestigious new research team set up to tackle the pressing challenges facing people living with arthritis, alongside colleagues from Oxford, Manchester, Nottingham and Aberdeen universities.
An eclectic and exciting festival is coming to Keele this summer with a broad range of talks, workshops, spoken word, comedy and music on offer.
A coalition including Keele University and 14 other Midlands university partners have launched a bold new initiative that is set to revolutionise how research and innovation are translated into real-world impact across the region.
Keele University researchers are leading a new study with local government partners to promote resilience and inclusivity among both businesses and young people in Tamworth, in response to last year’s summer riots.
Artists and photographers from Staffordshire, Cheshire and Shropshire are being invited to submit their work for a popular annual exhibition taking place this summer.
Keele University has been ranked as the top-performing university globally in three categories in the 2025 Planetary Health Report Card.
Professor Kevin Shakesheff has been announced as the new Vice-Chancellor of Keele University.
A student at Harper & Keele Veterinary School, who was told she had multiple sclerosis (MS) when she was 42 years old, is preparing to take part in a sponsored skydive to raise money for a support group that she says changed her life.
More than 60 sites in the Staffordshire Moorlands have been put forward by residents to feature in a project aimed at improving green spaces and monitoring habitat health.
Restoring the complexity of habitats in rivers and canals should be a key priority for conservationists, researchers have said, after studying the impact litter has on the small insects (known as macroinvertebrates) living there and the effects of current conservation efforts.
A Keele Professor has been elected as the new President of an esteemed scientific research society to honour her significant contribution to the field.
Pint of Science, the annual science festival, is returning to North Staffordshire and South Cheshire this May – with organisers putting on the biggest event so far.
Researchers from Keele University have said there are multiple barriers preventing clinicians from prescribing alternative treatments for asthma patients, despite guidance calling for a move towards inhalers with lower environmental impact.
Staff from Keele’s School of Law have celebrated the launch of Keele’s Legal Advice Clinics and CLOCK provision at Keele in Town, in the heart of Newcastle-under-Lyme.
A computational astrophysicist specialising in 3D simulations to explore the role of magnetic fields related to supernovae has been recognised by the Royal Astronomical Society (RAS) for his work.
A government minister has become the 1,000th “climate ambassador” as part of a Keele-backed national scheme to help the next generation tackle the climate crisis.
Researchers at Keele University are partnering with colleagues in Mali to help them advance the fight against mosquito-borne diseases like malaria.
A “map” of mosquito genes being developed by Keele researchers could pave the way for effective new control methods to protect human and animal health.
Keele University has been awarded a prestigious Certificate of Commendation by the Ambassador of Japan for its collection of flowering cherry trees, which will soon be in full bloom and that is free to visit.
Researchers have called for more funding for surveillance and monitoring of crop diseases and the insects that carry them, as well as to support growers affected by potential crop loss, in a new report.
Mentoring for new mothers can be the difference between a positive and a negative return to work – and should be offered to all employees going on maternity leave, according to new research.
Improving digital connectivity across rural areas, and making those connections more secure, is the goal of a new study led by a Keele University researcher.
The Chapel at Keele University has gained permission from the Registrar General’s Office to allow same-sex weddings to take place there.
Professor Mark Ormerod, Keele University’s Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Provost, has been presented with his OBE medal by King Charles for services to education and to sustainability.
A researcher from Keele’s School of Medicine is among the new cohort of academics granted Senior Investigator status by a prominent research body.
A 20-year-old student who has been left unable to use his right arm after suffering a life-changing injury while playing rugby union, is running the London Marathon to raise money for the charity that supported him during the toughest period of his life.
An internationally renowned company has announced it is relocating its UK head office to Keele University’s award-winning Science and Innovation Park.
Keele Observatory is hosting a free public event for the partial solar eclipse at the end of the month.
Keele University’s Professor Elaine Hay has been presented with her MBE medal by Prince William for services to medical research.
An “outstanding” range of films from filmmakers all over the world will be shown in Hanley this month with the return of a film festival highlighting the climate crisis.
Keele University has been shortlisted in two categories at the Student Nursing Times Awards 2025.
Scientists at Keele University have said there is a strong possibility that mass extinction events throughout the history of life on Earth could have been caused by the effects of nearby supernova explosions in the Milky Way.
New data has revealed that university graduates make up 50% of the workforce in the West Midlands and account for a significant proportion of the workforce in key growth sectors highlighted in the government’s industrial strategy.
Higher Horizons and Keele University have been shortlisted in a prestigious awards scheme celebrating the work of educational institutions in the North of England.
Keele students can take advantage of new opportunities to gain professional work experience during their degrees thanks to a new commitment to offering work placements across Keele’s range of undergraduate courses.
An author and creative writing graduate from Keele has secured a coveted place on a writing programme with a world-famous publisher.
Experts from across business, education, medicine and life sciences are among the inspirational speakers on the lineup for Keele’s latest TEDx event this month.
The inspirational role of colleges is being celebrated by Keele University as part of a national week-long awareness event.
Free digital skills training is being offered to local people at Keele University’s new community hub in Newcastle-under-Lyme by Midlands Partnership University NHS Foundation Trust (MPFT).
Paramedic students and staff at Keele University are taking part in a 24-hour CPR challenge to raise money for an air ambulance service.
A Keele University academic is celebrating after winning a prestigious prize from the Royal Society of Literature for her short story set in Stoke-on-Trent.
A practising interventional cardiologist from Keele University has travelled to Ethiopia with a US-based charity to take treatments and practices pioneered in North Staffordshire to help heart patients in Africa.
From fake airfields and factories with artificial lighting to create the impression of bustling activity, to purposefully starting large fires that simulated burning towns and cities, a complex deception strategy was used by Britain during World War Two to trick German pilots into bombing open countryside instead of hitting their targets.
An AI-powered chatbot developed by computer scientists at Keele University has the potential to “transform” mental health care by removing existing barriers to mental health support, the researchers have said.
A landmark new partnership between Keele University, Telford College, and the NHS will help to boost skills and education opportunities for people in Shropshire with a suite of new courses.
A delegation from Pakistan led by a senior minister recently joined university leaders and partners at Keele to discuss collaborations between Pakistan and the UK.
Keele University’s brand-new teaching, learning and community space in the heart of Newcastle-under-Lyme has been officially opened this week, bringing the University into the town centre for the first time in its history.
Therapeutic intervention in adolescents with self-harming behaviour does not lead to a reduced risk of future death, new Keele University-led research suggests.
A new joint doctoral programme between Keele University and four leading Moroccan Universities has been formally launched at a prestigious reception held by the British Ambassador to Morocco.
A Keele University professor has been selected to sit on a new World Heart Federation (WHF) advisory board, joining a global effort to combat heart disease.
An expert in stroke rehabilitation from Keele University has been chosen to co-lead a global project to accelerate the development of new practices and treatments to help stroke patients.
A chemistry researcher from Keele University has secured funding from a national charity for a new study which aims to improve diagnosis and testing for men at risk of prostate cancer.
Student Victoria Brown has become the third generation in her family to graduate from Keele University.
A former dairy farmer whose life was ‘turned upside down’ after losing his sight when he was 30 years old has graduated from Keele University with a Masters degree in Counselling and Psychotherapy – and is now using his knowledge and experience to help other people.
A mother and daughter duo are celebrating after graduating together from Keele University on the same day.
A research team including a Keele astronomer have released a new picture of a cosmic “firework display” caused by stars in our galaxy interacting with their environment, taken with NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope (JWST).
A tool developed by Keele University researchers has been shown to help detect fake news with an impressive 99% level of accuracy, offering a vital resource in combatting online misinformation.
A local author and lecturer at Keele University is celebrating Stoke-on-Trent’s creative heritage by creating a definitive collection of the city’s literary legacy.
A research team including a Keele neuroscientist has created a new material for treating central nervous system injuries and neurodegenerative conditions, offering hope of new therapies to regain lost motor, sensory or cognitive functions.
A Keele University professor has received an MBE in the 2025 New Year Honours list for services to medical research.
The Deputy Vice-Chancellor of Keele University has received an OBE in the 2025 New Year Honours list for services to education and to sustainability.
The rapidly growing field of esports needs a comprehensive and agreed governance framework to tackle “unhealthy” sponsorships to protect both players and fans, researchers have said.
Keele expertise and research has once again made headlines all over the world this year.
A new partnership between Keele University and a leading environmental consultancy group will strengthen the two organisations’ sustainability ambitions and create new opportunities for Keele staff and students.
New research led by Keele University and published in the journal BMC Medicine has shown that people with inflammatory arthritis currently using gabapentinoids are more likely to break their bones.
Keele University’s work to improve opportunities for students from backgrounds traditionally under-represented in higher education has been recognised in a prestigious national assessment.
A former Keele University student has made history by becoming the first female President of Namibia.
There has been a great deal of debate in recent weeks about the future of universities and their value to society.
Keele has joined forces with other regional universities to tackle inequalities in maternal healthcare across the West Midlands.
New data from the Government and Universities UK has revealed that graduates in every region of the UK – including the West Midlands – earn at least a third more than their peers who do not go to university.
An international research team, including an astronomer at Keele University, have succeeded for the first time in taking a zoomed-in image of a dying star in a galaxy outside our own Milky Way.
Keele University’s nationally renowned collection of flowering cherry trees has reached a milestone with the planting of the 300th tree.
A new partnership between Keele University and a leading Cheshire college will create new opportunities for both students and college staff who are looking towards their future.
A professor of psychiatry from Keele University has been commended for his “highly innovative and international” research by an esteemed psychiatry organisation.
Keele University is supporting a project to boost business growth in Newcastle-under-Lyme.
New facilities and upgrades across Keele University’s vibrant campus will be showcased at an upcoming Open Day for prospective applicants and their supporters this weekend.
Virtual reality is being used to help aspiring radiographers at Keele University learn how to use X-ray machines.
Researchers working to understand the prevalence of a virus that can severely damage the immune system of chickens have said that new strategies are needed to improve the control of the disease in the UK.
Keele Business School has ranked among the top 40 universities in the world for embedding sustainability in its MBA course in a global ranking of over 170 business schools worldwide.
Staff and apprentices on a masters-level apprenticeship at Keele University are celebrating after the programme received its second top accolade in eight months.
A range of new Business Management degrees have been launched at Keele Business School, offering students the chance to specialise in a variety of different areas.
More than 80 per cent of people who died by suicide within one year of being discharged from inpatient mental health care had been in recent contact with a GP, new research funded by the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) Greater Manchester Patient Safety Research Collaboration (GM PSRC) - and supported by Keele University - has found.
A topping out ceremony has been held at the new Stoke-on-Trent and Staffordshire Institute of Technology (IoT) to mark the structural completion of the scheme and the building reaching its highest point.
Keele University’s Science and Innovation Park has been named winner at a UK-wide awards ceremony.
Academics from the central Maghreb region of North Africa – encompassing Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia – and from across the UK were among the guests at a summit hosted at Keele University this week to present the findings of a major research project.
Researchers led by a Keele University scientist have said the world is experiencing the largest outbreak of Dengue virus in history, with a record number of cases reported in 2023.
Research on the public mourning after the Queen’s death offers new insights on how groups or crowds of people with a shared identity – in this case ‘Britishness’ – navigate periods of change and uncertainty.
Organisers of a film festival set up by Keele University students to showcase stories about the climate crisis have announced a brand new category for local filmmakers.
A community-digital currency for North Staffordshire has been officially launched in an event at Keele – with researchers at the University playing a key role in the project’s development.
The achievements of Black business owners in Staffordshire was celebrated at a prestigious ceremony at Keele University, held in honour of Black History Month.
Talented musicians from across the UK will be performing inside the Chapel at Keele University in a series of concerts.
An extensive trial into postnatal depression in South Asian women has found that tailored support can make a difference to their recovery.
A team led by a Keele University researcher has secured funding for a new study to make food crops more resilient to plant diseases, in a bid to improve global food security.
Scientists from Keele University are collaborating on a new study to help other researchers create, analyse and share biological designs for a variety of useful applications.
Students and graduates at Keele University have successfully supported 50 projects in the first 12 months of a Government-backed initiative, helping local businesses and organisations to unlock their potential, innovate, and grow.
Keele University has been ranked the 5th best place in England - and number one in the Midlands - to study medicine in the Guardian University Guide 2025.
Renowned novelist, academic and Nobel Prize in Literature winner, Abdulrazak Gurnah, will be giving a public reading from his work at Keele University.
Keele University is pleased to announce the appointment of Professor Tasnim Munshi as the new Head of the School of Chemical and Physical Sciences.
Research by Keele academics has been commended as part of an internationally-leading research hub working to make the UK a leader in sustainable bio-based manufacturing.
Staff and students from Keele University’s Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation Clinic are helping to boost people's health and wellbeing in the local area with the launch of two new workshops.
Guests from a prestigious Malaysian university have visited North Staffordshire to officially sign a new partnership agreement to explore artificial intelligence and data science opportunities with Keele University.
The team behind a widening participation programme led by Keele University are celebrating after winning a prestigious award for their work with a local professional football club.
Keele University has been awarded the highest rating for the quality of its educational offer in an important national assessment of all higher education institutions in England.
Nursing at Keele has been ranked 2nd in England in the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025.
Businesses and education leaders from across the West Midlands gathered at Keele University this week to officially launch a new initiative helping schools and colleges become more sustainable and resilient to climate change.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/news/2025/august/top-universities/renewable-energy-generation.php:
Data from the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) for the 2023/24 academic year shows that with 6,253 MWh of renewable energy generated in 2023/24, Keele is fourth in the UK higher education sector for renewable energy generation - behind only Cambridge, Bristol, and Loughborough.
Impressively, the University also exported 627 MWh of electricity back into the national grid.
Keele has also reduced its carbon emissions by 3.5% compared to the previous year, despite that coinciding with a period of significant growth - demonstrating the University’s continued commitment to sustainability and climate action.
The University’s on-site Low Carbon Energy Generation Park (LCEG) features 12,500 solar panels, two wind turbines, and an industrial battery for storing the generated energy.
Combined, this technology provides around 50% of the campus’ electricity needs, and provides a unique site for research into low carbon and smart energy, as well as its impact on biodiversity.
Keele is also in the top 5 nationally for both:
Professor Mark Ormerod OBE, Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Provost at Keele University, said: "Sustainability is a key overarching priority for Keele University.
These latest sector results reflect our long-term investment and partnerships in renewable and smart energy technology, energy efficiency and carbon reduction.
“We’re incredibly proud to be recognised as a sector leader through our campus Low Carbon Energy Generation Park directly integrated with Europe’s largest Smart Energy Network Demonstrator.
Our new campus electrolyser means that we are now producing green hydrogen using renewable electricity generated on campus, which is really exciting, and providing a fantastic low carbon technology research, teaching and demonstrator facility."
The EMR data provides key insights into how universities across the UK are managing their estates, including energy use, emissions, and sustainability practices.
Contact us Andy Cain, Media Relations Manager +44 1782 733857

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/news/2025/august/job-displacement/generative-artificial-intelligence.php:
A new study has revealed that the displacement of skilled workers by technology began nearly two decades ago - well before the recent breakthroughs in artificial intelligence that have sparked widespread concern over jobs becoming automated in the future.
Published in the Socio-Economic Review , the research shows that leading sectors in the so-called “knowledge economy”- including finance, tech, and professional services - have been experiencing a steady decline in the share of income going to wages since the early 2000s.
This trend suggests that automation of skilled roles began far earlier than previously thought.
Dr Nick O’Donovan, Senior Lecturer in Political Economy and Public Policy at Keele University Business School and the author of the study, said: “The knowledge-intensive services sector has become increasingly capital-intensive over this period, as leading firms invest heavily in digital infrastructure, proprietary platforms and intellectual property.
“These changes coincide with the rise of cloud computing and the growing dominance of digital platforms, which likely contributed to the automation of highly skilled tasks long before generative AI entered the mainstream.
As firms adopt even more advanced AI tools, these trends are poised to accelerate."
The study warns that these developments challenge the assumption that education and upskilling alone can protect workers in the digital era.
The consequences, according to Dr O’Donovan, are likely to reshape employment patterns, widen income inequality, and pose risks to social cohesion.
The study calls on policymakers to rethink how economies respond to automation - not only through traditional labour market policies but also through bold reforms aimed at regulating AI, redistributing the gains of technological progress, and strengthening household resilience.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/news/2025/august/ewing-sarcoma/brightwater-research-cancer.php:
The study will aim to help people with Ewing sarcoma, a rare type of cancer that is known for its tendency to spread quickly.
Ewing sarcoma is a rare type of bone and soft tissue cancer that most commonly affects people who are 10 to 20 years old.
It is slightly more common in men than women, but the exact cause is unknown.
Brightwater Research, a Shropshire-based cancer research charity, is joint-funding a new doctoral research post with the University, that will focus on finding a specific cause for why the disease spreads so rapidly and efficiently through the body.
The research is being carried out by Elliot Bramwell, a PhD candidate in Life Sciences at Keele and recipient of the Royal Society of Biology's Top Student Award.
Elliot said: "The combination of chemotherapy and surgery has improved the survival rate in patients with localised Ewing sarcoma, however, the prognosis for patients where the disease has spread is unfortunately quite poor.
Typically, 40-50 children in the UK suffer from it every year and the cancer has already spread from its original site to another part of the body in approximately a quarter of patients at the time of diagnosis.
"The relatively low incidence levels as a percentage of the overall population, means that funding for potential treatments is limited.
We believe that the research can deliver real benefits to patients with Ewing sarcoma in the future."
Brightwater Research was established in 2020 with the primary intent of advancing research into Ewing sarcoma and potentially, in the longer term, identifying new and valuable treatments.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/news/2025/august/universiti-sains/joint-centre-keele.php:
Officials from Universiti Sains Malaysia (USM), which ranked in the top 15 globally in The Times Higher Education (THE) University Impact Rankings 2025 , visited Keele to officially launch the new Keele-USM Centre and the establishment of a Dual PhD programme, enabling doctoral students to obtain a PhD from both institutions.
The two universities have been working together since 2012 and signed a Strategic Memorandum of Understanding last year that will see them continue to foster collaborative work and research.
Professor Trevor McMillan OBE, Vice-Chancellor of Keele University, described the launch of the centre as a 'significant milestone' in deepening collaboration between the two universities.
He said: "The two universities have built a trusted, long-standing partnership over more than a decade, primarily led by the School of Life Sciences.
Since 2023, the partnership has evolved into a Faculty of Natural Sciences-wide and institutionally integrated collaboration, and both sides are very keen to continue working closely together.
"We both have campus environments where research and education sit alongside and mutually support each other, particularly around the idea of sustainability.
There are some great enthusiasts at both universities for building the relationship which bodes well for the future."
The Keele-USM Centre has dual leadership from both universities and will coordinate and integrate research, education and mobility across Schools, support international student recruitment and enable joint funding bids.
The first grant application from the centre was submitted in July involving a collaborative proposal between the School of Life Sciences, School of Computer Science and USM’s Institute for Research in Molecular Medicine.
The first intake to the dual PhD programme will be next month and will see students spending time at both universities as part of their studies.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/news/2025/august/parliament-panel/islamophobia-aristotle-kallis.php:
The panel on the European Islamophobia Report (EIR) was hosted by Afzal Khan MP, Vice-Chair of the All-Party Parliamentary Group on British Muslims.
Professor Aristotle Kallis, from Keele's School of Humanities and Social Sciences, presented his latest findings alongside Professor Enes Bayrakli (Turkish-German University) who outlined the broader patterns of Islamophobia across Europe, Dr Kawtar Najib (University of Liverpool) and Dr Amani Hassani (Brunel University) who respectively examined the situations in France and Denmark.
Professor Kallis, whose research encompasses contemporary European history, fascism, and the study of prejudice and discrimination, has authored the annual UK national report for the European Islamophobia Report since 2016.
At the panel, Professor Kallis identified key developments that had marked and influenced the development of Islamophobia in Britain in 2023 and 2024 that included: the rise in anti-Muslim hate crimes following international events in the Middle East; the impact of extraordinary domestic events, and the increased targeting of Muslim communities in political discourse, particularly during national and local election campaigns.
Professor Kallis said: "The UK faces a critical juncture where Islamophobia has become increasingly normalised in public discourse, with concerning implications for social cohesion and democratic values.
"Much that the threat from the far right represents a predominant problem for Muslim communities across the UK, much more invisible damage is happening through mainstream political operators who are picking up similar divisive themes, taking away some of the most violent assumptions of Islamophobia, and normalising Islamophobic tropes left to right.
"My research for the 2024 Islamophobia report for the UK has revealed how anti-Muslim prejudice operates through multiple channels - from media representations to policy decisions - creating a climate of hostility that affects British Muslims' daily lives.
It reiterates the urgent importance of adopting an official definition for Islamophobia.
"While the challenges are significant, the report also documented remarkable examples of community resilience and interfaith solidarity that offer hope for positive change."
Lord Wajid Khan (Minister for Faith and Communities) also participated in the panel discussion alongside the Turkish Ambassador to the UK Osman Koray Ertaş, MP Naz Shah and Lord Qurban Hussein.
Professor Kallis's research continues to inform Parliamentary debates, policy discussions, and civil society initiatives on combating religious discrimination in contemporary Britain.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/news/2025/august/business-school/students-entrepreneurial-ambitions.php:
The ICAN competition was launched a year ago by experts from Keele Business School, to encourage students coming from underrepresented backgrounds to consider applying to higher education, and helping them discover their entrepreneurial ambitions with a Dragons’ Den style competition.
In its first year the programme has seen academics engaging with more than 300 students from schools and colleges across the region, with 110 of them taking part in the final competition.
Some of these schools are based in areas where significantly lower numbers of students progress to higher education compared to the national average.
The ICAN programme was established to change that, with Keele Business School seeing a 17% increase in applications from the targeted schools and colleges following their participation in the programme.
The competition saw groups of Year 12 students collaborating with classmates to come up with a business proposal presentation around one of six potential themes, including concepts such as reducing inequality and poverty across the region, or designing a new sustainability initiative for the West Midlands.
They then presented these ideas to an expert panel of “Dragons” from Keele Business School with prizes for the top performing teams, who were then also invited to present their ideas in a Staffordshire-wide competition held at the University.
Dr Tolu Olarewaju, Lecturer in Management and coordinator of the ICAN programme, said: “We welcome all students who are curious about studying business related disciplines at university and encourage schools and colleges to get involved.
It’s been inspiring to see students grow in confidence and ambition.
This is just the beginning of a movement to show young people that they belong in higher education and can shape the future.”
Dr Scott Bambrick, Director of Keele Business School, added: "A fundamental part of the School's mission is to inspire future leaders - this initiative aims to raise educational aspirations in the region by inspiring students in schools and colleges to realise their potential and that they can make it to university and go on to have a successful career.
“We were hugely impressed with the standard of all the presentations and the wonderful business ideas put forward by these fantastic students.
A massive thank you to all the wonderful students and staff who attended the day."

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/news/2025/august/human-performance-laboratory/sport-exercise-rehabilitation.php:
Located within Keele’s Sports Centre, the facility is the second of two new laboratories developed to support the growing work of the Institute of Sport, following the successful launch of the Exercise Science Laboratory last academic year.
Equipped with the latest technology to analyse the human body and featuring a mural designed by local artist Tom Edwards, the Human Performance Laboratory will enhance learning experiences across courses such as the BSc Sport and Exercise Science, and BSc Rehabilitation and Exercise Science.
Its high-spec equipment enables students and lecturers to explore the body’s responses to exercise in real-time.
The lab will also support cross-disciplinary research across the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences with applications ranging from performance assessments to investigations into a wide range of health conditions—benefiting fields such as sports performance, physiotherapy, orthotics and prosthetics, and rehabilitation science.
Together, these two facilities will help to bridge the gap between theoretical knowledge and professional application, allowing students to learn, experiment, and thrive in an industry-standard environment.
Dr Clare Pheasey, Programme Director for Sport and Exercise Science at Keele, said: "I’m absolutely thrilled to be welcoming our first cohort of BSc Sport and Exercise Science students this September.
Our programme has been carefully crafted to make the most of Keele’s outstanding facilities—including our brand-new Human Performance Laboratory—ensuring our students graduate with the skills, experience, and confidence to compete with the very best in the field."

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/news/2025/august/three-counties/fenton-town-hall.php:
A total of 300 artists entered paintings, textiles and other artwork for Keele University's landmark Three Counties Open Art Exhibition, with 97 pieces selected for display at Fenton Town Hall.
The exhibition, now in its 29th year, is free to enter and is being held from 9 August until 30 August.
It will be open Tuesday to Saturday each week, from 11am to 3pm.
Celebrating creativity in all forms, the exhibition brings together work from college-level students, graduates, professional and amateur artists, as well as individuals who have found their artistic talent later in life.
The event is organised in partnership with ArtsKeele at Keele University, Restoke, Barewall Gallery, Burslem School of Art Trust, Appetite, and ACAVA Spode Works.
Kerry Jones, from ArtsKeele at Keele University, said: "W e've been blown away by the breadth of talent across the three counties.
The 97 pieces chosen for display reflect the vibrant mix of makers and storytellers whose work speaks to place, identity, and imagination.
“There’s a real mix of art on display, from paintings and photography to a motorbike installation, and just under half of the people who have work on display have never exhibited in the show before."
Artist Susan Carr, who is exhibiting in the show, started painting 20 years ago after joining an art group run by Keele University, to ease her grief at the sudden death of her son.
Her work, called Coming Home, depicts the desperation of displaced people desperately trying to hold their lives together in horrifying circumstances.
Susan, aged 78, who lives in Cheshire, said: " The inspiration for this painting came from harrowing news reports of displaced people in war torn areas throughout the world.
I tried to depict the desperation and terror of losing everything yet somehow trying to survive.
"I had never painted until I was 58, when I joined an art group run by Keele University, to ease my grief at the sudden death of my son.
That was twenty years ago, and I still paint at Burslem Art School and Alsager Art Association.
"Painting has been the source of great joy and has brought me so many wonderful experiences and friendships.
Age is no barrier to creativity."
Alicia Walker, a textile artist from Newcastle-under-Lyme, said she was 'excited' to be part of the exhibition having recently graduated from university with a first-class honours degree in textiles.
She said: " My work recently has looked at the loss of traditional craftsmanship across North Staffordshire, focusing on the pottery industry in Stoke-on-Trent, and the silk and natural dye industry in Leek.
"The piece I’m exhibiting, Factory Worker’s Jacket, is inspired by the idea of pottery workers working in dangerous factory conditions and having to constantly mend their worn-down uniforms.
Vintage and naturally dyed fabrics have been patchworked together, distressed, and then visibly mended to tell this story.
"I'm really grateful to have been selected for the exhibition.
It’s a fantastic opportunity to platform my work early in my career, and it’s exciting to exhibit in a region that constantly inspires me."
To coincide with the exhibition, a series of creative workshops will also take place for all ages, from clay sculpture and bamboo towers to yacht racing and summer drawing.
Every workshop is free, with a mix of drop-ins and bookable sessions for all ages.
For full details and booking information, visit https://www.keele.ac.uk/about/artskeele/whatson/workshops/
This year's exhibition offers a variety of awards to celebrate artistic excellence.
Among them is the prestigious Arthur Berry Prize, presented in honour of Berry's centenary and valued at £1,000 - funded by the New Vic Theatre Archive Fund and generously boosted by Paul Dunkerley, last year's Three Counties Open Art Prize winner, who gifted his prize back to support emerging artists in the region.
Additional prizes will highlight outstanding contributions across artistic disciplines, including the Audience Choice Prize selected by visitors to the exhibition.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/news/2024/october/university-guides/medicine-ranking-midlands.php:
Keele University has been ranked the 5 th best place in England - and number one in the Midlands - to study medicine in the Guardian University Guide 2025.
The guide ranks courses at UK universities on several metrics including student satisfaction with teaching, staff to student ratio, and career prospects after graduating.
Medicine at Keele also performed strongly in the Daily Mail’s recently published university guide, ranking 4 th in England.
Medical students at Keele benefit from extensive links with our local and regional hospitals and healthcare trusts, providing an excellent level of 'hands-on' experience with patients in a wide variety of settings.
Over 200 of the University's healthcare academics can be found working on the NHS frontline across Newcastle-under-Lyme, Stoke-on-Trent, and Staffordshire, bringing real-world experience back to the classroom with them.
Keele students also benefit from modern, well-equipped teaching facilities and teaching from research-active members of staff, as well as a small cohort size giving them deeper levels of engagement with their tutors and fellow students.
Professor Christian Mallen, Executive Dean for Medicine and Health Sciences, said: “Medicine at Keele rightly deserves its place among the best medical schools in the country.
We graduate outstanding doctors who make a real difference to the communities they serve.
Our excellent Keele education team works closely with fantastic NHS partners to ensure our graduates are of the highest standard.”
Keele University is hosting open days for undergraduate students at its campus on Saturday, October 12, Sunday, October 13 and Saturday, November 16.
To book a place, visit https://www.keele.ac.uk/study/opendays/undergraduateopendays/

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/news/2025/july/nss-2025/top-ten.php:
Keele ranked among the Top 10 broad-based universities in England for a wide range of subjects across all three Faculties, including Medicine, Pharmacy, Midwifery, Social Work, Politics, English Literature, Physics, Astrophysics, Forensic Science, Biology and Geography – and was ranked No.1 in the UK for Chemistry.
Chemistry ranked No.1 in the UK with an impressive 96% of students expressing satisfaction with their course, with Astrophysics, Biology, Geography, Medicine, Midwifery, and Pharmacy all in the Top 5 in England.
Ranking in the Top 10 in England are English, Forensic Sciences, Geology, Human Biology, Politics, Physics, and Social Work.
Harper & Keele Veterinary School has also been ranked No.1 in the UK for Veterinary Medicine, with an outstanding 91.4% of students expressing satisfaction with their course.
The NSS is a high-profile annual survey of nearly half a million final year undergraduate students across the UK.
The survey gathers opinions from students about their time in higher education, asking them to provide honest feedback over 27 questions on what it has been like to study on their course at their university or college.
Professor Mark Ormerod OBE, Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Provost, said: “The National Student Survey is an important benchmark of student positivity, so I am enormously proud to see that so many of our courses have ranked so highly in this year’s exercise, and I am grateful to all of the students who took part and took the time to share their experiences.
“The fact that these courses represent such a broad range of disciplines at Keele across all of our faculties reflects the great work going on across all areas of our university to create an enriching, stimulating, and high-quality experience for all of our students.”
We have compared the positivity ratings of all participating UK institutions using the NSS 2025 sector data to determine Keele's position relative to other broad-based universities (i.e.
excluding specialist institutions and further education colleges).

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/news/2025/june/university-compare/employability-graduate-prospects.php:
Keele has placed in the UK Top 15 for graduate employability prospects in the 2026 Uni Compare rankings, while the University is also placed in the Top 20 for course quality.
Student employability is embedded within the university’s approach to teaching, with every undergraduate degree at Keele (excluding apprenticeships and “top up” degrees) now offering students a work placement opportunity, to help boost their employability and give them important industry skills and contacts before they graduate.
Professor Mark Ormerod OBE, Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Provost at Keele, said: “We have put a major emphasis on employability in all our degree programmes at Keele, as well as the quality of our courses, so I’m delighted that Keele has been placed in the Top 15 UK universities for graduate employability prospects and in the Top 20 for course quality, based on student reviews.
“We have redesigned all our undergraduate programmes in the last year to place an even greater emphasis on employability and skills, with every undergraduate degree now offering a work placement opportunity as part of the degree.”
The Uni Compare rankings ask students to score their universities on several different aspects of university life including course quality, employability, accommodation and social life, with students also giving an overall judgement on whether they would recommend the university.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/news/2025/march/michelin-head-office/keele-science-innovation-park.php:
Michelin has announced the move in pursuit of its “People, Profit and Planet” strategy, which will help it make significant gains in sustainability and creating an enhanced workplace for its staff.
Members of the UK commerce and group services teams will operate from the new office in Innovation Centre 2 (IC2), located on Keele University’s campus.
The move aligns with Michelin’s all-sustainable approach in its ‘People, Profit and Planet’ strategy, while embracing its heritage in the county.
Keele University Science and Innovation Park was named winner of the Building Environmental Sustainability and Innovation award at the UK Science Park Association Awards 2024.
Offices have been converted within the park’s IC2 building to accommodate the employees, who are moving from the Riverside complex on Campbell Road in Stoke under the new arrangement as of March 2025.
Staff supporting Michelin’s retreading tyre factory in Stoke and its logistics and training centre will remain at the company’s manufacturing site in Campbell Road.
John Howe, Managing Director of Michelin in the UK and Ireland, said: “This is a great opportunity to provide collaborative and dynamic workspace experiences that are fit for today’s and future talents.
“With the lease of our current premises coming to an end, this provided a natural opportunity for us to look at what was available in the market and aligned with our requirements, with Keele coming out on top.
“Sustainability was one of the most important factors in reaching our decision.
“With 49 EV chargers, cycle stores and shower facilities for staff who commute by bike, as well as wind and solar energy generation on site, IC2 enables us to benefit from Keele University’s innovative approach in this important area.
“A variety of work options including meeting rooms, collaborative spaces and areas for quiet, focused work have all been created in the new facility.
“Staff can also access a range of opportunities on-site, including leisure, fitness, retail and dining options, and there’s a Marriott hotel for Michelin’s visitors and our field-based teams.
“The location is served by regular public transport and Michelin is purchasing permits to ensure staff have access to free parking too.
“We look forward to creating this workspace for our UK team.”
Professor Trevor McMillan OBE, Vice-Chancellor of Keele University, said: "We're delighted that Michelin has chosen to relocate its head office to our award-winning Science and Innovation Park.
“We look forward to welcoming Michelin into Keele's diverse business community and our discussions have already uncovered common interests, particularly around sustainability and social inclusion, which we hope to build on."

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/factsandfigures/tef:
Keele University has been awarded the highest rating of Gold in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023, maintaining the Gold standard that we achieved in the previous exercise in 2017.
Keele is one of only 15 broad-based universities in England – out of over 100 – to have been awarded Gold in both the 2017 and 2023 TEF exercises, demonstrating our consistent teaching excellence.
The overall Gold rating, which Keele will hold for the next four years, signifies that the student experience and student outcomes at Keele are typically outstanding for all students and across all subjects and courses.
Outstanding quality features identified by the TEF panel include:
🏆  Teaching, feedback and assessment practices are highly effective and tailored 🏆  Course content and delivery inspire students 🏆  Excellent academic practice is embedded across Keele 🏆  Keele offers a supportive learning environment 🏆  Approaches to supporting students are highly effective and tailored
"We are delighted that the education we offer has been recognised as being of the highest standard in the sector.
"Gold TEF is a crucial hallmark of excellence.
This achievement for Keele gives students confidence that the education they receive with us is of the highest quality, which will set them on a good course for their future careers, all delivered by staff at the forefront of their respective fields."
- Professor Kristyan Spelman Miller, Pro Vice-Chancellor for Education at Keele
The TEF is a national scheme run by the Office for Students (OfS) that aims to encourage universities and colleges to improve and deliver excellent teaching, learning, and student outcomes.
The TEF does this by assessing and rating universities and colleges for excellence above a set of minimum requirements for quality and standards.
Universities and colleges that take part in the TEF receive an overall rating as well as two underpinning ratings – one for the student experience and one for student outcomes.
The ratings reflect the extent to which a university or college delivers an excellent experience and outcomes for its mix of undergraduate students and across the range of its undergraduate courses and subjects.
It is important that all students, whatever their background, can have confidence that they will receive a high-quality higher education and positive outcomes.
The TEF encourages universities and colleges to deliver excellent teaching and learning for all their students.
The OfS encourage students to use TEF ratings – which provide a clear signal of a provider's excellence – as useful context when deciding what and where to study.
Typically, the experience students have at Keele and the outcomes it leads to are outstanding, and have been rated Gold overall.
Outstanding quality features identified by the TEF panel including:
There are also two very high quality features:
Student outcomes are typically very high quality, with significant pockets of outstanding quality.
Very high quality features include:
There are also some outstanding quality features including:

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/news/2022/june/student-crowd/best-uk-university.php:
Keele University has been ranked by students as being the best in the UK in the nationwide Student Crowd Awards.
The University has won the coveted No.1 spot in the “Best UK University” category in this year’s awards, highlighting its commitment to providing an outstanding student experience.
The Student Crowd Awards , which have been announced today, are based purely on verified student feedback with nearly 16,000 reviews being used to decide the winners of all 11 award categories.
The reviews used in the assessment were posted between June 2020 and May 2022, highlighting not only the outstanding student experience on offer at Keele in general, but the extra support that students received throughout the Covid pandemic.
Keele also performed strongly in the “Value for Money” and “Accommodation” categories of this year’s awards.
Professor Trevor McMillan OBE, Vice-Chancellor of Keele University said: “We are delighted to have been ranked as the Best UK University in this year’s Student Crowd awards, and the fact that this award is a direct result of our students’ feedback is particularly humbling and welcome.
“My sincere thanks go to our students for their positive feedback, and for the confidence they put in the student experience and educational offering we provide at Keele.
I must also pay tribute to our hard-working staff, both academic and professional services, whose efforts to provide our students with an outstanding education and student experience – especially throughout the disruption of the Covid pandemic – are to be commended.”

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/research/ref:
Keele University’s role as a centre for outstanding, world-class research has been reaffirmed in the UK-wide Research Excellence Framework (REF, 2021).
REF 2021 was jointly conducted by the four UK higher education funding bodies, which every seven years assess the quality, impact, and environment that supports research in higher education institutions in the UK.
REF 2021 results for Keele indicate a 75% increase in the volume of world-leading research across the University compared to the last REF in 2014, with 80% of Keele’s research being classified as either world-leading or internationally excellent (4* or 3* rated research).
For the 2021 exercise Keele’s submissions also saw a 25% increase in the number of staff submitted, reflecting its continued growth as a genuine research-led university, which places an equal emphasis on excellence in both research and education.
Professor Trevor McMillan, Vice-Chancellor of Keele University said: “We are delighted that our research has been recognised as being world-leading by the independent REF expert panels.
Keele researchers work tirelessly to tackle some of the world’s most pressing challenges, from food security, healthcare and environmental sustainability, to helping businesses innovate and making our communities healthier and safer.
These results today are a tribute to their hard work and dedication, and the impact that their research is having on society.”
Research from all three of the University’s faculties (Humanities and Social Sciences, Medicine and Health Sciences, and Natural Sciences) all performed strongly in this year’s REF, with particularly outstanding performances in Allied Health Professions, English Language and Literature, Engineering (Bioengineering/Regenerative Medicine and Chemistry), Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care and Physics.
Additionally, Biological Sciences, Psychology, Geography and Environmental Studies Business and Management Studies and Computer Science.
all saw significant increases in their gradings compared to REF 2014.
Keele was one of 157 UK universities which participated in REF 2021, which collectively submitted evidence from over 76,000 academic staff.
Submissions included research outputs, evidence and testimonials about the positive impact the research is having on society, and evidence about the research environment.
This material was assessed by a series of independent expert panels comprising UK and international researchers, external users of research, and experts in interdisciplinary research.
Steven Hill, Chair of the REF Steering Group and Director of Research at Research England, said: “The real differences made to people’s lives, both across the UK and around the world, that are narrated through the impact case studies are in many cases humbling and, in our current times, a significant example of this is provided in our universities’ outstanding contribution to the Covid pandemic.
“Universities and their staff have had to respond to the pandemic in multiple ways.
Their commitment to working with the funding bodies to deliver REF 2021 has been considerable.
The incredible contribution both of those making the submissions and of our expert panels, through these unprecedented times, has allowed us to deliver a rigorous and timely set of results.”

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/nhs:
At Keele, our healthcare academics don’t just prepare students for working in the NHS of tomorrow.
With over 200 of our colleagues also working clinically in the NHS, some quite literally go from the lecture theatre to the operating theatre.
From delivering babies to saving lives, the wealth of expertise at Keele has a positive impact not just on our students, but also on local people on a daily basis.
When Professor Pensée Wu isn’t teaching the next generation of medical students at Keele, she’s busy bringing babies into the world.
Alongside her job as a senior lecturer and researcher at the University, Pensée is also a senior doctor at Royal Stoke University Hospital where she has delivered more than 500 babies and counting – including performing emergency caesareans.
From the lecture theatre to the operating theatre, Pensée is making a positive impact not just on the lives of students but new mothers, babies and their families across Stoke-on-Trent and Newcastle-under-Lyme.
As a paramedic, Kevin Armstrong is often one of the first to arrive on the scene when patients across Staffordshire, Stoke-on-Trent and Newcastle-under-Lyme need help.
It’s a fast-paced and vital role which involves making life-saving decisions in emergency situations.
But it’s not Kevin’s only job.
When he’s not on the frontline with West Midlands Ambulance Service where he has attended almost 10,000 incidents, Kevin is the Director of Paramedic Sciences at Keele, where he brings real-world experience into the design and delivery of paramedic science programmes and the classroom – passing on his knowledge to the next generation of paramedics.
Professor Jo Protheroe has been a GP for more than 20 years.
When she's not looking after and supporting patients in Newcastle-under-Lyme, she's Keele’s Director of General Practice Education, leading the team responsible for student placements in over 100 GP surgeries in Staffordshire and Shropshire, and delivering course content for the University’s medical students.
A nationally and internationally recognised expert in the field of health literacy, Jo brings two decades' worth of experience to course content and the lecture theatre, giving Keele’s students the experiences and emotions of being a GP in the real-world and the skills they need to work in the NHS of the future.
One of the cornerstones of the Keele University-UHNM partnership is its ongoing success in providing local and national healthcare systems with highly trained and qualified staff.
The four Schools within the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences (FMHS) at Keele University are focused on developing excellent clinicians in Medicine, Nursing and Midwifery, Pharmacy, and Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation.
This is the result of the highly successful partnership between the University and UHNM, delivering the teaching excellence required in both academic and hands-on clinical environments.
Keele University and UHNM also have a long-established history of successful research collaboration.
Recently, the partners’ mutual need to grow their clinical research capability further still has been recognised by the establishment of a third health-related research institute at the University and the appointment of a number of new clinical professorial positions.
The partners have established a long-term commitment to strengthen their already robust partnership to expand world-leading research in regenerative medicine and primary and secondary care, enhance the health and wellbeing of the local population and forge strong links with the commercial sector.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/privacy:
Keele University is committed to ensuring visitors’ privacy whilst viewing University web pages.
This page explains the types of data collected and how this information will be used.
Keele University web servers automatically log each visit that they receive.
This data contains the IP address you are connecting from and the page or service you are requesting.
It also records the date and time of the request and details of the browser being used.
Keele University may also collect personal information supplied through the use of online forms and surveys.
This information will not be supplied to any third parties, and will only be used for subsequent communications, if indicated by you, the user, at the time of submission.
The data will be kept for no longer than is required and in compliance with DPA and GDPR.
In submitting your personal information online, you are agreeing that University staff may use your details for the sole purpose of conducting the business of the University.
If at anytime you no longer wish to receive any information from Keele University, please respond to any email and state that you wish to ‘unsubscribe’.
If you contact Keele University by email, we keep a record of that correspondence for the purpose of conducting University business.
We do not add any email addresses of those who communicate with the University through email to any mailing databases, nor do we pass this to any third party unless expressly stated.
A cookie is a small, often encrypted text file, which our website can send to your browser.
It may then be stored on your computer, and can be accessed by our web server.
Cookie data can then be retrieved and allow us to customise our web pages and services accordingly.
Cookies enable us to collect anonymous information, like the IP address of your computer, the browser software used, the operating system, access times and pages visited.
We will not use cookies to collect personally identifiable information (PII) about you.
It's also important to clarify that cookies do not collect any personal data stored on your hard drive or computer.
To find out more about cookies, visit all aboutcookies.org .
We use cookies that are strictly necessary to enable you to move around the site or to provide certain basic features.
We use cookies to enhance the functionality of the website by storing your preferences, for example.
We also use cookies to help us to improve the performance of our website to provide you with a better user experience.
For information on how to control your cookie settings and browser settings, or how to delete cookies on your hard drive, please visit aboutcookies.org .
A useful tool that will enable you to control many third party tracking cookies can be found at the Network Advertising Initiative .
Should you choose to disable, reject or block our cookies, some parts of our website may not function fully.
The Keele University website (keele.ac.uk) uses:
None of the technologies used are able to collect PII and in most cases the data collected is stored securely on a provider’s server permitting no direct access.
For a full list of cookies used on the Keele website, please visit the Keele University cookie declaration page .
Other University services such as CMS, eVision, Blackboard, webmail may use cookies that are strictly necessary in order for the service to function correctly.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/terms:
Terms and conditions
This page tells you the terms of use which you agree to when you use the keele.ac.uk website and other important information relating to the information contained on the website.
Keele.ac.uk is a website operated by the University of Keele ("we", "Keele University", "us").
We are a university established by the University of Keele Act 1962 (10 &11 Eliz.
2 Ch Xv) and the granting of a Royal Charter 1962, of Keele, Staffordshire ST5 5BG.
To contact us, please email us (see addresses at www.keele.ac.uk/contactus ) or telephone us on +44 (0)1782 732000 .
You agree to use this site only for lawful purposes, and in a manner that does not infringe the rights of, or restrict or inhibit the use and enjoyment of, this site by any third party.
By using this site, you indicate that you accept these terms of use and that you agree to abide by them.
If you do not agree to these terms of use, please refrain from using the Website.
You are also responsible for ensuring that all persons who access our site through your internet connection are aware of these terms of use and other applicable terms and conditions, and that they comply with them.
These following additional terms will also apply to your use of our site:
If you apply and become a student at Keele University, your contractual relationship will be governed by our Student Terms and Conditions – these can be found at www.keele.ac.uk/student-agreement/ .
We may at any time revise these terms and conditions and such changes will be effective from the date of publication.
Please check these terms and conditions every time you wish to use our site, as continued use of the Website after a change has been made is your acceptance of the change.
We may also make changes to our Privacy and cookies policy from time to time, so you should also check these regularly to see whether any changes have been made.
The Website is made available to you free of charge.
We do not guarantee that our site, or any content on it, will always be available or be uninterrupted.
Your access to the Website is given on a temporary basis only.
We reserve the right to change the Website and the content on it, including without limitation by adding or removing content or functionality, at any time.
We may suspend or withdraw or restrict the availability of all or any part of the Website for business and operational reasons.
We will try to give you reasonable notice of any suspension or withdrawal.
We make no warranties, representations, undertakings or guarantees that the Website:
All aspects of Keele University’s website design, graphics, text, software compilations, underlying source code, software (including applets) and all other material on the website are copyright of Keele University and its affiliates.
The express permission of Keele University must be obtained for the use of any material other than that permitted by law.
Subject to the restrictions set out below, you may download, view and print materials from our sites for your personal non-commercial use and internal non-commercial circulation within your organisation.
Print copies must not be modified in any way.
No other use is permitted without our prior written consent.
Keele University’s status (and that of any contributors) as authors of the material on our sites must be acknowledged.
The permission to reproduce material does not extend to material identified as belonging to third parties, where you obtain the permission of the relevant owners before reproducing the material.
We welcome other websites to link to the information that is hosted on these pages, and you don’t have to ask permission to link to the Website.
However, we don’t give you permission to suggest that your website is associated with, or endorsed by, the Website, unless otherwise agreed.
Where our site contains links to other sites and resources provided by third parties, these links are provided for your information only.
We have no control over the contents of those sites or resources, and accept no responsibility for them or for any loss or damage that may arise from your use of them.
By linking to external websites, Keele University does not endorse the views or information within them and is unable to grant permission to use material found on such sites.
Whenever you make use of a feature that allows you to upload content to our site, or to make contact with other users of our site, you must comply with the content standards set out in our Acceptable Use Policy .
You agree that you will compensate us for any losses or liabilities we suffer or incur as a result of or in connection with you not complying with those standards, and you accept that you will be liable to us and reimburse us for any loss that we suffer or for costs we incur.
Any content you upload to our site will be considered non-confidential and not registered or protected in any way (e.g.
as a trademark).
You retain all of your ownership rights in your content, but you are required to grant us a limited licence to use, store and copy that content and to distribute and make it available to third parties.
We also have the right to disclose your identity to any third party who is claiming that any content posted or uploaded by you to our site constitutes a violation of their intellectual property rights, or of their right to privacy.
We have the right to remove any posting you make on our site if, in our opinion, your post does not comply with the content standards set out in our Acceptable Use Policy .
You are solely responsible for securing and backing up your content.
We are not responsible for and do not give any warranties in respect of any content on the Website that is uploaded by a user (other than our staff, agents and/or representatives).
Any view expressed by any user of our Website is their view and not ours, unless such statements are made by our staff, agents and/or representatives.
Our site is accessed by a range of users and the information on the site is therefore intended to serve a range of needs, both internal and external.
Keele University will endeavour to ensure that the information on our site is accurate at the time of publication.
If you believe that any of the information on our sites is inaccurate, please let us know via webmaster@keele.ac.uk and we will investigate this.
Keele University will do all it reasonably can to ensure that information provided on the Website is accurate and up-to-date.
However, Keele University undertakes a continuous review of its teaching provision to ensure quality enhancement and it may be necessary to make changes to the information or its services from time to time, including withdrawal of programmes or services.
Immediately prior to making an application to study at Keele University, prospective students should fully familiarise themselves with the most up to date information contained on this site in relation to the subject matter/course to which their application relates, and refer to the relevant terms contained in any offer communication received.
Keele University allows staff and student pages to be maintained on the Website but the views on these pages may not represent the views of Keele University.
The information on staff and student pages is not provided by Keele University.
Consequently, the institution does not and cannot guarantee the accuracy of such information.
If you register an account on the Website you must provide accurate and complete registration information and keep that information up to date at all times.
Use of certain parts of the Website is password protected.
In order to use it you will need a user identification code, password, authentication code, and/or pre-selected answers to security questions in order to access it.
It is your responsibility to keep this information secret and confidential and not to disclose it to any other person.
We reserve the right to disable any user identification code, password, authentication code, and/or pre-selected answers to security questions at any time if:
You must not:
If you breach any term of these Terms of Use your right to use the Website will immediately end.
In addition we may take such other actions including, without limitation, legal action as we consider appropriate.
We do not exclude or limit in any way our liability to you where it would be unlawful to do so.
This includes liability for death or personal injury caused by our negligence or the negligence of our employees, agents or subcontractors and for fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation.
Different limitations and exclusions of liability will apply to liability relating to academic services provided to you, which will be set out in our Student Terms and Conditions that can be found at www.keele.ac.uk/student-agreement/
To the fullest extent permitted by the law, we have no liability to you for any loss of profit, loss of business, business interruption, or loss of business opportunity.
If defective digital content that we have supplied, damages a device or digital content belonging to you and this is caused by our failure to use reasonable care and skill, we will either repair the damage or pay you compensation.
These terms are governed by the laws of England and Wales, and you can bring legal proceedings in respect of these terms in English and Welsh courts.
If you live in Scotland you can bring legal proceedings in respect of these terms in either the Scottish or the English courts.
If you live in Northern Ireland you can bring legal proceedings in respect of these terms in either the Northern Irish or the English courts.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/feedback:
We welcome comments and feedback on any aspects of the Keele University website.
University members can contact the Communications Team via the web support self-service portal .
If you're not a member of the University, please use our online support request form .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/athenaswan:
Athena Swan
Since September 2005 the University has been a Member of the Athena Swan Charter.
The University and its Schools continue to strive towards higher levels of award recognition.
Keele University is committed to the principles of the Athena Swan Charter and values equality and diversity across its workforce.
Keele University sees membership of the Charter, with its bronze, silver and gold recognition awards, as working towards sustaining equitable working environments enabling universities to identify themselves as employers of choice, not only to their staff, but to students, stakeholders, research councils and industry.
Keele University currently holds an institutional Athena Swan Bronze award and has awards across all eligible Schools.
Contact the equalities team
and guidance
how we can support you

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/informationgovernance:
At Keele University, we handle large volumes of information daily, including personal information about staff and students, financial information, and research data.
Information Governance provides the framework to bring together all the legal rules, guidance and best practice that apply to handling information and ensures risks are minimised.
How we deal with your personal information (for our employees, students, alumni, research participants and visitors).
Know your rights over your personal information (for our employees, students, alumni, research participants and visitors).
Get non-personal information from the University (Freedom of Information).
How we handle and process your data
Individual rights under the GDPR
Access non-personal information from the University
Raise concern with the University
The following information governance policies can be found on Policy Zone pages:
The following policies can be found on the IT policy page:
The UK’s independent authority set up to uphold information rights in the public interest, promoting openness by public bodies and data privacy for individuals.
As required by law Keele has appointed a Data Protection Officer (DPO).
Keele DPO can be contacted if you have any queries or concerns about how we deal with personal data whether you are a data subject or a member of staff needing advice.
Contact by email: dpo@keele.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/sas/academicservices/governance/charityregistration:
Charitable Status Keele University is an exempt charity listed in Schedule 3 of the Charities Act 2011 and its principal regulatory body is the Office for Students (OfS) .
Although the University is not a company, it has a Companies House registration number of RC000655 as a Company Incorporated by Royal Charter in England and Wales.
Legal name and correspondence address Our legal name is The University of Keele, trading as Keele University.
The University's registered correspondence address is: Keele University, Keele, Staffordshire, ST5 5BG
Trustees of the University The University Council is the supreme governing body, with its members acting as trustees.
Information on the roles, primary responsibilities and membership (including biographical details and a list of other charities of which the Council members are also trustees) can be accessed here .
Constitutional Documents The University of Keele was established by Act of Parliament and the granting of a Royal Charter in 1962.
Prior to this, the University was founded as the University College of North Staffordshire in 1949.
The University’s main constitutional documents are its Act, Charter, Statutes, Ordinances and Regulations .
The strategic plan and mission of the University are set out in Our Future: Keele University Strategy.
Financial Statements
The full audited consolidated financial statements for the University are published every autumn and contain the University's public benefit statement, which can be accessed here .
The University has also produced financial information on its activities for current and prospective students .
For further information please contact the Governance Manager via: Fiona Dumbelton Email: f.dumbelton@keele.ac.uk Tel: 01782 7 33373

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/policyzone:
Welcome to the Keele University Policy Zone where you will find all University policy documents sorted by A-Z, theme, document type and owner.
The University Policy Framework available below ensures the University has consistent standards for the development, approval, publication, communication and review of its governance documentation; it defines the categories of policy documents and outlines the hierarchy of such documents.
Accessibility: If you have any questions or would like to request documents in a different format, please contact the Governance team .
Staff developing new policy documents, or revising existing documents, should ensure that they comply with the Framework and use the Policy Development & Communication Checklist as an aid to the requirements and processes within the University.
Staff should also use the following templates for new policies and procedures.
Staff should also follow the Equality Analysis Guidance, available here .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/contactus:
New and current students: Please get in touch through our Student Services Hub .
Visitors and general enquiries: Please call the University switchboard +44 (0)1782 732000 , or use our postal address: Keele University, Keele, Staffordshire, ST5 5BG, United Kingdom.
Admissions enquiries please contact: enquiries@keele.ac.uk / +44 (0)1782 734010
Send a WhatsApp message : +44 (0)7897 020 540
or contact the following areas directly:
Conferences and events Telephone: +44 (0)1782 732020 Fax: +44 (0)1782 713058 Email: conferences@keele.ac.uk
Estate and campus services help desk For all maintenance enquiries Telephone: +44 (0)1782 733137 Email: estates@keele.ac.uk
Human resources For all enquiries to Human Resources Department, Payroll and Pensions Department, Organisational Development Telephone: +44 (0)1782 731816 Ground floor, IC2 Building
Income office (make payments / discuss payment plans) Telephone: +44 (0) 1782 733052 Email: finance.income@keele.ac.uk
IT service desk Telephone: +44 (0)1782 733636 Email: it.service@keele.ac.uk
Library enquiries Telephone: +44 (0)1782 734159 Email: library.help@keele.ac.uk
Press office Please contact the Communications team
Schools and Faculties Please see our Schools and Faculties pages for specific contact details
Students' Union and Advice and Support at Keele (ASK) Email: su@keele.ac.uk
Website support Staff and student web support request form > General support request form >

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/howtofindus:
Keele University is situated in the Staffordshire countryside, right by the bustling town of Newcastle-under-Lyme, and close to Stoke-on-Trent.
Manchester and Birmingham are under an hour away.
Our postcode is ST5 5BG .
The nearest railway stations to Keele are:
For national train times and enquiries visit nationalrail.co.uk or thetrainline.com .
From the train stations you can get to Keele Campus via bus, taxi or cycling.
Taxi: There is a taxi rank outside Stoke-on-Trent and Crewe railway stations.
The journey takes 15-20 minutes from Stoke-on-Trent railway station and 20-25 minutes from Crewe railway station.
Bus and cycle: For information about reaching Keele from the above railway stations by bus or cycling, see getting here by bus or getting here by bike.
Please note that roadworks are currently in effect outside Stoke-on-Trent train station and are expected to last until March 2025.
Although journeys to campus are unaffected, journeys from Keele will be impacted as Service 25 will be unable to access Station Road.
Service 21 and Service 23 will also be affected.
Please use the bus stops at Leek Road (near the Royal Mail Sorting Office) or by the Sixth Form College instead.
From Stoke-on-Trent train station, 'First' buses operate No.
25 service.
The bus stop is on your left when exiting the station, on the opposite side of the road (opposite the taxi rank).
More details can be found on the First Group website .
From Crewe bus station, 'D&G' buses (No.
85 service) to Newcastle-under-Lyme leaves from the stop to the right of the station entrance towards the roundabout.
The service leaves at 5 minutes past the hour (Monday to Saturday), taking about 50 minutes, and stops in Keele village or Barnes Hall.
First Bus Tel: 0870 608 2 608
D&G Buses Tel: 01270 252970
Keele is between Junctions 15 and 16 on the M6 motorway, and is just west of Stoke-on-Trent and Newcastle-under-Lyme.
We are halfway between Manchester and Birmingham.
Sat Nav users please use the University postcode ST5 5BJ for main visitor car parks.
Visitor parking (pay and display) is available on car park E2.
Chancellor's Building: Latitude = 53.0034 , Longitude = -2.2733
Ordnance Survey Map reference for Keele: SJ817451
Leave the M6 motorway at Junction 16.
At the motorway roundabout turn right onto the A500 for Crewe and Nantwich.
Continue for about two miles, go left at the roundabout, continue for a further mile and go left at the next roundabout onto the A531 towards Betley.
Continue on this road for approximately eight miles until you reach the Keele University entrance.
From the motorway junction to Keele the journey time is about 20-25 minutes.
Leave the M6 at Junction 15 and follow the signs for the A519 into Newcastle-under-Lyme.
The University is signed from the first roundabout.
From the motorway junction to Keele the journey time is about 15-20 minutes.
If you are travelling on the A53 follow signs to Newcastle-under-Lyme.
If you are using the A50, join the A500 (south) and then turn right at the roundabout at M6 Junction 15 and follow directions from the south (above).
Travel from the M1 is easiest using Junction 23A onto the Derby bypass and following signs for the A50.
Follow signs for the A525 towards Newcastle and turn right at the roundabout at the main University entrance (signposted).
Coaches from many parts of the country call at Hanley (Stoke-on-Trent) and Newcastle-under-Lyme bus stations.
You can then get a local bus to the campus, 'First' buses (Service No.
3/X3) and 'D&G' buses (service no.
85) which run from both stations.
Keele positively supports cycling as a vital aspect of sustainable transport and cycling facilities have been increased and upgraded in recent years.
You can hire a Brompton bike from Stoke-on-trent train station for just £2.50 per day and cycle to Keele campus.
There are plenty of places to park your bike at Keele.
Our cycle map shows the location of all the cycle stores and facilities.
To plan your cycle journey to Keele from the train station or other areas you may wish to use these cycle maps of Stoke-on-Trent .
Or visit the following websites:
Keele cyclists is the bicycle users group (BUG) for Keele University.
We aim to allow cyclists to give collective feedback to the University on how cycling can be supported and encouraged and to allow cyclists to meet and support one another.
Manchester Airport is nearest to Keele and is about 35 miles (56km) away.
There are frequent trains from the airport to Manchester Piccadilly station where there is a regular service to Stoke-on-Trent railway station.
Alternatively, National Express operates a direct service to Stoke-on-Trent (Hanley bus station) eight times a day.
There is a SkyTrain service from Birmingham Airport to Birmingham New Street railway station.
From here, trains to Stoke-on-Trent run regularly, about twice an hour.National Express run a direct coach service from the airport terminal building to Stoke-on-Trent (Hanley bus station) three times a day.
If travelling by train go from Gatwick Airport to Victoria Station in London and then to Euston via the Underground.
From here catch a train to Stoke-on-Trent.
If travelling by coach, there is a National Express coach service from Gatwick to Stoke-on-Trent (Hanley bus station).
There are numerous services daily but all require a change of coach.
The journey takes approximately 6-7 hours.
The easiest journey is to use the Airbus service from Heathrow Airport to Euston railway station.
From here take a train for Manchester Piccadilly that will stop at Stoke-on-Trent.
There is also a National Express coach service from the Central bus station at Heathrow directly to Stoke-on-Trent (Hanley bus station).

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/howtofindus/maps:
Keele campus map and guide (main campus only)
PDF (5,918 KB)
This file may not be suitable for some users of assistive technology.
Request an accessible format .
Keele campus parking map
PDF (2,648 KB)
This map shows the location of the Clinical Education Centre on the University Hospital site
University Hospital site map JPEG (267 KB)
This map shows the location of the Keele University Medical School (Clinical Education Centre and Hartshill campus)
Clinical Education Centre and Hartshill campus JPEG (264 KB)
Below is a 360° interactive tour, courtesy of Keele Events and Conferencing, that guides you across our campus and lets you explore the interiors of key buildings.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/student-life:
At Keele, we’re proud to offer a diverse range of career-focused courses and a thriving student life on our beautiful 600-acre campus, with everything you need on your doorstep.
Whatever your goals, at Keele our ambition is to prepare you for success.
From the lecture theatre to valuable work placements, employability is embedded throughout.
Located near both a vibrant university town and a bustling city, Keele is a global community for both academic and personal growth.
There’s always something happening on campus, whether it’s a gig at the Students’ Union, vintage market in Union Square, open mic night at the Keele Postgraduate Association, or one of our regular sporting fixtures - you’ll never be short of things to do.
And when you need space to think, our 600 acres of woodland, gardens and lakes are the perfect setting for a spot of reflection and relaxation.
Beyond the buzz of campus, the local university town of Newcastle-under-Lyme offers more restaurants, bars, shops and activities; from music and food festivals to exhibitions and nightlife.
And the nearby city of Stoke-on-Trent offers a wide range of retail, leisure and entertainment options to explore.
Keele Students' Union offers a wide range of events, facilities, activities, support and volunteering opportunities to students.
An award-winning entertainment venue, Keele SU also represents students on local and national issues.
Keele’s postgraduate students’ union, the KPA represents the interests of postgraduate students, with a dedicated clubhouse on campus.
University is an exciting time of life, but we understand that it can come with challenges.
That’s why we’ve got a dedicated Student Experience and Support Team in every Faculty, offering tailored advice, guidance, and one-to-one support whenever you need it.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/facilities:
Whether it's health, humanities, science, or our business programmes, Keele's world-class teaching and research facilities are continually invested in and developed.
Our facilities provide students with real-world experience to create career-ready graduates, and give our researchers the modern resources to enable them to continue their world-changing research.
Keele's £34m Central Science Laboratory (CSL) offers state-of-the-art facilities and access to high specification equipment - ensuring students are well prepared for scientific or industrial employment post-graduation.
The David Attenborough Laboratories have significantly expanded the School of Life Sciences’ teaching and research areas, and provide two additional state-of-the-art teaching laboratories with space for 120 students between them.
Find out more about the David Attenborough Laboratories
Keele Business School is located in the Smart Innovation Hub - a multi-million pound building that is also home to a range of innovative companies, providing the perfect environment to foster networks and links with industry.
Our Bloomberg Suite provides students with access to economic, financial and business real-time data, world news, analyses and reports from the world’s biggest financial organisations.
Our state-of-the-art Harper and Keele Veterinary School incorporates teaching facilities, a clinical skills centre, and a Veterinary School hub - a veterinary ‘home’ for Harper and Keele Veterinary School staff and students on campus.
Explore Harper & Keele Veterinary School
Allied Health Professions, including our Physiotherapy, Exercise and Rehabilitation Science and Radiography programmes, have access to a variety of modern and specialist equipment to facilitate learning and teaching of clinical skills.
The School of Nursing and Midwifery's state-of-the-art Clinical Education Centre is a purpose-built resource that houses state of the art teaching facilities, used to enhance and support the student learning experience.
Keele's purpose-built crime scene house (equipped with CCTV, vehicles and blood pattern analysis room) enables Forensic Science students to gain experience in recovering evidence from a variety of realistic criminal settings.
Located in the centre of campus, Keele library offers 24/7 term-time access to t housands of physical and online resources.
Keele's Moot Court room enables law students to hone their advocacy skills in a high-quality multi-use learning environment.
Physics and Astrophysics students have access to i ndustry-standard equipment housed in our observatory, including a telescope which may have been used by Einstein!
Overclockers high-tech computer gaming station suite is used by computer science and mathematics students to develop and build the skills needed to work in this fast-growing field.
Pharmacy provides a range of innovative facilities that include virtual 3D interactive teaching,  a clinical skills suite, dispensing pharmacy suite and science laboratories.
Our Psychology programmes are well resourced with laboratories that house observation suites and state-of-the-art equipment including EEG and eye-tracking software.
Our virtual tour will allow you to view our campus, facilities and halls of residence from the comfort of your own home.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/whykeele:
Established 75 years ago by the former Vice-Chancellor of Oxford University, Keele created the blueprint for modern-day higher education in Britain.
We’re unusual in being excellent at both teaching and research , with some of the most satisfied students in England (No.1 in the UK, Student Crowd University Awards, 2022), and research that is changing lives for the better.
Join us for an Open Day >
We have one of the biggest campuses in Britain to explore, located in the Staffordshire countryside – but all accommodation, facilities including a medical centre and pharmacy, and teaching spaces are clustered around the centre, keeping campus facilities within walking distance.
THE Student also named us as one of the top 10 ‘most beautiful universities in the UK’ (2025).
And as if that’s not enough, we’re just minutes from the market town of Newcastle-under-Lyme – with bars, cinema, and a renowned theatre – and a bus ride from the City of Stoke-on-Trent.
Jump on the train and we’re less than an hour away from the bright lights of both Manchester and Birmingham too.
Our academics are actively contributing to everything from climate change and sustainability to global health and food security, with research that creates a better world.
By reimaging out founding principles from 1949 and working with our partners, we’re leading one of the largest and most successful university-led regeneration programmes in the country (Knowledge Exchange Framework, 2023) – advancing our local NHS, supporting over 1,000 local businesses, creating jobs, and generating £200M per year in the regional economy.
In the 1960s, Keele was the first UK university to introduce a counselling service - a concept which is now commonplace - and we’re now leading a new mental health and wellbeing initiative, working with the NHS to develop new and innovative approaches to student wellbeing and mental health that can be rolled out nationally to meet changing needs.
We’re here when you need to talk.
Keele was founded to pursue a unique approach to scholarship and to create a model campus community - known as "The Keele Experiment", our creation attracted national attention and we even had our own primetime TV programme in the early 1970s!
We're proud to be one of the first UK universities to declare a 'climate emergency' , as well as having ambitious targets to be carbon neutral by 2030.
In 2021 we were named Global Sustainability Institution of the Year , and also completed the installation of 12,500 solar panels and two wind turbines on campus, to generate up to half of our electricity requirements.
Find out more about our commitment to sustainability .
Visit our beautiful campus.
Everything you need to know about applying.
Browse our undergraduate courses to find the perfect course for you.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/internationalstudents:
Keele is a global university.
With over 120 nationalities studying with us, international students are welcomed to our global community.
With dedicated support, scholarships, and preparatory courses, we'll support you through your application, enrolment and beyond.
How to apply, including information on visas and accommodation.
We're here to support all international, EU and EEA students at Keele.
Have a question about studying at Keele?
We're here to help!

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/apprenticeships:
Keele University is proud to offer a variety of apprenticeships across different sectors and specialisms.
We provide a personalised approach to apprenticeships and have an evolving programme portfolio, based on employer needs through consultation.
Find out more about apprenticeships at Keele University below.
Contact us
Visit our Apprenticeships Skills Library

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/globalhealth:
Working to improve the health and wellbeing of marginalised and disadvantaged people across the world.
By conducting world-leading research in a number of key health areas, the Institute aims to reduce global disparities in aspects such as: mental health; infectious diseases; primary care; maternal, childhood and adolescent health; non-communicable diseases; and climate change-related health.
The Institute is currently working on projects around the globe, in countries including Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Brazil, Ethiopia, Malawi, India, Nepal, Kenya, Malaysia and Nigeria with its interdisciplinary research supported and funded by GCRF, AHRC, MRC and NIHR.
The latest news from the Institute for Global Health
Follow us

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/socialinclusion:
Keele Institute for Social Inclusion (KISI) aims to draw together a vibrant community of partners across sectors to tackle the issues of inequality on a local, national and global scale.
The Institute promotes and supports a wide range of interdisciplinary research, co-created with external partners, that seeks to identify, explain and overcome social, economic, political and cultural obstacles to egalitarian respect and social inclusion.
Membership of the Institute is open to all.
If you would like to join us, please follow this link and complete the simple online form.
KISI is one of the five Keele Research Institutes (along with the Institute for Sustainable Futures, the Institute of Liberal Arts and Sciences, the Institute for Global Health and Wellbeing, and the Digital Society Institute) delivering transformative interdisciplinary research in response to the challenge facing by our local area, the UK and the wider world.
KISI brings researchers from across the University together with external partners to address a range of problems related to the marginalisation, under-representation and disempowerment of various social groups.
KISI’s work is organised around three themes:
The collaborations we foster aim to draw on our world-class research on these issues to stimulate positive and practical interventions that can address these social problems of exclusion and injustice.
KISI also hosts the coCREATE network , launched in 2021, this network integrates all the innovative community-based, collaborative and creative research across the University.
network
The latest news from the Keele Institute for Social Inclusion

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/sustainable-futures:
The Institute for Sustainable Futures contributes to research, education and training that has positive impact on the long-term sustainability of our societies, environments and ecosystems across local to global scales.
The latest news from the Institute for Sustainable Futures

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/digital-society-institute:
The Digital revolution is affecting all aspects of our life.
To both address the challenges and make the most of the opportunities linked to this revolution, Keele established the Digital Society Institute (DSI) and built a digital and data focused Innovation Centre (IC7).
Launched in 2023, the Institute is based in IC7 and has access to a Data Visualisation Suite, an Augmented/Virtual Reality (AR/VR) room, a conference area, a digital training space, and hi-tech meeting and collaboration space .
In addition, DSI will soon have access to new data storage and high-performance computing facilities based in IC7's data centre.
Through the University's commitment to the region in its Keele Deal Recovery, the facility will enable businesses to keep pace with fast-changing technologies.
If you want to get involved, please contact a member of our steering committee or register to join our DSI community (at no cost).
You can also follow us on LinkedIn .
Follow the Digital Society Institute on social media

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/research/postgraduateresearch:
Keele University studentships, when available, are funded internally or from external sponsors such as research councils or from industry.
If you are interested in any of the studentships available you can apply online.
Distance learning research degrees enable you to benefit from our excellent reputation for research opportunities and high-quality supervision whilst studying remotely.
Professional doctorate programmes are increasingly the choice of professionals in a number of fields, particularly health and education.
Keele provides rigorous, structured programmes of advanced study and research, equivalent in status to a PhD but usually taken on a part-time basis and reflecting professionally focused contexts.
A large proportion of UK Research Council funding for postgraduate research studentships (PGRs) is now awarded to institutions via Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs) and Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs).
These are flagship doctoral training programmes which combine cutting-edge doctoral study with a dynamic, innovative and interdisciplinary research culture that aims to develop future research leaders.
Our postgraduate research administrators are here to help you every step of the way:

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/research/postgraduateresearch/professionaldoctorates:
Professional Doctorates at Keele provide rigorous, structured programmes of advanced study and research, equivalent in status to a PhD but usually taken on a part-time basis and reflecting professionally focused contexts.
They are normally completed in 6 years.
Programmes are delivered using blended face-to-face and online means, as students are usually in full-time work whilst on programme.
Initially, students take taught modules with assessments that are designed to explore and structure the research project.
After successfully completing these assignments, students undertake their research project under the guidance of supervisors.
The final degree is awarded on the successful submission and examination of a thesis (of 60,000 words) in the same way as for a PhD.
These programmes are usually offered on a 4-8 year part-time basis, normally completed in 6 years.
Professional doctorate programmes have a single entry each year, usually October.
Please visit the course pages for additional information.
Fees and funding support for all research degrees

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/research/postgraduateresearch/doctoraltrainingcentres:
Keele is involved in the following CDTs and DTPs.
The Leverhulme Doctoral Scholarships programme focuses on Sustainable Rural Futures (SURF) and is committed to community-led solutions and understanding the rural as a tapestry of multi-species entanglements.
Doctoral scholars will closely engage with the communities they investigate, actively adjusting their research to meet identified needs.
They will leverage Keele's extensive experience in delivering co-produced or community-led projects, supported by the University's coCREATE Collaborative research methods network.
Keele’s academic lead on this programme is Professor Clare Holdsworth .
Instructions to apply for a October 2024 start can be viewed here
The North West Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership is one of 10 consortia to share more than £170 million in funding from the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC).
The vision of the North West Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership (NWCDTP) is to establish a centre of excellence in the arts and humanities.
Researchers will be equipped with world-leading knowledge and skills appropriate to meeting the academic, professional and socio-economic demands of the twenty-first century.
Keele’s academic lead on this programme is Dr Kathleen Cushing.
The North West Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership (NWSSDTP) brings together the Universities of Keele, Lancaster, Liverpool and Manchester.
The partnership involves a critical mass of world-leading researchers able to supervise PGRs across the full range of social sciences, providing advanced methodological training, professional development and substantial early career mentoring.
Keele’s academic lead on this programme is Dr Santiago Abel Amietta .
STFC Doctoral Training Partnerships enable promising scientists and engineers to continue training beyond a first degree.
The academic lead on this programme is Dr Nick Wright .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/research/raise:
RaISE (Research and Innovation Support Enhancement) is the professional services team responsible for supporting the development of academic projects involving Keele University and its external partners.
The RaISE Team will:
To request support for a project, you can either go to the relevant Faculty contact listed on the How do I get support page or email research.raise@keele.ac.uk .
How do I get support?
Research funding opportunities
Project Assurance Contracts (PAC) team
Public pages
Intranet access required (staff only)
Our action plans and review

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/postgraduateresearch/kda:
The Doctoral Academy brings together expertise from across Keele’s academic and professional support services, to aid training and develop researcher skill sets.
Whether you are a postgraduate researcher, supervisor, or other member of research staff, we will ensure you work in pro-active and supportive cross-collaborative research community.
PGR guidance and forms | FAQs | handbooks | code of practice | briefing sessions | more
Faculty PGR Directors, Leads and Student Representatives
Events and resources
Why engage with open research?
Find out how we support our researchers
Learn more about our training partners
Share suggestions with the KDA and KPA.
We want to hear from you!
Training Personal and professional development opportunities for postgraduate students, supervisors and researchers
Counselling and mental health | Disability and dyslexia | Your wellbeing | Faith | International student support | Money advice and guidance | more
Counselling | Health and safety | Occupational health | Your wellbeing | Holistic therapies | more
The wellbeing Thesis | Start to Sucess | more
Research funding
Forever Keele
Impact Magazine
Read about the latest range of projects inspiring our students, funded by the University community.
Everything you need to know
Meet the team
Want to work here?

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/research/engagementandimpact:
"Effective knowledge exchange activities increase the impact of university research and education, and our responsibilities to social development and economic growth.
"The Knowledge Exchange Concordat provides a framework in which our universities can have the approaches in place to facilitate our staff and students to continue to have a major impact."
Professor Trevor McMillan, Vice-Chancellor of Keele University and Chair of the Universities UK and Research England Knowledge Exchange Concordat Task and Finish Group
The outcomes of engaging with people and organisations outside the University can be profound - transforming the lives of communities, changing attitudes and behaviour, influencing public policy, practice and regulatory environments, enabling important scientific and technological advances to reach those who can benefit from them, improving environmental outcomes, stimulating business innovation, jobs and economic growth, promoting creativity and enhancing cultural life, building the knowledge, skills and capacity of communities, and helping to shape the important debates of our time.
Encouraging external engagement is central to Keele University’s Strategic Plan and Mission , embedded in our education and research, and our organisational support frameworks.
The University has played a leading role in this area nationally, with Keele's Vice-Chancellor Professor Trevor McMillan leading both a national review of best practice in the Commercialisation of University IP and the Sector-Wide Knowledge Exchange Concordat .
For information on how you can collaborate with Keele University, visit the Keele Gateway section of the website or email gateway@keele.ac.uk .
for internal users

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/research/partnerships:
Midlands Innovation brings together eight research intensive universities in the Midlands.
The Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) projects at Keele.
Collaboration between universities, businesses and public services through research and innovation.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/news/find-an-expert:
We have a wealth of stories to tell, and expertise to share, across digital, broadcast, and print media - both at home and overseas.
Use these pages to find Keele academics and other members of staff who are happy to be contacted by the media for comment on their areas of research and knowledge.
Animal welfare, pet theft, and conservation.
Space, planets, and galaxies.
Economics, finance, marketing, retail, plus more...
Virology, Covid-19, vector-borne diseases such as Dengue fever, and mosquito-borne viruses.
Sustainability, green technology, climate change, plus more...
Food security, crop protection, and biological pest control.
Forensic science, and geophysics.
Human rights law, international law, disability law, accessibility law, plus more...
General practice, mental health, cardiology, heart surgery, primary care, plus more...
UK and international politics, terrorism, politics of climate change, plus more...
Crowd psychology, cyberpsychology, sleep, swearing, plus more...
Mobile phone use while driving, and roads policing.
The business, physical science, and psychology of sport

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/sustainability:
In 2025, our campus has produced 4,583,893 of green energy so far
Sustainability is at the heart of everything we do at Keele, tackling the world's biggest problems through our research, and educating tomorrow's leaders to shape a brighter future.
Our research, expertise, and passion for sustainability is renowned around the world; it's why we were named Global Sustainability Institution of the Year in the Green Gown Awards (2021).
Our 617 acre site has a wealth of biodiversity and resources which make it an excellent place to explore opportunities for sustainability initiatives.
We've turned our campus into a 'living laboratory' to test new and emerging smart energy technologies.
Helping your business to become more sustainable.
Developing an environmentally aware and sustainable outward- facing campus community lies at the heart of our Strategic Plan.
Root and Branch
Sustainability is one of Keele's priorities.
Not just through excellence in our research and education, but also embedding sustainability into everything that we do.
Featuring two wind turbines and 12,500 solar panels, as well as an industrial-sized battery to store the generated energy, the Low Carbon Energy Generation Park generates up to 50% of the University’s campus electricity requirements from renewable sources, saving around 1,500 tonnes of carbon emissions each year.
Developing an environmentally aware and sustainable outward-facing campus community lies at the heart of our strategic plan
The UN SDGs drive our work on sustainability.
They are embedded into our teaching, research, and campus operations.
Read the latest sustainability news from Keele.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/sustainability/ourgreencampus:
We have a beautiful 617 acre site which has a wealth of biodiversity and resources which make it an excellent place to explore opportunities for sustainability initiatives.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/sustainability/sustainabilityresearch:
Across our faculties and schools, a diverse range of research into sustainability challenges is being undertaken by lecturers, research fellows, PhD students, and post docs through the Institute for Sustainable Futures.
Through our Living Laboratories approach to embedding sustainability, our undergraduate and masters students also explore sustainability challenges linking their disciplines to campus operations through their dissertations and research projects.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/sustainability/sustainabilityconsultancy:
How Keele can help your business to become more sustainable
The Keele Gateway has a wealth of resources to support your organisation's growth and sustainability goals, including
To date, Keele has partnered with more than 250 local businesses to improve their sustainability, reduce their carbon footprint, and support the development of new energy-related products and services.
This support has been credited as key by a number of partners who have gone on to win significant awards such as the Queen's Award and various 'Sustainable Business of the Year' acknowledgements.
The University is a sector-leader in sustainability, and has welcomed representatives from companies and Governments from across the world to discover how Keele's research is having a genuine real-world impact and how they can utilise the learning to deliver similar change.
Click here to view selection of case studies and testimonials from organisations that have benefited from sustainability-related support from Keele University.
To explore the opportunities available to you and your business, please contact the Keele Gateway team on gateway@keele.ac.uk or 01782 733001 .
SMEs, community groups, and not-for-profit organisations in Newcastle-under-Lyme are able to benefit from Keele University's student and graduate talent, through a brand new initiative called FLOURISH .
FLOURISH will deliver 60 projects, some of which sit within the theme of Sustainability - including carbon literacy, sustainable energy, biodiversity, circular economy, and sustainable transport.
Organisations in Newcastle-under-Lyme can register their interest in these programmes today by contacting the Keele Gateway team: gateway@keele.ac.uk or 01782 733001.
FLOURISH is part-funded by the UK Government through the UK Shared Prosperity Fund, through Newcastle-under-Lyme Borough Council .
The UK Shared Prosperity Fund is a central pillar of the UK government’s Levelling Up agenda and provides £2.6 billion of funding for local investment by March 2025.
The Fund aims to improve pride in place and increase life chances across the UK investing in communities and place, supporting local business, and people and skills.
For more information, visit www.gov.uk/government/publications/uk-shared-prosperity-fund-prospectus .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/sustainability/sustainabilityeducationandoutreach:
At Keele we take our role in educating students for a more sustainable future seriously.
In the Keele Learning and Teaching strategy we strive to ensure that " our students are informed about and engaged in the sustainability agenda both within and beyond their academic curriculum ".
Keele is committed to providing education for sustainable development and this is embodied by our academic and teaching staff across all departments and schools at the university.
> Education for Sustainable Development Code of Practice
Our aim is that all students graduating from Keele University will have had the opportunity to engage in activities and learning that will provide them with the knowledge, skills and competencies to make sustainable decisions in their social and professional lives from a social, environmental and economic perspective.
Education for Sustainability is at the heart of Keele’s sustainability ambitions, reflecting the core educational purpose of a university.
Education for Sustainability activities therefore must link to the whole university community, including links with the sustainability of the estate, sustainability in research, and sustainability issues within the university’s wider community.
Ensuring that these linkages are optimised, alongside the embedding of sustainability within the curriculum and student experience, is a core component of Keele’s Education for Sustainability approach.
This approach has been agreed by those with senior responsibility in sustainability at Keele University.
Across the University, we are committed to embedding the Sustainable Development Goals for meaningful education.
There are many examples of best practice in embedding Education for Sustainability.
This document highlights 16 modules which have been mapped to the QAA Education for Sustainable Development descriptions and the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
The case studies aim to celebrate existing progress and demonstrate how other modules could embed sustainability themes into learning and teaching.
If you deliver a module which embeds sustainability and would like to be included as a case study on these webpages, please complete this form .
Download the ESD Module Case Studies document .
Education for Sustainability action is also considered through the internal Keele University Sustainability Benchmark.
The criteria includes schools and directorates:
Some examples of Education for Sustainability and embedding of the Sustainable Development Goals from our 2023-24 Sustainability Benchmark:
Keele colleagues are invited to join the Staff Sustainability Network and the Education for Sustainability Community of Practice to create space for dialogue, collaboration and participation around Education for Sustainability.
Training on Sustainability is available through the Keele Learning Pool and talks take place through the Institute for Sustainable Futures.
Education for Sustainability workshops feature in the Introduction to Teaching and Demonstrating (ITAD) which is Keele's principal teaching-related professional development course for postgraduate researchers and other sessional teaching staff.
Each year, Keele takes part in the Sustainable Development Goal teach in to encourage Education for Sustainability and softly monitor how sustainability is embedded within the curriculum.
The last Education for Sustainability curriculum review took place between 2016-2018 which saw 97% of Keele University curriculum having sustainability embedded.
Keele encourages real-world learning and research opportunities for students whilst on campus and beyond.
This brings positive social and environmental benefits to the university and wider community.
Many disciplines take advantage of the 600-acre campus grounds and estate to provide real-world situational learning, and with Keele's sustainability ethos the outcomes of projects and studies support the sustainability operations and environmental impact of the university.
See case studies: Sustainability Bungalow , Smart Energy Network Demonstrator , Keele Amphitheatre , The Memorial Garden and more here .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/society/staffordshire:
Keele has been supporting communities in Staffordshire since the University’s foundation in 1949.
Today, the University supports the equivalent of almost 5,500 jobs in Stoke-on-Trent and Staffordshire, and contributes £345 million to the area’s economy.
Dozens of our academics also work clinically in the local NHS, from delivering babies at Royal Stoke University Hospital to frontline paramedics with West Midlands Ambulance Service.
From Leek to Lichfield and Clayton to Cannock, we’re proud to have been the university of choice for thousands of students from all corners of the county for more than 75 years, helping them to achieve their career goals.
Currently, almost 3,000 students from Staffordshire are studying at Keele.
We’re proud to be partnered with Newcastle and Stafford Colleges Group, City of Stoke-on-Trent Sixth Form College and Stoke-on-Trent College.
The partnerships help bridge the gap between further education and higher education for students, with hundreds of applications for entry to Keele coming from the colleges each year.
In 2023-24, Keele had more than 330 interactions with 113 schools and colleges across Staffordshire, including inviting students to visit Keele, or providing careers advice or subject-specific support in their settings.
Keele is the higher education partner for the brand new Stoke-on-Trent and Staffordshire Institute of Technology, which is due to open to learners in September 2025.
Specialising in higher level technical programmes, the new employer led Institute brings together the training offer of Newcastle and Stafford Colleges Group in collaboration with Keele, Burton and South Derbyshire College and Axia Solutions, with curriculum influenced by key employer partners including; Dell, Hitachi, MOOG, Siemens and St Modwen Logistics.
The development will bring together industry, education and research to jointly design and develop education and training opportunities, with an expected college community of more than 3,500 learners by academic year 2028/9.
Through Higher Horizons, thousands of young people in secondary schools, sixth forms and colleges in Staffordshire have been supported to make informed decisions about their future.
Higher Horizons is a government-funded programme based at Keele, which aims to widen participation in higher education among under-represented groups.
Working with a total of 53 education establishments across Staffordshire, young people who engage in the programme are twice as likely to apply to go to university.
Since 2017 the network has worked with more than 50,000 young people across Staffordshire, Cheshire and Shropshire, 60% of whom were from the most deprived areas.
When Dr Pensée Wu isn’t teaching the next generation of medical students at Keele, she’s busy bringing babies into the world.
Students at Keele have worked with Port Vale Football Club to help improve their energy consumption performance and enhance biodiversity around their stadium.
Fire and rescue service staff could help healthcare providers reach more patients in need by including early detection of mental ill health in older adults as part of their routine Home Fire Safety Visits.
Researchers at Keele worked alongside staff at Staffordshire Fire and Rescue Service on the study.
Keele academics are working with Staffordshire Wildlife Trust in a project that will support communities to revive green spaces in the area.
Eran Cutliffe OBE graduated from Keele in 2005 with a degree from the University’s School of Law.
From Newcastle-under-Lyme, Eran is now one of the Crown Prosecution Service’s (CPS) leading lawyers and advises on and prosecutes a range of high profile and complex cases including those involving ‘disasters’, corporate manslaughter, gross negligence manslaughter, serious police corruption, election offences and assisted suicide.
Leading CPS lawyer receives honorary doctorate from Keele
Featuring artists from Staffordshire, Shropshire and Cheshire, we’re proud to host the long-standing Three Counties Open Art Exhibition with our partners.
The event, held at the Burslem School of Art, is a celebration of contemporary local artists, from emerging to established practitioners.
Several awards are handed out and in 2024 organisers received a record 268 individual submissions, which were short-listed to 98 artists for the exhibition.
Staffordshire artist Jeffrey Barnard, winner of the Arthur Berry Prize in 2023, is pictured.
Since our foundation in 1949, we’ve been deeply rooted in our region - Staffordshire, Shropshire and Cheshire.
We are committed to our civic role and want to support applicants who choose to study locally - for whatever reason - and commuter students who have fewer local study options available.
On that basis, applicants studying at a school or college in the defined ‘Keele Region’, or independent applicants living in the region, will receive an alternative offer .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/society/cheshire:
Keele has been supporting communities in Cheshire since the University’s foundation in 1949.
We’re proud to be the university of choice for thousands of students from across the county, helping them to achieve their career goals.
From Keele staff and students offering free language support to refugees and asylum seekers in Crewe, to helping bring exhibits to life for visitors at Tatton Park, we’re continually building on our roots in Cheshire and making a positive impact within the area.
Currently, almost 1,000 students from Cheshire are studying at Keele.
We’re proud to be partnered with Cheshire College South & West .
The partnership helps bridge the gap between further education and higher education for students and creates opportunities for staff who are looking towards their future.
Many academic colleagues, as well as outreach staff at Keele, have engaged with students at the college across its three campuses in Crewe, Ellesmere Port, and Chester, with significantly increased numbers of applications to Keele’s undergraduate courses coming through from students from the college each year.
In 2023-24, Keele had more than 80 interactions with 66 schools and colleges across Cheshire, including inviting students to visit Keele, or providing careers advice or subject-specific support in their settings.
Through Higher Horizons, thousands of young people in secondary schools, sixth forms and colleges in Cheshire have been supported to make informed decisions about their future.
Working with a total of 22 education establishments across Cheshire, young people who engage in the programme are twice as likely to apply to go to university.
Since 2017 the network has worked with more than 50,000 young people across Cheshire, Staffordshire and Shropshire, 60% of whom were from the most deprived areas.
Keele works closely with Mid Cheshire Hospitals Foundations NHS Trust, which provides the University with their apprenticeship provision for nursing associate and nursing programmes.
In addition to this, the Trust provides placement circuits for Keele students for the BSc and MSc adult and children's programme.
Karen Estcourt , who lives in Crewe, joined Keele's Registered Nurse Apprenticeship in 2020.
The programme is made up of theory studied at Keele and practice hours based at Leighton Hospital.
Karen is now working as an A&E nurse at the hospital.
In 2023 she was shortlisted in the NHS Rising Star category at the NHS Parliamentary Awards, after devising a new bed management system to help efficiency at the hospital built on learning about innovation and business plans as part of her studies on the adult nursing pathway.
Visitors to Tatton Park, one of the country's most popular tourist attractions, are finding out more about the book collection in its library – with help from English Literature students at Keele.
Hard-working Nina Collins faced more obstacles than most in her journey to graduate from university.
Nina, from Congleton, has dystonic quadriplegia cerebral palsy - which affects all four of her limbs – and uses a wheelchair to get around.
The 25-year-old is also severely sight impaired and often needs assistance to get from A to B, especially when she is in a new environment.
After graduating from Keele with a Psychology and Counselling degree, she is now studying for a Masters degree at the University, and hopes to become a person-centred counsellor.
Hard-working Nina overcomes daily challenges to graduate with degree
Featuring artists from Shropshire, Cheshire and Staffordshire, we’re proud to host the long-standing Three Counties Open Art Exhibition with our partners.
Cheshire artist Peter Davis won the Arthur Berry Prize in 2024, sponsored by the New Vic Theatre Archive Fund.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/society/shropshire:
Keele has been supporting communities in Shropshire since the University’s foundation in 1949.
From working with the Ironbridge Gorge Museum Trust to explore the site’s heritage, to widening access to skills and education for local people through our partnerships with two of the biggest colleges in the county, we’re continually building on our long-standing roots in Shropshire and making a positive impact within the area.
Currently, more than 500 students from Shropshire are studying at Keele.
We’re proud to be partnered with Shrewsbury Colleges Group, and Telford College.
The partnerships also create opportunities for staff who are looking towards their future.
In 2023-24, Keele had more 100 interactions with 55 schools and colleges across Shropshire, including inviting students to visit Keele, or providing careers advice or subject-specific support in their settings.
Through Higher Horizons, hundreds of young people in secondary schools, sixth forms and colleges in Shropshire have been supported to make informed decisions about their future.
Working with seven education establishments across Shropshire, results have shown that young people who engage in the programme are twice as likely to apply to go to university.
Since 2017 the network has worked with more than 50,000 young people across Shropshire, Cheshire and Staffordshire, 60% of whom were from the most deprived areas.
Keele partners with more than 50 per cent of GP surgeries across the whole of Shropshire, Telford and Wrekin, including a mix of urban and rural practices, allowing students from all years to experience clinical placements in general practice throughout their five-year curriculum.
Professor William Parry-Smith is a clinical academic at Keele University and an Honorary Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist working in the NHS at Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital NHS Trust.
When he’s not teaching and supervising students at Keele, he is helping to care for pregnant women and unborn children and looking after women’s sexual and reproductive health in Shropshire.
At Keele, Professor Parry-Smith is the University’s lead for the NIHR Challenge Maternity Disparities Consortium, which will bring benefits to people across Shropshire and the Midlands by tackling inequalities in maternity outcomes.
Over the past two years, Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital NHS Trust, in collaboration with Keele, have funded five academic research positions to develop chief investigators of the future and allow time for grant applications to be developed and submitted.
As a result, three grant applications have now been successful and received funding from external sources, which will allow work and research to be carried out what will improve health outcomes for local residents.
The Harper and Keele Veterinary School launched in 2020 with its first cohort of students.
Combining the extensive resources and excellence in teaching at Shropshire-based Harper and Keele universities, students study a five-year programme leading to a Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine and Surgery degree.
A new veterinary building on each campus coupled with close relationships with veterinary practices and related businesses, has created an exceptionally rich and authentic environment for veterinary education and research.
Keele’s new veterinary school building was officially opened in March 2023 by Professor Lord Trees, former President of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons.
Featuring brand new anatomy and clinical skills laboratories, the building also boasts modern teaching facilities, a lecture theatre, and break-out areas for group study.
Keele University has expanded its partnership with a leading further education college in Shropshire.
Keele now has its own dedicated teaching space at Telford College’s Wellington campus, which will be used to teach college students and deliver online lessons, with a particular focus on training a new generation of health and social care workers.
Experts from Keele University are working with The Ironbridge Gorge Museum Trust in a move that will develop student opportunities and open doors for new research into 300 years of industrialisation.
On a regional level, universities make a substantial economic contribution.
This includes £18.8 billion in the West Midlands, highlighting the key role Higher Education plays in boosting growth and productivity across the entire country.
A report by London Economics also highlighted the range of wider benefits, to both graduates and society, of a university education.
These include increased work productivity for both the graduates and their co-workers, improved health outcomes and a lower chance they will be involved in crime.
Dr Steven Rogers has three degrees from Keele University.
From Hodnet, near Market Drayton, Steven is a lecturer in Geology at Keele, having arrived at the University as an undergraduate student in 2005.
Keele lecturer receives his third Keele degree alongside his students

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/society/economicimpact:
Keele University contributes around half a billion pounds to the regional economy each year, with nearly three-quarters of this in the Stoke-on-Trent and Staffordshire area.
A 2023 report by independent economists has revealed that Keele University contributes around half a billion pounds in gross value added (GVA) to the West Midlands economy each year, with nearly three-quarters of this (£345m) in the Stoke-on-Trent and Staffordshire area.
The report also identifies that the University supports the equivalent of almost 5,500 jobs in Stoke-on-Trent and Staffordshire, rising to over 7,000 in the wider region.
Our economic impact is created not only through direct employment of the workforce, but also through spending with local suppliers and contractors, with neighbouring businesses and people in Newcastle-under-Lyme being the primary beneficiaries.
We are one of the largest employers in Newcastle-under-Lyme, with over 39% of our workforce living in the Borough and a further 31% living in Stoke-on-Trent, spending their salaries locally creating further economic impact.
As well as the direct impact of the University and its activities on the local economy, we have also acted as a catalyst for further economic growth in the region thanks to our integrated Science and Innovation Park on the Keele campus, that medical technology, healthcare, digital and environmental businesses have chosen as their home.
"Keele has been making a positive impact on Newcastle-under-Lyme and Stoke-on-Trent – and across Staffordshire – for almost 75 years now, and this latest report shows how we’re powering the region more than ever before.
I couldn’t be more proud of the central role that Keele plays in the area and of the positive impact that our University has on local people, and in making our region a great place to live and work.”
Professor Trevor McMillan OBE, Vice-Chancellor of Keele University.
These major economic contributions are highlighted in the report as an indicator of Keele’s importance to delivering on major Government priorities around Levelling Up, decarbonisation, and business innovation, with the report authors noting that Keele plays a major role in both Staffordshire County Council and Newcastle-under-Lyme Borough Council’s respective economic development strategies.
We have reimagined our founding principles from 1949 that set about to foster societal recovery and reinvention, and since 2017 have created and delivered our four new “Deals” – Economy , Health , Culture , and most recently, Recovery – as part of our far-reaching regeneration programme for what is one of the most economically-deprived parts of England.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/society/keeledeals:
We have reimagined our founding principles from 1949 that set about to foster societal recovery and reinvention, and since 2017 have created and delivered our four new “Deals” – Economy, Health, Culture, and most recently, Recovery – as part of our far-reaching regeneration programme for what is one of the most economically-deprived parts of England.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/kit:
Our University in the heart of Newcastle-under-Lyme
Keele in Town is a new chapter in the history of the University, where an empty 19th century building in the heart of Newcastle-under-Lyme town centre has been transformed into a mixed-use facility.
The building is a space where Staffordshire businesses and non-profit organisations can shine, along with areas for Keele students and staff to get together, to study, and to connect with the community.
Keele in Town will be closed for a short period - from 11 August until mid-September - to allow for modifications ahead of the launch of a new café facility within the building.
More details on this exciting development will be provided in due course.
The three-storey building, located on Ironmarket, is kitted out with modern working and meeting spaces, offering digital connectivity to the community, and helping to drive productivity and boost skill levels in the area.
Free legal assistance available at Keele in Town
Small claim matters up to £10,000, breach of contract.
Commercial drafting terms and conditions, Director duties
Our Legal Advice Clinics will assist members of the community in providing advice for Commercial entities and on Small Claims matters.
See below for more details.
Our Commercial Clinic can advise clients in relation to their business entities, directors’ duties, terms and conditions of business and in some cases can advise on contracts for the provision of goods and/or services.
Our Small Claims Clinic can advise clients in breach of contract claims up to the value of £10,000.
We can assist individuals and businesses, who are either a claimant or defendant.
Typical matters that we can advise on include:
Our students are trained and supervised by experienced solicitors to deliver legal services from the start of a client enquiry through to the resolution of their query.
We provide legal advice free of charge, working on a pro bono basis supported by LawWorks.
Keele Law Clinic is now closed over the summer and is set to return in October 2025.
Coming soon to Keele in Town...
the new café will be open to everybody.
We’ll keep you updated on our social media platforms.
53 Ironmarket Newcastle under Lyme ST5 1PE What 3 words  - https://w3w.co/thinks.spit.aware
There is no on-site parking at Keele in Town.
There are many public car parks serving Newcastle under Lyme town centre.
Car parking information – Newcastle-under-Lyme Borough Council
If you have any questions about Keele in Town, contact us on keeleintown@keele.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/law/employability/clock:
The Community Legal Outreach Collaboration Keele ( CLOCK ) is a unique and innovative project bringing together universities, law firms, barristers chambers, mediation, charitable and court services to educate, assist, monitor and promote access to justice for communities facing barriers to access to justice.
Founded 10 years ago, CLOCK began as a research project based upon Dr Jane Krishnadas’ ‘Transformative Methodology’, listening to the voices of survivors in post-disaster situations in India to reconstruct their lives through a range of socio-legal strategies, informed by S.Krishnadas’s Social and Legal Information Centre and Human Rights Law Network which filed the public interest litigation against the Government of Maharashtra, transforming 4,000 lives ( See page 107 of this PDF ).
Michael Mansfield KC, as the UK's most prominent and long-standing human rights advocate, and Keele's most famous alumni, has celebrated CLOCK in the  ILAS Grand Lecture ‘Time for Justice’.
CLOCK is an application of the ‘Transformative Methodology’, listening to 'Voices of Experience'; a group of women from a domestic violence refuge, who shared their fears and proposals for how to support women going to court alone following the significant withdrawal of legal aid under LASPO, the Legal Aid Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act, 2012, to inspiring our ‘Law in Action’ students to become agents of change.
CLOCK co-created a multi-agency collaboration with the Stoke Family Court, law firms, mediators, the Citizens Advice Bureau, Domestic and Sexual Abuse survivor support services, to design the unique and innovative role of the Community Legal Companion to assist litigants in person though the court process.
The CLOCK Steering Committee designed and delivered a holistic training programme including academic, legal, mediation, charitable and court based training delivered by academics, court staff, solicitors, barristers, mediators and domestic abuse and sexual abuse support services to understand the complex needs of litigants in person, in a variety of civil legal issues to:
And where legal aid and professional service are not available, assist within the remit of the McKenzie Friend principles to assist:
Community Legal Companions are bound by the CLOCK Code of Conduct  and volunteer 2 hours per week to assist at the Stoke on Trent Family Court CLOCK Desk.
CLOCK's contribution to the National Forum
The Community Legal Companion role has been endorsed by the President of the Family Court and has been cascaded to 12 University Law Schools to train and deliver their CLOCK Community Legal Companion service in 8 court centres; Stoke, Brighton, Canterbury, Wolverhampton, Leicester, Oxford, Liverpool and York, in collaboration with their local CLOCK mediation, legal, and charitable partners.
CLOCK has since been Highly Commended by the Attorney-General’s  Access to Justice Award, 2016, for its outstanding contribution to the promotion of access to justice.
See the BBC's coverage of CLOCK here .
A snapshot of the experience of the thousands of people seeking legal support
Apply for help with CLOCK here

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/business/contactus:
The following support programmes available within the Keele Gateway are receiving funding from the England European Regional Development Fund as part of the European Structural and Investment Funds Growth Programme 2014-2020:
The Department for Levelling Up, Housing & Communities (DfLUHC) (and in London the intermediate body Greater London Authority) is the Managing Authority for European Regional Development Fund.
Established by the European Union, the European Regional Development Fund helps local areas stimulate their economic development by investing in projects which will support innovation, businesses, create jobs and local community regenerations.
For more information visit https://www.gov.uk/european-growth-funding.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/business/businesssupport:
The Keele Gateway offers a wide range of opportunities for businesses, particularly SMEs in Newcastle-under-Lyme and the surrounding areas, to access professional and academic support to grow, develop and innovate.
Benefits of the Keele Gateway include:

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/business/businesssupport/placementsinternshipsandcareers:
Through its ever-increasing links with business communities across Staffordshire and beyond, Keele University can offer vital real-world work experience to students and knowledgeable talent to businesses.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/business/businesssupport/helptogrow:
Leading a business in today's unpredictable environment is tough.
How do you ensure you, your business and your team remain agile in the face of such unprecedented change?
The Help to Grow: Management Course, provided and part-funded by both Keele Business School and HM Government, can show you how to strengthen your business and your balance sheet.
Take your business to the next level with the Help to Grow: Management Course - a government-backed programme designed to help you learn new skills, reach more customers and boost your profits.
91% of course completers surveyed would recommend the course to a small business leader.
Places are now available for our next cohort, beginning Thursday 18 September 2025.
Click here for full details of session times and how to register .
The 12 week-programme is delivered by Keele Business School and accredited by the Small Business Charter.
The programme combines a practical curriculum, with 1:1 support from our business mentors, peer-learning sessions and an alumni network.
Designed to be manageable alongside full-time work, this programme will support you to develop your strategic skills with key modules covering financial management, innovation and digital adoption.
The course is delivered 75% by our Help to Grow facilitators online and 25% via case study workshops held at Keele Business School.
By the end of the programme you will have developed a tailored business growth plan to lead your business to its full potential.
The course is a great opportunity to get new ideas for your company, learn from other entrepreneurs in your area, and take a step back from your company for a few hours a week to see what changes can have the biggest impact on your  business.
"The Help to Grow programme has been instrumental in driving positive transformation within my business.
For small business owners seeking a structured framework for growth and development, I highly recommend the Help to Grow Management Course.
Its blend of expert guidance, peer support, and actionable insights empowers entrepreneurs to realize their full potential."
Alexandra Powell, Powell Design & Construction Ltd
Help to Grow is aimed at senior decision-makers in small and medium-sized businesses to boost their company's performance, resilience, and long-term growth.
The course is 90% funded by the UK Government and has been designed to be flexible to fit in around a busy schedule with minimum disruption.
To join the Help to Grow programme, your business must:
Participants must:
Keele has full bursaries availabl e to eligible businesses, which enables participation at zero cost.
The Help to Grow: Management course is valued at £7,500 per participant.
"I would certainly recommend Help to Grow to other SME business leaders.
Together with the support of my Help to Grow mentor, I was able to use the course material, case studies and learning from peers as a platform to come up with new ideas and identify growth opportunities for the business.
The facilities at Keele Business School are exceptional and the team did a fantastic job of delivering the programme.
It was a great opportunity to network with like-minded local business leaders, some of who I have stayed in contact with beyond the programme."
Michael Whitfield, Alpha Manufacturing
The next cohort commences on 18 September 2025 .
More information on session dates can be found on the Smart Business Charter website .
Please contact the Keele Gateway team to register your interest in future cohorts.
For enquiries or more information about Help To Grow, please contact the Keele Gateway team on gateway@keele.ac.uk , where a member of the team will then get back in touch with you to arrange a confidential conversation.
"When first starting the course thought I was a bit out of my depth.
Throughout the course I was given the skills and confidence to push myself and help make effective decisions within the business.
By the end of the course I was able to speak up about the changes I have helped make, and how these are to be carried out with the tools I have learnt."
Jake Mullen, River Canal Rescue
Eligible businesses can complete the registration form on the Small Business Charter website .
When registering, it is helpful to have the following information to hand:
We look forward to welcoming you on to the course!

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/business/scienceandinnovationpark:
Keele University Science and Innovation Park is one of the leading developments of its kind in the UK; offering companies a business environment that provides an innovative research culture, combined with academic expertise and the University’s specialist resources.
Benefit from a range of modern workspace from coworking membership for start-ups to large office spaces for businesses looking to relocate.
As well as laboratory and conference facilities, industry-leading business support and research, and significant international links, all perfectly located in the heart of the Midlands, Staffordshire, Keele University is the perfect home for businesses developing in the global knowledge economy.
From Medical Technology and Healthcare to Information Technology and Engineering, we are committed to helping businesses from any industry innovate and grow.
Keele University Science and Innovation Park was named winner of the Building Environmental Sustainability and Innovation award at the UK Science Park Association Awards 2024 .
Located in the heart of the UK, our 70-acre site offers an exceptional choice of flexible workspace and development plots for innovation-led businesses of all sizes
We offer a growing vibrant community for businesses to collaborate and grow together, with 10 Innovation led buildings across a picturesque site with access to university campus facilities.
on Keele's Science & Innovation Park
We can help your company grow at every stage of its life-cycle with access to Keele University’s local development initiatives, talented students and graduates, and an excellent range of support programmes
With a dedicated partnership development team, we can connect your business with academic leaders, world-leading university research, specialist facilities, and RD&I funding to link you into and beyond the University
Take a look around the Science and Innovation Park's buildings and offices virtually with our 360 tours
If you are interested in joining Keele University Science and Innovation Park, or would simply like more information, we’d love to hear from you.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/business/scienceandinnovationpark/whykeele:
Keele University Science and Innovation Park (KUSIP) is a unique and picturesque 70-acre site offering a range of commercial units for rent.
With a passion for supporting the growth and development of more than 50 knowledge-intensive businesses, renting commercial property from Keele University is a unique opportunity to work alongside like-minded entrepreneurs and to engage with proactive business networks.
Enquiry form | gateway@keele.ac.uk | 01782 734321
Fully integrated within the Keele University campus, the Science and Innovation Park is one of the leading developments of its kind.
The Park provides a mix of office, workshop and laboratory accommodation alongside bespoke opportunities, all of which have immediate and unrivalled access to the academic, research and commercial expertise that complements, challenges and improves businesses.
Keele University is a highly-regarded research-led institution and the Science and Innovation Park is a key regional centre of excellence serving biotech, medical, energy, ICT and service industries.
The combination of these two powerhouses provides a seamless and effective means of translating the University’s world-leading research and expertise into the products and innovations being developed by KUSIP tenants.
Through their close proximity to the University’s knowledge, support and resources, tenants are able to easily exchange concepts and ideas, benefit from a vibrant networking environment and take advantage of the strong and established links between the University, the NHS and local business communities.
Locating on the Science and Innovation Park also gifts tenants the instant added credibility and prestige that having a Keele University address brings, as well as providing a magnificent working environment surrounded by unspoilt countryside.
Despite its green backdrop, the Science and Innovation Park is located in the heart of the UK, midway between Manchester and Birmingham.
Its outer-city location avoids the peak hour congestion facing most major towns and cities, but yet it is only 10 minutes from the M6 motorway, 14 minutes from Stoke-on-Trent train station and is within an hour of three major international airports.
The start-up and early growth phases are critical for any new business.
Keele University Science and Innovation Park has been designed to nurture and develop these businesses, providing them with both the commercial property and opportunities to work alongside like-minded entrepreneurs and to engage with business and innovation experts.
We open up a whole range of opportunities for businesses to take advantage of:
Leasing a commercial premises at Keele University offers much more than somewhere to work.
Ready to grow your business?

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/business/scienceandinnovationpark/facilitiesandavailability:
Looking for office space to rent?
Then look no further than Keele University Science and Innovation Park.
We have a variety of office space options available to lease.
We have 2-4 person startup spaces, 6-19 person grow-on spaces and modern co-working offices for businesses looking for a more flexible and affordable office space solution.
Long-term lease or shorter-term tenancy agreements are available.
Offices can be provided fully furnished and are equipped with the latest technology for ultimate digital integration and connectivity with access to formal meeting rooms, executive boardrooms, digital suites and think labs, reception services and close proximity car parking.
Situated in the centre of Keele’s thriving university campus which hosts a range of other amenities such as cafes, a day nursery, a vibrant sports centre and overnight accommodation.
But that's not it.
When you join Keele Science and Innovation Park you will become part of a thriving community, a community of fully-funded support, academics, researchers, businesses and students who are committed to stimulating business and innovation development.
With all of the above, amenities such as cafes, a day nursery, a vibrant sports centre and overnight accommodation on site and the added benefit of being located in the beautiful Staffordshire countryside, 10 minutes from the M6; we really are the business location of choice for any ambitious business hoping to take their business to the next level.
Locating your business at Keele University Science and Innovation Park brings with it more than just accommodation and office space that you can be proud of.
It provides unrivalled access to world-leading research, staff and students; it provides a prestigious address that gives you instant gravitas; and, perhaps more importantly, it provides a distinct advantage in the development, growth and ultimate success of your business.
So what are you waiting for?
We have office space that is available to rent from today, so get in touch now!

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/kid:
The Keele Innovation District builds on the success of Keele University Science and Innovation Park, bringing together an interconnected community of innovators, researchers, learners, and educators to create opportunities for all.
The Keele Innovation District will feature almost 1,000,000ft 2 of specialist workspace, lab space, and research and development facilities, alongside an open innovation hub, indoor and outdoor social and meeting spaces, and enhanced sustainable and active travel options.
Specialising in the vital industries which the UK needs – life sciences, clean energy, advanced materials, and digital technologies – the project interweaves learning and innovation, allowing both thinkers and doers to thrive.
Large scale research and development will sit seamlessly alongside state-of-the-art facilities for manufacturing, science, and knowledge-based businesses, growing the area's innovation base and bringing huge benefits to the region – and country – as a whole.
Keele Innovation District is located between the two powerhouse regions of Birmingham and Manchester, in the 390,000-strong North Staffordshire urban conurbation.
A Preliminary Market Engagement for investors, developers and partners will be launched in May 2026.
If you’d like to find out more before then, please contact Ann Pittard, Director of Keele University Science and Innovation Park – a.pittard@keele.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/business/businesssupport/flourish:
A brand new series of projects to support Newcastle-under-Lyme
SMEs, community groups, and not-for-profit organisations in Newcastle-under-Lyme are able to benefit from Keele University's student and graduate talent, through a brand new initiative called FLOURISH.
The University is able to facilitate 25 fully-funded projects, with students or recent graduates working with eligible businesses for up to 75 hours per project.
The projects can be delivered virtually or in-person, and provide an opportunity to trial new ideas or develop existing ones without longer term commitment.
FLOURISH will deliver the projects across the following key themes:
The student or graduate assigned to your project will:
The Keele Project Team will:
Criteria:
It is expected that a number of the above projects will be run through Keele in Town , the University's hub in Newcastle-under-Lyme town centre.
For more information, visit https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/uk-shared-prosperity-fund-prospectus .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/ourhistory:
Founded in 1949 with a commitment to meet the demands of a new kind of society, economy and world, Keele was the first new university of the 20th Century and remains true to its original mission today.
Keele University occupies (in 2017) a 620-acre (250 hectare) rural campus close to the village of Keele and comprises extensive woodlands, small lakes and Keele Hall in the historic Staffordshire Potteries heartland.
The estate was originally given by King Henry II of England to the Knights Templars, AD 1180.
When the Templars were condemned and dissolved by the Council of Vienne in the time of Pope Clement V AD 1311, their possessions were annexed by the Knights Hospitallers until their dissolution by Henry VIII.
The estate was purchased from the Crown by the Sneyd family in 1540 and remained in their property until acquisition by the Stoke-on-Trent Corporation in 1948.
The first Keele Hall was built in 1580 and it was rebuilt in 1860.
The Hall is a major conference, wedding and banqueting venue and has Grade II listing from English Heritage for its architectural importance.
The University itself was founded as the University College of North Staffordshire in 1949 and received its Charter as the University of Keele in 1962.
By 1969 Keele University was being described as "the most original innovation in British university education in the 20th century".
So, how did such a remarkable achievement come about at a dilapidated old house near a little-known village in Staffordshire rather than, as might be expected, in a major city or at an existing academic powerhouse?
Read more about the history of Keele:
Degree From A Daughter (1965)
Princess Margaret presents an honorary Degree of Letters to her mother Queen Elizabeth the Queen at Keele University

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/artskeele/whatson/hiddentreasures/heritage:
Keele University is situated on an estate of over 630 acres with extensive woods, several small lakes and landscaped parkland.
It was owned formerly by the Sneyd family.
Keele village (cy-hill or cow hill in Anglo-Saxon) is five miles from the centre of the city of Stoke-on-Trent and just outside the boundary of the historic market town of Newcastle under Lyme.
Enjoy the rich heritage of the Keele estate and learn about the extraordinary legacy of the people who lived, worked and studied here.
Subscribe to our ArtsKeele mailing list
Directions to Keele by train, bus, car, bike and hot air balloon.
Follow ArtsKeele across social media

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/ourhistory/keelethroughouttheyears:
The new Keele estate was acquired and the University College of North Staffordshire was formed.
The Queen (latterly known as the Queen Mother) formally opened University College of North Staffordshire.
George Eason became the first recipient of a degree from Keele.
Founder and inspiration Lord Lindsay sadly dies.
The first graduate to receive a degree who studied entirely at Keele was Margaret Boulds.
She received a First Class dual honours degree in Philosophy and English.
The full University charter was awarded by Queen Elizabeth II, meaning the institution was officially known as the 'University of Keele'.
Princess Margaret, Countess of Snowdon, was appointed Keele's first Chancellor and remained so until 1986.
Audrey Newsome arrived at Keele and shortly after created the first student counselling service at a UK university, a concept which is now commonplace across the country.
The Keele Observatory opens.
Keele Chapel was opened and was an innovation both in its design and in its intended use, being the first purpose-built ecumenical chapel in the UK.
Little known conceptual band Pink Floyd play in the Ballroom.
A quartet of Keele students went on University Challenge - and won!
Two students from Keele scooped an exclusive interview with John Lennon and Yoko Ono - and even got a lift from the station in the Beatle's mini!
About 300 Keele students attempted to levitate The Clock House using 'psychic power'.
Last swans sighted on Keele lakes.
Irish supergroup U2 play at the Students' Union.
The Students' Union Building was briefly the seat of government of the Free Republic of Keele, a sovereign state which unilaterally declared its independance in 1980.
Department of Postgraduate Medicine is inaugurated.
The main bar in the Students' Union is named 'Nelson Mandela Bar' in the support of the Free Nelson Mandela movement.
The Library clock which was stopped at 2:35 for most of 1984 starts again!
Roald Dahl awarded an Honorary Degree.
The now legendary raft races on Keele lake began.
Britpop legends Blur play at the Students' Union.
Proposals were put forward by the University Arts Committee to set up an arboretum at Keele.
The Arboretum is now a popular attraction on campus and home to the National Collection of Flowering Cherries.
The Clinical Education Centre is opened at the University Hospital of the North Midlands.
The Forest of Light was installed to commemorate the 50th anniversary of our Royal Charter.
Awarded TEF Gold for our outstanding teaching.
Honarary graduate, Sir David Attenborough visits Keele to open our new science facilities and deliver his 70th anniversary talk.
Keele was recognised as the top university in the world for sustainability at the prestigious International Green Grown Awards ceremony which celebrates sustainability in higher education.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/strategicplanandmission:
Keele was created to be different.
We were formed to be a university fit for a world of uncertainty that prepared students for that world and supported society through research in partnership with others.
This founding mission is as relevant and as important now.
Our mission to “making a difference in society by providing innovative, high-quality education for students from all backgrounds and by undertaking world-leading research that transforms understanding and brings benefit to society, communities and individuals”, has not, and will not change.
Given the talent of our staff, students and graduates, the next 10 years will undoubtedly see our university grow in size, stature, performance and reputation.
Our route along this journey will take many unknown twists and turns given the uncertainty around us in the sector and world, so, unusually, the delivery of this strategy is focused principally on the short- to medium-term in order to secure our longer term sustainability and success.
We want it to be a living document.
We want to develop some key strategic projects that will move this strategy from the incremental to the transformative and we want this approach, to set a tone and a direction that will guide the university with a strong and powerful vision as we move forward into one of the most important periods in the institution’s long and successful history.
This is articulated through a clear sense of purpose and knowledge of what our performance needs to be to achieve this.
Keele University has a strong sense of belonging.
We recognise how our place in the UK partly defines us and what we do but that brings with it a determination to be global in outlook and international in action.
But ultimately success comes from our people and the partnerships we forge, nurture and cherish.
As we go forward, our success in education and research will be underpinned by these 5Ps and they form the core of this commitment.
Together, with our passion and pride from which it is borne, this commitment will serve us well as we move forward with the confidence, agility and ambition required to meet the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead.
Click through to find out more.
Download the full Strategic Vision
Download the full Strategic Vision (959 KB)

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/vice-chancellorsoffice:
The Vice-Chancellor has general responsibility to the Council for maintaining and promoting the efficiency and good order of the University.
In the event of his absence, the duties of the Vice-Chancellor are undertaken by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Provost.
Professor Trevor McMillan OBE
Professor Mark Ormerod OBE
The Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Provost oversees a university's academic strategy, managing departments, curriculum, and research, while supporting the Vice-Chancellor in decision-making and strategic planning.
They also handle academic budgets and represent the university externally.
Dr Mark Bacon BSc PhD FCMI
The Chief Operating Officer (COO) leads the professional services and is responsible for strategy delivery to underpin institutional growth and efficiency across our educational, research and professional service portfolios.
Details of the University's Senior Management Structure and the structure of our high level committees can be found here
Simon Parkes FCMA FRSA

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/hotel:
Based at our Science and Innovation Park, the Courtyard by Marriott hotel is ready to welcome visitors to Keele University.
Whether you're travelling to an open day, have family coming to visit, need to arrange accommodation for graduation, or have an event you would like to arrange on campus, the new Courtyard by Marriott hotel will be the perfect place for visitors to stay at Keele.
The hotel offers:
Make a booking via the Courtyard by Marriott website.
University staff and their guests can make use of a special discounted rate, including a full buffet breakfast, Wi-Fi and VAT.
The hotel kindly provides the following offers to people connected to Keele University:
10% discount at the Campus Coffee House is offered to students, Keele University staff and Keele residents.
Please show appropriate ID to acquire this discount.
Corporate and Business accommodation rates (including breakfast) to those who are booking for business at the University and to Keele Science and Innovation Park Tenants.
Please get in touch with Donna Early ( dearly@peel.co.uk ) to arrange a corporate rate to suit your travel requirements.
Looking to host a conference or event at Keele?
Keele University Events & Conferencing has a large range of impressive spaces to accommodate everything from small team meetings to 600-delegate events, including the magnificent grade two listed Keele Hall, with further accommodation available on campus with the new Courtyard by Marriott at Keele hotel.
All bookings are managed by a dedicated events team, creating the perfect packages for your conferences and events .
Below are a few links to help you plan your stay at Keele.
Take a virtual exploration of the hotel with this 360 tour - Find out more

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/workatkeele:
TRANSFORMING LIVES; SHAPING FUTURES
Whether you are just starting out or looking for a leadership role, explore our current opportunities for both professional and academic roles at Keele.
For internal-only vacancies, please see the Staff Intranet.
Our colleagues are proud to work at Keele, they care about our future, strive to do the best they can, and thrive in a work environment that they find interesting and challenging.
Find out more about what we do .
From great pay and pensions , flexible working and continuous development opportunities , to a strong sense of community and wellbeing support, Keele offers a whole host of employee benefits.
Find out more about our colleague benefits .
Keele is proud to be a family-friendly university that supports staff and students with parenting and caring responsibilities.
Discover our family-friendly campus, policies and more .
Keele understands the importance of creating an inclusive environment where every individual is valued and able to reach their potential.
Find out how Keele is embedding equality, diversity and inclusion into all that we do.
Thinking of applying for a job at Keele, but need a bit more information on certain elements of the application process?
Here are some Frequently Asked Questions which may help .
We are committed to attracting, welcoming and supporting new staff from across the world.
Find out about right to work, relocation, and more .
Knowledge and expertise - We are committed to improving ways of working and using our knowledge, skills and expertise to deliver excellent services.
Honesty and integrity - We insist on honesty, inclusion and respect for each other in all that we do.
We recognise each other's contributions.
Professionalism - We strive for high quality.
We apply good judgement and comply with University and professional standards.
We are polite and respectful of others.
Taking Ownership - We care about what we do.
We understand our role and its purpose and are accountable and proactive in delivering outcomes for our customers and the University.
Teamwork - We share a common goal and success.
We work cooperatively and collaboratively, in partnership and in cross-functional teams to achieve great things.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/equity-diversity-inclusion:
At Keele, we are proud to have a diverse, inclusive, and global community.
We believe that every individual deserves respect, that our strength comes from our diversity, and we strive to create an environment where everyone can succeed.
We are committed to embedding equity, diversity and inclusion into all that we do here at Keele.
We understand the importance of creating an inclusive environment where the rights and dignity of our staff and students are upheld and where every individual is valued and is able to reach their potential.
We recognise the importance of making meaningful and sustainable change and dismantling systemic barriers so that everyone can thrive during their time with us at Keele.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/artskeele:
Keele has a vibrant arts programme, comprising art, music, poetry, performances and other cultural events.
We have our own gallery located in the Chancellor’s Building, and host a wide range of events throughout the year, including a full and varied music programme, public lectures and live poetry readings.
We are fortunate to have interesting collections, including the Stross Collection of art; a painting by LS Lowry; sculpture by Sir Jacob Epstein; the Raven Mason collection of Staffordshire ceramics; and our Special Collections and Archives located in the University library.
We partner with Appetite, the New Vic Theatre, Stoking Curiosity and other local oranisations to bring arts to Keele and across the city too.
We host the Three Counties Open exhibition yearly.
Follow us on social media and sign up to our newletter via the link below to keep up-to-date with what's happening.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/campuslife/foodanddrink:
At Keele there's a wide variety of choice when it comes to food and drink on campus!
From cosy cafés with a great selection of cakes, snacks and sandwiches to eateries offering everything from hearty comfort foods to delicious salads - there’s something for every taste and budget.
Find out more below.
Great food is part of the Keele experience.
Whether you need a bite between lectures, a healthy lunch, or dinner with friends - there's plenty of tasty options  including vegan and vegetarian-friendly food to enjoy.
Keele brings convenience to your doorstep with a fantastic selection of retail choices, including a Co‑Op store, Greggs, the Students' Union shop, and a pharmacy, alongside a variety of vending machines for quick snacks and refreshments.
From coffees and crepes to Caribbean street food, Keele Students' Union organises a weekly food market during term-time, offering a variety of delicious options - perfect for grabbing a bite between lectures or catching up with friends.
Keele is committed to promoting sustainable eating by encouraging healthier choices, reducing environmental impact, and supporting social responsibility.
From reducing waste to growing our own produce on campus, we’re always exploring smarter, more sustainable ways to source and serve food - making it better for you and the planet.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/about/merchandise:
Get the Keele University look.
From hats to hoodies, stationary to squirrel plushies, our online shop has something for everyone.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/campuslife/sportatkeele:
Welcome to Keele University's Sport and Physical Activity pages!
Here you can find out everything from gym membership and facility prices and to our Active Keele Programme.
Any questions, just email sport@keele.ac.uk or call 01782 733368 .
And don't forget to check us out on Facebook, Instagram, and X.
Follow us on our social media channels

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/acceptableuse:
Acceptable use policy
This acceptable use policy sets out the content standards that apply when you upload content to our site, make contact with other users on our site, link to our site, or interact with our site in any other way.
Click on the links below to go straight to more information on each area.
Keele.ac.uk is a website operated by the University of Keele ("We", "Keele University", "us").
To contact us, please email us (see addresses at www.keele.ac.uk/contactus/ ) or telephone us on +44 (0)1782 732000.
By using our site, you confirm that you accept the terms of this policy and that you agree to comply with them.
If you do not agree to these terms, you must not use our site.
Our General Website Terms of Use at www.keele.ac.uk/terms also apply to your use of our site.
We amend these terms from time to time.
Every time you wish to use our site, please check these terms to ensure you understand the terms that apply at that time.
You may use our site only for lawful purposes.
You may not use our site:
You also agree:
We may from time to time provide interactive services on our site, including, without limitation:
(interactive services)
Where we do provide any interactive service, we will provide clear information to you about the kind of service offered, if it is moderated and what form of moderation is used (including whether it is human or technical).
We will do our best to assess any possible risks for users (and in particular, for children) from third parties when they use any interactive service provided on our site, and we will decide in each case whether it is appropriate to use moderation of the relevant service (including what kind of moderation to use) in the light of those risks.
However, we are under no obligation to oversee, monitor or moderate any interactive service we provide on our site, and we expressly exclude our liability for any loss or damage arising from the use of any interactive service by a user in contravention of our content standards, whether the service is moderated or not.
The use of any of our interactive services by a minor is subject to the consent of their parent or guardian.
We advise parents who permit their children to use an interactive service that it is important that they communicate with their children about their safety online, as moderation is not fool proof.
Minors who are using any interactive service should be made aware of the potential risks to them.
Where we do moderate an interactive service, we will normally provide you with a means of contacting the moderator, should a concern or difficulty arise.
These content standards apply to any and all material which you contribute to our site ( Contribution ), and to any interactive services associated with it.
The Content Standards must be complied with in spirit as well as to the letter.
The standards apply to each part of any Contribution as well as to its whole.
The University of Keele will determine, in its discretion, whether a Contribution breaches the Content Standards.
A Contribution must:
A Contribution must not:
When we consider that a breach of this acceptable use policy has occurred, we may take such action as we deem appropriate.
Failure to comply with this acceptable use policy constitutes a material breach of our General Website Terms of Use at www.keele.ac.uk/terms upon which you are permitted to use our site, and may result in our taking all or any of the following actions:
We exclude our liability for all action we may take in response to breaches of this acceptable use policy.
The actions we may take are not limited to those described above, and we may take any other action we reasonably deem appropriate.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/copyright:
This website and its content (except where indicated otherwise) is copyright of Keele University - © Keele University.
All rights reserved.
Any redistribution or reproduction of part or all of the contents in any form is prohibited other than the following:
You may not, except with our express written permission, distribute or commercially exploit the content.
Nor may you transmit it or store it in any other website or other form of electronic retrieval system.
This information does not apply to material on other servers linked to this one.
If you wish to apply for permission to use any materials found within the Keele University website, please contact the University.
For more information on UK Copyright Law please visit the Intellectual Property Office website .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/websupport/scaffolding:
Pages on the Keele University website are built using the following building blocks, known as 'organisms' (in Atomic Design speak) or 'templates' (in T4 CMS speak!).
Use multiple 'organisms' to build your pages.
And, if you get stuck with any of these, please contact the Web Support team via the Self-Service Portal - we're here to help ☺

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/websupport/styleguide:
The purpose of this style guide is to provide practical advice and guidance on creating and managing content on the Keele University website and in print material.
Contact the Communications Team for help and guidance.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/foundationyears/januaryintake:
We offer a January start for some of our Foundation Year courses.
Adopting a blended learning approach (with the majority of learning taking place online , and approximately two weeks per semester on campus ), the January start is particularly useful for students wishing to return to education following time out of studying, or those who are seeking a flexible approach to their Foundation Year studies.
Successful completion of the January start Foundation Year guarantees progression on to a full-time undergraduate programme on campus.
Our January start is available across many of our courses in Health*, Science*, Humanities, Social Science, and Business.*
How will the course be taught?
Whilst still being a full-time course, our blended delivery model combines live teaching sessions - both online and on-campus - with self-directed study, enabling you to predominantly study at a time that suits your lifestyle.
You will benefit from weekly online taught sessions which encourage you to engage with your teachers and peers.
In addition to online study there will be a series of full study days that you will be required to attend on campus throughout each semester.
These sessions may include lab-based activities, group work, or a review of course and assessment materials studied online.
They will emphasise opportunities for you to deepen your knowledge and understanding of your chosen route.
Accommodation
As our January start Foundation Year has a blended mode of delivery, with only limited on-campus days, we strongly encourage students not to apply for University accommodation.
*Please note: Unfortunately we are unable to offer a January intake for all of our Health routes.
We also do not offer a January intake for the Veterinary Medicine and Surgery degree with Foundation Year.
Please note, as a January Foundation Year starter, you will undertake Semesters Two and Three only (as Semester One runs from September - December).
Semester Two starts Monday 12 January 2026.
You will be studying ONLINE in weeks 2 to 5 and 7 to 11 and can expect:
Week 6 (16 to 20 February) : Back ON CAMPUS .
All sessions are face-to-face this week.
You may find some changes to the usual timetable, depending on your modules.
Week 7-11: ONLINE
Week 12 (30 March to 3 April) : Assessment week.
Semester Three starts Monday 20 April 2026.
Entry requirements for our foundation years start from 40 UCAS Tariff points.
However, we will also consider applicants who may not have traditional academic qualifications but have work experience or vocational qualifications.
Waiting for your qualifications?
Apply through UCAS
UK students who are waiting for qualifications/results should apply through UCAS at www.ucas.com
You will find the UCAS code for the Foundation Course you are interested in in the UCAS codes table below.
Already have your qualifications?
Apply direct
If you are a UK student, already have your qualifications, are not expecting any further results and only wish to apply to Keele, please contact the Admissions Office directly on admissions@keele.ac.uk
Please read the FAQ section below for advice and guidance on any specific questions you may have relating to the Foundation Year January intake.
We currently offer January Foundation Year routes into degrees across *Science, Humanities, Social Sciences and Business.
Students wishing to study a health related subject can only apply for a September intake.
*We are currently unable to offer a January intake for the Veterinary Medicine and Surgery with Foundation Year degree.
Please see our January entry Foundation Year A-Z for the full list of courses that offer a January start Foundation Year .
All of the degrees run by the Schools listed below can be accessed via a January Foundation Year route.
The January and September programmes are very similar, and both cohorts study a total of 120 credits.
Modules will be determined by your degree choice, although modules delivered from January may differ from the modules delivered in September.
Both cohorts will take a combination of subject-specific modules and study-skills modules which will provide you with a solid grounding in your subject area.
If you commence your course in January, for the purpose of calculating your maintenance loan entitlement, January will be used by the Student Loans Company (SLC) as the start month for each year of your maintenance loan.
You will receive each year's maintenance loan, paid into your bank account, in three equal instalments, paid in the following months:
Year 1 (Foundation Year and first semester of Level 4) - January, April and September
Year 2 (Remainder of Level 4 and first semester of Level 5) - January, April and September
Year 3 (Remainder of Level 5 and first semester of Level 6) - January, April and September
Year 4 (Remainder of Level 6) - January, February and April
Your maintenance loan entitlement will be calculated based upon the number of teaching weeks in each of the above years.
Since Year 4 (Remainder of Level 6) will finish in May, there will be fewer teaching weeks than in years 1 to 3, so your maintenance loan entitlement will be lower to reflect the shorter period of teaching.
However, this will still be paid in three equal instalments, in the months noted above.
You will find the UCAS code for the Foundation Course you are interested in on the relevant main undergraduate course page, under the "Foundation Year" section.
Applying for University accommodation is usually not necessary as the majority of this programme is delivered online, enabling you to study from wherever suits you best.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/foundationyears/lifeonthekeelefoundationyear:
Preparing for degree success
Hobart O’Rourke - Biomedical Science student
"I am a mature student looking to change careers.
The foundation year gave me the opportunity to enrol on an undergraduate degree for which I did not possess the correct A-levels." - read more about Hobart O’Rourke - Biomedical Science student
Kurt Foster - Physics with Foundation Year student
"My advice for students thinking about studying a Foundation Year course at Keele is do it!
" - read more about Kurt Foster - Physics with Foundation Year student
Samantha Wilcox - Psychology with foundation Year student
"It also provides you with key skills that can be applied to get the best out of your degree." - read more about Samantha Wilcox - Psychology with foundation Year student
Liam Wilkinson - Mathematics with Economics alumni
"You are also treated as a university student and the marking reflects that, so before you even start the undergraduate course your report writing and your answers reflect the standard of an undergraduate student." - read more about Liam Wilkinson - Mathematics with Economics alumni
Lucy Windsor - Health Foundation Year for Medicine student
"I also appreciate the smaller tutorial and workshop classes, since this means we get more support and get to know our peers and lecturers on a closer level.
" - read more about Lucy Windsor - Health Foundation Year for Medicine student
Set on 600 acres of landscaped parkland, fields, woodland and lakes, our campus – one of the biggest in the UK –  Keele is an inspiring and supportive place to study, where students thrive.
Located in the heart of England, easily accessed from major cities such as Manchester, Birmingham and London, you’ll find everything’s on your doorstep, with the most important facilities just a short walk away.
If you’re thinking about taking your learning to the next level, there’s plenty of evidence to back up the many benefits of gaining a higher education.
Research has shown time and time again that a better education not only leads to higher earnings and more opportunities to advance your career, but can also result in a better quality of life!
Here at Keele University, 96% of our graduates are employed or in further study just six months after graduating (Destination of Leavers from Higher Education 2017).
Our foundation year provides an excellent route to all our undergraduate degrees – with guaranteed entry once you successfully complete your course.
It will smooth your transition to degree-level study by giving you the time and space to develop your subject knowledge, improve your academic skills and build your confidence and self-belief that you can succeed at university.
With over 500 students studying the Keele Foundation Year, you’ll also meet new friends, who’ll be sharing your journey with you.
Here at Keele, we may have a big and beautiful campus, but you’ll discover a small and cosmopolitan community, where your welfare comes first, and you’ll soon be making firm friends.
We have some of the most satisfied university students in the UK, and are consistently ranked highly for student satisfaction.
Proud to in the Top 10 for Student Satisfaction in the Guardian University League Table 2021, we want to make sure your academic and personal journey is the best it can be.
As well as having access to all of the University’s support services, you will be allocated your own academic mentor to guide and support you through your first year of university study.
We also have over 40 trained student mentors, some of whom started their journey here on the Foundation Year, so they can relate to your experiences.
You’ll have access to a range of social activities, clubs, societies and volunteering opportunities through Keele Students’ Union.
"When I first arrived, I had no faith in myself or my abilities.
My Foundation Year gave me confidence, which I use and build upon every day as a KeeleSU Education Officer"
Mari Chappell - KeeleSU Education Officer

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/foundationyears/foundationyearroutes:
The stepping stone to your chosen degree at Keele
The Keele Foundation Year is one of the longest running of its type in the UK, well known at national level and with a good reputation in the higher education sector.
It has been praised in the past – by education experts from Keele and other universities – for offering “an authentic university experience for students”, providing a genuine opportunity for students to join the University who have the potential to succeed.
We offer an integrated foundation year, which means that you will study a foundation year linked to the undergraduate degree you wish to progress to on successful completion.
Therefore, in addition to broad-based academic and personal development, course content is tailored to your chosen degree and the relevant broader subject area, which are listed below.
Studying a Foundation Year in a business subject will give you the skills and knowledge to progress onto an undergraduate course within Keele Business School.
You'll explore how businesses operate and the factors that shape the nature of organisations in a complex, competitive global business world.
Core topics covered in your foundation year include business and management, business finance and economic data, and the employment lifecycle.
Acknowledging the impact of digital developments, you'll also consider how technology and ‘Big data’ is being used to inform decision-making, improve customer service and create efficiency savings.‌
The below progression requirements are for the academic year 2025/26 and are for general information only.
Progression requirements may be subject to change and are not intended to be construed and/or relied upon as a definitive list of progression requirements.
To progress to your chosen degree you will need to pass all modules of the Foundation Year and achieve the required progression mark for each Semester 2 module.
Keele Undergraduate Programme
Semester 1
Semester 2
All Keele Business School UG programmes
40% or above in all modules
When you successfully complete this Foundation Year, you will be better prepared for your degree studies and be able to do the following:
Explore our Foundation Year programmes
Designed to develop your understanding of broad health-related principles, our Foundation Year in Health aims to equip you with the knowledge and skills required to study an undergraduate health degree.
With a large range of modules, from active anatomy to physical and inorganic chemistry, your studies will be tailored to your chosen degree programme.
Your first semester acts mainly as an introduction to university learning and to your subject, which you may not have studied before.
You'll have the opportunity to study in state of the art facilities , and learn professional techniques from academic experts.
You will also examine the way in which health professionals behave in a variety of settings, beginning your preparations for eventual professional practice.
Studying a Foundation Year in Humanities will give you a great introduction to many subject areas.
Humanities are academic disciplines that study aspects of human society and culture, such as history, law and politics, philosophy and literature.
You will get the opportunity to cover a variety of social and political issues, trends, problems and key concepts, such as power, class, rights and gender, on campus by academic experts.
You'll also examine some of the major cultural and technical developments in the 19 th century, including the independence of states and societies, industrialism and colonisation.
The first semester acts mainly as an introduction to university learning and to your subject, which you may not have studied before.
Focused on the academic skills, tools and knowledge required for higher learning, it is designed to ease your transition to degree-level study.
This then develops your knowledge and understanding of Humanities and prepares you to undertake academic research, which culminates with your dissertation at the end of your degree.
To progress to your chosen degree you will need to pass all modules of the Foundation Year and achieve the required progression mark for each Semester 2 module .
All Keele School of Humanities UG programmes
Our Foundation Year in Science aims to strengthen your scientific knowledge in core science subjects including Biology, Chemistry, Computing, Geography, Geology and the Environment, Maths, Physics and Psychology.
You'll get the opportunity to study areas that interest you with a wide range of modules, while being taught on campus by subject experts and gaining knowledge in a range of areas from numerical and computational skills, to the ability to analyse/interpret data and use mathematical calculations to solve problems.
The second semester develops your knowledge and understanding of Sciences and prepares you to undertake academic research, which culminates with your dissertation at the end of your degree.
Throughout your Keele degree you will have access to state of the art science facilities and equipment , giving you the chance to become familiar with bespoke software to present numerical data geographically, developing your analytical, team working and problem-solving skills.
You will also be able to familiarise yourself with essential lab techniques, such as sampling, preparing samples, using the microscopes and recording lab notes.
Our facilities provide an enriched learning experience and have been designed to offer new ways to learn, helping you to progress onto your undergraduate degree feeling with your new skills and experiences.
Studying a social science Foundation Year will allow you to seek to address difficult questions and/or answers that might point the way to a more just and sustainable future for humanity.
On this course, you’ll learn about the history of social and political thought, studying political and social movements in Europe and the modern world.
You’ll cover both historical traditions and contemporary developments, developing your questioning and analytical skills, while gaining a greater understanding of the issues and changing ideas in our complex and ever-evolving modern society.
Social Sciences
In this video, Emily discusses how the Foundation Year provided her with a head start in her academic degree and has given her opportunities to advance her career.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/foundationyears/teachingandlearning:
As part of our Gold-standard teaching, we maintain a strong commitment to excellence and innovation in teaching and educational research.
All current Foundation Year Centre staff already have or are completing formal teaching qualifications and between them have many years’ experience of teaching on foundation year programmes.
Our academic year runs from September to June and is divided into two semesters.
There is a vacation after the first semester’s teaching at Christmas, followed by an examination period.
The second semester begins immediately after the examination period and continues until June, with a vacation at Easter.
The examination period for the second semester begins in May.
The number of weeks of teaching will vary from course to course, but you can generally expect to attend scheduled teaching sessions between the end of September and mid-December, and from mid-January to the end of April.
Your learning is divided into ‘modules’, which is a programme of study around one specific topic.
The depth and length of study is linked to the ‘value’ of the module, which may be worth 15 or 30 credits.
On the Foundation Year, you will take a combination of modules to a total of 120 credits, including the compulsory modules and those related to the subject area you have chosen.
As a comparison, a three-year degree programme is typically a total of 120 credits per year, while a postgraduate master’s programme is 180 credits.
Typically, one third of your learning will take place through directed learning and teaching activities, with the remainder through guided independent study.
We would expect your total learning experience on this one-year Foundation course to comprise 1,200 hours of study time, roughly 35-40 hours per week during semester-time, though this may vary depending on your subject and choice of modules.
With access to state-of-the-art undergraduate teaching facilities and apparatus, your foundation programme will be delivered through a mixture of classes, which may include lectures, tutorials, seminars and workshops.
Depending on the degree you have chosen, you may also have computer classes, computer exercises and laboratory sessions.
You’ll have regular opportunities to talk through your progress, particular areas of difficulty or any special learning needs with either your academic mentor or module lecturers on a one-to-one basis.
You will meet your academic mentor at regular times throughout the academic year to discuss your progress and support that you may need.
“My academic mentor is absolutely brilliant for support”
The wide variety of assessment methods – not all of which may be featured on your course or module – help develop your knowledge and skills, with examinations are held at the end of both semesters.
You’ll be given clear assessment criteria and timely, regular and constructive feedback so you can improve their performance.
Your module leader and academic mentor will be on hand to help clarify things you’ve not understood or give you additional guidance should you need it.
“Be optimistic about having an extra year at university because university goes so quickly.
It’s a good middle step between school and your actual university course, which makes it easier to settle into a new life of living and working independently”
Marks are awarded for summative assessments to assess your achievement of learning outcomes and you’ll also be assessed formatively, so we – and you – can monitor your progress.
Feedback, including guidance on how you can improve the quality of your work, is provided on all summative and formative assessments within three working weeks of submission, unless there are compelling circumstances that make this impossible.
You’ll also receive more informal feedback during tutorial and seminar discussions.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/foundationyears/internationalstudents:
Join one of the top 15 universities in England for combined excellence in both teaching and research (TEF 2023).
Start your Keele experience with a Foundation, International Year One or Pre-Master's in 2025.
Established in 1949 (celebrating 75 years in 2024), Keele University has remained dedicated to their core mission: providing the highest quality education and cutting-edge research to improve lives and address the most pressing societal issues, both in the local region and around the world.
Welcome to Keele – a unique, self-contained campus environment with over 600 acres in which to live, learn, relax and connect.
Located on the Keele campus, Keele University International College offers undergraduate and postgraduate pathways to Keele University.
With a supportive environment and offering transformative learning experiences, Keele University International College is your path to a successful future at Keele University.
2025 Entry
(for subjects including Business and HRM, Mathematics, and Geography)
(Gold in the Teaching Excellence Framework 2023)
(Research Excellence Framework 2021)
Apply today, and receive an offer for the full duration of your academic journey within two business days.
A world-leading international education group offering premium study experiences .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/foundationyears/tuitionfeesandfunding:
It is important that you find out exactly how much money your studies will cost before you decide to come to university.
It is equally important that you investigate all funding opportunities available to you and work out how much money you will have to live on as a student.
Please note that as a foundation year student you are also defined as an undergraduate student.
Much of what applies to undergraduate students will apply to you too.
Information about Foundation Year Fees for Undergraduate UK students.
All funding opportunities for undergraduate and foundation year students, including bursaries and scholarships, NHS funding changes, hardship funds, Article 26 Sanctuary scholarships, information for USA students, emergency loans and many more.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/foundationyears/contactus:
Please fill in and submit our enquiries form if you have any questions about the foundation year at Keele.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/foundationyears/people:
Darshi Bandara Lecturer in Biological Sciences
Pauline Cooke Lecturer in FY Geography, Geology and the Environment (GGE) and Academic Mentor
Tracey Coppins Lecturer in Health, Head of Health Foundation Year
Dr Anca Dafina Covaci Lecturer in Life Sciences
Dr Sam Davenward Lecturer in Chemistry, Early Resolution Officer, Director of Education
Molly Drummond Lecturer in Social Sciences
Bryn Evans Lecturer in Business and Economics
Dr Jeanette Fanthome Lecturer of Health and Social Care
Dr Laura Hibberts Lecturer in Biology
Lucy Greenwood Lecturer in Chemistry
Kate Jury Lecturer in Psychology, Head of Science Foundation Year, Deputy Early Resolution Officer
Dr Nick McIntyre Teaching Fellow Mathematics
Jeff Neat Head of Mathematics and Computing Foundation Year, Outreach Co-ordinator, Lecturer in Mathematics and Computing
Simon Rimmington Director of Foundation Year, Lecturer in Physics
Dr Natalie Soleiman Head of Business, Humanities and Social Science Foundation Year, Teaching Fellow in Sociology and Social Science
Lucy Terry Humanities Lecturer
Dr Menli Tirkishova Lecturer in Mathematics
Mathematics
Dr Adam Wootton Lecturer in Mathematics, Computing and Physics, Academic Conduct Officer, Director of Education
Dr Zak Zarychta Teaching Fellow in Physics, Academic Conduct Officer
Peter Haycock Emeritus Professor
Foundation Year Admin For general enquiries please contact us via telephone or email
Alex Cattell School(s) Operations Administrator
Deborah Goodall School(s) Operations Officer
Julie Hulme School(s) Operations Administrator
Rachel Jackson School(s) Operations Administrator
Hyunju Kim School(s) Administrative Assistant
Abi Tappin School(s) Administrator
Kate Jury Lecturer in Psychology, Head of Science Foundation Year
Kieron Nixon Blended Delivery Programme Director

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/foundationyears/januaryintake/januarystart:
Groundwork
Adopting a blended learning approach, the January start is particularly useful for students wishing to return to education following time out of studying, or who are seeking a flexible approach to their studies.
Our January start is available across many of our courses in Science, Humanities, Social Science, Health and Business.
Please note, our January entry Foundation Year offers a condensed programme (January-September).

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/accountingandfinance:
Gain the financial expertise to help organisations power their business growth.
On our Accounting and Finance BSc you will develop the essential accounting and finance expertise required to open the doors to careers in accountancy, finance or management in a variety of global industries.
Hear from our students and staff – who share their personal experiences of what it's like to be a part of Keele Business School.
Do you have an analytical mind and a flair for figures?
Our Accounting and Finance degree can open doors to high-level careers in accountancy, banking, insurance, corporate enterprises and more.
You will gain an appreciation of how modern businesses operate and procure skills in areas including financial and management accounting to appreciate the true value an accountant can bring to a business.
Choosing to study areas such as Taxation and Audit will allow you to specialise, whilst emerging fields such as FinTech, Green Finance and exposure to industry standard software will make you a highly employable individual.
You can tailor your studies to match your career aspirations by choosing either the Professional or General Pathway in this programme.
Accounting Professional Pathway: Designed to meet the requirements for maximising exam exemptions from professional accounting bodies, allowing you to fast-track your accounting career.
Finance Professional Pathway: Ideal if you are interested in the broader role of accounting and finance within business and wish to develop versatile skills applicable to a range of business contexts.
Practical, career-focused teaching and learning ensures that you can apply the theory you’re learning to real-world scenarios that will build your expertise and confidence.
We will also get you thinking about sustainability and business ethics so when you begin work or start your own business you can be a force for good in the world.
Our built-in Professional and Academic Development Programme spans your entire degree.
Designed to fully prepare you for securing a great job or starting a business, you will develop your professional skills, creativity, confidence, critical thinking and problem-solving abilities.
Our aim?
To ensure you graduate with clear goals and impressive experiences to show future employers or investors.
You’ll benefit from Keele Business School’s strong industry connections, placement or entrepreneurship opportunities, hands-on practical experiences, and invaluable real-world insights such as through our Global Challenge Pathways.
This programme is accredited by;
This accreditation means you may gain exemptions from some of the above organisation's exam papers as you have already covered the specific content during the Accounting and Finance BSc (Hons) programme.‌ ‌
The module details given below are indicative, they are intended to provide you with an idea of the range of subjects that are taught to our current students.
The modules that will be available for you to study in future years are subject to change as we regularly review our teaching to ensure that it is up-to-date and informed by the latest research and teaching methods, as well as student voice.
The information presented is therefore not intended to be construed and/or relied upon as a definitive list of the modules available in any given year.
Our courses are designed to develop the skills, experience and expertise you'll need to succeed in your chosen career, informed by the latest research, teaching methods, student feedback, and employer insights.
Module details are representative of what we intend to deliver on the course, but may change to reflect best practice and academic development.
This information should therefore not be considered a definitive list of available modules.
Professional and Academic Development 1 This is the foundation module of our strengths-based professional development programme.
It is designed to help you identify and leverage your unique strengths.
Using approved psychometric tools, you will learn about your strengths to uncover your inherent talents which will help you to shape your professional identity.
This module offers a structured framework for you to reflect on your capabilities and areas for growth, supporting the development of your career plan.
Through interactive workshops and guided reflection, you will learn to effectively apply your strengths in various professional scenarios.
Principles of Financial and Management Accounting Fundamental concepts and key techniques of accounting.
An introduction to Financial Accounting will start with double entry bookkeeping, the preparation of a trial balance and progress to basic financial statements (The Statement of Profit or Loss, The Statement of Financial Position and The Statement of Cash Flows).
Management Accounting core purpose and value will be introduced with the preparation of key costing methods and budgets.
In addition to studying the theory, we will explore the practical operations in industry and practice, drawing on our business links.
Foundations of Business and Economics This module sets the wider context for the study of accounting, finance and banking, providing a comprehensive introduction to the essential principles of macroeconomics and microeconomics, exploring their impact on business operations and strategy.
You will gain an understanding of organisational functions and the broader business environment.
This foundational knowledge sets the stage for more specialised studies in accounting, finance, and banking, offering insight into the economic contexts that influence these fields.
Methods for Finance and Accounting This module offers a comprehensive introduction to the analytical skills essential for navigating modern finance and accounting landscapes.
A hands-on approach is emphasized, with students actively utilizing the Bloomberg terminal.
Additionally, students receive a brief introduction to Excel, statistical packages like STATA, and programming languages such as Python.
Familiarity with common terminology used in the field of finance and accounting is also a key component of this module.
Teams, People and Performance The "Teams, People, and Performance" module focuses on enhancing practical skills for effective teamwork.
It covers key concepts such as team dynamics, communication strategies, conflict resolution, and leadership roles.
Students engage in hands-on activities, group projects, and case studies to apply theoretical knowledge in real-world scenarios.
By the end of the module, participants will have gained essential experience in collaboration, problem-solving, and performance optimization within diverse team environments.
Professional and Academic Development 2 This is the intermediate level module in the professional development programme where you will apply your subject knowledge in real business settings.
Using your commercial awareness and enterprise skills, you will tackle an actual organisational challenge, collaborating with a team gain first-hand experience of working with an organisation.
This hands-on experience not only enhances your practical abilities but also encourages critical reflection on your personal and professional growth, steering you towards effective problem-solving and continued development of your professional identity.
Financial Accounting Theory and Reporting Building on previous knowledge this module will focus on Financial Accounting for larger companies with requirements to comply with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and International GAAP.
Detailed study of key accounting standards will support understanding of strict reporting requirements and disclosures as the complexity of preparing financial statements increases.
You will progress to prepare Group/consolidated financial statements (parent, subsidiary, associate) with required workings.
Other key areas such as interpretation, off balance sheet finance, green reporting will also be studied.
As part of this module, we will work with local companies to look at financial reporting in practice.
Financial Analysis with Bloomberg This module immerses students in the practical world of finance, leveraging the powerful Bloomberg terminal for data collection.
It delves into the time series characteristics of financial instruments, including bonds and equities.
Moreover, the course introduces modern econometric techniques, emphasizing empirical approaches.
As a natural extension, students explore contemporary risk management methods, including the critical concept of Value at Risk.
Contemporary Business Ethics Debates The business world is full of ethical dilemmas.
This module is a practical, discussion-based course where you will select and explore current ethical issues in business.
With your peers, you will engage in debates, presentations, and discussions, applying ethical theories to real-world scenarios.
This hands-on approach develops critical thinking and communication skills, preparing you to navigate and address ethical challenges in today's business environment.
Individual Placement Module In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
This module allows you to gain hands-on experience, enhancing your employability, and the opportunity to gain valuable professional insights via a 75-hour placement.
You will be supported by various activities to secure a role and can source your own placement or apply to university-sourced roles.
This module offers flexibility on when and how you complete your placement, enabling you to balance your placement around existing demands.
Management Accounting and Decision Making Management Accountants actively contribute to critical decisions within business.
A range of costing techniques will be studied and applied as well as forecasting and budgeting methods to support planning and control in a range of business scenarios.
Tools to calculate breakeven, manage limiting factors, and decide on suitable product/service pricing policies will be explored with all their complications.
Finally, the calculation and interpretation of advanced variances will highlight areas requiring review and consideration will be given to contemporary issues.
Financial Markets, Institutions and Technology This module delves into the essential underpinnings of financial systems.
Through concrete examples, students explore the intricate workings of markets and institutions.
The module encompasses financial asset valuation, dissecting the factors influencing it.
From equities and bonds to derivatives, a diverse array of financial instruments is covered.
Additionally, the course scrutinizes technology’s impact on financial markets, revealing how its adoption reshapes operations and introduces novel risk dimensions.
Professional and Academic Development 3 As a final-year student, you will compile and present your academic and project achievements in a professional portfolio that highlights your unique strengths.
This module not only guides you to articulate your personal and professional attributes but also encourages reflection on your educational journey and career preferences.
You will engage in recruitment and selection simulations, exploring both traditional CV and innovative no-CV approaches using various media.
This comprehensive portfolio will enhance your job applications and facilitate a tailored transition into your chosen career paths.
Corporate Strategic Finance This module delves into advanced Corporate Finance concepts with innovations in modern Finance including development in green finance and financial technology.
It explores modern asset valuation techniques applicable to equities and bonds and other instruments.
Additionally, the course provides an in-depth examination of capital structure from various angles.
Students engage with diverse performance management techniques, all while emphasizing intricate real-life calculations.
Finally, students achieve in-depth understanding of the limitations of finance.
The Digital Showcase The “Digital Showcase" is your opportunity to demonstrate your digital skills through the creation of a comprehensive digital project.
Students will select a focus area such as digital marketing, web development, data analytics, or multimedia production.
You will develop and present your projects using cutting-edge tools and techniques.
Emphasising creativity, technical proficiency, and practical application, this module allows you to showcase your digital talent.
Auditing and Assurance Explore the professional roles of both an internal and external auditor.
Key techniques in auditing will be studied and applied to business processes and case study scenarios in line with auditing and assurance standards.
You will be engaged in the technical and cognitive processes involved in conducting a financial audit, including planning, risk assessment, testing, reviewing, and reporting.
Key concepts of audit and assurance, the regulatory framework, and professional ethics will be covered.
You will hear from industry experts about the real life practice of the auditing professional.
Specialised Accounting systems (Entrepreneurs, Public sector, Not-for profit sector) Study of accounting practices for alternative organisations.
Entrepreneurs, explore sources of finance, suitable accounting software and critical accounting knowledge.
The public sector and the not-for profit sector are significant employers in the UK (for example: local government, central government, the health service, police force, education sector, the armed forces).
Accountants working in the public sector and in the not-for profit sector (charity) will need to be aware of their specific reporting requirements.
This module will explore the similarities and differences in reporting requirements and reporting priorities between a Ltd or Plc company and organisations in other sectors.
Personal and Business Taxation (UK) Individual and company’s should be aware of their obligation to calculate and pay the correct amount of Taxation at the correct time.
This module uses the latest UK tax rates and allowances to allow you to calculate the tax liability of a range of individuals with varying personal and professional circumstances.
Study in this specialised field will progress to business taxation in the UK, looking at the taxes and allowances applicable to a range of businesses.
The knowledge and experience of tax professionals will be integrated into module.
Investment Management and Financial Engineering This module immerses students in the practical world of finance, leveraging the powerful Bloomberg terminal throughout their study.
It delves into modern investment techniques, covering various versions of the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) and the Arbitrage Pricing Theory (APT).
Additionally, the course explores modern Portfolio Theory in depth, with extensive Bloomberg terminal usage.
Students engage with complex financial instruments such as futures, options, and swaps.
Numerical techniques for pricing these instruments, including binomial and trinomial lattices, are thoroughly examined.
Furthermore, the module sheds light on significant losses resulting from derivatives use in financial markets, illustrated through compelling case studies.
You will have access to our Bloomberg Lab, set up like a trading room, where you can gain hands-on experience using Bloomberg Professional Service, also known as the Terminal.
This software is widely used in the financial industry, making skills in its use highly valued by employers.
The Terminal provides privileged access to economic, financial and business real-time data, world news, analysis and reports from some of the world’s biggest financial organisations.
You can also utilise the lab in your own time, to gather data for your studies and demonstrate to prospective employers that you have expanded your financial market knowledge by completing the Bloomberg Market Concepts, a free e-learning course available to Keele Business School students.
Keele is one of only 15 broad-based universities in England - out of over 100 - to have been awarded Gold in both the 2017 and 2023 Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) exercises, demonstrating our consistent teaching excellence.
There are a range of additional opportunities for this course.
Please note that undertaking one may impact the availability of another.
In an increasingly competitive job market, employers are seeking to recruit individuals who have high-level knowledge, skills and an understanding of the workplace.
Choosing a work placement year between your second and third year is a fantastic way to gain industry experience.
It can provide a valuable insight into what working in a specific area of business is like, gives you the chance to familiarise yourself with the professional working environment and develop professional contacts, and provides the opportunity to apply the theory you’ve learnt on your degree course.
*Students who require a visa to study in the UK may be able to add in a work placement depending upon the programme.
The ability to add a work placement is dependent upon the UK Immigration rules at the time of the request.
It may be that for some programmes students will not have the option to request a placement period to be added to their programme before they arrive in the UK and would need to apply for a new visa.
There is no guarantee that a placement will be provided and that students who have a visa are subject to a number of restrictions on the type of work, including placements they can undertake.
Between years two and three of your studies you can choose to spend a year or a semester studying abroad.
This exciting opportunity will enable you to understand your field from different cultural perspectives and establish international networks.
The international year also shows you have the personal attributes to embrace new experiences which can enhance your employability.
We offer exchange opportunities with a wide variety of partner institutions .
Showcase your innovative abilities and ideas to develop your business aspirations.
If you’ve ever wanted to establish your own start-up or have been inspired by your studies this entrepreneurship year is an amazing opportunity to develop your own business idea.
The entrepreneurship pathway is available to UK and international students.
For international students, the availability of the entrepreneurship pathway is subject to the latest visa regulations.
These are the typical entry requirements for this course for a range of UK and international qualifications.
If your qualifications aren't listed, please contact us to check if we can accept them.
If you don't think you'll meet the stated requirements, you may be able to access this course via a Foundation Year .
Please ensure you read the full entry requirements by selecting your qualifications from the menu below.
This will include any subject specific, GCSE/Level 2 Maths, and/or English language requirements.
Please select your qualification from the drop-down list below for the full entry requirement information
BBC in three A Levels.
Contextual Offer: CCC in three A Levels.
You will also need: 4 / C in GCSE Maths or Level 2 Functional Skills Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
DMM in any BTEC Extended Diploma / National Extended Diploma.
Contextual Offer: MMM in any BTEC Extended Diploma / National Extended Diploma.
Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and C in one A Level, or Merit and Merit in BTEC Diploma and A in one A Level.
Distinction in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and CC in two A Levels, or Merit in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels.
Merit in any T Level.
554 in three Higher Levels or 29 points.
Contextual Offer: 444 in three Higher Levels or 27 points.
You will also need: 4 / C in GCSE Maths or Level 2 Functional Skills Maths, or 3 in IB Middle Years Maths, or 3 in IB Diploma Standard Level Maths (any), plus an English language qualification (see below).
We encourage applications with the IBCP but recognise that your combination of qualifications may differ depending on where you are studying.
If you are taking a BTEC National Diploma / Diploma with one or more Higher Levels, your offer will be similar to our BTEC + A Level offer (see 'BTEC National Diploma / Diploma') but with an HL requirement of 6 for A, 5 for B, or 4 for C.
For any other combination, please contact the University Admissions Team for advice.
112 UCAS points in any Access to HE Diploma including Distinction in at least 15 Level 3 credits.
The Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate is equivalent to one full A Level at the same grade and can be included alongside 2 other A Levels in a standard A Level offer for this course (see A Level).
All subject specific requirements will still need to be met.
BCCCC in five Highers, or CD in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers, or CCD in three Advanced Highers.
You will also need: C in National 5 Maths, or 4 / C in GCSE Maths or Level 2 Functional Skills Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
If you have B or higher in the EPQ and are studying A Levels, BTEC, the International Baccalaureate Diploma, or an Access to HE Diploma, you will typically receive an alternative offer which will be lower than the standard offer.
Please see 'Alternative and contextual offers' below.
If you have B or higher in Core Maths and are studying A Levels, BTEC, the International Baccalaureate, or an Access to HE Diploma, you will typically receive an alternative offer which will be lower than the standard offer.
H3, H4, H4, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate.
You will also need: O4 / H6 in Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
70% in the Gaokao.
You will also need: 60% in Senior Secondary School or Gaokao Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
Average of 65% from four subjects in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 70% from four subjects in any other Standard XII.
You will also need: 6 or C2 in Secondary School Examination Maths, or Pass in Standard XII Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
2.4 overall average in the Abitur.
You will also need: 10 in Maths in the Abitur, plus an English language qualification (see below).
12 in the French Baccalaureate / International Option Baccalaureate / Baccalauréat Français International.
You will also need: 10 in Maths in the Baccalaureate, plus an English language qualification (see below).
443 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE.
You will also need: 2 in HKDSE Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
Overall average of 7 in the Título de Bachillerato.
You will also need: 5 in Graduado en Educación Secundaria (GES) Maths or 6 in Título de Bachiller Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
75% in the Esame di Stato.
You will also need: 5 in Maths in the Diploma, plus an English language qualification (see below).
17.5 / 83% in the Apolytirion.
You will also need: 14 in Maths in the Apolytirion, plus an English language qualification (see below).
Overall average of 15 in a Secondary Certificate.
You will also need: 10 in Secondary Certificate Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
60% / BCCCC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma.
You will also need: 50% in Grade 11 Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
We do not accept the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education for direct entry.
However, you can apply to study an International Foundation Year at Keele University International College.
On successful completion, you can progress to an undergraduate degree at Keele.
We may accept a two year Diploma.
Please contact the University Admissions Team for advice.
We do not accept the Senior School Certificate (WAEC or NECO) for direct entry.
We may accept an Ordinary National Diploma with GPA of 2.5 or a Merit / Lower Credit.
443 from three Advanced Placement subjects.
You will also need: C in Grade 12 High School Diploma Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
We do not accept the West African Senior School Certificate Examination for direct entry.
BBC in three Advanced Levels.
You will also need: C in O-Level Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
BBC in three Principal Level subjects in the STPM.
You will also need: C in SPM Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
We do not accept the Secondary School Certificate for direct entry.
BBC in three H2 Levels.
70% overall.
You will also need: 6 in European Baccalaureate Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with BBC and a C in EAP English Language module and grade A in EAP for Nursing courses.
You will also need: 4 / C in GCSE Maths or international equivalent.
BBC in three Principal Level subjects in the Advanced Certificate of Education.
You will also need: 6 in UACE or UCE Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
National Senior Certificate: 66655 in five subjects You will also need: 4 in NSC Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
BBC in three Advanced Level subjects.
All our courses require an English language qualification or test.
Most students meet this through a 4 or C in GCSE English.
Please visit our English Language pages for details, including test information for international students.
For students who require a test, this course requires a result from Group A.
We're committed to ensuring equality of opportunity for applicants with the potential and motivation to succeed, regardless of background.
We offer alternative offer schemes with clear eligibility criteria, including contextual offers, offers for those studying in the Keele region, and recognition of a range of additional qualifications.
The entry grades outlined indicate the typical offer, along with any subject specific requirements.
This is for general information only.
Keele University reserves the right to vary conditions based upon a candidate's application.
As a Keele Business School student, you will study alongside innovative companies that are based in the business school building, a hub for fostering networks and linking with industry.
Keele Business School is located at the heart of the Keele University Science & Innovation Park, one of the leading developments of its kind in the UK.
The Park offers companies a business environment that provides an innovative research culture, combined with academic expertise and the University’s specialist resources, with a variety of opportunities for students to get involved, from internships, knowledge exchange partnerships, and student enterprise initiatives.
Keele Business School (KBS) has been selected for the 2024-2025 cohort of PRME Champions.
Consisting of 47 businesses and management schools from around the world, The Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME) is an initiative of the United Nations Global Compact, focused on raising the bar for sustainable business education.
More information about PRME Champions can be found here.
For Home students, the University's fees are regulated by the UK Government and may be subject to change in subsequent years of your course in-line with government policy or legal requirements.
For continuing international students, fees will increase annually by RPI, with a maximum cap of 5% per year.
For details of our international fee bands visit our Undergraduate tuition fees page.
Going to university can be daunting as well as exciting.
It's important to understand the costs and financial support available.
Our Student Financial Support team offers confidential advice and guidance to help you manage your money, resolve issues with Student Finance, create a budget, explore your options if you're facing financial hardship, and access any funding you are eligible for, such as bursaries and scholarships.
For more information visit our undergraduate fees and funding pages .
"I chose to study at Keele because Keele is an established university.
I enjoyed the accounting modules, their real world application (e.g.
taxation) and the additional training such as Bloomberg Market Concepts."
Laurence, Accounting and Finance
Our staff in Keele Business School are active researchers in core areas such as accounting, finance, economics, human resource management, marketing and management.
Their academic work will inform your learning, incorporating recent theories and current themes to open discussion in your subject area.
There are professional support staff on hand to answer any queries you may have during your undergraduate studies at Keele.
Our academics in Keele Business School are multicultural and multinational, bringing an international aspect to the School’s teaching, research and business activities.
During your studies, you’ll receive support from within Keele Business School and across the University.
Your assigned Academic Mentor will provide individual support, and you'll also have access to our dedicated Student Experience and Support Team , based within our Faculty, who can provide additional support, and work closely with teams across Keele.
This ensures you have easy access to comprehensive advice and support, including services for Disability Support and Inclusion, Student Financial Support, Counselling and Mental Health, Residence Life and Chaplaincy, and International Student Support.
Keele is Top 15 in the UK for graduate employability (Uni Compare Rankings 2026)
Keele’s Careers and Employability team offers a variety of personal and career development opportunities to enhance your employability.
From mock interviews, careers guidance and CV advice, to careers fairs and networking events, along with helping you find part-time and graduate employment - the team will support you throughout your studies and beyond.
Accounting and Finance at Keele is your pathway to success and thoroughly prepares you for your next steps upon graduation.
With excellent transferable skills and subject knowledge, you will have the potential to explore careers in different types of organisations and sectors and become an asset to any future employer.
You will have built strong critical thinking abilities, good communication skills, developed an entrepreneurial mindset and have benefited from our Professional and Academic Development programme, which will have boosted your personal and professional growth.
Jobs that a graduate of this course could progress on to include:
Keele’s Careers and Employability team (Shortlisted for Best University Careers Employment Service - National Undergraduate Employability Awards, 2021) offers a variety of personal and career development opportunities to enhance your employability.
From mock interviews, careers guidance and CV advice, to careers fairs, alumni mentoring and networking events, along with helping you find part-time and graduate employment, the team will support you throughout your studies and beyond.
Find out more about our careers and employability services , including career planning, alumni mentoring, jobs, internships, starting your own business and much more.
"All of the lecturers were very helpful in giving me an insight into the industry and knowing what to expect when it came to my career after university.
Leigh-Anne, Accounting and Finance
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Accounting and Finance BSc, tailored to the module theme and level.
These methods may include interactive lectures, independent study, small group tutorials, reflective practice, and engaging in web-based learning via Keele's virtual learning environment (KLE).
Our practical lab-based classes provide hands-on experience in data analysis, and we create a safe and supportive space to practice your decision-making skills through simulated business contexts.
You will also have opportunities to interact with businesses and organisations through guest lectures, company visits and direct engagement, working on live issues where you can put your learning into practice.
You will be assessed by different methods that reflect the breadth of the skills and knowledge you will acquire on this Accounting and Finance BSc.
These may include computer or paper-based exams which reflect the style used by accounting professional bodies, these will also be invigilated and have a time constraint.
Portfolios and project reports will allow you to compile your achievements and reflections in a valuable way for academic evaluation and to showcase your skills to potential employers.
Presentations will develop your confidence and hone your communications skills, and through case studies, essays and reports you will demonstrate your strategic thinking, analytical, and written communication skills.
"The way that Keele Business School structures its courses appeals to me as the tutorials are very useful in understanding the lectures.
The lecturers in Keele Business School are also very knowledgeable and passionate in their field.
The lectures are always delivered at high quality because they are passionate about teaching their subject."
Hazel, Accounting and Finance
Studying a Foundation Year, for whatever reason, offers an alternative route to Keele, and provides a unique opportunity to better prepare for your chosen degree.
That extra year of study can improve your academic  skills, expand your subject knowledge and, perhaps  most importantly, build your confidence.
Our Foundation Year provides an excellent alternative route to Keele, offering preparation for your chosen degree with guaranteed entry onto your undergraduate course once you successfully complete.
This extra year of study can improve your academic skills, expand your subject knowledge, build your confidence, and provide a better understanding of higher education.
On our Foundation Year, you'll join our undergraduate community from the outset, with access to all the facilities and support you'd get as an undergraduate student at Keele.
The information in this Foundation Year section is for UK/Home applicants.
Where an international Foundation Year is available, please see the 'Information for international students' tab.
Our Foundation Year allows you to develop your critical thinking, academic reading, writing, and communication study skills along with subject-specific knowledge and skills which will be invaluable in your academic studies and beyond.
Upon meeting the progression criteria and successfully completing our Foundation Year, you will automatically progress into your Keele undergraduate degree with the confidence that you have the skills, and knowledge needed to successfully complete your course.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme that provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance degree.
For example, the Foundations of Business 1 module will help you to develop appropriate investigative skills in order to analyse financial information and make informed business decisions.
Course content has been developed in collaboration with degree teaching teams, so that by the time you begin Year 1, you will be ready to excel at your studies, as the majority of our Foundation Year students do.
The modules that will be available for you to study in future years are prone to change as we regularly review our teaching to ensure that it is up-to-date and informed by the latest research and teaching methods.
The entry grades outlined in this section indicate the likely offer or range of offers which would be made to candidates along with any subject specific requirements.
Keele University reserves the right to vary offer conditions depending upon a candidate’s application.
Read more about our undergraduate entry requirements .
AND
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance with Foundation Year (UCAS code N4L0) through UCAS at www.ucas.com
If you already have your qualifications, are not expecting any further results and only wish to apply to Keele, please contact the Admissions Office directly.
We also offer a January start for some of our Foundation Year courses.
Adopting a blended learning approach, the January start is particularly useful for students wishing to return to education following time out of studying, or who are seeking a flexible approach to their Foundation Year studies.
Our January start is available across most of our Science, Humanities, Social Science, Health and Business courses.
In addition to online study there will be a series of full study days that you will be required to attend throughout each semester.
These sessions may include lab-based activities, group work, review of course and assessment materials studied online.
Please refer to the September start tab for more information about the entry requirements and what you will study.
The modules that you will take on a January start Foundation Year will be similar to those for the September start, but on a compressed timescale and tailored to a blended learning approach (with the majority of learning taking place online).
For more information, including fees, the UCAS code for this course, how to apply, and how you will be taught, please visit our January Start Foundation Year webpage .
Our International Foundation Year is delivered on campus through Keele University International College (KUIC).
Find out more about the International Foundation Year options on the KUIC website .
Boost your employability by applying for a four-year degree with a work placement at companies such as Nintendo and IBM
If you have an idea for a new business venture, this module provides you with the time, space and expertise to develop it
Access economic, financial and business real-time data, world news, analysis and reports in our Bloomberg Financial Lab
Student life at Keele is vibrant, diverse, and packed with opportunities to make the most of your time at university.
We help students manage their money and ensure that they receive any funding for which they may be eligible.
Make yourself more employable after graduation by taking advantage of the whole host of additional opportunities.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/accountingwithbusinessanalytics:
Individuals with the skills to leverage the potential of data analytics for organisations are in great demand.
An Accounting with Business Analytics BSc aims to take your skills to the next level by gaining vital knowledge and practical experience to work in this expanding sector.
Are you aiming for a career where data-driven decision-making and strategic thinking are paramount?
Our Accounting with Business Analytics degree is designed to provide you with the skills to meet the growing demand for technology literate accountants who have the expertise to analyse data.
Our course combines developing contemporary accounting know-how with the analytical acumen required in a business context.
You will master the fundamentals of accounting focusing on key areas such as financial accounting theory and reporting, auditing and assurance, taxation, and corporate strategic finance.
To strengthen your skills in business analytics, you will concentrate on areas including data visualisation, analysis and interpretation, advanced analytics, business intelligence, programming, statistical modelling and forecasting, and emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence.
Professional and Academic Development 1 Our foundational professional development module is designed to help you identify and take advantage of your unique strengths.
Data, Decisions and Visualisation In an era where data drives decisions across all sectors, the Data, Visualisation and Decisions module equips you with the essential skills to understand, work with, and transform data to achieve actionable insights.
You'll learn to use tools like Microsoft Excel and Tableau to understand the power of visualisation.
Throughout the course, you will tackle real-world problems and critically examine the ethical and legal implications of data use, enabling you to effectively communicate your findings to diverse audiences.
A hands-on approach is emphasised, with students actively utilising the Bloomberg terminal.
Teams, People and Performance The Teams, People, and Performance module focuses on enhancing practical skills for effective teamwork.
By the end of the module, participants will have gained essential experience in collaboration, problem-solving, and performance optimisation within diverse team environments.
Professional and Academic Development 2 Professional and Academic Development 2, is the intermediate level module in the professional development programme where you will apply your subject knowledge in real business settings.
Information Systems and Data Strategy The Information Systems and Data Strategy module aims to introduce students to the knowledge and skills required for designing modern, data-intensive information systems for leveraging data analytics and artificial intelligence capabilities.
The module will equip students with the concepts, frameworks, and skills required to understand, analyse and respond to contemporary digital and analytics trends, information systems and data strategies.
Provides the knowledge and skills for designing enterprise data strategy that leverages data and analytics, machine learning (ML), and generative artificial intelligence (AI) for better and faster decisions, increased operational efficiency, support for new business models, and building of new and future-proof data, ML and generative AI products.
Advanced Analytics and Business Intelligence The Advanced Analytics and Business Intelligence module aims to introduce students to the use of data analytics for business decision-making through the exploration of a wide range of data analytic techniques, such as classification, clustering, predictive modelling, text mining, visual analytics, and statistical and machine learning models.
The module will also introduce students to the fundamentals of Business Intelligence and its application in industry, with practical skills required to automate data engineering processes and data pipelines, and integrate dynamic data into statistical and machine learning models for real-time analytics.
Corporate Strategic Finance This module considers advanced Corporate Finance concepts with innovations in modern Finance including development in green finance and financial technology.
Students engage with diverse performance management techniques, all while emphasising intricate real-life calculations.
Databases and Programming for Business Analytics The Databases and Programming for Business Analytics module aims to introduce students to the fundamentals of Python and its uses for data analysis, modelling, inference, simulation, prediction, forecasting, visualisation, optimisation, and decision support.
The module will also introduce students to the fundamental concepts of relational databases and practical knowledge of Structured Query Language (SQL), and equip students with the knowledge necessary for designing, using, and implementing database systems and database applications for silos, networked and distributed systems for data analytics and business.
The Digital Showcase The Digital Showcase is your opportunity to demonstrate your digital skills through the creation of a comprehensive digital project.
In between years two and three of your studies you can choose to spend a year or a semester studying abroad.
This exciting opportunity enables you to understand your field from different cultural perspectives and to establish international networks.
It also shows you have the personal attributes to embrace new experiences which can enhance your employability.
With excellent skills and knowledge in both accounting and business analytics, you will be a highly employable graduate, ready to start an exciting career journey across various organisations and sectors.
You will have developed strong critical thinking abilities, effective communication skills, and an entrepreneurial mindset, and through our Professional and Academic Development Programme will have enhanced your personal and professional growth.
Enhance your employability Keele’s Careers and Employability team (Shortlisted for Best University Careers Employment Service - National Undergraduate Employability Awards, 2021) offers a variety of personal and career development opportunities to enhance your employability.
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Accounting with Business Analytics BSc, tailored to the module theme and level.
These methods may include interactive lectures, independent study, group tutorials, reflective practice and engaging in web-based learning via Keele’s virtual learning environment (KLE).
You will be assessed by different methods that reflect the breadth of the skills and knowledge you will acquire on this programme.
These will include computer and paper-based exams which reflect the style used by accounting professional bodies, these will also be invigilated and have a time constraint.
Simulations and group assessments are used, where you will collaborate with other students and replicate typical workplace interactions.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme that provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Accounting with Business Analytics.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Accounting with Business Analytics with Foundation Year (UCAS code N4G0) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/astrophysicswithintegratedmasters:
From the discovery of extrasolar planets, to the study of gravitational wave events and the evolution of the universe, you'll deepen your curiosity and develop a solid foundation of astrophysical knowledge on our 4 year Astrophysics degree, gaining the advanced research, professional, practical and employability skills to pursue PhD study or employment in a wide variety of industrial sectors.
Hear from our students and staff – who share their personal experiences of what it's like to study Physics and Astrophysics at Keele.
Recorded in January 2024.
Astrophysics is a fundamental, curiosity-driven science with a huge diversity of ongoing research and a strong public interest.
It spans an extraordinary range of scales, from meteorites burning up in Earth's atmosphere, through the richness of the solar system, our sun and space weather, extrasolar planets, cataclysmic variables, X-ray binaries, to supernovae, gamma-ray bursts, gravitational waves, grand-design galaxies and the structure and age of our Universe.
Our Astrophysics with Integrated Master's combines a solid grounding in core physics concepts, graduate skills and attributes defined by the Institute of Physics (IoP) accreditation framework with exploration of frontier topics, informed by the interests of our world-class research teams, and the advanced research skills and experience to enhance your employability.
In your first year on our Astrophysics degree, you will gain a solid grounding in the fundamentals of physics, including gravitation, relativity and matter, electricity, magnetism and waves.
You will also begin to develop the skills and practical experience that underpin this programme, including computer programming with python, laboratory work, mathematical skills required to understand and analyse physical phenomena, and the arts of problem-solving and scientific writing.
An introductory module in astronomy explores planets, stars and galaxies, and the tools and techniques that Astronomers use to investigate them.
You will make your own measurements at our on-campus observatory.
Year two continues to build on your understanding in the principle of physics with exploration of optics, quantum mechanics and nuclear physics.
You will further your laboratory, mathematics and career skills by working on individual experiments and team investigations, building your CV, and gaining important new applied mathematical skills.
A specialist module in astronomy explores how stars and galaxies form and evolve, and how they can be modelled with fundamental physics, mathematics and computation.
In year three you will have the opportunity to apply skills developed during your degree to an independent astrophysics research project.
Working on world-class astronomical research material in a small group, and as an individual, you will plan, execute and report your results, including a presentation aimed at potential employers.
Core advanced modules include electromagnetism, data-analysis and modelling, and working in groups to produce a report aimed at policy-makers on a problem of current or potential future concern.
In your final year of study, you will focus on developing advanced research skills through a Master's-level research project, conducting a literature review, and studying topics at the forefront of current research.
You will also enhance your data analysis abilities and learn how to conduct research at an international level.
This experience will equip you with a toolkit of technical and transferable skills, preparing you for employment across a range of professions that highly value analytical, computational, statistical, communication, and experimental expertise.
This programme has recently been refreshed, and the new structure will be reviewed by the IoP for accreditation.
Designed to provide you with the specialist skills you will need as an astrophysicist, our programme has core practical, academic and professional employability modules embedded throughout the curriculum.
From hands-on practice in conducting experiments and learning computer programming, to dedicated career-focused sessions and innovative assessments, we will provide you with a strong foundation of key skills for your future career.
To apply the theory you have learnt during your studies, practical classes will include time spent in our observatory.
Founded in 1962 to host a 31cm refracting telescope dating back to 1874, it has since acquired a 60cm reflecting telescope for research, and undergone significant expansion and refurbishment.
Find out more about Keele Observatory .
Research-led teaching is at the heart of our programme.
Our academic staff specialise in two main areas: astrophysics and condensed matter physics, with many performing internationally renowned work in the fields of exoplanets, stellar physics and star formation (both observational and theoretical), nearby galaxies, and the study of soft condensed matter like polymers, biological molecules and of novel two-dimensional materials.‌ Our research specialisms feed into modules in the latter years of your degree and in your final year of study, you will have the opportunity to work on an individual student project, supervised by a member of academic staff.
*We have compared the positivity ratings of all participating UK institutions using the NSS 2025 sector data to determine Keele's position relative to other broad-based universities (i.e.
During your first year of study you will study eight core modules over two semesters.
Semester one will focus on topics that directly address core material as specified by the Institute of Physics including distinct mathematics and laboratory components.
In semester two you will develop much broader astrophysical, mathematical, computational, statistical and laboratory competencies.
In your second year you will continue to deepen your knowledge in core areas of physics such as thermodynamics and quantum mechanics.
You will then apply this to the study of stellar astrophysics and the physics of galaxies, and further develop your skills in mathematical and numerical methods.
Laboratory work is embedded throughout, including investigations in optics and learning the photometric and spectroscopic techniques used in astronomy.
Year three will allow you to deep dive into more advanced modules including electromagnetism, cosmology and data analysis, a dissertation on an astrophysical topic of your choice and optional modules featuring, for example, exoplanets, General Relativity and black holes or fluid mechanics.
You will also participate in an astrophysics group project, which will give you an opportunity to apply the skills you have developed during your degree to a real research project.
Your final year of study has a greater research focus, more independent working, and the ability to undertake substantial open-ended projects.
The compulsory modules you will study aim to develop the understanding and skills needed for a future career in academia, data analysis or modelling.
Gravitation, Relativity and Matter A fundamental understanding of physical principles follows from investigating the composition and movement of matter through space and time.
You will find out how the universe is put together, from the very big to the very small, exploring motions on scales from atoms and molecules to stars and planets, and encounter the boundaries of classical Newtonian physics with an introduction to quantum ideas and Einstein’s Special Relativity.
Electricity, Magnetism and Waves Electricity, magnetism and wave-like phenomena are foundational topics in the study of physics.
Beginning with fundamental physical laws you will learn how to describe ideal cases and then apply your knowledge to diverse real-world devices, scenarios and engineering problems that involve electric charges, magnetic fields and oscillating systems, culminating in the analysis of alternating currents, resonance and the essential properties of waves in light, sound and other media.
Practical and Academic Skills for Physics A professional physicist requires a range of specialist skills, which you will start developing in this module.
You will acquire hands-on practice in conducting a variety of physical experiments, effectively and accurately recording and analysing your data using specialist software.
You will develop the art of scientific writing and reporting, and practise the principles of the scientific method, including error analysis, risk assessment and critical thinking.
These skills are the foundations of a successful physics or astrophysics graduate.
Fundamental and Applied Mathematics for Physics A physicist often needs to solve real-world problems presented in many different ways, using mathematics as the language to describe physical phenomena.
Here you will learn the art of problem-solving, including mathematical and statistical modelling and the analyses of uncertainty and risk, applying these skills to scenarios focused on linear and rotational mechanics, gravitation and harmonic motion.
Regularly working in groups, you will gain valuable employability skills such as teamwork and communication, whilst learning from others and building peer networks.
Scientific Programming Scientific programming is a key skill in fast-evolving science fields like Physics and Astrophysics.
In this module you will learn the basics of computer programming with python, including flow control, defining functions, the use of external libraries and the generation of graphs and images.
You will demonstrate how these highly-valued programming skills can be used to solve a series of computational problems faced by physicists and astrophysicists, and equip yourself for future study and careers.
Astronomy, the Solar System and Measuring the Universe Humanity is compelled to understand the Universe.
You will be introduced to planets, stars and galaxies and their place in the Universe.
You will explore how we measure their properties, from the distances to celestial bodies to the masses and temperatures of stars and planets, and even the mass of our Milky Way galaxy.
You will learn about the tools and techniques that Astronomers use to investigate the Universe and make your own measurements at our on-campus observatory.
Physics Career Planning and Employability Skills Your university study may be driven by curiosity about the physical world, but it is also about developing graduate attributes that lead to successful and fulfilling careers.
The activities and milestones in our career planning modules will grow your potential beyond Physics knowledge.
In Level 4, you will learn to identify, evidence and showcase your collaborative, organisational, presentational and problem-solving skills.
You will acquire tools to effectively select and prepare for potential work placements in Levels 5 and 6.
Optics and Thermodynamics The way light and matter interact happens on miniscule scales but results in macroscopic effects that can be described by global behavioural laws.
In this module, you will learn about optics and thermodynamics, including how light waves interfere and diffract and how systems achieve equilibrium.
These fundamental concepts underpin a vast range of phenomena beyond the topics of this module, and have a variety of real-word applications, from engines and the weather to optical fibres and the most powerful telescopes.
The Quantum World Quantum mechanics is the foundation of technologies that have built the modern world and gives us the tools to study nature at its most fundamental, microscopic level.
This module will introduce you to the weirdness of quantum theory, quantum statistics and atomic physics, equipping you for more advanced topics to come.
You will investigate applications ranging from scanning tunneling electron microscopes and superconductors to white dwarfs and nuclear fusion in stellar astrophysics.
Nuclear Physics Nuclear physics is a key component in decarbonising our energy generation and is literally at the heart of stellar astrophysics.
You will extend the ideas developed in quantum and atomic physics to understand the components and composition of atomic nuclei, nuclear stability, fusion, fission and radioactive decay.
You will then apply those concepts to the generation of nuclear power, both here on Earth and at the centres of the Sun and other stars.
Practical and Professional Skills for Astrophysics You will build upon the practical laboratory skills developed at Level 4, extending your abilities to plan, execute and communicate scientifically.
You will work on individual experiments and team investigations to prepare you for Level 6 research projects.
Astrophysicists routinely make use of specialised software to derive the fundamental properties of astronomical objects; you will practise techniques to acquire and analyse astronomical data to derive the temperature and luminosity of stars, distances to galaxies, and ages of stellar populations.
Analytical and Numerical Techniques Real-world physical problems often require a blend of physics know-how, mathematical analysis and computational techniques for their solution.
Building on your Level 4 foundations, you will gain important new applied mathematical skills and practise more advanced programming and numerical techniques.
You will use these to formulate solutions to a wide variety of problems in physics and astrophysics and to plan and execute a short project on an astrophysical topic that interests you.
The Astrophysics of Stars and Galaxies Stars are the principal source of energy and chemical elements necessary for life, and are found in large numbers inside gravitationally bound galaxies.
You will explore how stars and galaxies form and evolve, and how they can be modelled with fundamental physics, mathematics and computation.
Through practical and investigative work, you will develop a deeper grasp of how we can use observations and theory to improve our understanding of these phenomena and complex systems in general.
In Level 5, the emphasis is on careers research, building your CV, auditing your skills and placement opportunities.
Radiation Physics From medical diagnostics to industrial quality control, ionising radiation is used across an array of sectors.
You will find out how radiation interacts with our world, and how it is detected, quantified and utilized in the NHS, nuclear industry and beyond.
You will gain an appreciation of the wider effects of radiation on both humans and the natural environment through critical analyses of historical events, ensuring an understanding of how to employ this principal energy source both effectively and safely.
Flexible Work Placement (Level 5) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
This module allows you to gain hands-on experience, enhance your employability skills, and provide valuable insights into the professional world.
You will be supported via a range of activities to secure a role and can source your own placement or apply to university-sourced roles.
This module has built-in flexibility on when and how you complete your placement around existing demands.
Astrophysics Research Project and Professional Development You will have the opportunity to apply skills developed during your degree to an independent astrophysics research project.
You will exploit and expand upon the skills portfolio built up in Levels 4 and 5 of your degree to establish yourself as an astrophysicist with all the necessary investigative and professional attributes.
Electromagnetism and Solid-State Physics From mobile communications to the generation and detection of light from distant quasars, much of our universe is understood in terms of the fundamental topics of electromagnetism and solid-state physics.
You will learn how Maxwell unified electricity and magnetism, how electromagnetic waves are generated, how we understand the (semi-)conduction and magnetic properties of solids at a microscopic level, and apply this knowledge to modern technology, solving diverse problems spanning anything from lasers to superconductors or radio pulsars.
Synoptic Physics and Real-World Applications In a complex, increasingly irrational world, physicists have a key role in synthesising scientific thought across disciplines.
Working in groups on a problem of current or potential future concern, you will gather and analyse evidence, propose solutions and provide advice in the form of a report aimed at policy-makers.
You will develop advanced teamworking and project-management skills and use the opportunity to demonstrate your understanding of the connections between the physics, mathematical and computational techniques acquired throughout your degree.
Data Analysis and Modelling Physics and Astrophysics are data-intensive sciences.
Using hands-on exercises, you will gain proficiency in using "industry-standard" statistical and modelling techniques for analysing scientific data.
Along with an appreciation of the theory underpinning these techniques, you will develop the highly transferable skills required to apply them to real data sets and gain the expertise required to judge which techniques are applicable in any given scenario, and to interpret and present the results.
In level 6 we will help you make the most of all you have learned on your Keele journey, for instance how to present your work to wider audiences, craft your CV, prepare for interviews and get your feet on the first rungs of the career ladder, whether that be in research, industry or elsewhere.
Quantum Physics This advanced quantum module builds on the topics introduced at Level 5 to investigate exciting applications of quantum mechanics at the cutting-edge of modern physics such as quantum computing and quantum cryptography.
You will also explore the quantum mechanics behind powerful investigative techniques used in laboratories and in astrophysics such as Raman spectroscopy and look in detail at experiments in quantum physics that challenge our common-sense understanding of the nature of reality.
Materials for Green Technology The growing energy demand and environmental impact of fossil fuels create an urgent need for efficient renewable energy solutions.
Current renewable technologies face challenges such as high cost, scarcity and low efficiency.
In this module you will explore how discovering, designing, and engineering advanced materials is crucial for developing high-performance devices for sustainable energy applications.
You will have the opportunity to engage in discussions on recent advances and current challenges in the development of materials for various renewable energy technologies.
Cosmology Cosmology is the study of the universe as a whole.
You will investigate the origin of our universe in a Big Bang, 13.8 billion years ago, and how that gave rise to everything we see when we look up into the night sky.
You will engage with the latest evidence for dark matter and dark energy and how, by observing distant supernovae and the cosmic microwave background, we can infer the history and fate of our universe.
Advanced Topics Sem 1 Based on student preference, advanced topics are offered from a range of options such as (but not limited to) Particle Physics and Accelerators, Atmospheric Physics or Binary Stars and Exoplanets.
Informed by world-class research (and researchers) and cutting-edge applications, you will gain a unique insight and appreciation of forefront fields in physics and astrophysics.
Through innovative and authentic assignments, you will enhance your skill set, including data analysis, mathematical modelling and critical reading of research literature.
Advanced Topics Sem 2 Based on student preference, advanced topics are offered from a range of options such as (but not limited to) General Relativity, Black Holes and Gravitational Waves, Life in the Universe or Fluid Mechanics.
Research and Communication Are you passionate about a Physics, Astrophysics, or Renewable Energy topic and want to learn more?
With the support of a tutor, you will select a topic you are interested in and undertake a literature review of its recent advances, challenges, and prospects.
Through varied assessment types, you will be able to showcase your different skills.
This is an opportunity to enhance your scientific communication abilities as well as your research and critical analysis skills.
Flexible Work Placement (Level 6) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
Professional Experience in Education This module gives students interested in pursuing teaching or training as a career the opportunity to gain experience in the world of teaching in schools and colleges.
You will develop skills highly valued by employers such as communication, and interpersonal skills, whilst learning to address individual needs and developing engaging teaching materials.
You will be supported via a range of activities to prepare for your placement and have the choice to source your own placement or apply to university sourced roles.
MSci Astrophysics Research Project You will conduct a substantial original research project as part of the Astrophysics Group at Keele, aiming to produce work of professional quality.
You will earn credit for planning, conducting and documenting the progress of your project, reporting your results to a publishable standard and contributing a research-level presentation.
You will be supported and advised by a member of the Keele Astrophysics Group, and have access to the data, instrumentation and computing power needed to apply state-of-the-art analysis techniques.
MSci Literature Review and Science Communication Scientific research is only worthwhile if it is communicated, and communicated effectively.
You will select an interesting research field at the cutting edge of modern Astrophysics, and explore its history, current achievements and future potential.
You will present your work as a formal written document, a viva, a recorded presentation, and a final assessment of your choice.
You will gain high-level investigative and communication skills that are essential attributes in academic careers or roles in industrial research and development.
Research Training Learn the skills necessary to conduct research in Astrophysics at a world-class level.
You will attend and summarise seminars by other researchers and give a seminar of your own.
You will critically evaluate research grant applications and then write your own for supercomputer access or time on a big telescope.
You will also learn about research ethics, intellectual property, research financing, public engagement and impact, and the sustainability of scientific research.
Advanced Skills in Astrophysics The ability to analyse large and multi-faceted datasets is key in many fields of modern astrophysics and transferable to other areas of scientific research and data science.
You will further enhance your data analysis and interpretation expertise, applied to a variety of astrophysical datasets including photometry, spectroscopy and big databases.
You will master these vital skills through the hands-on use of research-grade software tools during computational laboratory sessions.
Frontiers in Astrophysics You will study several scientific areas which are at the forefront of current research in Astrophysics and become familiar with the opportunities they offer to further our understanding of planets, stars, galaxies and the Universe.
The topics included will vary as the world's knowledge of Astrophysics progresses.
You will deploy advanced mathematical and computational techniques to solve problems in these scientific areas, and gain new expertise relevant to a future career in scientific or industrial research.
In an increasingly competitive job market, employers are seeking to recruit employees who have high-level knowledge, skills and an understanding of the workplace.
In between year two and three of your studies, you can spend time gaining practical experience with an astrophysics-focused company or organisation.
This will enable you to apply the skills and theories you have learnt to real situations in the industrial workplace.
You will also enhance your employability skills in the presentation and communication of data, the writing of reports, and the ability to work independently, and as part of a team.
Work experience in your area of interest will not only demonstrate your commitment and passion, but will also enable you to make meaningful connections by networking with experts in the field.
If you don't think you can commit to a full year on placement, our Flexible Work Placement module has built-in flexibility on when and how you complete your placement, enabling you to balance your time in industry around existing demands.
We also offer work placements based in schools and colleges, specifically for students interested in entering the teaching profession.
In between years two and three of your studies you may choose to spend a year or semester studying abroad.
This exciting opportunity enables you to experience different cultures and to establish international networks.
ABB in three A levels including B in Maths or in Physics.
Contextual Offer : BBC in three A levels including B in Maths or in Physics.
You will also need: 6 / B in GCSE Maths or Level 2 Functional Skills Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
Contextual Offer: DMM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Engineering
Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in Maths or Physics A Level.
Distinction in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Level including Maths or Physics.
655 in three Higher Levels including 5 in Maths or Physics, or 32 points including 5 in Higher Level Maths or Physics
Contextual Offer: 554 in three Higher Levels including 5 in Maths (any) or Physics, or 30 points including 5 in Maths (any) or Physics
You will also need: 6 / B in GCSE Maths or Level 3 Functional Skills Maths, or 5 in IB Middle Years Maths, or 4 in IB Diploma Standard Level Maths (any), plus an English language qualification (see below)
If you are taking a BTEC National Diploma / Diploma with one or more Higher Levels, your offer will be similar to our BTEC + A level offer (see 'BTEC National Diploma / Diploma') but with an HL requirement of 6 for A, 5 for B, or 4 for C.
For any other combination, please contact the University Admissions Team for advice
128 UCAS points in Access to HE Diploma with Maths related content, including Distinction in at least 30 Level 3 credits.
Please contact the University Admissions Team for advice on whether your chosen course would qualify.
The Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate is equivalent to one full A level at the same grade and can be included alongside 2 other A levels in a standard A level offer for this course (see A level).
BBBBC in five Highers including Maths or Physics, or BC in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers including Maths or Physics, or BCC in three Advanced Highers including Maths or Physics.
You will also need: B in National 5 Maths, or 6 / B in GCSE Maths or Level 2 Functional Skills Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
If you have B or higher in the EPQ and are studying A levels, BTEC, the International Baccalaureate Diploma, or an Access to HE Diploma, you will typically receive an alternative offer which will be lower than the standard offer.
Please see 'Alternative and contextual offers' below
If you have B or higher in Core Maths and are studying A levels, BTEC, the International Baccalaureate, or an Access to HE Diploma, you will typically receive an alternative offer which will be lower than the standard offer.
H3, H3, H3, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate including H4 in Maths or Physics.
You will also need: O4 / H6 in Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
75% in the Gaokao including 70% in Maths or Physics.
You will also need: 65% in Senior Secondary School or Gaokao Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
Average of 75% from four subjects including 70% in Maths or Physics in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 80% from four subjects including 75% in Maths or Physics in any other Standard XII.
You will also need: 7 or C1 in Secondary School Examination Maths, or Pass in Standard XII Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
2.0 overall average in the Abitur including 12 in Geography, Psychology, Maths, Physics, Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Technology, Nutritional Science or Sports.
You will also need: 11 in Maths in the Abitur, plus an English language qualification (see below)
14 in the French Baccalaureate / International Option Baccalaureate including 14 in Physics or Maths, or 13 in the Baccalauréat Français International including 13 in Physics or Maths.
You will also need: 11 in Maths in the Baccalaureate, plus an English language qualification (see below).
544 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE including 4 in Maths or Physics.
You will also need: 3 in HKDSE Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
Overall average of 7.8 in the Título de Bachillerato including 8 in Maths or Physics.
You will also need: 6 in Graduado en Educación Secundaria (GES) Maths or 6.5 in Título de Bachiller Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
85% in the Esame di Stato including 8 in Maths or Physics.
You will also need: 6 in Maths in the Diploma, plus an English language qualification (see below)
18.5 / 88% in the Apolytirion including 18 in Maths or Physics.
You will also need: 15 in Maths in the Apolytirion, plus an English language qualification (see below)
Overall average of 16 in a secondary certificate including 16 in Maths or Physics.
You will also need: 11 in secondary certificate Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
70% / BBBBC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma including 70% in Advanced Functions and Calculus and Vectors or Physics.
You will also need: 60% in Grade 11 Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
544 from three Advanced Placement subjects including 4 in Calculus (either) or, Physics (any).
You will also need: B in Grade 12 High School Diploma Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
ABB in three Advanced levels including B in Combined Maths or Physics.
You will also need: B in O-level Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
ABB in three Principal level subjects in the STPM including B in Maths or Physics.
You will also need: B in SPM Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
ABB in three H2 levels including B in Physics or Maths.
75% overall with 7 in Maths (5 period) or Physics.
You will also need: 6.5 in European Baccalaureate Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with ABB including B in Maths or Physics.
Grade C in EAP English Language module.
You will also need: 6 / B in GCSE Maths or international equivalent
ABB in three Principal level subjects in the Advanced Certificate of Education including B in Maths or Physics.
You will also need: 4 in UACE or UCE Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
ABB in three Advanced Level subjects including B in Maths or Physics.
You will also need: 6 / B in GCSE Maths or B in O Level Maths or Level 2 Functional Skills Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
Academics from Keele’s Astrophysics Research Centre have secured funding from UK Research and Innovation’s Science and Technology Facilities Council for three new studies, to be carried out over the next three years.
The researchers will be studying issues including nuclear astrophysics, the structure and ages of stars, and the formation of star clusters.
Read the full Keele Astrophysics research funding news article
"As a Fraud Analyst, I use the skills I developed as an astrophysics undergraduate to identify and solve complex problems"
David, Astrophysics with Business Management graduate
We offer a multi-layered support structure to help you meet your academic and personal needs.
Our open-door policy enables you to engage with us directly, meaning you can seek support, gain feedback or discuss any matters on a regular basis.
You will have access to regular tutorials, maths problem classes, a dedicated academic mentor and Keele's Student Experience and Support team .
A degree in astrophysics opens up careers in diverse areas, including the academic, industrial research, data analysis, technology and medical technology, IT, telecommunications, electronics, space science, finance and energy sectors.
To help you understand and explore the diverse career opportunities within the field, we have a dedicated physics and astrophysics careers tutor based in the school.
Jobs that a graduate of this course could go on to do include:
Typical employment sectors include:
Transferable skills you will acquire include:
Diversity, flexibility, and inclusivity is at the heart of our education strategy.
Our programme is delivered with an emphasis on live, in-person, interactive sessions, supported by online materials to allow flexible engagement.
You will have regular opportunities to talk through any challenges and learning needs you may have, with your academic mentor or module lecturers on a one-to-one basis.
Teaching methods may include:
The wide variety of assessment methods used on this programme at Keele reflects the broad range of knowledge and skills that are developed as you progress through the degree programme.
Teaching staff pay particular attention to specifying clear assessment criteria and providing timely, regular and constructive feedback that helps to clarify things you did not understand, helping you to improve your performance.
Assessment methods may include:
Develop your practical skills in Keele's state-of-the-art Central Science Laboratories
Laboratory work is an integral part of our programme that enables you to learn a variety of practical, computational and transferable skills that employers value.
Practical teaching will take place in Keele’s state-of-the-art Central Science Laboratories (CSL), as well as existing laboratories in the Lennard Jones Building.
You will also have access to our on-campus Observatory , which opens regularly to the public and recently underwent a £250,000 refurbishment.
It houses a 24-inch telescope capable of research-quality imaging, a 6-inch solar telescope and a 12-inch refractor built in 1874.
The Observatory is readily accessible to our students, several of whom get actively involved in its operation.
The campus benefits from a low carbon energy park (6 MWp of solar panels and two wind turbines) that generates 50% of campus electricity, and a smart energy network offering access to massive datasets for projects and analysis.
The information within this section is for students wishing to start their studies in September.
If you would like to start this course in January, please visit our January pages for further details.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the MSci Astrophysics integrated masters.
For example, the Advancing Physics module introduces a whole new set of mathematical skills, you will begin to look at more complex algebra, introduce calculus into your physics equations and revisit some of the topics covered in foundations and see how you can solve more interesting and advanced problems using these new techniques.
You will begin to move beyond Newtonian physics as we start to apply our skills to other areas such as quantum physics and relativity.
You will develop subject-specific and broad based skills that will be invaluable in your academic career and beyond.
You can find out more about our Foundation Year, including information on learning, teaching and assessment methods and further opportunities available to you by visiting our homepage .
Read more about our undergraduate entry requirements for United Kingdom , European Union and International students
Students will need to apply for MSci Astrophysics Foundation Year (UCAS code F513) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/bankingandfinance:
With a growing demand for expertise in banking and financial technology, our BSc prepares you for an advanced career across a wide range of sectors including accountancy, insurance, SME's and large corporate organisations.
Embark on a journey to success with an analytical mind and strategic thinking skills, building expertise in financial services, budgeting and risk management.
Our programme integrates both practical experience and professional development, enabling you to acquire comprehensive analytical skills essential for banking and finance, utilising state of the art tools and software.
Whether you aspire to specialise in a career in banking or would like to explore finance more broadly, our programme is designed to combine both practical experience and professional development for you to prepare for a successful career.
Build valuable skills in financial analysis, risk management and budgeting, whilst becoming a strategic thinker with proficiency in industry-standard software.
With insights into various business contexts, you will gain an understanding of the strategic importance of accounting and finance, daily business operations and key decision-making.
Learn about the key concepts and techniques of accounting, the essential principles of macroeconomics and microeconomics as well as the analytical skills useful for navigating the modern landscapes of finance and accounting.
Professional and Academic Development 1 Professional and Academic Development 1 is the foundation module of our strengths-based professional development programme.
You'll engage in hands-on activities, group projects, and case studies to apply theoretical knowledge in real-world scenarios.
By the end of the module, you will have gained essential experience in collaboration, problem-solving, and performance optimisation within diverse team environments.
Using your commercial awareness and enterprise skills, you will tackle an actual organisational challenge, and collaborating with a team gain first-hand experience of working with an organisation.
Financial Analysis with Bloomberg This module immerses you into the practical world of finance, leveraging the powerful Bloomberg terminal for data collection.
Moreover, the course introduces modern econometric techniques, emphasising empirical approaches.
As a natural extension, you'll explore contemporary risk management methods, including the critical concept of Value at Risk.
Individual Placement In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
Through concrete examples, you'll explore the intricate workings of markets and institutions.
Additionally, the course scrutinises technology’s impact on financial markets, revealing how its adoption reshapes operations and introduces novel risk dimensions.
International Money, Banking & Cryptocurrencies The module provides an exciting opportunity to evaluate new integrated payment systems from a global perspective.
You will blend conventional and modern applications on money and banking and delve into the world of modern monetary transactions.
The module further applies existing knowledge on money and financial intermediaries to differentiate the roles performed by cryptocurrencies to those of central bank digital currencies.
It also focuses on the challenges facing regulators and policy makers in seeking to regulate integrated payments systems.
You'll engage with diverse performance management techniques, all while emphasising intricate real-life calculations.
Finally, you'll achieve an in-depth understanding of the limitations of finance.
Bank Risk Management & Operations This module serves as an introduction to modern risk management techniques essential for meeting regulatory requirements in contemporary banks.
You'll delve into methodologies such as Value at Risk (VaR) and Expected Shortfalls (ES).
A significant focus lies on data analysis, leveraging information from the Bloomberg terminal.
Additionally, the module explores limitations inherent in risk management techniques.
Real-world examples of bank failures are considered, with an extensive study of the 2008 financial crisis.
You will select a focus area such as digital marketing, web development, data analytics, or multimedia production.
Investment Management and Financial Engineering This module immerses you into the practical world of finance, leveraging the powerful Bloomberg terminal throughout your study.
You'll engage with complex financial instruments such as futures, options, and swaps.
Furthermore, the module sheds light on significant losses resulting from derivatives used in financial markets, illustrated through compelling case studies.
Banking Technology & Mobile Banking This module places a strong emphasis on the technological advancements that have revolutionised modern banking.
It encompasses areas like peer-to-peer lending and explores the development of contemporary internet banking, analysing its impact on the broader financial sector.
Additionally, the module delves into the challenges banks will encounter in the coming years as companies leverage technologies such as blockchains to disrupt traditional banking models.
Open banking is examined from various angles, including legal and privacy considerations.
Lastly, the module addresses the critical cybersecurity challenges faced by modern banking institutions.
If you’ve ever wanted to establish your own start-up or have been inspired by your studies, this entrepreneurship year is an amazing opportunity to develop your own business idea.
During your studies, you will receive support from within Keele Business School and across the University.
Your assigned Academic Mentor will provide individual support, and you will also have access to our dedicated Student Experience and Support Team , based within our Faculty, who can provide additional support, and work closely with teams across Keele.
With a degree in Banking and Finance at Keele, you will become equipped with valuable quantitative skills, advanced statistical analysis and critical thinking qualities that can be applied to real-world scenarios, preparing you for a range of careers.
This programme offers numerous opportunities to broaden your knowledge and develop a range of transferable skills that are highly valued by employers, enhancing your future career potential.
Having access to the Bloomberg facilities in Keele Business School will build your knowledge and industry insights, with hands-on experience.
By enhancing your skills via our Professional and Academic Development Programme, you will grow in confidence and graduate with the intellectual, professional, and personal resources that will allow you to succeed in careers in a variety of dynamic careers in industry, the public sector or working for yourself.
Upon graduation, you may wish to explore a career in/as a:
Our teaching style is practical and career-focused, with input from industry partners to ensure you are equipped with an awareness of contemporary challenges and influences in banking, finance and accountancy.
Benefit from collaboration with businesses and organisations through guest lectures and company visits.
Apply your learning to real-life scenarios and various workplace environments.
You will foster effective communication skills through peer-assisted learning and through critical reflection of individual learning experiences.
This will be supported by web-based learning, with access to the Keele Learning Environment (KLE) where you can make use of various web-based resources including quizzes and blogs.
You will be taught via:
This programme will cover a range of different assessment methods to reflect the breadth of the skills and knowledge you will gain throughout the degree.
These will mimic real-world scenarios, foster a link between classroom learning and professional application and offer practical hands-on experience.
Assessments include:
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme that provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Banking and Finance degree.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Banking and Finance with Foundation Year (UCAS code N330) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/biochemistry:
From unlocking the secrets of the human genome to the individually tailored molecular therapies of the future, our accredited Biochemistry BSc investigates some of the most exciting areas of 21st century life science and medical research.
With access to our state-of-the-art David Attenborough laboratories, integrated employability modules and authentic assessments, you will graduate with the knowledge and skills to contribute to advances in medicine, veterinary medicine, agriculture, and biotechnology.
A core laboratory programme runs throughout our biochemistry degree.
You will apply your knowledge in our state-of-the-art David Attenborough laboratories and develop key skills in diverse biochemical and molecular biology techniques.
Delving deep into the intricate world of human and mammalian biochemistry, you will explore how this is advancing our understanding and treatment of conditions like diabetes, cancer, and infectious diseases.
The first year of your Biochemistry degree is designed to equip you with a broad and varied grounding in modern biochemistry.
You will explore the structure and function of biological molecules, core chemical concepts and their application to the biological sciences, human physiology and anatomy, and molecular cell biology.
Building on this foundation, you will continue to expand your skillset by examining the application of biochemistry to topics such as modern drug discovery and tackling wider environmental and societal issues.
In your final year you can choose from a wide variety of optional modules in areas of cutting-edge bioscience research.
You will also have the opportunity to unleash your creativity by undertaking a substantial piece of meaningful research on a topic that excites and challenges you.
Your research project is an excellent opportunity for you to draw together skills in experimental study design, critical interpretation of data, presentation and project management.
A key feature of this course is our structured programme of academic and professional development workshops.
From core practical laboratory skills to interview techniques and aspirational career talks from invited speakers, we will provide you with the tools, skills and connections to develop a strong foundation of employability skills for your future career.
This course is accredited by the Royal Society of Biology for the purpose of meeting in part the academic and experience requirement for the Membership and Chartered Biologist (CBiol).
Graduates from accredited degree programmes are equipped with well-rounded knowledge and skill sets, making them highly employable both within and beyond their chosen field.
Molecules of Life This module will introduce you to fundamental concepts in our understanding of the structure and function of biological molecules, from the three-dimensional structure of proteins and the activity of enzymes to the progress and organisation of major metabolic pathways, which you will build on across the course.
You will also develop key skills in data analysis, presentation and communication where you will report the outcomes of laboratory investigations, applying theoretical knowledge from the module.
Molecular Principles and Applications of Biochemistry Building on your knowledge of biological pathways and processes from other modules, you will explore how concepts from the chemical and analytical sciences are applied in the study of biochemistry.
Through student-led, case-based learning tutorials, you will also investigate real-life applications of biochemistry, including the diagnosis and treatment of disease, developing teamwork and leadership skills.
You will further develop skills in data analysis and communication, drawing together key skills and theoretical concepts from across the course.
Human Physiology and Anatomy The module will introduce you to the major physiological systems and anatomical structures of the human organism, including the digestive, cardiovascular and endocrine systems.
You will also explore how different pathologies can develop as a result of dysfunction in these systems and their impact.
Through group-based activities you will produce content on select module topics, developing key skills in teamwork and leadership, and in communicating to different audiences.
Molecular Cell Biology This module introduces you to the fundamentals of molecular cell biology.
You will explore how genetic information is stored, replicated and processed; the roles played by nucleic acids in the production of proteins; how proteins get to their final locations within cells and how cells interact with each other and communicate to co-ordinate their activities.
You will also develop key skills in the presentation and communication of information in various formats.
Practical and Academic Skills in Bioscience In this module you will develop a range of core practical laboratory skills, applying theoretical concepts from across your programme and deepening your understanding of the subject through hypothesis-driven practical investigation.
Additional workshops support your development of wider academic skills, including effective study practice, data analysis and communication.
Aspirational career talks from invited speakers, including former graduates, and further employability skills workshops will support you in reflecting on your key skills development and career-planning.
Applications of Molecular Biology In this module, you will explore how we can study and manipulate genetic material, from sequencing technologies to gene cloning and genetic engineering.
You will learn how these techniques can be used to study the structure and function of single genes and proteins, design and engineer DNA molecules and produce novel gene products such as therapeutics.
Through tutorials and workshops, you will develop skills in introductory bioinformatic tools, whilst also considering some important ethical principles, developing key reasoning and analytical skills.
Molecular, Cellular and Structural Immunology This module explores the human immune system.
This includes addressing the generation and selection of the immune repertoire, the cellular basis of the immune system and an exploration of functional insights into immune protein structure and pathogen structure, including viruses and bacteria.
You will further develop key skills in the application and analysis of data from antibody-based analytic techniques such as ELISAs and western blotting, and will explore how to access the PDB protein database.
Microbes, Viruses and Parasites Here you will study the biology of bacteria, viruses and parasites, considering a range of pathogenic organisms and the diseases they cause.
You will explore approaches to treatment and management of disease, ranging from development of novel antimicrobials to vaccination strategies, and the use of select viruses and microorganisms as research tools.
Key skills in literature analysis and communicating to different audiences will be developed through the production of content on a select module topic.
Drug Design The module will introduce the drug development pipeline from in-silico studies to clinical trials.
You will apply knowledge of biological and chemical structures to explore principles of pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in modern drug discovery.
Specific examples of biological targets and drug molecules will be discussed, where you will develop higher-level skills in accessing and manipulating structural information for ligand-target interactions.
You will also further develop teamwork and communication skills, including to non-specialist audiences.
Metabolism in Health and Disease This module will build on your knowledge of major metabolic pathways with a focus on the integration and regulation of metabolism in healthy nutritional states and disease.
You will explore key aspects of metabolic control and some of the changes in metabolic activity that are associated with inherited and acquired disorders.
You will further develop key skills in literature analysis and hypothesis-driven study design and communicate outcomes to a scientific audience.
Cell Signalling This module introduces you to the signalling pathways that regulate multiple cellular processes by acting through sensors to stimulate molecules responsible for controlling different important cellular processes.
You will explore these signalling pathways and provides details on their molecular components and their mode of action.
The module also places an emphasis on independent study and further develops skills in the acquisition, analysis and written communication of scientific information.
Research and Analytical Skills This module brings together skills of experimental design and data analysis which are a vital step in the process of scientific research.
In this module you will explore the different forms of scientific experimental design that you may encounter in your final year experimental projects.
The data analysis skills you will hone will be essential in your final year and onwards into postgraduate study or employment in a data-driven world.
Practical and Professional Skills in Bioscience This module will expand your practical skills through enquiry-based, hypothesis-driven laboratory investigations applying key skills and competencies to more advanced molecular and analytical techniques.
Through additional workshops, you will develop higher-level skills in the acquisition and analysis of information from online sources, including journal databases and generative AI.
Further sessions will also support you in evaluating your career readiness with employability skills-focused workshops in areas including CV writing and interview technique.
Human Genetics In this module, you will look at some of the applications of key genetic concepts at the level of the individual and the population.
Focusing mainly on medical genetics, you’ll learn how a person's genetic make-up can affect their health and how to estimate genetic risk and explore some of the applications of molecular genetics in the study of, diagnosis of and treatment of genetic diseases.
You will develop group working and communication skills as your progress through the teaching and learning on the module.
Molecular Ecology and Plant Genetics Advances in molecular biology, analysis and sharing of genomic data have important applications in the plant, ecological and conservation sciences.
You will study how genetic and genomic tools, both in the lab and at the desktop, are being used to enhance our understanding of plant biology and ecological processes.
The module will help you to think in a ‘genes to ecosystems’ framework and prepare you for careers in a big data post-genomic world.
Flexible Work Placement and Professional Training (Level 5) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
This module has built-in flexibility on when and how you complete your placement, enabling you to balance your placement around existing demands
Research Project Your research project is an excellent opportunity for you to carry out a substantial piece of meaningful research drawing together skills in experimental study design, critical interpretation of data and presentation.
You can choose from a range of projects, depending on your interests/career ambitions, including lab- or field-based research, systematic reviews, bioinformatics, teaching and learning, or outreach.
In addition to a project report, you will also present outcomes as an oral presentation and research poster at our UG student conference.
Employability and Communication Skills in Bioscience Whatever your interests or future career, communication is vital.
This module helps to develop skillsets needed to communicate effectively to diverse audiences.
We explore a range of communication methods to present and disseminate findings to inform and enthuse both a scientific and lay audience.
We aim to develop a suite of valuable transferrable skills for the employment market and ensure those who truly understand scientific issues are heard.
Case Studies in Biotechnology In this module, you will explore some of the applications of biotechnology to address global issues.
Guided by seminars and case studies, you will tailor your research to your own interests, picking an overarching theme and selecting papers from the primary literature showcasing biotechnology.
You will develop scientific writing skills to introduce your theme, summarise the chosen papers and justify why you think they are important with a focus on communication skills and demonstration of critical insight into contemporary biotechnology approaches.
Medical Glycobiology In this module, you will investigate the structure, biosynthesis, and biochemistry of medically important carbohydrates and their clinical relevance, including novel carbohydrate-based therapeutics for select pathological conditions, which may include cancer, Alzheimer's, and malaria.
You will also explore the emerging field of glycomics with relevance to future roles in diagnostics.
You will further develop skills in the critical analysis and communication of research data, evidencing a broad set of communication and analytical skills.
Professional Development in Bioscience This module will develop your professional skills, attributes and qualities required for your next steps following graduation.
You will have the opportunity to practice interview techniques and presentation skills to support your covering letters, personal statements and CV.
You will explore online opportunities and the employment marketplace, building your social media profile to evidence your skills and attributes.
Throughout the module, you will also consider the impact of discrimination and unconscious bias, and develop strategies to support resilience and wellbeing.
Structural Immunology Detailed three-dimensional structural information at the atomic level of proteins, enzymes and viruses, and their targets, underpins advances in biotechnology, biology, and biomedicine, and their impact on the quality of life, the economy, medicine, and health care.
We will explore how this structural information of molecular mechanisms central to immune responses and disease can be used to provide insights into how we resist, fight, and recover from infection and disease, and to intervene in or enhance these processes.
Human Parasitology In this module, you will explore the theoretical and practical aspects of parasitic diseases of humans, considering such topics as the life cycle of select parasites between vector and host, the pathogenesis of parasitic infection and their diagnosis and treatment.
You will also investigate challenges to effective treatment and transmission control, including socio-economic and cultural factors.
Through evaluation of current research in the subject, you will develop higher-level skills in the critical analysis and interpretation of data.
Omics Technologies You be will introduced to a range of cutting-edge omics approaches used extensively across the life sciences.
Through hands-on data handling exercises you will develop a theoretical appreciation of and practical competence in core genomics, proteomics and metabolomics approaches.
You will undertake a whole transcriptome analysis for the purpose of differential gene expression detection from raw RNA sequencing data, developing and demonstrating competence in a highly sought after analytical skill.
Cancer Biology This module will introduce you to the field of cancer biology, exploring the molecular and cellular hallmarks of cancer, and how the understanding of these is beginning to inform novel therapeutic development.
You will investigate the latest developments in basic cancer research in understanding changes in cellular activity associated with cancer development and progression, and the diagnostic and therapeutic potential of this.
Key skills developed include the location, evaluation and comparative analysis of published scientific literature.
Epidemiology Epidemiology is concerned with the study of disease development and prevention within populations.
Here, you will develop knowledge and understanding of epidemiological study design and data interpretation, exploring the scientific procedures of public health research, policies, program implementation and evaluation.
You will develop skills in the design and conduct of epidemiological research, developing data collection tools, and interpreting epidemiological findings used in public health, including of relevance to outbreak investigations.
Tropical Biology Field Course This module allows you to explore the vibrant world of tropical ecology first-hand and join an exciting opportunity to explore firsthand the challenges facing tropical ecosystems and how humanity impacts them.
You will learn from leading experts about the critical role of biodiversity in these lush environments.
Experience international travel and immerse yourself in diverse cultures.
Hosted by the University of Sains Malaysia (USM), this field course, which comes at an additional cost to be confirmed each year, promises cutting-edge knowledge in tropical ecology and conservation.
Flexible Work Placement and Professional Training (Level 6) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
This module has built-in flexibility on when and how you complete your placement, enabling you to balance your placement around existing demands.
Work Placement and Professional Training in Education This module gives students interested in pursuing teaching or training as a career the opportunity to gain experience in the world of teaching in schools and colleges.
Choosing a work placement year between your second and third year, is a fantastic way to gain industry experience.
It can provide a valuable insight into what working in a specific area of business is like, gives you the chance to familiarise yourself with the professional working environment and develop professional networks, and provides the opportunity to apply the theory you’ve learnt on your degree course.
If you don't think you can commit to a full year on placement, our Work Placement and Professional Training module has built-in flexibility on when and how you complete your placement, enabling you to balance your time in industry around existing demands.
Our secondments are shorter work-based placements that usually take place over the summer in between Level 5 and 6 and usually last between 2-8 weeks.
They can be based locally in one of our research labs here at Keele, nationally or internationally.
For example, often some our students will travel to Malaysia for 3 months to work with our partner Universiti Sains Malaysia.
In between years two and three of your studies you can choose to spend time studying abroad.
We offer exchange opportunities with a wide variety of partner institutions.
Our tropical biology field course in Malaysia, is an optional module with additional costs, taking place in the summer between years two and three.
This is an exceptional chance to hone your fieldwork skills in tropical habitats.
Operation Wallacea is a private company that supports a wide range of student projects with a particular focus on biodiversity and climate research.
As well as conservation volunteering overseas, you can use your time to gather data for your undergraduate dissertation.
ABB in three A Levels including B in Chemistry and B in one other Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List .
Contextual Offer: BBC in three A Levels including B in Chemistry and B in one other Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
DDM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science, including completion of three out of four of the following units: Applications of Organic Chemistry, Applications of Inorganic Chemistry, Industrial Chemical Analysis, Practical Chemical Analysis.
Contextual Offer: DMM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science, including completion of three out of four of the following units: Applications of Organic Chemistry, Applications of Inorganic Chemistry, Industrial Chemical Analysis, Practical Chemical Analysis.
Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in Chemistry A Level, or Distinction and Merit in Applied Science BTEC National Diploma / Diploma including completion of three out of four of the following units: Applications of Organic Chemistry, Applications of Inorganic Chemistry, Industrial Chemical Analysis, Practical Chemical Analysis, and A in any A Level.
Distinction in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels including B in Chemistry and B in one other Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or Distinction in Applied Science BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels including B in Chemistry.
Distinction in any of the following T levels: Science, with specialism in Laboratory Sciences.
655 in three Higher Levels including 5 in Chemistry and in one other Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List at Higher Level, or 32 points including 5 in Higher Level Chemistry and 5 in one other Higher Level Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List .
Contextual Offer: 554 in three Higher Levels including 5 in Chemistry and 5 in one other Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List at Higher Level, or 29 points including 5 in Higher Level Chemistry and 5 in one other Higher Level Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
128 UCAS points in an acceptable Science Access to HE including Distinction in at least 30 Level 3 credits and Merit in at least 15 Level 3 credits.
BBBBC in five Highers including Chemistry Higher, or BC in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers including Chemistry Higher or Advanced Higher, or BCC in three Advanced Highers including Chemistry Advanced Higher.
H3, H3, H3, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate including H4 in Chemistry or Physics and Chemistry (combined) and H4 in one other subject from the Science or Applied Science Groups.
75% in the Gaokao including 70% in Chemistry.
Average of 75% from four subjects including 70% in Chemistry in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 80% from four subjects including 75% in Chemistry in any other Standard XII.
2.0 overall average in the Abitur including 12 in Chemistry and 12 in Geography, Psychology, Maths, Physics, Biology, Computer Science, Technology, Nutritional Science or Sports.
14 in the French Baccalaureate/International Option Baccalaureate with 13 in Chemistry / Physics and 13 in Maths, Science, Sport, Engineering Sciences, Life and Earth Sciences or Information Technology, or 13 in the Baccalauréat Français International with 13 in Chemistry / Physics and 13 in Maths, Science, Sport, Engineering Sciences, Life and Earth Sciences or Information Technology.
544 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE including 4 in Chemistry and 4 in Maths, Physics, Biology, Geography, Design and Applied Technology, ICT or Physical Education.
85% in the Esame di Stato including 8 in Chemistry and 8 in Maths, Physics, Natural Science, Geography, Physical Education, or ICT.
18.5 / 88% in the Apolytirion including 18 in Chemistry and 18 in Biology, Computer Science, Design and Technology, Information Technology, Geography, Maths, Physical Education or Physics.
Overall average of 16 in a Secondary Certificate including 16 in Chemistry and 16 in Maths, Biology, Physics, Geology, Geography, Computer Applications, Psychology, Physical Education.
70% / BBBBC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma including 70% in Chemistry and 70% in Advanced Functions, Biology, Calculus and Vectors, Computer Science, Maths of Data Management or Physics.
544 from three Advanced Placement subjects including 4 in Chemistry and 4 in Calculus (either), Physics (any), Biology, Computer Science (either), Environmental Science, Psychology or Statistics.
ABB in three Advanced Levels including B in Chemistry and B in Combined Maths, Physics, ICT, Biology or Agricultural Science.
You will also need: C in O-level Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
ABB in three Principal Level subjects in the STPM including B in Chemistry and B in Maths, ICT, Physics, Biology, Geography, or Sports Science.
ABB in three H2 levels including B in Chemistry and B in Biology, Physics, Computing, Maths, Further Maths or Geography.
75% overall with 7 in Chemistry and 7 in Maths (3 or 5 period), Physical Education, Biology (2 or 4 period), Geography (2 or 4 period), or Physics.
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with ABB including B in Chemistry and B in one other Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List .
ABB in three Principal Level subjects in the Advanced Certificate of Education including B in Chemistry and B in Maths, Physics, Biology, or Geography.
ABB in three Advanced Level subjects including B in Chemistry and B in Additional Maths, Agriculture, Animal Science, Biology, Building Technology, Computer Science, Crop Science, Food Technology and Design, Geography, Horticulture, Mechanical Maths, Metal Technology and Design, Physics, Pure Mathematics, Sport Science and Technology, Statistics, or Technical Graphics and Design.
During practical workshops you will have the support from a variety of academic staff.
In addition to your lead lecturer you will benefit from the guidance of:
Practical sessions may also be supported with core skills videos and laboratory simulations, helping you prepare for sessions in advance and revisit some of the core concepts outside of the laboratory environment.
Additional workshops will develop your skills in data analysis and presentation.
We offer a multi layered support structure to help you meet your academic and personal needs.
You will benefit from the support of Keele's Student Experience and Support team and a academic mentor.
You will graduate with key transferable and employability skills related to the critical evaluation of scientific literature, data analysis and interpretation, including computational and bioinformatics tools.
Our diverse laboratory programme will also develop your skills in a wide range of modern preparative and analytical biochemical techniques.
You will acquire competency in core molecular and microbiology techniques, including PCR and gene cloning, as well as research and diagnostic methods utilising antibodies.
These skills will prepare you for a career in a range of roles in the science, education and health sectors.
You may also wish to further your knowledge by progressing to postgraduate study.
Careers and routes directly related to this degree include:
Keele’s Careers and Employability team (Shortlisted for Best University Careers Employment Service - National Undergraduate Employability Awards, 2021), offer a variety of personal and career development opportunities to enhance your employability.
From mock interviews, careers guidance and CV advice, to careers fairs, alumni mentoring and networking events, along with helping you find part-time and graduate employment - the team will support you throughout your studies and beyond.
Diversity, flexibility and inclusivity is at the heart of our Education Strategy, with the programme structured around a range of teaching approaches.
In-person lectures and tutorials are supported by digital resources, with many materials specifically designed for online consumption.
This approach will provide you with greater flexibility in how, when and where you study.
Methods of teaching include:
From designing and marketing a commercial assay kit to creating patient information leaflets - the assessment methods utilised within our programme aim to give you experience of work-related activities you will likely undertake in graduate roles.
Methods of assessment include:
Our David Attenborough Laboratories provide cutting-edge science facilities, support Keele’s world-leading research and teaching, and tackle the key challenges of the 21st Century.
Equipment and methods you will become familiar with during practical laboratory work include:
The research laboratories will make a significant contribution to the Global Health Initiative at Keele, and will be home to researchers working on neurological disorders including Parkinson’s disease, spinal injury, oncology, viral infections and carbohydrate biochemistry.
You may also carry out some of your practical laboratory work in Keele's state-of-the-art Central Science Laboratory (CSL) building - which is part of the biggest single investment in learning and teaching in the University’s history.
Our staff are actively engaged in diverse research areas, including the scholarship of learning and teaching.
You will benefit from studying modules that have been informed by the research and active work academics are undertaking in their field of expertise.
We actively encourage students to explore our research themes, as there may be opportunities to work alongside us on secondment.
Areas of expertise within the School include:
Find out more about research in the School of Life Sciences.
The information within this page is for students wishing to start their studies in September.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Biochemistry degree.
For example, the Foundations of Life Sciences module will look at basic cell biology in terms of structure and function and go on to examine how cells obtain their energy and raw materials.
It considers how organisms interact and analyses the effects of climate change on ecosystems.
Meanwhile, the Advancing Chemistry module aims to increase your knowledge and understanding of the principles and concepts of chemistry in a theoretical context, while also demonstrating the application of concepts in a practical environment.
Find out more about the Keele Foundation Year, including information about teaching and assessment methods by visiting the Foundation Year homepage .
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Biochemistry with Foundation Year (UCAS code C703) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/biochemistrywithintegratedmasters:
Accelerate your career in biochemistry by gaining the advanced problem-solving, communication and research skills to address real-world issues.
Investigating some of the most exciting areas of 21st century life science and medical research.
Our four-year Biochemistry with Integrated Master's MSci will be of particular interest to those who wish to continue in a research career, such as further study to PhD level, working in industry or the wider bioscience sector.
Our Biochemistry degree explores human and mammalian biochemistry and how this is advancing our understanding of the molecular basis of conditions ranging from diabetes and cancer, to the interactions of microorganisms and viruses with their hosts as agents of infectious disease, and how this can be controlled.
Initial modules will provide you with a broad and varied grounding in modern biochemistry.
Building on this you will continue to expand your skillset by examining the application of biochemistry to topics such as drug design or structure and function of proteins involved in the immune response.
In your third year, you will choose from a range of optional modules in areas of cutting-edge bioscience research and complete a research project.
The fourth year of study is designed to enhance your research skills in the critical evaluation of scientific literature and in the design and conduct of an authentic research study.
You will also develop a greater awareness of research impact, the processes involved in communicating your research findings and securing funding.
A comprehensive laboratory programme runs throughout the course utilising our state-of-the-art David Attenborough Laboratories and Central Science Laboratories, where you will develop key skills in diverse biochemical and molecular biology techniques.
Here you will put theory into practice, and develop skills in experimental study design and optimisation through experiential, enquiry-based learning, culminating in your final year research project.
From core practical laboratory and communication skills to interview techniques and CV writing, we will provide you with tools, skills and the connections to develop a strong foundation of employability skills for your future career.
Advanced Research Topics in Biochemistry This module will develop your skills in the acquisition and critical analysis of primary scientific literature relevant to current research topics in biochemistry.
With research-level seminars delivered by world-leading experts and invited speakers, you will critically evaluate current research publications and develop a deeper understanding of appropriate experimental design, data analysis, presentation and evaluation.
Through small group sessions you will also further engage in peer-peer critical discussion of scientific literature .
Literature Review and Grant Proposal In this module, you will further develop skills in the evaluation of scientific literature and experimental design.
In addition to producing a comprehensive critical literature review, you will formulate research questions/hypotheses and design appropriate research strategies to address these in a mini grant proposal.
As part of this, you will also produce a project summary aimed at a non-specialist audience, further developing your wider communication skills.
MSci Extended Research Project As the culmination of your studies, you will develop advanced skills in experimental design and the critical analysis of scientific data, following an extended period of research study, where you formulate a project and design and conduct appropriate investigations to address this.
You will further develop higher-level communication skills, presenting outcomes of your project as a research article produced to the specifications of a selected journal format and deliver an oral presentation and poster at our MSci research conference.
You will benefit from the support of Keele's Student Experience and Support team and an academic mentor.
You will graduate with a strong set of transferable skills suited to a range of roles in the science, education and health sectors.
Many of our graduates progress to further study.
Key skills you can develop include:
The David Attenborough Laboratories have significantly expanded the School of Life Sciences’ teaching and research areas, and provide two additional state-of-the-art teaching laboratories with space for 120 students between them and two additional research laboratories.
You will also carry out some of your practical laboratory work in Keele's state-of-the-art Central Science Laboratory (CSL) building - which is part of the biggest single investment in learning and teaching in the University’s history.
Find out more about research in the School of Life Science
In addition to meeting the Foundation Year progression requirements, students must also meet all credit requirements in each year of their studies to be awarded a Master’s Degree
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the MSci Biochemistry programme.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Biochemistry with Foundation Year (UCAS code C703) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/biochemistrywithneuroscience:
Examine the intricate relationship between molecular biology and neurological processes with our accredited Biochemistry with Neuroscience BSc.
Our contemporary programme offers exploration of how biological mechanisms underpin neurological conditions, providing critical insights into complex diseases such as diabetes and Alzheimer's.
With access to our state-of-the-art laboratories, opportunities for industry experience, and dedicated employability modules, you'll explore some of the most compelling aspects of 21st-century life science and medical research.
Our Biochemistry with Neuroscience degree follows a focused pathway through core areas of the discipline from understanding the structure-function relationships of the major building blocks of life including nucleic acids, carbohydrates and proteins to the regulation and control of major metabolic pathways, gene expression and cellular activity.
As you progress through the course you will apply core knowledge of these topics to understanding the structure and function of antibodies, hormones and cell receptors and their roles within multicellular organisms, as well as experimental methods applied in areas of biotechnology and genetic engineering.
Alongside study in core areas of biochemistry you will also study a strand of neuroscience focused modules across all three years of the course where you apply your knowledge of cellular biochemistry and molecular biology to the study of the nervous system.
This will provide you with a strong grounding in key principles of neuroanatomy, neurophysiology and neuropharmacology.
You will explore how such knowledge from across both disciplines is advancing our understanding of the molecular basis and treatment of conditions ranging from diabetes and cancer, to neuropathologies such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease, schizophrenia and other disorders of the central and peripheral nervous systems.
To apply your learning, you will benefit from a comprehensive laboratory programme that uses our state-of-the-art David Attenborough laboratories , where you will develop key skills in diverse biochemical and molecular biology techniques.
Here you will directly apply theoretical knowledge from across the programme and develop skills in experimental study design and optimisation through experiential, enquiry-based learning, culminating in your final year research project.
You will also develop key transferable and employability skills related to the critical evaluation of scientific literature, data analysis and interpretation, including computational and bioinformatics tools, effective communication in a variety of formats, and teamwork.
Options to include a work placement year, study abroad or learn a language provide further experiential learning opportunities to develop your employability skills.
A range of final year optional modules in areas of cutting-edge bioscience research gives you greater flexibility to tailor the structure and content of your programme to your own interests and career goals.
This programme is accredited by the Royal Society of Biology for the purpose of meeting in part the academic and experience requirement for the Membership and Chartered Biologist (CBiol).
Introduction to Neuroscience This module introduces the anatomy and function of the nervous system, with a primary focus on the human nervous system.
It draws on information from various organisms to provide a comprehensive understanding of how the nervous system operates.
Key structures and their roles in maintaining bodily functions will be highlighted, offering insights into the complex interactions that enable sensory perception, motor control, and homeostasis.
Knowledge acquired in this module will be expanded in more depth in the subsequent years.
Neuroscience Research Methods Experimentation is at the heart of scientific pursuit.
Within this module, you will focus on the key principles of research techniques used in Neuroscience research.
This will help you to design a research project with appropriate techniques and methods, analyse data with statistical tests, present data and draw appropriate conclusions.
Subsequently, it will prepare you for your final year experimental project and help you to develop key scientific skills that are highly sought after by several different employers
Neurophysiology Neurophysiology is important for understanding how the brain processes information and regulates behaviour.
In this module, you will examine the physiological mechanisms behind neuronal activity, including membrane properties and ion channels, which are crucial for generating action potentials.
Synaptic transmission and plasticity will explain how neurons communicate and how learning occurs.
You will also explore sensory system physiology and functional connectivity, which are key to understanding perception, cognition, and how disruptions lead to neurological disorders.
Neurodevelopment The nervous system is incredibly complex, containing billions of neurons linked together in intricate circuitry.
In this module, you will explore the mechanisms which control how the nervous system builds this complexity from the humble beginnings of a single-celled fertilized egg.
Further, we will discuss how the nervous system keeps developing in gestation and after birth into adulthood.
You will also acquire knowledge of classical neurodevelopmental techniques both in the lectures, but also, hands-on, in the laboratory.
Neuropharmacology Numerous medications are used and are under development to treat neurological and mental disorders.
Success depends on an understanding of the drugs mode of action and utility within the brain.
This module will explore mechanisms of neurological drugs and key pharmaceutical concepts - absorption, metabolism, solubility, ability to cross the blood-brain barrier, clearance (excretion and secretion), and toxicity (ADMET) - applied to the brain.
Learning and Memory The acquisition and retention of new information is a critical component of adaptive behaviour in humans and animals.
Learning about the world allows us to interact and/or react appropriately to a wide array of challenges.
This module covers brain-related processes underlying acquired changes in behaviour.
Specifically, this includes the physiological and molecular mechanisms involved in the acquisition, consolidation and retention of information, leading to changes in synaptic physiology and connectivity.
Diseases and disorders with memory impairments will also be discussed.
Flexible Work Placement (Level-5) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
In addition to a project report, you will also present outcomes as an oral presentation and research poster at our UG student conference
Neuropathology Only research has the potential to rapidly revolutionise how people with neurodegenerative disorders such as dementia are diagnosed, supported, and one day, cured.
We will explore a range of neurological, neurodegenerative, and neuropsychiatric disorders including schizophrenia, Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s, multiple sclerosis, and epilepsy.
You will gain insight into the cause, pathophysiology, and prediction of these disorders, and learn how to critically evaluate advances made in precision diagnostics, prevention, and treatment of these pathologies.
Human Parasitology n this module, you will explore the theoretical and practical aspects of parasitic diseases of humans, considering such topics as the life cycle of select parasites between vector and host, the pathogenesis of parasitic infection and their diagnosis and treatment.
Behavioural Neuroscience One of the most important features of the brain is that it supports, and leads to, complex behaviour of the organism and is the focus of the multidisciplinary field of Behavioural Neuroscience.
Behavioural Neuroscience draws upon areas of anatomy, physiology, neurobiology, neurochemistry, neuropharmacology and neuroendocrinology to bring about a deeper understanding of mammalian and human behaviour.
You will take a very active role in your own learning, developing lecture content in small groups and delivering parts of the module itself.
Current Topics in Neuroscience Neuroscience is one of the fastest growing research areas, with new concepts and ideas emerging constantly.
Keeping track of these new areas is challenging but rewarding for neuroscientists, especially those interested in deep knowledge of their subject and potentially interested in a research career.
In this module, you will study a selection of relevant, current neuroscience research areas, which will promote reflection on neuroscience as a discipline and its possible future directions.
Regeneration and Repair in the Nervous System Classically, the adult nervous system does not regenerate following degeneration or trauma.
However, new technologies (e.g.
stem cells, biomaterial implants) are emerging which could promote regeneration to ultimately restore neurological function.
In this module, you will explore the barriers to nervous system repair and how new technologies are overcoming these barriers.
You will also have the opportunity to write your own grant proposal used in the field to win funding for regenerative research.
Flexible Work Placement (Level-6) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
In between year two and three of your studies, there is the opportunity to undertake a placement, gaining valuable practical experience.
This will enable you to apply the skills and theories you have learnt to real situations in the industrial workplace and enhance your employability.
These are shorter work-based placements that usually take place over the summer in between Level 5 and 6 and usually last between 2-8 weeks.
For example, often some our students will travel to Malaysia to work with our partner Universiti Sains Malaysia.
During your studies you will have the opportunity to spend a year studying abroad .
You could apply for our School tropical field course that takes place in Malaysia.
These are often more conservational in nature, but again provide fantastic international experience and of course, will complement and broaden your programme of study in Biochemistry.
This is a private company that supports a wide range of student projects with a particular focus on biodiversity and climate research.
More information can be found at www.opwall.com
There are a number of schemes available from e.g.
the Wellcome Trust that provide bursaries for students to gain laboratory experience in the summer vacation between year one and two of your studies.
Staff may also be willing to host students in their laboratories during the summer vacation on a voluntary basis.
Other learning opportunities for Biochemistry students vary from year to year but include the opportunity to hear from, and talk to, a range of guest speakers and presenters including researchers from around the world.
*Please note the opportunities described above are limited and dependent on external providers.
"The course enabled me to gain a broad perspective of different aspects of Human Biology.
From studying cells and biological molecules to learning about organ systems.
After completing my degree I was accepted onto AstraZeneca's Innovative Medicines and Early Development graduate programme.
Robert, Biochemistry and Human Biology
During practical classes and workshops you will have the support from a variety of academic staff.
You will also benefit from the support of Keele's Student Experience and Support team for personal or pastoral help and an academic mentor.
Please note you will need to take further postgraduate study to enter some of the professions listed above.
Diversity, flexibility and inclusivity is at the heart of our education strategy.
Your student voice helps us to shape what we do and we include students, local employers and professional bodies in our decision-making process.
Our methods of teaching include:
Teaching staff pay particular attention to specifying clear assessment criteria and providing timely, regular and constructive feedback that helps to clarify things you did not understand and helps you to improve your performance.
Our assessment methods include:
Areas of expertise within the School of Life Sciences include:
Find out more about research in the School of Life Sciences
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme that provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Biochemistry with Neuroscience degree.
Students will need to apply for BSc Biochemistry with Neuroscience with Foundation Year (BC72) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/biochemistrywithneurosciencewithintegratedmasters:
Accelerate your career in the biosciences with our four year Biochemistry with Neuroscience Integrated Master's MSci.
From understanding the structure-function relationships of the major building blocks of life, to designing and conducting an extended MSci project, you will develop the sophisticated problem-solving, communication, technical, analytical, and research skills that will prepare you for a career in PhD research, industry, or the broader bioscience sector.
Our Biochemistry with Neuroscience degree offers a focused exploration of key biochemistry concepts, ranging from the structure-function relationships of the major building blocks of life, such as nucleic acids, carbohydrates, and proteins, to the regulation and control of metabolic pathways, gene expression, and cellular activity.
As you progress through the degree you will apply core knowledge in these areas to understand the structure and function of antibodies, hormones and cell receptors and their roles within multicellular organisms, as well as experimental methods applied in areas of biotechnology and genetic engineering.
Alongside study in core areas of biochemistry you will also study a strand of neuroscience focused modules across all three years of the course, where you apply your knowledge of cellular biochemistry and molecular biology to the study of the nervous system.
A comprehensive laboratory programmes runs throughout the course utilising our state-of-the-art David Attenborough laboratories , where you will develop key skills in diverse biochemical and molecular biology techniques.
Options to include a work placement year, study abroad or an international year of study provide further experiential learning opportunities developing additional employability skills.
Shorter optional placement modules provide added flexibility for experiential learning alongside your studies in a range of industries and employer settings, including an education-focused optional module for those interested in a career in teaching.
A range of third year optional modules in areas of cutting-edge bioscience research gives you greater flexibility to tailor the structure and content of your programme to your own interests and career goals.
The MSci fourth year of study is designed to enable you to enhance your employability and subject-specific knowledge through development of advanced problem solving and communication skills.
You will develop enhanced research skills in the critical evaluation of scientific literature and in the design and conduct of an authentic research study, where you will formulate a complete research strategy and produce a grant proposal.
An experiential period of professional practice immersed in research culture during your final year extended research project will support you in developing higher-level independent technical and analytical skills through hypothesis-driven enquiry, supported by your academic supervisor and wider research team.
The skills and attributes developed here will be of particular value for those looking to continue in a research career, such as further study to PhD level, working in industry or wider bioscience sector.
Subsequently, it will prepare you for your final year experimental project and help you to develop key scientific skills that are highly sought after by several different employers Practical and Professional Skills in Bioscience This module will expand your practical skills through enquiry-based, hypothesis-driven laboratory investigations applying key skills and competencies to more advanced molecular and analytical techniques.
In addition to a project report, you will also present outcomes as an oral presentation and research poster at our UG student conference Employability and Communication Skills in Bioscience Whatever your interests or future career, communication is vital.
You will gain insight into the cause, pathophysiology, and prediction of these disorders, and learn how to critically evaluate advances made in precision diagnostics, prevention, and treatment of these pathologies .
Through small group sessions you will also further engage in peer-peer critical discussion of scientific literature
Advanced Research Topics in Neuroscience This module will develop your skills in the acquisition and critical analysis of primary scientific literature relevant to current research topics in neuroscience.
We offer a multi layered student support structure to help you meet your academic and personal needs.
You will also benefit from the support of an academic mentor and access to Keele's Student Experience and Support team .
This programme will help you to graduate with the advanced research, technical, analytical, communication and problem-solving skills to continue in a research career, such as further study to PhD level, work in industry or the wider bioscience sector.
Our staff are actively engaged in diverse research areas.
The Keele Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Biochemistry with Neuroscience with Integrated Master's degree.
For example, the Foundations of Life Sciences module looks at basic cell biology in terms of structure and function and go on to examine how cells obtain their energy and raw materials.
In addition, the Foundations of Chemistry module will provide you with a basic understanding of the key concepts and fundamental terminology of chemistry.
Students will need to apply for Biochemistry with Neuroscience with Integrated Master's with Foundation Year (UCAS code TBC) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .
You will be contacted to confirm your second subject by a member of our team.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/bioengineeringregenerativemedicine:
Imagine being at the forefront of medical innovation, where you can help the human body heal and rebuild itself.
Our Bioengineering (Regenerative Medicine) BSc combines cutting-edge science with real-world problem-solving.
Working alongside our experts with access to state of the art laboratories, you will gain the transdisciplinary bioengineering know-how and practical skills to work on research, discovery and production of regenerative medicines.
Our Bioengineering degree is an innovative programme that aims to develop aspiring bioengineers into a specialised workforce, that will respond to the future demands for regenerative therapeutic strategies.
The discipline integrates biochemical, molecular and cellular knowledge with engineering principles to design new types of advanced therapies to repair, replace and rejuvenate damaged or diseased tissues.
In your first year of study you will gain a solid grounding in the core components of life, exploring cell biology, molecular science, and human anatomy.
Building on this knowledge, you'll explore more specialised topics like stem cell biology and tissue engineering.
You'll learn how to work with biomaterials that can potentially rebuild damaged body parts and understand the complex world of molecular interactions.
Within your second and third year you can choose optional topics to tailor your experience to your own interests and career goals, for example homing biological theory in cell biology for regenerative medicine, cell signalling, studying current topics in regenerative medicine, cancer biology, precision medicine and nanomedicine.
To apply your learning, you will gain hands-on laboratory experience through sessions delivered in our state-of-the-art David Attenborough Laboratories , Central Science Laboratories and at the Guy Hilton Research Institute (at the Royal Stoke University Hospital Site).
In your final year you will examine biomedical engineering, concepts in good manufacturing processes, employability and communication skills, whilst undertaking an independent research project and choosing from a variety of optional modules that align with your career goals.
To enhance you employability you will have the opportunity to undertake a work placement year, study abroad for a semester or an international year of study.
"Studying at Keele University was an incredible experience.
The teaching was impeccable, and I had so much unconditional support from across the university.
The opportunities I was exposed to during my degree have had a huge impact on my career and personal development, such as being able to represent the university at a student summit in Japan, being able to conduct an original tropical research project in Malaysia and winning a national award on behalf of the university."
Serena, Bioengineering (Regenerative Medicine)
Molecules for Life This module will introduce you to fundamental concepts in our understanding of the structure and function of biological molecules, from the three-dimensional structure of proteins and the activity of enzymes to the progress and organisation of major metabolic pathways, which you will build on across the course.
Fundamentals of Bioengineering The principles of bioengineering are at the forefront of modern-day developments in regenerative medicine.
Fundamentals of Bioengineering, is designed to provide you with a first-look into the exciting and innovative bioengineering approaches for patient treatment and diagnosis.
Through exploring the themes of tissue engineering, cell based therapies and biomaterials, you will discover how engineered constructs are being utilized to repair, replace and rejuvenate damaged or diseased tissue.
Practical Skills in Bioscience In this module you will develop a range of core practical laboratory skills, applying theoretical concepts from across your programme and deepening your understanding of the subject through hypothesis-driven practical investigation.
Stem Cells and Regenerative Medicine This module draws upon current knowledge and trends in stem cell biology and modelling for regenerative medicine.
This provides you with up-to-date information and skills for translational research, supported by basic concepts and applications within the wider provision of the programme.
The module offers interaction with academic researchers and an opportunity to interact with clinicians/industry to appreciate requirements of stakeholders and the socio-economic demands for this field.
This bridge between theory and practice will allow for developing your entrepreneurial potential.
Applications of Molecular Biology In this module, you will explore how we can study and manipulate genetic material, from sequencing technologies to gene cloning and genetic engineering.
Biomaterials and Tissue Engineering In this module, you will learn the theories and technology associated with biomaterials and cell and tissue engineering, which will equip you with the skills and knowledge to select and characterise appropriate biomaterials for specific biomedical and clinical applications.
You will acquire an understanding of the interaction of biomaterials/implants with host tissues during tissue regeneration and replacement.
This module will also provide you with cross-disciplinary training to enable you to work in both an academic and industrial environment after graduation.
Through additional workshops, you will develop higher-level skills in the acquisition and analysis of information from online sources, including journal databases and generative AI.
Current Topics in Regenerative Medicine The module will expose you to seminal discoveries in the field of Regenerative medicine through research seminars with national and international invited speakers, leaders in their field.
Informal journal clubs will help you to understand the importance of those discoveries and develop a critical approach when reading scientific publications.
You will be expected to attend the Lunchtime Seminar Series organised by the School and attend and prepare journal clubs to identify the novelty of a study and the possible shortcomings.
Cell Biology for Regenerative Medicine A firm understanding of advanced cell biology is key to the effective exploitation of cells in the development of the cell therapies, tissue engineered products and medical devices, underpinning the regenerative medicine field.
This module provides you with an in-depth examination of cell structure and functional mechanisms across core topics related to cell growth, identity, communication and death.
Your assessment will be via a combination of examination and coursework tasks.
Biomedical Engineering Biomedical engineering is a rapidly changing, progressive field.
You will learn how knowledge of physiological measurements, biosensors, biomaterials, bioimaging and biomechanics can be used to develop new medical devices, transforming patient care.
This is a cross-disciplinary field that will be of particular interest to you if you are considering work in primary care, rehabilitation, neuroscience or medicinal chemistry.
The interdisciplinary skills that you will develop would also prove useful for postgraduate study and a broad range of employers.
We explore a range of communication methods to present and disseminate findings to inform and enthuse both a scientific and lay audience.
Current Good Manufacturing Practice (CGMP) In recent years the emergence of personalized medicine and regenerative medicine therapies has driven a need for the associated advanced manufacturing capabilities.
This module will introduce the fundamental requirements and regulation for current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP), supporting development of these specialized skill sets.
This module will provide you with an understanding of current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) for the biomanufacturing of advanced biological therapies, including the facility, process, quality, staffing, and regulatory compliance needs.
In addition to a project report, you will also present outcomes as an oral presentation and research poster at our undergraduate student conference.
Throughout the module, you will also consider the impact of discrimination and unconscious bias and develop strategies to support resilience and wellbeing.
Cancer Biology This module will introduce you to the field of cancer biology, exploring the molecular and cellular hallmarks of cancer and how the understanding of these is beginning to inform novel therapeutic development.
Case Studies in Biotechnology In this module, you will explore some of the applications of biotechnology to address global issues.
Precision Medicine Understanding how your genome sequence is different from other individuals and has an impact on gene and protein expression, predisposition to diseases and response to therapies is the core principle of Precision Medicine.
Today, due to the reduction in costs of genotyping and increasing availability of multi-omics technologies, this has become a reality.
The aim of this module is to allow you to build understanding in multi-omics technologies and how they can be applied in healthcare to provide precision medicine.
Applied Regenerative Medicine Cell therapies are already in the clinic, encompassing a wide range of delivery approaches and targets.
Ethical constraints, regulatory frameworks, manufacturing and business strategies are essential considerations for the translation and commercialisation of regenerative medicine strategies.
This module allows you to explore this through case-based learning, pertinent for those considering work in biomedical science, tissue engineering and in particular, advanced therapy development, manufacture and delivery to the clinic.
Nanomedicine With a global market of £151 billion in 2023, Nanomedicine is a rapidly growing field.
Here, you will study the principles of materials engineering underpinning the unique properties and fabrication processes of nanomaterials used in nanomedicine.
You will also explore key nanomedical applications in diseases such as cancer, as well as critical topics in the field including nanotoxicology.
This module provides a comprehensive understanding of the broad landscape of nanomedicine, offering strong potential for transferability in this expanding industry.
Our research-driven Bioengineering (Regenerative Medicine) BSc brings together experts in bioengineering, pharmacy, materials science, and medicine.
The faculty involved in the programme conduct cutting-edge, interdisciplinary research in the field of bioengineering (regenerative medicine), with their work regularly published in top-tier international scientific journals.
Many of our staff members also serve on prestigious national and international committees, underscoring the high level of recognition for their contributions to the field.
Throughout your placement you will be supported by an academic advisor and a placements and project manager, who is based in the School of Life Sciences.
During your studies you will have the opportunity to spend a year studying abroad.
You can find more information here .
BBB in three A levels including B in Chemistry or Biology
Contextual Offer : BCC in three A levels including B in Chemistry or Biology
You will also need: 4 / C in GCSE Maths or Level 2 Functional Skills Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
DDM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science
Contextual Offer: DMM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science
Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in Chemistry or Biology A Level, or Distinction and Merit in Applied Science BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in any A level
Merit in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels including B in Chemistry or Biology
Merit in any of the following T levels: Health Healthcare Science Science
555 in three Higher Levels including 5 in Chemistry or Biology, or 30 points including 5 in Higher Level Chemistry or Biology
Contextual Offer: 544 in three Higher Levels including 5 in Chemistry or Biology, or 28 points including 5 in Higher Level Chemistry or Biology
You will also need: 4 / C in GCSE Maths or Level 2 Functional Skills Maths, or 3 in IB Middle Years Maths, or 3 in IB Diploma Standard Level Maths (any), plus an English language qualification (see below)
122 UCAS points in an Access to HE Diploma with Chemistry or Biology related content, including Distinction in at least 30 Level 3 credits.
Please contact the University Admissions Team for advice on whether your chosen course would qualify
BBBCC in five Highers including Chemistry or Biology Higher, or CC in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers including Chemistry Higher or Advanced Higher, or CCC in three Advanced Highers including Chemistry Advanced Higher
You will also need: C in National 5 Maths, or 4 / C in GCSE Maths or Level 2 Functional Skills Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
H3, H3, H4, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate including H4 in Chemistry, Physics and Chemistry (combined) or Biology
73% in the Gaokao including 70% in Chemistry or Biology
You will also need: 60% in Senior Secondary School or Gaokao Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
Average of 70% from four subjects including 70% in Chemistry or Biology in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 75% from four subjects including 75% in Chemistry or Biology in any other Standard XII
You will also need: 6 or C2 in Secondary School Examination Maths, or Pass in Standard XII Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
2.2 overall average in the Abitur including 12 in Chemistry or Biology
You will also need: 10 in Maths in the Abitur, plus an English language qualification (see below)
13 in the French Baccalaureate / International Option Baccalaureate including 13 in Chemistry / Physics or Biology, or 12.5 in the Baccalauréat Français International including 12.5 in Chemistry / Physics or Biology.
444 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE including 4 in Chemistry or Biology
You will also need: 2 in HKDSE Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
Overall average of 7.4 in the Título de Bachillerato including 8 in Chemistry or Biology
You will also need: 5 in Graduado en Educación Secundaria (GES) Maths or 6 in Título de Bachiller Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
80% in the Esame di Stato including 8 in Chemistry, Biology or Natural Science
You will also need: 5 in Maths in the Diploma, plus an English language qualification (see below)
18 / 86% in the Apolytirion including 18 in Chemistry or Biology
You will also need: 14 in Maths in the Apolytirion, plus an English language qualification (see below)
Overall average of 15.5 in a secondary certificate including 16 in Chemistry or Biology
You will also need: 10 in secondary certificate Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
65% / BBBCC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma including 70% in Chemistry or Biology
You will also need: 50% in Grade 11 Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
444 from three Advanced Placement subjects including 4 in Chemistry or Biology
You will also need: C in Grade 12 High School Diploma Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
BBB in three Advanced levels including B in Chemistry or Biology
You will also need: C in O-level Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
BBB in three Principal level subjects in the STPM including B in Chemistry or Biology
You will also need: C in SPM Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
BBB in three H2 levels including B in Chemistry or Biology
72% overall with 7 in Chemistry or Biology (4 period)
6 in European Baccalaureate Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with BBB including B in Chemistry or Biology.
Grade C in EAP English Language module
You will also need: 4 / C in GCSE Maths or international equivalent
BBB in three Principal level subjects in the Advanced Certificate of Education including B in Chemistry or Biology
You will also need: 6 in UACE or UCE Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
National Senior Certificate: 66666 in five subjects including 6 in Physical Science or Life Science.
You will also need: 4 in NSC Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
BBB in three Advanced Level subjects including B in Chemistry or Biology
Our open-door policy enables you to engage with us directly, meaning you can seek support, gain feedback or discuss any matters relating to your course, You will also benefit from the support of an academic mentor and Keele's Student Experience and Support team .
On successful completion of the programme you will gain the transdisciplinary bioengineering know-how and laboratory, problem-solving and communication skills to work on research, discovery and production of regenerative medicines.
You could progress into a laboratory based career in universities, research institutes, pharmaceutical and bioscience companies or go into specialist clinical training.
There are also opportunities to continue your studies with a MSc or PhD in areas such as tissue engineering, biomedical engineering, stem cell biology or regenerative medicine.
Other opportunities include going into academia, teaching or editorial and scientific writing careers.
Keele’s Careers and Employability team (Shortlisted for Best University Careers Employment Service - National Undergraduate Employability Awards, 2021), offers a variety of personal and career development opportunities to enhance your employability.
The School of Life Sciences is a nationally recognised leader for the innovative blended approach to teaching and learning that brings together classroom-based (face-to-face or online) experience; online learning materials, and independent study - using learning materials to strengthen knowledge and develop skills.
You will benefit from multiple forms of active learning including flipped-classrooms, (you'll view lecture materials at home, allowing classes to be focused on active learning, discussion and problem-solving), audience response systems (such as Mentimeter) and technology enhanced learning, complemented with authentic assessments and synoptic group tasks.
Our Foundation Year allows you to develop your critical thinking, academic reading, writing, and communication study skills along with subject-specific knowledge and skills.
This Foundation Year is a is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Cell and Tissue Engineering course.
For example, the Foundations of Human Biology in Health module consolidates any prior learning of human biology to build your knowledge of the functioning of a healthy human body.
Starting with a look at basic cell biology, you will explore the main types of body tissues and structures and discuss how body systems work.
On this Foundation Year, we will advance your knowledge of human biology and chemistry, giving you a solid grasp of body systems, science and lab work.
You'll develop safe, professional laboratory skills and get to know the mathematical techniques and quantitative methods used across health science-related and social care programmes.
Throughout the programme, you will develop subject-specific and broad based skills that will be invaluable in your academic career and beyond.
Visit UCAS for applications.
You should apply for Bioengineering (Regenerative Medicine) with Foundation Year through UCAS at www.ucas.com.
UCAS code: C111

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/biology:
From genes to ecosystems, Biology BSc at Keele explores the fascinating intricacies of life in its broadest sense, whilst offering opportunities to specialise in topics aligned to your interests, from animal behaviour to human genetics.
With access to our 600-acre diverse campus, state-of-the-art David Attenborough Laboratories, and integrated employability modules, you will graduate with the academic, practical and professional skills required for careers as varied as ecological consultancy to pharmaceutical sales.
From exploring the smallest building blocks of life, to entire sprawling ecosystems, our Biology degree offers a comprehensive understanding of the intricacies and interconnections of life on Earth and the challenges it faces due to human activity.
During the first year of your biology course, you will gain a solid grounding in key biological concepts such as cells, genetics, evolution, physiology of humans and other animals, ecology and plant biology.
From year two of your biology course, you can choose to study topics across the biosciences or focus on key specialisms aligned to your career goals.
In your final year, you will have the opportunity to unleash your creativity by undertaking a substantial piece of meaningful research on a topic that excites and challenges you.
To hone your communication skills, you will also present the outcomes of your final year research project in the context of a realistic research conference experience.
On your adventure through your biology degree, you will have regular access to our state-of-the-art David Attenborough Laboratories and our large and diverse campus to develop practical bioscience skills.
Our campus offers a range of woodlands, grasslands, lakes and streams for you to hone your biodiversity surveying skills in a familiar environment before exploring field sites beyond the campus.
From communicating effectively to diverse audiences to interview techniques and CV writing, we will provide you with tools, skills and the connections to develop a strong foundation of employability skills for your future career.
This course is accredited by the Royal Society of Biology for the purpose of meeting in part the academic and experience requirement for the Membership and Chartered Biologist (CBiol).
Animal Anatomy and Physiology This module introduces you to the vast diversity of vertebrate and invertebrate animals and takes a comparative approach to the study of their structure and function.
This forms the underpinning knowledge of animal biology that later modules in your degree build upon.
Data presentation and analysis and group working are vital employability skills developed on the module as you link practical work undertaken in the lab and field to theory content.
Cells, Genetics and Evolution Embarking on the study of biology from a genes to ecosystems level requires knowledge and understanding of fundamental concepts in biology.
From the structure and function of biological macromolecules, cellular organisation and division, foundations of genetics to evolutionary theory and the organisation of life.
This module gives you the underpinning knowledge and skills you’ll need as you start your exciting journey into the biological world.
You will develop scientific report writing skills as you write up key practical experiments that support the module content.
Ecology Commence an exhilarating journey into ecology, delving into organisms' habitats, interactions, and environmental dynamics.
Learning about plants and organisms will give you an insight into the world around you.
This foundational module introduces key ecological concepts, laying the groundwork for advanced studies in your degree programme.
Engage in immersive fieldwork, enriching lectures, and hands-on workshops to deepen your understanding of the natural environment.
Enhance your writing, fieldwork techniques, and ecological comprehension as you unravel nature's mysteries with us.
Field Biology The safe and ethical study of biology in the field is a vital skill in much of the biosciences and essential for those seeking a career in ecology and conservation.
This module takes you on a summer field course, part of which uses Keele’s wonderful campus, to study in a range of terrestrial and marine aquatic habitats.
In addition to developing vital surveying and species identification skills in groups, you will also collaborate on a field biology hypothesis-driven project, which is excellent preparation for your final year research project.
Microbes Viruses and Parasites Here you will study the biology of bacteria, viruses and parasites, considering a range of pathogenic organisms and the diseases they cause.
Key skills in literature analysis and communicating to different audiences will be developed through the produce content on a select module topic.
Current Topics in Biology A broad range of biological challenges facing society today will be featured in a series of expert talks.
Advantages and disadvantages of science-based solutions will be considered.
After each of these, you will discuss what you have heard with your peers in debate seminars.
You will summarise and then synthesise topics of your choice.
Skills in critical thinking, information processing and public speaking and will be developed and awareness of science in society increased.
Biodiversity Crisis Explore the pressing question of a potential sixth mass extinction, where you will learn all about human impacts on our environment.
Uncover the essence of biodiversity and its measurement, examining global threats to biodiversity through compelling case studies.
Navigate endangered organisms and habitats deeply through in-depth analyses.
Gain key employability skills, including data analysis using the IUCN Red List database and participation in journal clubs fostering communication, leadership, and critical thinking.
Animal Behaviour In this module we will delve into the study of animal behaviour.
Through lectures, field trips, and labs you'll learn how animals behave in different environments, from zoos to wild settings and why they behave the way they do.
This module will teach you how to ask questions about animal behaviour, formulate hypotheses, then test them by observing and analysing animal behaviour whilst using rigorous research methods.
By module end, you'll possess vital research skills applicable to diverse animal-related careers, such as research, conservation, and ecological consulting.
The module will help you to think in a ‘genes to ecosystems’ framework and prepare you for careers in a big data, post-genomic world.
Animal Adaptations On Animal Adaptations you will study physiological and behavioural adaptations of a range of vertebrate and invertebrate animals to challenges presented by various harsh environmental conditions.
Key themes of the module are explored in theory and in lab practicals.
You will further develop skills of data collection, analysis and presentation.
You will also explore how to present technical scientific information linked to the module themes to different audiences.
Nutrition and Health In this module, you will explore the critical roles of macronutrients and micronutrients in nutrition and health.
You will learn about diseases associated with imbalanced nutrient intake, the effects of alcohol metabolism, and the impact of nutrition on development from pregnancy through aging.
You will study the molecular mechanisms of ageing, nutrient requirements at different life stages, and the relationship between nutrition and diseases such as cancer and cardiovascular conditions.
This module will provide you with essential insights into the interplay between diet and health throughout the lifespan.
Flexible work placement and professional training (level 5) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
Conservation Biology Dive into conservation biology, exploring biodiversity and conservation in the face of human impacts.
Engage in a real-world ecological consultancy scenario as the core of your assessment, honing skills through fieldwork, research, and tutorials.
Craft a biodiversity net gain report for a site of ecological and historical significance, mirroring the tasks of a professional ecological consultant.
Delve into conservation with guest speakers, gaining firsthand insights into this multifaceted domain.
Experience conservation work firsthand and broaden your understanding of this vital field.
Insect Ecology and Pest Management Insects are fascinating because of their enormous diversity of forms and lifestyles with over a million species worldwide.
We will learn about some adaptations that explain their success as well as how to manage pest and beneficial insects that affect human activities.
This will develop skills in both basic understanding of insect ecology and skills that could open careers in managing insects because new solutions are needed to reduce dependency on pesticides.
Animals and Society Non-human animals interact with humans on a daily basis as wildlife, livestock, food, clothing, companions, beasts of burden, entertainment and therapy.
Animals and Society draws from research in human-animal studies and animal geographies to explore and understand these complex relationships across space and time.
As well as drawing from academic expertise and campaigning experiences, the interactive lecture series includes insights from guest speakers.
Ecotoxicology and Risk Assessment What concentration of substance X will cause environmental harm, and what will not?
Ecotoxicology and risk assessment is how we determine the answers and, ultimately, develop environmental quality standards that underpin environmental regulation and assessment.
Through this module you will gain knowledge, skills and hands-on experience of conducting ecotoxicology laboratory protocols (terrestrial and aquatic systems), constructing and interpreting dose response curves, sourcing and evaluating ecotoxicology data, deriving Predicted No Effect Concentrations (PNECs), and producing a risk assessment report.
Human Parasitology In this module, you will explore the theoretical and practical aspects of parasitic diseases of humans, considering such topics as the life cycle of select parasites between vector and host, the pathogenesis of parasitic infection and their diagnosis and treatment.
You will also investigate challenges to effective treatment and transmission control, including socio-economic and cultural factors.
Human Evolution Have you ever wondered how you came to be a member of the only species we know that lives in a highly complex, global, and technological society?
This module tracks human evolution from the earliest fossil hominids, encountering many extinct ancestors along the way.
You will critically evaluate fossil, archaeological and genomic evidence supporting numerous evolutionary theories and review the latest discoveries in this fast-moving field, gathering skills to help prepare for a diverse range of career opportunities.
Animal Welfare This module will develop your knowledge of legislation and current topics in animal welfare.
It will help you appreciate the social, political and moral dimensions of animal welfare, bridging the gap between science and ethics in the animal industry.
A journal club format will help you to sensitively approach complex issues, handle nuance and build your own opinions, based on scientific fact.
Building on your previous studies, this module will help prepare you for a broad range of animal-related careers.
Blue Economy sustainable futures with an ocean focus Growing interest in ocean and coastal development needs collaboration because of the interconnectivity of marine spaces and ecosystems.
Blue Economy approaches are presented as “sustainable” but are contested.
You will explore the wonders and complexities of our blue planet and develop evidence-based analysis of, and advocacy for, a sustainable ocean.
Topics build from concepts through case studies towards you advocating a position on an issue and the prospects for an ocean-focused sustainable future.
Environmental and Wildlife Forensics Through this module, you will have the opportunity to apply your forensic expertise to environmental and wildlife crime, exploring topics ranging from industrial contamination of land to the illegal trade of exotic animal products.
We will equip you with the skills to investigate environmental crime scenes, interrogate a range of natural and artificial evidence types, and to combine different types of data to protect the environment and wildlife in the U.K.
and beyond.
Plant Science and Sustainability This module takes an applied and integrated approach, examining green production systems from the plant science, ecology, and sustainable land management perspectives.
You will explore some of the big questions of today, such as how we can feed a growing population without sacrificing ecosystem functioning.
Lectures will involve case studies and ongoing research in food production, pest management, and plant-human interactions.
You will enhance verbal and written communication skills through facilitated class debates and producing materials for different target audiences.
Work placement and Professional Training (level 6) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
Work Placement and Professional Training Year Employers value candidates with practical skills and workplace understanding.
The Natural Sciences Placement Year gives you the opportunity to undertake a placement between year 2 and 3 of your course, enabling you to experience the world of work in an area aligned to your academic, or career preferences.
You will have access to expert advice and guidance on how to find a placement, application and interview preparation via personalised and group activities, plus ongoing support throughout your placement, and beyond.
As well as conservation volunteering overseas, you can use your time to gather data for your research project.
BBB in three A levels including B in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
Contextual Offer: BCC in three A levels including B in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
DDM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science, Forensic and Criminal Investigation, Health and Social Care, Information Technology, Sport, or Sport and Exercise Science.
Contextual Offer: DMM  in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science, Forensic and Criminal Investigation, Health and Social Care, Information Technology, Sport, or Sport and Exercise Science.
Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in one Science A Level from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or Distinction and Merit in Applied Science, Forensic and Criminal Investigation, Health and Social Care, Information Technology, Sport, or Sport and Exercise Science BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in any A Level.
Merit in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels including B in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or Merit in Applied Science, Forensic and Criminal Investigation, Health and Social Care, Information Technology, Sport, or Sport and Exercise Science BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in any two A Levels.
Merit in any of the following T levels: Health, Healthcare Science, or Science.
555 in three Higher Levels including 5 in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or 30 points including 5 in one Higher Level Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
Contextual Offer: 544 in three Higher Levels including 5 in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or 28 points including 5 in one Higher Level Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List .
122 UCAS points in a Computing, Engineering, Health, Nursing, Medicine, Science, or Sports Access to HE Diploma including Distinction in at least 30 Level 3 credits.
BBBCC in five Highers including one Higher Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or CC in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers including one Higher or Advanced Higher Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or CCC in three Advanced Highers including one Advanced Higher Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
H3, H3, H4, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate including H4 in one subject from the Science or Applied Science Groups.
73% in the Gaokao including 70% in Maths, Physics, Biology or Chemistry.
Average of 70% from four subjects including 70% in Maths, Physics, Biology or Chemistry in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 75% from four subjects including 75% in Maths, Physics, Biology or Chemistry in any other Standard XII.
2.2 overall average in the Abitur including 12 in Geography, Psychology, Maths, Physics, Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Technology, Nutritional Science or Sports.
13 in the French Baccalaureate / International Option Baccalaureate including 13 in Chemistry / Physics, Maths, Science, Sport, Engineering Sciences, Life and Earth Sciences or Information Technology, or 12.5 in the Baccalauréat Français International including 12.5 in Chemistry / Physics, Maths, Science, Sport, Engineering Sciences, Life and Earth Sciences or Information Technology.
444 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE including 4 in Maths, Physics, Biology, Chemistry, Geography, Design and Applied Technology, ICT or Physical Education.
Overall average of 7.4 in the Título de Bachillerato including 8 in Chemistry, Maths, Biology, Physics, Geology, Geography, Earth Sciences and Environmental Sciences, Psychology, Industrial Technology or ICT.
80% in the Esame di Stato including 8 in Maths, Physics, Natural Science, Geography, Physical Education, or ICT.
18 / 86% in the Apolytirion including 18 in Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Design and Technology, Information Technology, Geography, Maths, Physical Education or Physics.
Overall average of 15.5 in a Secondary Certificate including 16 in Chemistry, Maths, Biology, Physics, Geology, Geography, Computer Applications, Psychology, Physical Education.
65% / BBBCC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma including 70% in Advanced Functions, Biology, Calculus and Vectors, Chemistry, Computer Science, Maths of Data Management or Physics.
444 from three Advanced Placement subjects including 4 in Chemistry, Calculus (either), Physics (any), Biology, Computer Science (either), Environmental Science, Psychology or Statistics.
BBB in three Advanced Levels including B in Combined Maths, Chemistry, Physics, ICT, Biology or Agricultural Science.
BBB in three Principal subjects in the STPM including B in Maths, ICT, Physics, Biology, Chemistry, Geography, or Sports Science.
BBB in three H2 Levels including B in Chemistry, Biology, Physics, Computing, Maths, Further Maths or Geography.
72% overall with 7 in Chemistry, Maths (3 or 5 period), Physical Education, Biology (2 or 4 period), Geography (2 or 4 period), or Physics.
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with BBB including B in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
BBB in three Principal level subjects in the Advanced Certificate of Education including B in Chemistry, Maths, Physics, Biology, or Geography.
National Senior Certificate: 66666 in five subjects including 6 in two of Maths, Maths Literacy, Technical Maths, Agricultural Sciences, Agricultural Technology Civil Technology, Computer Applications Technology, Geography, Information Technology, Life Sciences, Mechanical Technology, or Physical Science.
BBB in three Advanced Level subjects including B in Additional Maths, Agriculture, Animal Science, Biology, Building Technology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Crop Science, Food Technology and Design, Geography, Horticulture, Mechanical Maths, Metal Technology and Design, Physics, Pure Mathematics, Sport Science and Technology, Statistics, or Technical Graphics and Design.
Our unique, 600-acre campus offers a fantastic experimentation environment to perform fieldwork, test new ideas and discover solutions to real-world problems.
During practical workshops you will benefit from a multi-tiered support structure.
In addition to your lead lecturer you can engage with a variety of academic staff.
This offers an invaluable opportunity to forge new networks and gain insight into news or research taking place within the school.
Benefit from networking opportunities with:
You will also take workshops to help you with wider study skills such as note-taking, literature searching critical analysis and research ethics and meeting alumni.
Our open-door policy enables you to engage with us directly, meaning you can seek support, gain feedback or discuss any matters relating to your course on a regular basis.
You will also benefit from the support of an academic mentor and Keele's Student Experience and Support team .
Key skills you will acquire include:
Careers that a graduate of this course could pursue include:
Diversity, flexibility and inclusivity is at the heart of our Education Strategy, with our programmes structured around a range of teaching approaches.
Active-learning lectures, tutorials and workshops promote social learning, interaction and collaboration, with practical classes and/or fieldwork activities developing and applying many of the core concepts introduced in other areas of the course.
Digital resources support student learning, with many materials specifically designed for online consumption, giving greater flexibility in how, when and where students study.
From creating a social media campaign and writing a manifesto to carrying out a habitat survey -the assessment methods within our programme aim to give you experience of work-related activities you will likely undertake in graduate roles.
You will also carry out practical laboratory work in Keele's state-of-the-art Central Science Laboratory (CSL) building - which is part of the biggest single investment in learning and teaching in the University’s history.
Areas of research expertise within the School of Life Sciences include:
Please note, if you are interested in studying Veterinary Medicine and Surgery with Foundation Year, please review the information on this course page .
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Biology degree.
For example, the Foundations of Life Sciences module will look at basic cell biology in terms of structure and function and go on to examine how cells obtain their energy and raw materials.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Biology with Foundation Year (UCAS code C103) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/biomedicalscience:
From the intricacies of human physiology to the complex mechanisms of disease progression, our dual accredited Biomedical Science BSc combines expertise across multiple disciplines of biology to solve real-life problems for patients and society at large.
With access to state-of-the-art laboratories, opportunities for industry experience, and dedicated employability modules, you'll graduate with the professional, practical and employability skills to pursue careers in healthcare, research, pharmaceuticals, and academia.
Biomedical Science is a multi-and inter-disciplinary subject exploring the human body and the disorders that can affect it.
This dynamic area of study examines the intricate workings of the human body, delving into various scientific fields such as the mechanisms of human physiology, the world of microorganisms, the body's immune responses, the complexities of molecular interactions, and the underlying processes of disease development.
At the start of your accredited Biomedical Science degree, you will look at normal physiological function including whole systems and organs right down to a cellular, molecular and genetic level.
You will then explore the comprehensive range of diseases and disorders that can affect our body including infective entities such as bacteria and viruses.
By studying the critical distinctions between healthy and diseased bodily functions, you'll develop the knowledge to drive meaningful scientific advancements.
These insights can translate into tangible improvements in healthcare, such as creating more precise diagnostic tools, designing sophisticated monitoring technologies, innovating targeted treatment approaches, and exploring novel therapeutic strategies that have the potential to transform medical practice.
The programme will also provide deep insights into the pivotal role of Biomedical Scientists within clinical and diagnostic laboratory settings.
You'll examine how these professionals contribute to diverse patient care pathways, while developing a comprehensive understanding of the critical importance of interdisciplinary collaboration and reflective practice.
A comprehensive laboratory programmes runs throughout the course utilising our state-of-the-art David Attenborough Laboratories , where you will develop key skills in diverse biomedical and molecular biology techniques.
You will apply theoretical knowledge from across the programme and develop skills in experimental study design and optimisation through experiential, enquiry-based learning, culminating in your final year research project.
Throughout the degree, you'll gain essential professional skills that extend far beyond scientific knowledge.
You'll learn to critically analyse scientific literature, master advanced data analysis and interpretation techniques, become proficient in computational and bioinformatics tools, develop versatile communication skills across multiple formats, and enhance your ability to collaborate effectively in team-based scientific environments.
To enhance your employability you can undertake a work placement, study abroad for a semester or an international year of study.
A range of final year optional modules in areas of cutting-edge biomedical research gives you greater flexibility to tailor the structure and content of your programme to your own interests and career goals.
This programme offers dual accredition by the Royal Society of Biology (RSB) and the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS).
RSB accreditation meets in part the academic and experience requirement for the Membership and Chartered Biologist (CBiol).
IBMS accreditation means that our programme is recognised by the NHS and meets the HCPC Standards of Education and Training.
Molecules of Life We will explore fundamental concepts in our understanding of the structure and function of biological molecules, from the three-dimensional structure of proteins and the activity of enzymes to the progress and organisation of major metabolic pathways, which you will build on across the course.
You will also develop key skills in data analysis, presentation and communication where you will report the outcomes of laboratory investigations in the study of enzyme kinetics, applying theoretical knowledge from the module.
Clinical Applications of Biomedical Science I he first of our vocational modules exploring the role of Biomedical Scientists working in clinical laboratories.
Interactive lectures focus on Cellular Histopathology, Medical Microbiology, and Virology.
We explore the tests and methodologies used to screen, diagnose, monitor, and evaluate patients.
This is supported by case-based learning (CBL), where you work in small groups to explore patient pathways including cancer, alcoholic liver disease, HIV, and sepsis.
You will develop key professional skills such as teamwork, communication and leadership.
You will also explore how different pathologies can develop because of dysfunction in these systems and their impact.
Through an innovative group-based activity you will produce a short video animation drawing on a select module topic, aimed at a 16-year-old, developing key skills in teamwork and leadership, and in communicating to different audiences.
Practical and Academic Skills in Bioscience Here, you will develop a range of core practical laboratory skills, applying theoretical concepts from across your programme and deepening your understanding of the subject through hypothesis-driven practical investigation.
Key skills you will develop include oral presentation skills by giving a short talk and informal scientific writing skills by participating in a group blog.
Applications of Molecular Biology We will explore how we can study and manipulate genetic material, including sequencing technologies, gene cloning, and genetic engineering.
You will learn how these techniques can be used to study the structure and function of single genes and proteins, design and engineer DNA molecules, and produce novel gene products such as therapeutic drugs.
Through tutorials and workshops, you will develop skills in introductory bioinformatics, insights into important ethical principles, and develop key reasoning and analytical skills.
Molecular, Cellular and Structural Immunology Our immune system is vital to our survival.
We explore how our immune system develops, the cellular basis of our immune response, and gain functional insights into immune protein and pathogen structure.
You will develop key skills in data analysis, reporting the outcomes of laboratory investigations using immunotechniques, and will explore the Protein Data Bank, used by scientists to enable breakthroughs in science through the visualization and analysis of 3D structures.
Clinical Applications of Biomedical Science II The second of our vocational modules exploring the role of Biomedical Scientists working in clinical laboratories.
Interactive lectures focus on Haematology, Transfusion Science, Clinical Biochemistry, and Medical Immunology.
We explore how the diagnosis, management, and underlying pathobiology of a range of conditions including leukaemia, thrombophilia, metabolic disorders, autoimmunity, and transplantation.
We continue to work in small case-based learning tutorials to explore specific patient pathways and think about how to communicate to different groups including clinicians and the general public.
Practical and Professional Skills in Bioscience You will further expand and consolidate your practical competencies through enquiry-based, hypothesis-driven laboratory investigations in more advanced molecular and analytical techniques.
You will further develop key skills in literature analysis and in designing and conducting a mini research project, communicating outcomes in the style of a scientific paper.
Research and Analytical Skills Data analysis is the heart of scientific pursuit.
We explore different forms of experimental design including traditional lab-based research and systematic reviews.
You will learn how to correctly apply a range of statistical methods and draw scientific conclusions, preparing you for your final year independent research project, postgraduate study or employment in a data-driven world.
You will also develop key skills in teamwork and communication as you work in small groups and contribute to an authentic, online student conference.
Human Genetics We will explore some of the applications of key genetic concepts at the level of the individual and the population.
Focusing mainly on medical genetics, you’ll learn how a person's genetic make-up can affect their health and how to estimate genetic risk and explore some of the applications of molecular genetics in the study, diagnosis, and treatment of genetic diseases.
You will also develop key skills in digital literacy and communication by producing a group webpage.
Microbes, Viruses and Parasites Microbes, viruses and parasites present genuine risk to human populations.
We will explore a range of pathogenic organisms and the diseases they cause.
You will consider approaches to treatment and management of disease, ranging from development of novel antimicrobials to vaccination strategies, and the use of select viruses and microorganisms as research tools.
Key skills in literature analysis and communicating to different audiences will be developed through the production of your own textbook-style chapter on a select module topic.
Professional Relationships Biomedical Scientists are privileged to work with patients and their samples.
Understanding both regulatory and professional frameworks is essential to safeguarding and improving patient experiences.
We explore issues including equality and diversity, health and safety, patient confidentiality.
Inter-professional tutorials give you the opportunity to work with fellow healthcare professional students including medics, nurses and physiotherapists.
Only students who successfully complete this module are eligible to apply for a clinical placement and transfer to our HCPC-approved Applied Biomedical Science pathway.
Cell Signaling Cell to cell communication is fundamental for multi-cellular organisms as cells are required to communicate with each other and their environment to respond appropriately to different stimuli.
We will explore how cells do this, including the major classes of signalling molecules, different receptor types, and their mode of action.
We will evaluate how dysregulation of cellular communication contributes to different disease states, and how these pathways can be targeted for therapeutic intervention.
Research Project Your research project is an excellent opportunity to carry out a substantial piece of meaningful research, drawing together skills in experimental study design, critical interpretation of data, and professional competencies.
You can choose from a range of projects depending on your interests/career ambitions, including lab- or field-based research, systematic reviews, bioinformatics, teaching and learning, or outreach.
This culminates in an exciting and authentic student conference that gives you an opportunity to celebrate and share your achievements with your peers.
Advanced Clinical Pathology We covered the role of HCPC-registered Biomedical Scientists working in the core diagnostic laboratories at Level 4 and 5.
Now, we build-on that understanding to explore the role of specialist disciplines including Reproductive Science, Toxicology, and Point of Care Testing.
Case based learning tutorials focus on key challenges faced by society and public health across the UK, giving you a real insight into the relationship between research, clinical practice, and government initiatives.
This module challenges the stereotype of inarticulate scientists, helping to develop skillsets needed to communicate effectively to diverse audiences.
We explore a range of communication methods to present and disseminate findings to inform and enthuse both scientific and lay audiences.
Professional Development in Bioscience As you approach graduation, this module will focus on career-readiness, helping you to consolidate and articulate the professional skills, attributes and competencies you will have developed across your degree.
You will have the opportunity to refine interview techniques and write covering letters, personal statements and a high-quality CV.
We will explore the current employment marketplace, identifying opportunities and building your social media profile for future employers.
We will consider discrimination, unconscious bias, and develop strategies to support resilience and wellbeing.
Applied Regenerative Medicine Regenerative Medicine is a game-changing field of study which seeks to repair or replace tissue or organ function lost due to disease, injury, congenital defects, or ageing.
We explore a range of therapies used to harness and enhance the capacity of our bodies to repair and regenerate.
We consider ethical constraints, regulatory frameworks, manufacturing, and business strategies essential to translate theory into clinical practice.
You will develop key interdisciplinary skills helpful for postgraduate study and a broad range of employers.
Human Parasitology Here we will explore the theoretical and practical aspects of parasitic diseases of humans, considering such topics as the life cycle of select parasites between vector and host, the pathogenesis of parasitic infection and their diagnosis and treatment.
Omics Technologies You will be introduced to a range of cutting-edge omics approaches used extensively across the life sciences sector.
Cancer Biology You will be introduced to the field of cancer biology, exploring the molecular and cellular hallmarks of cancer, and how the understanding of these is beginning to inform novel therapeutic development.
We will explore the latest developments in cancer research in understanding changes in cellular activity associated with cancer development and progression, and the diagnostic and therapeutic potential of this.
You will develop skills in the design and conduct of epidemiological research, developing data collection tools, and interpreting epidemiological findings used in public health, including the relevance to outbreak investigations.
Physiology of Living and Dying We will embark on a captivating journey through human physiology, exploring how our bodies function from conception to death.
Through interactive tutorials, discussions, debates, and reflections, you will gain a comprehensive understanding of how major body systems change throughout life.
We explore both physiological and cognitive changes with a focus on embryonic development, reproduction, ageing, and dying.
Virology Viruses can infect all live forms and their impact on human, livestock, and wild animal health affects communities worldwide.
We will delve into the study of viruses, covering their structure, replication, and the diseases they cause.
You will explore viral genetics, host-virus interactions, mechanisms of viral transmission, and emerging viral threats.
We will also discuss detection and prevention strategies, how to improve pandemic preparedness, and the use of novel biotechnological methods to combat the burden of viral infectious diseases.
These are often more ecology and conservation in nature, and again provide fantastic international experience.
You could apply for a clinical placement.
These differ from industrial placements in that they give you an opportunity to demonstrate compliance with the HCPC Standards of Proficiency.
Successful students transfer to our Applied Biomedical Science degree that is accredited by the HCPC.
Graduates of our Applied route receive an IBMS Certificate of Competence along with their degree.
There are a number of schemes available from, for example - the Wellcome Trust that provide bursaries for you to gain laboratory experience in the summer vacation between year one and two of your studies.
Staff may also be willing to host you in their laboratories during the summer vacation on a voluntary basis.
Other learning opportunities for biochemistry students vary from year to year but include the opportunity to hear from, and talk to, a range of guest speakers and presenters including researchers from around the world.
* Please note the opportunities described above are limited and dependent on external providers.
ABB in three A Levels including B in two Science subjects from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
Contextual Offer: BBC in three A Levels including B in two Science subjects from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
DDM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science, Health and Social Care.
Contextual Offer: DMM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science, Health and Social Care.
Distinction and Merit in Applied Science or Health and Social Care BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in one Science A Level from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
Distinction in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two Science A Levels from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or Distinction in Applied Human Biology, Applied Science, or Health and Social Care BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels including one Science A Level from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
Distinction in any of the following T Levels: Health, Healthcare Science, Science.
655 in Higher Levels including two Science subjects from the Keele Defined Sciences List at Higher Level, or 32 points including two Higher Level Science subjects from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
Contextual Offer: 554 in Higher Levels including 5 in two Science subjects from the Keele Defined Sciences List at Higher Level, or 29 including 5 in two Higher Level Science subjects from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
128 UCAS points in a Computing, Engineering, Health, Nursing, Medicine, Science, or Sports Access to HE Diploma including Distinction in at least 30 Level 3 credits and Merit in at least 15 Level 3 credits.
BBBBC in five Highers including two Higher Science subjects from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or BC in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers including two Higher or Advanced Higher Science subjects from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or BCC in three Advanced Highers including two Advanced Higher Science subjects from the Keele Defined Sciences List .
H3, H3, H3, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate including H4 in two subjects from the Science or Applied Science Groups.
75% in the Gaokao including 70% in two of Maths, Physics, Biology or Chemistry.
Average of 75% from four subjects including 70% in two of Maths, Physics, Chemistry or Biology in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 80% from four subjects including 75% in two of Maths, Physics, Chemistry or Biology in any other Standard XII.
2.0 overall average in the Abitur including 12 in two of Geography, Psychology, Maths, Physics, Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Technology, Nutritional Science or Sports.
14 in the French Baccalaureate / International Option Baccalaureate including 14 in two of Chemistry / Physics, Maths, Science, Sport, Engineering Sciences, Life and Earth Sciences or Information Technology, or 13 in the Baccalauréat Français International including 13 in two of Chemistry / Physics, Maths, Science, Sport, Engineering Sciences, Life and Earth Sciences or Information Technology.
544 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE including 4 in two of Maths, Physics, Biology, Chemistry, Geography, Design and Applied Technology, ICT or Physical Education.
Overall average of 7.8 in the Título de Bachillerato including 8 in two of Chemistry, Maths, Biology, Physics, Geology, Geography, Earth Sciences and Environmental Sciences, Psychology, Industrial Technology or ICT.
85% in the Esame di Stato including 8 in two of Chemistry, Maths, Natural Science, Geography, Physical Education, or ICT.
18.5 / 88% in the Apolytirion including 18 in two of Chemistry, Biology, Computer Science, Design and Technology, Information Technology, Geography, Maths, Physical Education or Physics.
Overall average of 16 in a Secondary Certificate including 16 in two of Chemistry, Maths, Biology, Physics, Geology, Geography, Computer Applications, Psychology, Physical Education.
70% / BBBBC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma including 70% in two of Advanced Functions, Biology, Calculus and Vectors, Chemistry, Computer Science, Maths of Data Management or Physics.
544 from three Advanced Placement subjects including 4 in two of Chemistry, Calculus (either), Physics (any), Biology, Computer Science (either), Environmental Science, Psychology or Statistics.
ABB in three Advanced Levels including B in two of Combined Maths, Chemistry, Physics, ICT, Biology or Agricultural Science.
ABB in three Principal Level subjects in the STPM including B in two of Maths, ICT, Physics, Biology, Chemistry, Geography, or Sports Science.
ABB in three H2 Levels including B in two of Chemistry, Biology, Physics, Computing, Maths, Further Maths or Geography.
75% overall with 7 in two of Chemistry, Maths (3 or 5 period), Physical Education, Biology (2 or 4 period), Geography (2 or 4 period), or Physics.
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with ABB including B in two Science subjects from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
ABB in three Principal Level subjects in the Advanced Certificate of Education including B in two of Chemistry, Maths, Physics, Biology, or Geography.
ABB in three Advanced Level subjects including B in two of Additional Maths, Agriculture, Animal Science, Biology, Building Technology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Crop Science, Food Technology and Design, Geography, Horticulture, Mechanical Maths, Metal Technology and Design, Physics, Pure Mathematics, Sport Science and Technology, Statistics, or Technical Graphics and Design.
"Module content combined relevant learning with useful workplace skills and critical thinking.
By covering all areas/departments relevant to Biomedical Science and then allowing choice into a broader spectrum of interest, it helps to provide students with a better idea of where they want to go afterwards.
James, Biomedical Science
We operate an open-door policy so you can ask for a meeting with any of our tutors across the year to discuss particular areas of difficulty or concern.
In addition to our open-door policy, you can also contact the following people across Life Sciences for help and support:
In addition to the School's support offering, Keele Student Services is also your one-stop-shop for information and support.
The team can offer guidance on a range of areas including;
Typical post-graduate destinations include entry to professions such as medicine, practitioner biomedical scientist, academia, research, the private sector, or roles that include outreach, teaching, and science communication.
Key transferable skills you will acquire include:
Diversity, flexibility, and inclusivity is at the heart of our education strategy which is developed through close The delivery of our programme will include the following types of activities:
Assessment methods include:
You will carry out your practical laboratory work in one of Keele's state-of-the-art labs, for example the newly opened David Attenborough Laboratories .
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science degree.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science with Foundation Year (UCAS code C933) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .
If you  already have your qualifications, are not expecting any further results and only wish to apply to Keele, please contact the Admissions Office directly.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/bioveterinaryscience:
Can you envision yourself working in high-tech veterinary diagnostic labs, contributing to ground breaking animal science research or tackling challenges in public, animal or environmental health?
Keele's Bioveterinary Science BSc is the perfect launchpad for exciting careers that let your love of animals and fascination with science thrive.
Our programme focuses on animal health, disease and cutting-edge veterinary diagnostics, provides practical experience in state-of-the-art labs and work placement opportunities to gain real-world experience.
If you're eager to learn more about animals and science, our Bioveterinary Science degree offers an exciting opportunity to build knowledge and skills in both fields.
You’ll develop an understanding of core themes such as animal physiology, anatomy, biochemistry and molecular cell biology, and examine current bioveterinary challenges facing society and how scientific research is providing solutions.
What communicable and non-communicable diseases affect major animal species?
You’ll seek to understand this question through examining wildlife, livestock, birds and pets.
The public health implications of infectious diseases that pass from animals to humans and vice versa are studied, you’ll explore animal nutrition, welfare and behaviour, and analyse how bioveterinary and animal health sciences can be applied to global challenges such as food security.
A main feature of our Bioveterinary Science BSc is our extensive laboratory programme utilising state-of-the-art facilities in our David Attenborough and Central Science Laboratories.
You will gain hands-on experience performing routine veterinary tests and learn how theses are applied to screening, diagnosing and monitoring various diseases.
Laboratory activities provide you with the scope to gain advanced skills in biochemical and molecular techniques, enhance your experiential study design abilities and directly apply the theoretical knowledge acquired throughout the programme.
You’ll also strengthen your transferable skills in communication and teamwork, sharpen your critical thinking by evaluating contemporary scientific literature, become confident in analysing data using computational and bioinformatic tools, and benefit from work placement opportunities.
You will carry out your practical laboratory work in Keele's state-of-the-art David Attenborough Laboratories and Central Science Laboratory (CSL) building .
The David Attenborough Laboratories have significantly expanded the School of Life Sciences’ teaching and research areas, and provide two further state-of-the-art teaching laboratories with space for 120 students between them plus two research laboratories.
Keele's Central Science Laboratory offers access to more than £2 million pounds worth of industrial research-grade analytical and laboratory equipment within an environment that has been designed to encourage and enable collaborative and interdisciplinary working.
Animal Physiology and Anatomy This module offers you a fascinating insight into animal biology, exploring the diversity of life through the study of animal physiology and anatomy.
You will examine key body systems across diverse animal groups, gaining essential knowledge of these complex organisms.
This experience will develop important skills in teamwork and communication while providing critical knowledge for careers in veterinary science, conservation, or animal welfare.
Build a solid foundation for your future studies!
Animal Health and Disease You will investigate a range of animal diseases, developing skills to identify critical clinical signs for accurate diagnosis.
The module covers diagnostic procedures and the role of differential diagnoses in effective treatment.
By applying knowledge of animal physiology, you’ll understand the pathophysiology of infectious and non-communicable diseases across livestock, poultry, wildlife, and companion animals.
It also addresses the animal-human interface in pandemic diseases and explores control strategies, such as vaccination and biosecurity.
Case-based learning enhances teamwork, leadership, and communication skills.
Veterinary Diagnostics This module builds on prior knowledge of animal health and disease, focusing on the practical application of diagnosing, treating, and monitoring animal diseases across different taxa.
You will gain skills in veterinary diagnostics, learning how to research diseases independently, assess clinical tests, and report findings in a scientific format.
Through hands-on laboratory sessions, you will also develop the ability to interpret data using statistical tools and communicate results effectively to both scientific and public audiences, preparing them for real-world veterinary challenges.
Current Topics in Bioveterinary Science Here you will be offered a comprehensive understanding of key bioveterinary issues impacting society and the role of bioveterinary scientists in addressing them.
Through presentations by leading experts, in-depth discussions, and independent study, we will critically explore current research.
By the end of the module, you will be able to assess scientific literature, evaluate research methodologies, and discuss the practical applications of bioveterinary science.
This course prepares you to engage with the complexities of bioveterinary challenges and contribute to scientific advancements.
Animal Nutrition and Health Gain a deep understanding of the vital role nutrition plays in animal growth, production, and health.
We will explore nutrient requirements, metabolism, and the impact of deficiencies across various animal models.
They will also evaluate common animal feedstuffs and their composition.
By the end of the module, you will be able to discuss the relationship between nutrition, health, and diet-related diseases, equipping them with essential knowledge for careers in animal health and production.
Case Studies in Animal Infection and Control This module enhances your understanding of controlling infectious diseases in wildlife, livestock, and companion animals.
It covers essential strategies such as vaccination, biosecurity, and genetic engineering to manage and prevent outbreaks.
You will explore disease control through a One Health perspective, focusing on cross-species transmission and zoonotic diseases.
By evaluating current and proposed disease management programmes, you will also gain skills in critical thinking, data analysis, and interpretation of scientific publications.
The module also develops presentation skills through group seminars on communicable disease control.
Food Security and Sustainability Throughout this module, you will examine the challenges and potential solutions for creating sustainable food production systems, focusing on food production animals while also addressing sustainability issues related to companion and display animal diets.
You will explore various food production systems in both scientific and commercial contexts and discuss threats to food security on multiple scales.
By the end of the module, you will have developed skills in critical evaluation and strategic planning, culminating in a business proposal for a sustainable food production system.
Experience conservation work first-hand and broaden your understanding of this vital field.
Professional Placement Year Employers value candidates with practical skills and workplace understanding.
From a year working in industry to summer secondment research placements in the UK or overseas, our programme offers many opportunities to gain familiarisation with the professional working environment, develop professional contacts and apply the skills and theories you have learnt.
You may choose to spend a year studying abroad.
These are shorter industrial or research opportunities that students may choose to undertake, often over the summer in between Level 5 and 6, which usually last between 2-8 weeks.
For example, some of our students may choose to go to Malaysia to work with our partner Universiti Sains Malaysia on a summer research project.
During your studies you may have the opportunity to apply for our School tropical field course that takes place in Malaysia.
Field trips more often focus on ecology and conservation in nature, and provide fantastic international experience*.
*Please note the field trip described above is limited in capacity and dependent on external providers.
We may not be able to offer this field trip every year and there will be additional costs if you do successfully secure a place.
DDM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science Forensic and Criminal Investigation
Contextual Offer : DMM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science Forensic and Criminal Investigation
Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in Chemistry or Biology A Level, or Distinction and Merit in Applied Science or Forensic and Criminal Investigation BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in any A Level.
Merit in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels including B in Chemistry or Biology, or Merit in Applied Science BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in any two A Levels.
Contextual Offer : 544 in three Higher Levels including 5 in Chemistry or Biology, or 28 points including 5 in Higher Level Chemistry or Biology
BBBCC in five Highers including Chemistry or Biology Higher, or CC in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers including Chemistry Higher or Advanced Higher, or CCC in three Advanced Highers including Chemistry Advanced Higher.
H3, H3, H4, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate including H4 in Chemistry, Physics and Chemistry (combined) or Biology.
73% in the Gaokao including 70% in Chemistry or Biology.
Average of 70% from four subjects including 70% in Chemistry or Biology in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 75% from four subjects including 75% in Chemistry or Biology in any other Standard XII.
2.2 overall average in the Abitur including 12 in Chemistry or Biology.
444 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE including 4 in Chemistry or Biology.
Overall average of 7.4 in the Título de Bachillerato including 8 in Chemistry or Biology.
80% in the Esame di Stato including 8 in Chemistry, Biology or Natural Science.
18 / 86% in the Apolytirion including 18 in Chemistry or Biology.
Overall average of 15.5 in a Secondary Certificate including 16 in Chemistry or Biology.
You will also need: 10 in Secondary Certificate Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
65% / BBBCC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma including 70% in Chemistry or Biology.
444 from three Advanced Placement subjects including 4 in Chemistry or Biology.
BBB in three Advanced Levels including B in Chemistry or Biology.
BBB in three Principle level subjects in the STPM including B in Chemistry or Biology.
BBB in three H2 Levels including B in Chemistry or Biology.
72% overall with 7 in Chemistry or Biology (4 period).
You will also need: 6 in European Baccalaureate Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
Progression route to Veterinary Medicine and Surgery - BVetMS
Students completing year 1 of BSc (Hons) Bioveterinary Science at Keele University, with a minimum pass rate of 70% and subject to results of the Multi-Mini Interview assessment, can also progress on to the Veterinary Medicine and Surgery BVetMS at Harper & Keele Veterinary School .
Up to 5 students will be accepted for transfer into Year 1 of the Vet School on this basis.
Candidates will be ranked by performance and the top five will be eligible to progress.
Find out more information and how to apply.
Our BSc aims to equip you with the skills, knowledge and experience to pursue a career or further study in a number of areas including research and development, animal nutrition and veterinary diagnostic laboratories.
In addition to developing core knowledge and practical skills in the subject, you will also develop key transferable and employability skills related to the critical evaluation of scientific literature, effective communication in a variety of formats to target audiences, teamwork, networking and careers support.
Diversity, flexibility and inclusivity is at the heart of our Education Strategy.
Methods of teaching may include:
The wide variety of assessment methods used on this programme reflects the broad range of knowledge and skills that are developed as you progress through the degree programme.
Methods of assessment may include:
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Bioveterinary Science degree.
For example, the Advancing Chemistry module aims to increase your knowledge and understanding of the principles and concepts of chemistry in a theoretical context, while also demonstrating the application of concepts in a practical environment.
Read more about our undergraduate entry requirements.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Bioveterinary Science with Foundation Year (UCAS code D103) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagement:
The business world is fast-paced and challenging.
Our Business Management BA will prepare you for an exciting future in today's global business world.
Gain essential management expertise and skills through real-world experiences and professional development opportunities, setting the stage for your career.
Whether you’ve got a clear career goal or want to explore where the world of business could take you, studying a Business Management degree from Keele is the perfect starting point.
It provides the right balance of a cutting-edge business education with practical, real-world skills to support you to make the transition into the world of work.
Our contemporary curriculum allows you to build your core business knowledge and develop your understanding of organisations and how they function in a complex business environment.
You will focus on areas such as leadership, strategy, business operations, marketing and human resource management.
Economics, politics and society are also explored, and you will learn to analyse data and how it can inform business decision-making.
The Business of Organisations Begin your study of Business Management with an introduction to the core functions of a contemporary organisation.
Over the module, your will learn about essential knowledge about the core functions of the organisation: Strategy, Marketing, Accounting, Human Resources, and the Logistics and Supply Chain.
You will learn core theory, practice and techniques.
This immersive module will not only provide you with a overview of each function in the or Teams, People and Performance organisation, but will illustrate how all of the functions are interconnected.
It will give you a good idea of your areas of interest that you can pursue later in your studies.
The Global Business Context A sound knowledge of the wider context of business is an essential element for businesses and organisations.
In this module, you will explore how evolving political, economic, technological, and societal factors significantly impact business operations and models.
You'll gain insights into economic principles, international trade, sustainability, and environmental considerations.
Understanding the importance of context on business activity, you will learn about the two-way influence between organisations and their broader environment.
Professional and Academic Development 2 Using your commercial awareness and enterprise skills, you will tackle an actual organisational challenge, collaborating with a team gain first-hand experience of working with an organisation.
Contemporary Business Operations In the second year, you will focus on the practical applications of operations and project management within organisations.
This includes a thorough examination of operational strategies, quality management approaches, and the application of project management techniques.
By concentrating on these key areas, you will learn how to enhance business efficiency, maintain high-quality standards, and successfully manage and execute projects in complex operational environments.
This foundation prepares you for critical roles in business operations and management.
Leading, Managing and Decent Work This module explores leadership styles and management practices that impact organisational culture and employee experience and performance.
It integrates current issues such as diversity, wellbeing and mental health, and remote workforce management, offering strategies for creating supportive, healthy work environments.
Students will learn conflict resolution techniques and examine legal and ethical considerations to effectively handle workplace dynamics and foster an inclusive organisational atmosphere.
Creative Marketing Communication in the Digital Age The ‘Creative Marketing Communication in the Digital Age’ module encourages students to explore the expanding marketing communication toolbox available to marketing professionals.
Marketing communication plays a pivotal role in connecting organizations with target audiences and fostering positive relationships.
Throughout this module, students will be introduced to  communication theories and concepts to help students experiment with how to optimise the marketing communication toolbox for creative and impactful results.
Organisations and the Sustainable Development Goals The ‘Organisations and the Sustainable Development Goals’ module aims to introduce and build on existing student knowledge of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in connection to their implications and opportunities for organisations.
The module intends to apply a practical lens to the multifaceted connections between the SDGs and organisations, showcasing, where possible, how the SDGs might be considered and applied in real life organisational scenarios.
Strategic Management The final year strategic management course focuses on integrating diverse knowledge areas to understand and manage complexity.
You will look at the way organisations position themselves in their competitive environment, align internal resources with external environmental demands, and use strategic frameworks and tools to make decisions.
You will work on developing comprehensive strategies that enhance organisational competitiveness and sustainability in a dynamic business landscape.
Project In your final year of study, you will undertake a significant project that reflects the subject area of your degree.
You can choose between undertaking a solo project, or working with a group to collaborate on a large project.
Your solo project might include undertaking a piece of research or a management report.
If you prefer to work in a team, you might undertake a consultancy project for an organisation, or put on an event, helping you develop teamwork and project management experience.
Whichever choice you make, this module will allow you to showcase your talents and put your skills into practice.
It can provide a valuable insight into what working in a specific area of business is like, and gives you the chance to familiarise yourself with the professional working environment and develop professional networks.
A work placement also provides you with the opportunity to apply the theory you have learnt on your degree course.
If you have ever wanted to establish your own start-up or have been inspired by your studies this entrepreneurship year is an amazing opportunity to develop your own business idea.
You will also need: an English language qualification (see below).
Contextual Offer : MMM in any BTEC Extended Diploma / National Extended Diploma.
Contextual Offer: 444 in three Higher levels or 27 points.
12 in the French Baccalaureate/International Option Baccalaureate/Baccalauréate Français International.
You will also need: an English language qualification (see below)
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with BBC and a C in EAP English Language module.
National Senior Certificate: 66655 in five subjects You will also need: an English language qualification (see below)
This programme offers numerous opportunities to broaden your knowledge and develop a range of transferable skills that are highly valued by employers, enhancing your future career potential.
Your critical thinking skills will be sharper, your communication abilities will have improved, you will have gained knowledge about the fundamentals of business and established an entrepreneurial mindset.
By enhancing your skills via our Professional and Academic Development Programme, you will grow in confidence and graduate with the intellectual, professional, and personal resources to pursue diverse career paths in roles within large corporations, public sector bodies, SMEs, and third sector organisations.
Jobs that a graduate of this course could go on to do:
Previous Keele Business School graduates have gone on to work for:
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Business Management BA, tailored to the module theme and level.
You will be assessed via different methods that reflect the breadth of the skills and knowledge you will gain on this programme.
The types of assessments may include simulations and group assessments where you will collaborate with other students and replicate typical workplace interactions.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme that provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Business Management degree.
Students will need to apply for BSc Business Management with Foundation Year ( N7L3 ) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagementandaccounting:
Do you want to gain professional skills highly valued by employers?
Study on this Business Management and Accounting BA and you will learn to think critically about different aspects of management, develop your accounting know-how and attain transferable skills that you can take forward into diverse accountancy or management careers.
Are you intrigued by how accounting can drive strategic business decision-making?
Study Business Management and Accounting BA and you'll explore core elements of business with a focus on accounting to support the development of the essential academic and professional skills you’ll need to launch your career.
As you discover how organisations operate, you will examine themes such as marketing, human resource management, leadership and strategy.
In accounting you’ll acquire sought-after skills in both financial and management accounting and progress to utilise these in the essential field of auditing and assurance.
Additionally, you will have the opportunity to embrace cutting-edge technologies such as automation and artificial intelligence, so you’re well prepared for today’s dynamic business world.
This immersive module will not only provide you with a overview of each function in the organisation, but will illustrate how all of the functions are interconnected.
This will include an introduction to Management Accounting and the preparation of key costing methods and workings.
An introduction to Financial Accounting will start with double entry book keeping, the preparation of a trial balance and progress to basic financial statements such as the Statement of Profit or Loss, The Statement of Financial Position and The Statement of Cash Flows.
Management Accounting and Decision Making (linked to ACC accreditation) Management Accountants actively contribute to critical decisions within business.
Financial Accounting Theory and Reporting (linked to ACC accreditation) Building on previous knowledge this module will focus on Financial Accounting for larger companies with requirements to comply with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and International GAAP.
Auditing and Assurance (linked to ACC accreditation) This module develops knowledge and understanding of the roles of the external and internal auditor, the regulatory framework and the theory and practice of external and internal audit.
Key techniques in auditing will be introduced explored and applied to case study scenarios.
Students will study regulatory reforms, audit procedures and the process of a financial report audit in accordance with current standards.
Students will develop knowledge and understanding of the key concepts of audit and assurance, regulatory framework and professional ethics, and technical processes involved in conducting a financial audit including planning, risk assessment, testing, reviewing and reporting.
This accreditation means you may gain exemptions from some of the above organisation's exam papers as you have already covered the specific content during the Business Management and Accounting BSc (Hons) programme.‌ ‌
The international year demonstrates you have the personal attributes to embrace new experiences which can enhance your employability.
The business and accounting intelligence, along with transferable skills attained in this programme, will equip you with the potential to pursue diverse career opportunities in jobs such as financial analyst, management consultant, accountant, auditor, and corporate strategist.
Employers seek graduates who can hit the ground running and are prepared for the challenges they’ll encounter in their careers.
Through this programme, you’ll enhance your critical thinking, communication skills, develop an entrepreneurial mindset, and benefit from our Professional and Academic Development Programme, which will boost your personal and professional growth.
You will have gained the knowledge to allow you to go on to jobs including:
Previous graduates have gone to work for:
"The variety of modules at Keele provided me with transferable skills that I can take into the workplace.
When I came to an open day the staff were welcoming and explained to me in depth what would be covered when I started University.
The school had a clear vision for their students and they made it clear that they would always be on hand to help."
Jack, Accounting and Business Management
"The teaching and support provided by KBS is exceptional.
All staff I have encountered are approachable, professional and have a genuine desire to see you succeed.
This makes approaching complex topics and assignments much easier due to the knowledge that help is there if you need it."
Thomas, Accounting and Business Management
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Business Management and Accounting BA, tailored to the module theme and level.
The types of assessments could include simulations and group assessments where you will collaborate with other students and replicate typical workplace interactions.
There may be computer or paper-based exams which reflect the style used by accounting professional bodies, these will also be invigilated and have a time constraint.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Accounting and Business Management degree.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) Business Management and Accounting with Foundation Year (UCAS code NN24 ) through UCAS at www.ucas.com
If you already have your qualifications, are not expecting any further results and only wish to apply to Keele, please contact the Admissions Office to enquire about direct entry onto this course.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagementandeconomics:
How do organisations operate and how do they manage their employees?
In what ways are the decisions of governments, households and organisations influenced by their current economic environment?
Investigate these and other key questions on our Business Management and Economics BA.
If you aspire to build a career in business or launch your own company, understanding how businesses function is crucial.
If you're also keen on learning the economic principles that drive markets, our Business Management and Economics degree is perfect for you.
You’ll study key areas of business including marketing, leadership, human resource management, strategy and business operations.
The programme will develop your grasp of economic theories, the principles of microeconomics and macroeconomics and the different economic growth strategies and polices.
Through economic analysis, strategic planning, and risk management, as well as exposure to cutting-edge technologies and economic models, you’ll acquire the skills to excel in your chosen career.
Introductory Microeconomic and Macroeconomic Principles Macroeconomics covers inflation, supply-side economics, macroeconomic equilibria, output and aggregate demand, consumption, money supply & money demand, fiscal & monetary policy, and exchange rate economics.
Within microeconomics, production, consumption and government interventions are explored through the connection between economic theories and concepts and their applications to real case examples.
These topics relate to the policies currently applied by the UK government and the Bank of England and they provide the foundations for the material covered later in your degree.
Economic Growth Strategies & Policies The module explores issues relating to economic growth and policy.
Theoretical and empirical work is employed to examine the patterns and determinants of economic growth, productivity & the changing shape of economies.
The role of institutions is assessed, and aspects of economic policy decision-making are explored.
It examines issues of regional development and influences on the spatial location of economic activities.
Students develop knowledge of theory and empirical evidence to understand economic growth and development and analytical skills for critically evaluating economic policy decisions.
Intermediate Economic Principles This module is aimed at equipping students with relevant analytical tools in intermediate open economy macroeconomics.
It focuses on monetary and fiscal policy problems within an international setting, considering the role of different exchange rate regimes and their consequences for economic policy.
During the module, we will gradually build an open economy variant of the IS-LM model/ AS/AD, working with advanced mathematical techniques to derive generalised results on the impact of fiscal and monetary policy on output, interest rates and inflation.
Advanced Economic Principles Macroeconomics covers advanced macroeconomic theories, models and issues, including macroeconomic stabilization; monetary policy (interest and the exchange rate transmission mechanisms, the current institutional setup, and monetary targeting); fiscal policy (deficit financing, debt profile characteristics, evolution of the debt-to-GDP ratio, and debt management); growth theory models and growth accounting.
Some of our accounting, finance and quantitative methods modules, if passed successfully, entitle you to exemptions in some of the professional qualification exams of the main professional accountancy bodies such as Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, (CIMA), Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), and the Chartered Financial Analyst Institute (CFA).
The business know-how and grounding in economics you’ll receive in this programme will perfectly set you up with a package of skills that are highly valued by employers.
You will have developed a wide set of skills, including improved critical thinking, an entrepreneurial mindset, and enhanced communication abilities.
Your personal and professional development will have matured through our Professional and Academic Development Programme, resulting in you graduating with the resources to succeed in areas such as finance, consulting, government policy, international organisations and corporate management.
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Business Management and Economics BA, tailored to the module theme and level.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme that provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Business Management and Economics degree.
Students will need to apply for Business Management and Economics with Foundation Year (LN92) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagementandfinance:
What are the core principles of business management and how do financial institutions operate?
Learn this and other fundamental business skills on our Business Management and Finance BA to prepare you for a dynamic future in global business.
Study Business Management and Finance at Keele and you will gain the financial acumen to make critical business decisions and manage organisational success.
Our curriculum combines education in the core principles of business management with in-depth financial studies, preparing you for your professional life.
Business management encompasses key areas such as marketing, human resource management, leadership, strategy and how business functions.
On the finance side, you will focus on financial markets, investment management, financial analysis and the principles of financial and management accounting.
This will provide you with the tools to assess risk, manage investment portfolios, and understand financial reporting and regulation.
Financial markets, institutions and technology This module delves into the essential underpinnings of financial systems.
Additionally, the course scrutinizes technology’s impact on financial markets, revealing how its adoption reshapes operations and introduces novel risk dimensions
Investment Management and Financial Engineering (including climate finance) This module immerses students in the practical world of finance, leveraging the powerful Bloomberg terminal throughout their study.
Our Business Management and Finance program offers numerous benefits.
Upon graduation, you will have achieved a comprehensive understanding of both subjects, ensuring that you are well-prepared to pursue your chosen career path with the skills employers are seeking.
You will have enhanced your critical thinking, improved your communication skills, developed an entrepreneurial mindset and boosted your personal and professional confidence through engaging with our Professional and Academic Development Programme.
Previous graduates have gone on to work for:
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Business Management with Finance BA, tailored to the module theme and level.
These methods may include interactive lectures, independent study, group tutorials, reflective practice and engaging in web-based learning via Keele’s virtual learning environment (KLE).
The types of assessments may include simulations and group assessments where you will collaborate with other students and replicate typical workplace interactions.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Business Management and Finance degree.
Throughout the programme, you will develop subject-specific and broad-based skills that will be invaluable in your academic career and beyond.
You can find out more about our Foundation Year, including information on learning, teaching and assessment methods and further opportunities available to you by visiting our homepage.
Read more about our undergraduate entry requirements for United Kingdom , European Union and International students .
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) Business Management and Finance with Foundation Year (UCAS code NN93 ) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagementandmarketing:
Emerge as one of tomorrow’s talented marketeers or as a future business leader with our Business Management and Marketing BA.
You’ll develop vital business knowledge and key marketing techniques, complemented by real world experiences and opportunities to advance your personal and professional potential.
Interested in a programme that covers both business management and marketing in depth?
Discover our Business Management and Marketing BA, designed to enhance your subject knowledge and experience through a scaffolded curriculum that provides you with a portfolio of expertise to support you in your career progression.
You will gain a comprehensive understanding of the different aspects of business such as business operations, human resource management, leadership and strategy.
What role does marketing play in the success of a business?
You’ll explore topics such as consumer behaviour, digital marketing strategies, and brand management, while building your confidence in creating effective marketing campaigns and analysing market trends.
This immersive module will not only provide you with an overview of each function in the organisation but will illustrate how all of the functions are interconnected.
Marketing Fundamentals The ‘Marketing Fundamental’ module introduces you to the dynamic world of marketing through developing your understanding of the vital role it plays in all forms of organisations in many different sectors.
Through this module, you will acquire an understanding of what marketing is, the purpose of marketing and how marketing operates in practice.
You will learn the key concepts, tools, and theories of relevance to marketers today including buyer behaviour, market segmentation, marketing research, relationship marketing and the marketing mix.
Marketing Research: Principles, Process and Practice The ‘Marketing Research: Principles, Process and Practice’ module equips students with the core processes and practices to collect, interpret and present different forms of data to help inform organisational change and prepare students to face emerging challenges and opportunities within the marketplace.
Over the course of the module, students will explore different digital and traditional marketing research tools and techniques and discover the role of marketing research within both day to day and strategic activities within different organisational contexts.
Throughout this module, students will be introduced to core communication theories and concepts to help students experiment with how to optimise the marketing communication toolbox for creative and impactful results.
Strategic Management The final year strategic management course focuses on integrating diverse knowledge areas to understand and manage complexity within organizations.
You will look at positioning the organisation and competitive environment, align internal resources with external environmental demands, and using strategic frameworks and tools to make decisions.
Drawing on all the study over three years, you will work on developing comprehensive strategies that enhance organisational competitiveness and sustainability in a dynamic business landscape.
Digital Marketing in Action The ‘Digital Marketing in Action’ module builds on learning from the second year ‘Creative Marketing Communication in the Digital Age’ module for those of you interested in delving deeper into the digital side of marketing.
Throughout the module, you will investigate how Digital Marketing is utilised across various organisational contexts to create engaging, immersive, and memorable customer experiences.
You will actively engage with existing and new digital marketing technology and tools to build your digital marketing expertise for the future.
Creative Branding: Creation, Strategy and Management The ‘Creative Branding: Creation, Strategy and Management’ module is for those of you who are interested in further developing your creative marketing skills.
This module takes you into the intricate world of branding to explore the vital relationship between strategic brand management and creative brand management.
You will actively participate in key discussions and activities around the concept of branding, brand equity and the art of brand creation to harness your creative marketing skills for future application.
"I really enjoy my course as I have the freedom to choose elective modules from other business related degrees, such as: international business, accounting and HRM, or from other subjects, such as media and languages.
This flexibility has enabled me to cover a broad range of topics and has allowed me to develop and expand my skill set.
There are also lots of opportunities to get involved in extra curricular activities.
This is not only great for your social life, but will also allow you to put the skills you have learned during your degree into practise.
Employers look at the standard of degree you have achieved, but they also look at the effort you have made outside your studies too, so get involved in as many things as possible.
Lucy, Marketing and Business Management
"The Marketing and Business Management course at Keele is flexible and offers many opportunities.
Having the opportunity of a placement means I can put my degree into practice in the world of employment and better understand my next steps after graduation.
This has helped me to tailor the course to my areas of interest and discover new ones like HRM and law, helping me to broaden my business knowledge."
Georgina, Marketing and Business Management
This innovative Business Management and Marketing BA course will provide you with a fantastic combination of business and marketing skills that you can apply in business, the public sector and not-for-profit organisations.
Many organisations recruit business management and marketing graduates, not just business enterprises but also the health services, local and central government, political parties, charities, educational institutions and more.
You will graduate with a strong foundation in both subject areas, improve your critical thinking and communication skills and established an entrepreneurial mindset.
This, together with our Professional and Academic Development Programme, will provide you with the intellectual, professional and personal resources to enjoy a successful career in a multitude of sectors.
"Keele was an experience I will never forget.
Starting from the gold teaching standard to the lifelong friends created, every bit of the journey extraordinary.
I played Basketball for Keele on a scholarship and was the Lead Voice Representative for the Business School in 2021.
Coming from Sri Lanka, most of my first year was spent in the SU networking and creating unforgettable experiences.
I learned to balance work and entertainment to get the best possible grades I could.
Keele gave me responsibilities that taught me valuable life skills such as independence, decision making, organisation and the importance of dedication and passion; all of which have helped me become the successful person I am today."
Salman, Human Resource Management and Marketing
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Business Management and Marketing BA, tailored to the module theme and level.
Our practical lab-based classes provide hands-on experience in data analysis, and we create a safe and supportive space for you to practice your decision-making skills through simulated business contexts.
"I enjoy the diversity of the modules offered and how I am able to design my degree around what I want to focus on.
This is only enhanced further by the flexibility of the lecturers with their office hours and their willingness to help and guide you to achieve the mark you want."
Ben, Business Management
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Marketing and Business Management degree.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) Business Management and Marketing with Foundation Year (UCAS code NN52) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagementwithanalytics:
Gain the vital data and digital skills the evolving business world is demanding.
Our Business Management with Analytics BSc aims to scale-up your data literacy and business intelligence so you can establish an exciting career in the fast-developing field of data analytics.
We live in a data-driven world, and acquiring the skills and knowledge to interpret that data is crucial for businesses to make informed decisions.
Here at Keele, our Business Management with Analytics BSc programme aims to support you in working towards an exciting future in this dynamic sector.
You will gain key business management knowledge, covering areas such as business operations, strategy, leadership, marketing and human resource management.
Your experience with business analytics will be developed by focusing on data visualisation, advanced analytics, business intelligence and programming for business analytics.
We will also help you develop essential skills in data analysis and interpretation, statistical modelling and forecasting, and programming for data manipulation and analysis.
Emerging technologies and trends The Emerging Technologies and Trends module aims to explore emerging technologies that are shaping the future, preparing students to adapt to and leverage these technologies in their future careers.
Through theoretical lectures, hands-on workshops, and case studies, students will gain insights into cutting-edge technologies such as artificial intelligence, Internet of Things (IoT), blockchain, augmented reality (AR), virtual reality (VR), and quantum computing.
Advanced Analytics and Business Intelligence The "Advanced Analytics and Business Intelligence" Module aims to introduce students to the use of data analytics for business decision-making through the exploration of a wide range of data analytic techniques, such as classification, clustering, predictive modelling, text mining, visual analytics, and statistical and machine learning models.
Databases and Programming for Business Analytics The "Databases and Programming for Business Analytics" Module aims to introduce students to the fundamentals of Python and its uses for data analysis, modelling, inference, simulation, prediction, forecasting, visualisation, optimisation, and decision support.
Graduating with a solid set of analytical skills and business knowledge will prepare you for potential careers working in a wide array of organisations and sectors in roles such as data analyst, business intelligence consultant, operations manager and strategic planner.
Crucially, you will have honed your skills in data analytics, built your knowledge of business, improved your critical thinking and communication skills, and established an entrepreneurial mindset.
Through our Professional and Academic Development Programme, you will have grown in confidence by enhancing your personal and professional development and will graduate with the intellectual, professional, and personal resources to pursue different career paths.
Jobs that a graduate of this course could progress to include:
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Business Management with Analytics BSc, tailored to the module theme and level.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme that provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Business Management with Analytics degree.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) Business Management with Analytics with Foundation Year (UCAS code NG13) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagementwithentrepreneurship:
Designed for aspiring entrepreneurs, you will gain the skills to launch your own business or drive innovation within existing companies.
Unleash your creativity and learn to spot opportunities, develop creative business solutions, and manage new ventures.
With hands-on projects, networking with successful entrepreneurs, and real-world experience, our Business Management with Analytics BA will prepare you to confidently navigate today’s fast-paced business landscape.
Our Business Management with Entrepreneurship degree is for ambitious entrepreneurs who want to create their own ventures, or bring innovation to existing organisations.
The curriculum merges fundamental business management principles with entrepreneurship-specific modules, equipping students with the tools to identify opportunities, develop creative business solutions, and manage new ventures successfully.
You will study specialised modules on creativity, innovation, business planning, and venture creation, along with vital entrepreneurial skills like pitching, networking, and negotiation.
You will gain both theoretical knowledge and hands-on experience through real-world projects, networking with successful entrepreneurs, and understanding the entrepreneurial landscape.
Graduates from this programme will be well-prepared to launch startups, work in business development, consult on innovation, or take leadership roles in venture capital firms, incubators, and accelerators.
Whether launching your own startup or consulting on innovation, this programme will develop the confidence and skill to thrive in today’s fast-evolving business world.
BA (Hons) Business Management with Entrepreneurship is part of our dynamic suite of Business Management degrees, offering you a comprehensive understanding of key business and management principles.
All our Business Management programmes share a common first year, where you'll build a strong foundation in core areas such as Marketing, Finance, and Human Resources, while also exploring the wider global business context - covering topics like international economics, politics, and society.
You’ll also develop essential skills in data analysis and digital decision-making tools, crucial for today’s tech-driven business world.
From the second year, you will specialise, tailoring your studies to suit your interests and career aspirations.
We place a strong emphasis on the purpose of business, sustainability, and ethics, ensuring you’re prepared to lead with integrity in an ever-evolving business landscape.
The Business of Organisations Begin your study of with an introduction to the core functions of a contemporary organisation.
Over the course of the module, your will develop a foundational knowledge of the main functions in most organisations: Strategy, Marketing, Accounting, Human Resources, and the Logistics and Supply Chain.
This immersive module will not only provide you with an overview of each function in the organisation, but will illustrate how all of the functions are interconnected.
Throughout the module, you will tackle real-world problems and critically examine the ethical and legal implications of data use, enabling you to effectively communicate your findings to diverse audiences.
You will gain insights into economic principles, international trade, sustainability, and environmental considerations.
Creativity and Innovation This module explores the theory and practice of innovation and creativity in entrepreneurship.
You will deepen your understanding of how to enhance creativity and tackle common barriers to innovation.
The module covers practical tools and techniques, including brainstorming and digital mind-mapping, and examines the pivotal role of creativity in the entrepreneurial process.
Entrepreneuring Embark on a transformative journey with the Entrepreneuring module.
In this module you will look at key areas of entrepreneurial performance including business relationships and networks, pitching and presenting and negotiating and influencing.
You will have the opportunity to meet other entrepreneurs and understand their view of the world.
You will be encouraged and supported to think like an entrepreneur and to adopt and develop the skills competencies and mindset of the entrepreneur.
Both through real life and virtual scenarios, you will familiarise yourself with the dynamic landscape of entrepreneurship.
This module is a practical, discussion-based module where you will select and explore current ethical issues in business.
Strategic Management The final year strategic management module focuses on integrating diverse knowledge areas to understand and manage complexity.
Create a New Venture This module is designed to provide students with a practical understanding of the different steps that a new venture takes from developing an initial business idea to creating a business plan and as a link to securing funding.
The module will enable participants to understand theories of enterprise and entrepreneurship and enable them to relate such theories to practice through a project to develop market research using appropriate tools and techniques
The Digital Showcase The Digital Showcase  is your opportunity to demonstrate your digital skills through the creation of a comprehensive digital project.
By enhancing your skills via our Professional and Academic Development Programme, you will grow in confidence and graduate with the intellectual, professional, and personal resources that will allow you to succeed in careers in management, consultancy and entrepreneurship.
Jobs that a graduate of this programme could progress to.
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Business Management with Entrepreneurship BA, tailored to the module theme and level.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagementwithevents:
Turn your passion for organising memorable experiences into a rewarding career in the growing events sector.
From strategic management to global events and festivals, you will explore core business management principles alongside specialised modules in events management.
You will gain insights into the latest trends in the industry, including sustainable practices and innovative technologies.
The contemporary curriculum on our Business Management with Events BA allows you to put your skills into practice through practical experience, ensuring you are fully prepared for a successful career in events management.
Prepare to be part of the vibrant and rapidly growing events sector with Keele's Business Management with Events degree.
Whether it's the thrill of a festival, the excitement of a sporting event, or the elegance of a corporate gala, events have the power to create unforgettable moments and bring people together.
Our programme blends the principles of business management with the creative and practical skills needed for a successful career in event planning.
Develop an understanding of how to plan, market, and deliver various events, from music festivals to conferences.
Embedded throughout the programme are opportunities to gain essential expertise and hands-on experience through real-world projects and professional development, setting the stage for a successful career in events management or related fields.
BA (Hons) Business Management with Events is part of our dynamic suite of Business Management degrees, offering you a comprehensive understanding of key business and management principles.
The Global Business Context A sound knowledge of the wider national and international context of business is an essential element for businesses and organisations.
Leisure, Sport and Society: Sustainability, Politics and Communities The module aims to provide you with knowledge and insight into the different sectors of the leisure including Events, Hospitality and International Tourms as well as the Sports industry.
It focuses on the importance leisure and sport on society, including sustainability, politics, the economy, and society of a nation and the interconnectedness of each sector.
Students will be able to understand their historical development and be able to identify critical issues relating to the management of these industries in different countries and regions.
Events Operations and Management This module focuses on developing the essential skills required for the management and operation of small-scale events, in line with industry standards and protocols.
You will learn the key stages of the event planning process, including design, organisation, management, and evaluation, ensuring that the events you create are feasible, sustainable, and ethically sound.
Through practical experience, you will plan and deliver a small-scale event, applying industry best practices.
Teamwork and collaboration are central to this module, helping you develop the interpersonal and leadership skills necessary for success in the dynamic and evolving events industry.
Managing Global Events and Festivals Global events and festivals represent a key part of the events sector.
Such events are paramount in developing an attractive visitor destination and have been used by various counties and regions to regenerate urban areas.
The focus of this module is how to effectively manage a global event or festival in order to limit the negative impacts on society and the environment.
Another important issue addressed in this module is the concept of legacy.
This relates to creating long-term benefit for communities affected by the event or festival.
A successful event or festival should have a clear vision of what it aims to achieve and how it can help engage people from different backgrounds.
As mega events and festivals rely to a great degree on volunteers, this module will further investigate issues concerning the management of volunteer staff.
The Digital Showcase The  Digital Showcase  is your opportunity to demonstrate your digital skills through the creation of a comprehensive digital project.
By enhancing your skills via our Professional and Academic Development Programme, you will grow in confidence and graduate with the intellectual, professional, and personal resources to pursue diverse career paths in roles such as event planning, marketing and management in different sectors including corporate, not-for-profit, entertainment and tourism.
Jobs that a graduate on this course could progress to include:
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Business Management with Events BA, tailored to the module theme and level.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagementwithhospitality:
Blend core business principles with specialised hospitality insights, exploring customer service, sustainable practices, and innovative strategies.
Our Business Management with Hospitality BA covers key areas such as food, drink, and culture and contemporary business operations.
You'll also gain hands-on experience through placements, internships, and industry projects, preparing you for a variety of exciting careers within the hospitality industry.
Prepare to become a leader in the hospitality industry with a Business Management with Hospitality degree.
Hospitality is one of the largest sectors in the UK which has a broad umbrella, providing a range of diverse and exciting careers opportunities.
Our modern curriculum will prepare you for your career through a blend of practical learning and hands on experience through work placement opportunities.
Learn to navigate operational challenges, understand cross-cultural influences on food and drink, and apply innovative strategies to meet evolving consumer demands.
You will gain the skills needed to adapt to industry disruptions, like those posed by firms like Airbnb, with creativity and strategic thinking, amongst other skills needed to succeed in your future career.
BA (Hons) Business Management with Hospitality is part of our dynamic suite of Business Management degrees, offering you a comprehensive understanding of key business and management principles.
Leisure, Sport and Society: Sustainability, Politics and Communities The module aims to provide students with knowledge and insight into the different sectors of the leisure and sports industry.
It focuses on the importance and nature of sport and leisure on society, including sustainability, politics, the economy, and society of a nation and the interconnectedness of each sector.
Food, Drink, Culture and Society In this module, you will develop the skills to understand the deep connection between food, drink, culture, and society, and how these elements shape hospitality and tourism experiences.
You will learn how to analyse evolving food trends, influenced by globalization and media, and apply this knowledge to create innovative food and beverage offerings.
By the end, you’ll be equipped to advise hospitality businesses on enhancing their menus and services, and understand the growing role of gastronomy tourism in sustainable destination development.
Hospitality Entrepreneurship and Innovation In this module, you will develop the skills to generate entrepreneurial ideas and drive innovation within the hospitality industry.
You will learn how to identify opportunities for creating new products, services, or business models that meet the evolving needs of guests.
Through the study of real-world examples and disruptive innovations like Airbnb, you'll gain the ability to innovate in response to industry challenges, preparing you to launch your own venture or contribute to a dynamic, forward-thinking hospitality business.
By enhancing your skills via our Professional and Academic Development Programme, you will grow in confidence and graduate with the intellectual, professional, and personal resources to pursue diverse career paths and roles within the dynamic hospitality industry.
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Business Management with Hospitality BA, tailored to the module theme and level.
FYO-00346

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagementwithhumanresources:
People are central to business success.
Discover how modern businesses function and effectively manage their workforce in a fast-changing world with our Business Management with Human Resources BA.
You’ll understand the business world, develop people management expertise, learn through real-world experiences and further your professional growth.
Our Business Management with Human Resources degree offers the potential for you to gain a thorough understanding of how businesses operate and manage their best asset – their employees.
The contemporary business world is complex, and our curriculum reflects this.
We will provide you with a solid foundation in the fundamentals of business management by focusing on key areas such as marketing, strategy, and business operations.
You will evaluate different leadership styles and management practices that impact organisational culture and operations, employee experience and performance.
To develop your human resource management expertise and prepare you for employment, you will explore topics including talent management, employee relations, reward management, strategic human resources practices, and learn to use industry-standard tools and techniques.
Keele Business School is an approved Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) centre.
The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development is a professional association for people who work in human resource management, learning and development, and other related fields.
We have established close relationships with the North Staffordshire and South Cheshire CIPD Branch, providing our CIPD student members with access to its 1,600-strong membership, professional networking events and workshops.
In addition, CIPD Midlands Area Partnership activities bring ten local CIPD branches in the area together, providing additional opportunities to access events, including student centred activities, such as induction and networking events.
A member of our teaching staff is currently a Committee Member of the local North Staffordshire and South Cheshire CIPD branch, further cementing the important links between Keele Business School and the professional body for HR professionals.
Developing the HR Professional This module assists in developing and applying essential skills required for success as an effective HR professional.
The module explores the knowledge, skills, and behaviours associated with the HR profession, provides insights on different parties within the employment relationship, and enables students to apply theories and concepts critically to enhance HR practice.
Emphasis is also on cultivating students’ ability as a reflective practitioner, dedicated to ongoing learning through reflecting on their own experiences, as well as on business and external contexts and their implications for professional practice.
Human Resource Strategy and Practice This module seeks to critically explore a variety of concepts, processes, and practices essential for managing people within work environments.
Focus is on exploring and evaluating different approaches to managing people, considering various stages of the employment cycle, including workplace planning and resourcing, retention, reward and performance management, employee training and development, as well as different forms of termination of employment.
Individual, organisational, and contextual factors that influence the management of people are also considered.
As a Keele Business School student, you will study alongside innovative companies that are based in the Business School building, a hub for fostering networks and linking with industry.
"The flexibility in my timetable allowed me to take extra modules in psychology, English Language and other areas that took my interest.
I took the opportunity to complete an Industrial Placement Year in between my second and third year of study, which I completed in the HR Department of a pharma company in Liverpool.
I felt that my first two years at Keele had ideally prepared me for this.
Staff were so enthusiastic and approachable, which added to the fun of learning.
Lecturers helped me practice for interviews and assessment centres.
I could not have chosen a better university to prepare me for my career and give me a better foundation to build onto.
Erin, Human Resource Management and International Business
"My curiosity to gain more knowledge and experience using my degree led me to a work placement as an Undergraduate Outreach Assistant at Keele.
The work placement helped me broaden my knowledge, guide me in knowing what I want from this degree and developed my weaknesses."
Adil, Business and Human Resource Management
In addition to subject specific knowledge the curriculum on our Business Management with Human Resources BA will ensure you have a strong suite of transferable skills that suit the modern work environment in jobs such as HR manager, recruitment consultant and talent development specialist.
You will graduate with an entrepreneurial and questioning mindset, excellent communication skills and strong critical thinking abilities.
Your subject knowledge will have improved and your confidence in your own strengths will have been enhanced through the opportunities on our Professional and Academic Development Programme, which will prepare you for employment in a variety of industries.
Jobs that a graduate from this course could go on to do include:
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Business Management with Human Resources BA, tailored to the module theme and level.
We create a safe and supportive space for you to practice your decision-making skills through simulated business contexts.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Business and Human Resource Management degree.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) Business and Human Resource Management with Foundation Year (UCAS code NN96 ) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagementwithinternationaltourism:
Step into the fast-paced and dynamic world of tourism with our Business Management with International Tourism BA.
This programme will allow you to explore your passion for travel, whilst developing essential business skills, from sports tourism to strategic management and data insights.
As the global tourism sector continues to evolve, this course offers you the unique opportunity to explore the complexities of international travel, destination marketing, and sustainable practices.
Discover how tourism impacts economies, politics, and societies, and equip yourself with the knowledge and experience to thrive in this dynamic industry.
A Business Management with International Tourism degree will prepare you for a career in the dynamic tourism sector by combining core business management principles with specialised tourism modules.
You will explore topics such as sustainable destination marketing, global travel trends, and the interconnections between tourism and other industries.
The curriculum emphasises sustainable practices and ethical policy development, addressing challenges like environmental damage, whilst recognising the diverse nature of the tourism industry.
Practical experience through internships and projects ensures graduates are well-equipped for diverse roles in tourism management and consultancy, while the programme also provides a strong foundation in essential business areas.
This programme will ensure you are prepared for a fulfilling career, whether you’re drawn to adventure, culture, or the intricacies of global travel.
BA (Hons) Business Management with International Tourism is part of our dynamic suite of Business Management degrees, offering you a comprehensive understanding of key business and management principles.
Leisure, Sport and Society: Sustainability, Politics and Communities This module will provide you with a foundational understanding of the leisure industries and the intersection between events, international tourism, leisure and sports.
You will develop insights in to the historical developments of these sectors and be able to identify critical issues relating to the management of these industries in different countries and regions.
Special Interest Tourism Special Interest Tourism (SIT) has emerged as an important and viable form of tourism that offers the tourism industry opportunities to differentiate their products and services and offer something that is unique and difficult to copy.
Instead of focusing on the ubiquitous 3Ss of Mass Tourism (sun, sea and sand), SIT instead centres on activities, experiences and interests.
In this module you will understand the key motivations for diverse nichese in the tourism sector and explore the management issues associated with the design and development of ethical, responsible and sustainable Special Interest Tourism products and services.
Sustainable Destination Marketing Unchecked tourism can harm the environment, create conflict between hosts and visitors, and erode local cultures.
Sustainable destination marketing plays a crucial role in addressing these challenges by promoting ethical tourism practices that protect natural resources, respect communities, and manage visitor numbers.
This module will equip you with the digital skills needed to develop and market destinations effectively, using data-driven strategies to balance stakeholder needs, enhance local economies, and preserve the integrity of destinations for future generations.
By enhancing your skills via our Professional and Academic Development Programme, you will grow in confidence and graduate with the intellectual, professional, and personal resources to pursue different career paths in diverse roles in the evolving tourism sector.
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Business Management with International Tourism BA, tailored to the module theme and level.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagementwithsupplychain:
Global consumer demand for goods relies on efficient supply chains, managed by experts in logistics and business operations.
Develop the critical industry skills to unlock exciting career opportunities in the sector on our Business Management with Supply Chain BA.
You will acquire essential business acumen in areas such as marketing, finance and organisational behaviour, while mastering supply chain management essentials including logistics, warehousing, transportation and network design.
Effective strategies for supply chain management are crucial for organisations to operate successfully in a constantly changing international trade environment.
Our Business Management with Supply Chain degree integrates core business management principles with a specialist focus on supply chain management.
It provides the opportunity to develop knowledge and practical skills in this growth area and gain a solid understanding of the broader business landscape.
You will explore topics such as sustainable procurement and supply chains, examining how effective purchasing enables the smooth flow of goods, while aiming to achieve the best cost and meet customer needs.
Purchasing management is analysed, looking at contracting out elements of the supply chain, sustainability and risk management.
You’ll also examine real-world case studies to see how companies handle their purchasing, procurement and global supply chains.
Our programme will introduce you to logistics, warehousing, goods transportation, and the entire process of transforming raw materials into finished products delivered to the end consumer.
Additional topics include inventory management, storage, network design, distribution and the different models of freight transportation.
BA (Hons) Business Management with Supply Chain is part of our dynamic suite of Business Management degrees, offering you a comprehensive understanding of key business and management principles.
Supply Chain Analytics and Information Management This module focuses on introducing students to operations research and statistical techniques to solve supply chain and logistics challenges.
The module also provides an insight into software used in supply chain management.
The module will also introduce information and communication systems- such as ERP, SAS, cloud based services, control towers, data systems.
Sustainable Procurement and Supply Chains The role of purchasing has become a key driver for enabling the smooth flow of goods as well as achieving optimum cost whilst meeting the customer requirements.
The module will examine the different approaches to manage the purchasing function.
In addition, an appraisal of why contracting out elements of the supply chain has taken place in many types of business will be undertaken.
The module will also discuss sustainability and supply risk management from a purchasing perspective, Case studies will be incorporated into the teaching to demonstrate how companies manage their purchasing, procurement and global supply chains.
Freight Transportation and Warehousing This module aims to introduce students to the topics of logistics, warehousing, and transportation of goods.
This module is important for students who are looking for a career in the logistics and supply chain industry.
The module develops insights into how material flows from the raw material stage to the consumer.
It covers aspects of inventory management, storage, network design, and distribution, multi modal, freight transportation.
This programme offers numerous opportunities to broaden your knowledge and develop a range of transferable skills that are highly valued by employers and enhance your future potential by opening the doors to a wide range of career opportunities where business acumen meets sustainable innovation.
By enhancing your skills via our Professional and Academic Development Programme, you will grow in confidence and graduate with the intellectual, professional, and personal resources to pursue diverse career paths.
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Business Management with Sustainability BA, tailored to the module theme and level.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagementwithsustainability:
Take charge of your future by mastering the intersection of business success and environmental leadership, gaining the skills to drive sustainable change across industries.
By integrating innovative business strategies with a commitment to long-term environmental and social impact, this Business Management and Sustainability BA opens doors to thriving careers that make a real difference.
Our BA (Hons) Business Management with Sustainability degree is ideal for students who want to combine business expertise with a passion for sustainability.
This programme goes beyond traditional business education by focusing on sustainable practices that align with today’s global ecological and social challenges.
You’ll gain essential skills in sustainability consulting, corporate social responsibility, and green business development, positioning you at the forefront of industries like renewable energy, sustainable finance, and environmental advocacy.
By exploring various systems and their relevance to different industries and company sizes, you’ll gain valuable insights into improving environmental performance.
With a focus on international companies and circular economy approaches, you’ll develop practical tools to help businesses adopt sustainable practices across the entire supply chain, preparing you to drive positive environmental change in diverse sectors.
Through practical case studies, you’ll learn how to identify, assess, and address climate-related risks, while responding to growing international demands for corporate accountability regarding environmental and biodiversity impacts.
You'll be encouraged to think critically about the balance between risks and opportunities, preparing you to navigate the complexities of sustainable business practices in a changing world.
BA (Hons) Business Management with Sustainability is part of our dynamic suite of Business Management degrees, offering you a comprehensive understanding of key business and management principles.
Environmental Management Systems This module aims to introduce students to the relevance of environmental management systems as part of the day-to-day functioning of companies.
It will help students understand the different types of environmental management systems and their applicability to different company sizes and sectors, together with their growing importance particularly for companies operating internationally.
The module will provide the basic tools to assess how companies can improve their environmental performance across the whole supply chain system, embracing circular economy approaches.
Climate Risk and Business Performance In this module you will learn how climate change poses different types of risk for the existence and continuation of businesses' activities, particularly thinking in the longer term, for strategic decision-making.
Through practical case studies you will learn how to recognise, evaluate, report and address those risks, in response to emerging international and societal demands for businesses accountability of their impacts over environment and biodiversity.
You will critically engage in the debates about the dichotomy between climate risks and opportunities.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/businesspsychology:
Uncover the mysteries of human behaviour in a business context.
From inspiring leadership, to motivating employees and encouraging team building, our Business Psychology BSc investigates the psychological factors that drive business success.
This BPS-accredited programme equips you to understand the influence of mental and physical health amongst individuals within organisations, enabling you to apply this to a range of careers in business and beyond.
Hear from our students and staff – who share their personal experiences of what it's like to study Psychology at Keele.
Develop an understanding of people, their behaviour and wellbeing, and how this influences performance in the workplace on Keele's Business Psychology BSc.
Whether you're curious about marketing strategies, organisational development or human resources, our BPS-accredited programme* explores the exciting role of psychology within business contexts.
From leadership, team building and motivation, all are important aspects for business to maintain and encourage productivity and further development.
You'll learn and critically evaluate the factors that play a key role in fulfilling an efficient and positive environment.
Discover the psychological influences shaping behaviour including biological functions, cognition, individual differences and social development.
You will explore the role of scientific evidence in psychological practice, having the opportunity to engage with both qualitative and quantitative research.
With access to various facilities and equipment from virtual reality headsets, brain stimulation equipment and our state of the art Central Science Laboratories , you will have the chance to explore human behaviour both theoretically and practically.
As you progress through your degree you will be able to further explore areas of personal interests, enabling you to dig deeper and tailor your degree to your career interests through module selection in your second year.
At Keele, you will advance your professional skills as a researcher and psychologist in the making.
Whether you would like to pursue a career in industry or related fields, our programme equips you with core skills in communication, problem-solving and analytical thinking to help prepare you for employment.
This involves practical experience with real-world research projects, industry equipment and placement opportunities, enabling you to apply your learning and prepare for a range of careers and/or further study.
You will also have the opportunity to study abroad with a partner university, developing global perspectives and cultural awareness.
*subject to passing your final year project and achieving a minimum 2:2 degree award
This course is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS)*
BPS accreditation acknowledges that our Psychology programme meets the industry standards for contemporary practice.
If you are interested in pursuing a career in the psychology profession, it is also the first step in your journey in progressing to postgraduate study, so you can become a chartered psychologist.
First Steps in Becoming a Psychology Researcher You will be introduced to research methods for psychology, including the philosophical underpinnings of qualitative and quantitative design, as well as data collection, data analysis, and report writing.
You will have a combination of in-person and asynchronous active learning, complemented by weekly 2-hour practical labs.
The labs are applied in nature and you will get a deeper understanding of how qualitative and quantitative research works.
Understanding People The core psychological topics in development, social, cognitive, and biological psychology, as well as individual differences, will be introduced.
You will learn about how psychologists have carried out research to better understand human behaviour and thought in areas such as cognitive and social development, social influence, group processes, how we understand sensory information, memories, and the ways in which genes and hormones influence behaviour.
Exploring and Applying Psychological Topics Building on ‘Understanding People’, this module expands on core psychological topics as well as more specialist areas, such as health, forensic, sport, business, educational, and clinical psychology.
You will be given opportunities to explore and reflect on different areas of psychology you may not yet be aware of and consider how this could inform your future career routes.
Exploring Business Foundations: Principles and Practices This module introduces you to the essential concepts and practices in business, including basic economics, management principles, and the roles of marketing and finance.
You will learn about the structure of various business organisations and begin to understand the dynamics of the business world.
The module allows you to think about the implications of different aspects of business functioning in an industry of their choice.
Next Steps in Becoming a Psychology Researcher Building on ‘First Steps in Becoming a Psychology Researcher’, you will be introduced to more advanced topics in both qualitative and quantitative research methods.
Qualitative topics include data collection skills, such as interviews or focus groups, as well as analysis techniques such as thematic analysis or discourse analysis.
Quantitative topics includes factorial ANOVA, planned comparisons, etc.
Content will be delivered via in-person teaching and asynchronous active learning and is complemented by practical labs where you can practice your skills.
Understanding People in Depth Building on ‘Understanding People’, you will study theory and findings associated with developmental, social, cognitive, and biological psychology and individual differences.
Topics on this module may include parenting, emotional development, attitudes, identity, perception, attention, and biological systems underpinning mental processes and behaviour.
This module will highlight historical, individual and cultural developments in psychology, as well as integrating psychological sub-disciplines to give a more holistic understanding of human psychology.
Business Psychology Theory and Practice Like the world of business, business psychology is a dynamic area of study, reflecting the changing world in which we work.
This module will provide you with an introduction to the main topic areas in Business Psychology and Occupational Psychology.
You’ll explore topics through the lens of evidence-based practice, helping you grasp the crucial role of scientific evidence in psychological practice.
You’ll dive into and critically evaluate literature from both psychological and business publications, equipping you with the skills to make informed, impactful decisions.
Management Essentials: People, Processes, and Performance Building on foundational knowledge, this module focuses on operational aspects of managing business - both small and large.
Topics include the management of people and resources, understanding operational processes, and techniques for improving organisational performance.
You will explore case studies and participate in simulations to see management theories in action.
The module allows you to think how people, processes and performance operate in an industry of their choice.
Psychopathology "Psycho" translates to "mind" and "pathos" means "illness or disease"; "-ology" means "to study".
In this module, we consider what has happened to the brain and the cognitive structure of the mind to cause them to develop conditions such as autism, schizophrenia and depression.
The module will primarily offer a biological and cognitive perspective, but you will be encouraged consider other perspectives, drawing on the whole of the psychology curriculum.
Cyberpsychology - the psychology of technology and the internet Cyberpsychology is a relatively new sub-discipline, but one that is increasingly relevant in today's online world.
In this module, the effects of the Internet and technology will be examined from a psychological perspective.
We will examine many contemporary issues such as online dating, the use of social media, online advertising, and how we interact with others on the Internet including cybercrime.
Collective Action and Social Change You will learn about individual and group level processes that energize and sedate social change.
You will be exposed to a wide variety of contexts from across the world and work of researchers from these contexts.
You will then apply your knowledge to and learning to analyze and understand current events, protests, demonstrations, and larger social movements and provide recommendations to decision makers.
The Psychology of Crime, Investigation, and Punishment Why do people commit crimes?
How are crimes investigated?
Is our criminal justice and penal system fit for purpose?
Forensic psychology refers to the interface of broad sub-disciplines of psychology with the criminal justice system.
This module provides an introductory overview of forensic psychology, covering the causes of crime and victimisation, investigation of crime, punishment of crime, and life after crime, as well as more specialist coverage and discussion of topics, such as criminal justice theory, forensic evidence, false confessions, and alternative dispute resolution.
Health Psychology Why do people behave the way that they do around their health?
You will learn about key theories and models from health psychology that help us to understand the psychological aspects of health, the main methodological approaches we use to study health psychology, and how we can develop health interventions to promote aspects of health.
You will also learn more about the inequalities in health that exist in society, and what we might be able to do to tackle them.
Neuroimaging & Cognitive Neuroscience One of science’s biggest unanswered questions regards how complex cognition, behaviour, and consciousness arise from the structure and activity of the brain.
This module will introduce methods and applications of cognitive neuroscience as a way to study brain-behaviour relationships, how to test psychological theories of cognition, and understand the effects of brain injury and disease.
You will learn about brain imaging methods such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (FMRI) and EEG, etc.
In addition, you will learn to apply each method to theoretical, applied, or clinical issues.
Child Psychology in Practice Psychology is used in many fields and professions which seek to improve the lives of children.
One of the most common ways is in interventions, which are designed to address developmental, social, or educational issues.
This module will introduce you to the foundational principles of intervention design and evaluation and how psychology has been applied in a variety of contexts, which may include: how children learn, healthy and unhealthy relationships, children with special educational needs and disabilities (SEND), amongst others.
Wellbeing & Mental Health in the Community In this module, you will be introduced to different communities and how mental health and wellbeing might vary depending on the community.
You'll be taught about the short-term and long-term consequences of mental health and wellbeing for individuals but also society more broadly.
You will also start to think about what you can do as a researcher to help your community.
Being a Psychology Researcher The dissertation module, which runs over Autumn and Spring Semesters, offers the opportunity to put into practice all the scholarship and research methods skills developed over the Psychology Course.
Successful completion of the Final Year Project is a prerequisite for a psychology degree to confer British Psychological Society Chartership, which is necessary to pursue any professional career in psychology.
You will design, conduct and write-up a piece of original empirical work.
Professional Skills for Researchers Building on the skills developed in previous years, this module will support you in the final steps to being a psychology researcher.
The module is designed to enhance your broad employability skills that are transferrable beyond academia, such as using AI ethically, data protection/handling, ethical awareness, science communication, etc.
In addition, the module will provide you with advanced skills to support with conducting your dissertation, providing skills around research design, data collection (e.g.
advanced Qualtrics skills, PsychoPy skills, etc), and analysis support.
Leadership and Coaching for Workplace Wellbeing How do we unlock the potential of employees and leaders?
In this module, you will discover how to help employees and leaders reach their full potential and create healthy workplaces.
Through the lens of work psychology, you will develop the knowledge to understand workplace wellbeing and its implications for businesses.
You’ll explore the critical role of leadership and work design in fostering safe environments and engage in practical sessions to develop essential business psychology coaching skills.
Practice these techniques in a supportive setting through discussions, debates, and role plays.
Grand Challenges in Psychology This final year module serves as the culminating and integrative experience of our undergraduate degree programmes.
In this capstone module you will extend your appreciation of how psychology and psychological science have developed culturally and historically to get us to where we are now.
Indicative topics include: consciousness and cognition; the use of psychology for manipulation and control; the replication crisis and open science; understanding conflict and entrenched beliefs; and psychology in the criminal justice system.
These topics will be explored in a way that extends and synthesizes your previous learning from across the breadth of the programme.
Strategic Business Insights: Innovating and Competing This advanced module focuses on strategic thinking and decision-making within the business ext.
You will examine how businesses can formulate strategies to maintain competitive advantage, adapt to changing markets, and innovate.
The module includes discussions on global business challenges, sustainability, and the role of technology in business transformation.
The module allows you to focus on strategic challenges facing organisations in an industry of their choice.
Hear from our students and staff – who share their personal experiences of studying at Keele.
Gain hands-on experience with an optional placement year in between years two and three of your degree programme.
This valuable character-building experience will help you to prepare for the workplace by spending a year in industry, developing skills and knowledge, whilst drawing on psychological principles, theories and methods.
With this experience, you will become well prepared for employment and strengthen your prospects for life after university.
Enhance your career prospects with an International Year at one of our partner institutions in between years two and three of your degree programme.
This exciting opportunity enables you to explore different cultural perspectives, establish international networks and gain new experiences whilst building your personal and professional attributes, supporting your career prospects.
Our summer research assistantship scheme is a paid opportunity during the second or third year of your degree programme that allows you to work alongside Keele staff on a research project, gaining valuable work experience.
From data analysis to problem-solving, you will acquire crucial skills in research, preparing you for employment or postgraduate study.
Please note: There is an application process for this scheme and the number of projects available will vary each year.
BBB in three A Levels.
Contextual Offer : BCC in three A Levels.
DDM in any BTEC Extended Diploma / National Extended Diploma.
Contextual Offer : DMM in any BTEC Extended Diploma / National Extended Diploma.
Distinction and Distinction in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and C in one A Level, or Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in one A Level
Distinction in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BC in two A Levels, or Merit in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and AB in two A Levels
Merit in any T Level
555 in three Higher Levels, or 30 points.
Contextual Offer: 544 in three Higher Levels, or 28 points.
122 UCAS points in any Access to HE Diploma including Distinction in at least 30 Level 3 credits
The Advanced Skills Challenge Certificate is equivalent to one full A Level at the same grade and can be included alongside 2 other A Levels in a standard A Level offer for this course (see A level).
BBBCC in five Highers, or CC in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers, or CCC in three Advanced Highers
H3, H3, H4, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate
73% in the Gaokao
Average of 70% from four subjects in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 75% from four subjects in any other Standard XII
2.2 overall average in the Abitur
13 in the French Baccalaureate / International Option Baccalaureate, or 12.5 in the Baccalauréat Français International.
444 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE
Overall average of 7.4 in the Título de Bachillerato
80% in the Esame di Stato
18 / 86% in the Apolytirion
Overall average of 15.5 in a secondary certificate
65% / BBBCC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma
444 from three Advanced Placement subjects
BBB in three Advanced Levels
BBB in three subjects in the STPM
BBB in three H2 Levels
72% overall
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with BBB and a C in EAP English Language module
BBB in three Principal level subjects in the Advanced Certificate of Education
National Senior Certificate: 66666 in five subjects.
BBB in three Advanced Level subjects
We pride ourselves on our multi-layered student support structure.
You will have access to an academic mentor, academic support team and disability officer.
A careers tutor and member of Keele’s Student Experience and Support team will also be dedicated to the School of Psychology if you need any additional support, or someone to talk to, whether about your degree programme or life outside of your studies.
We have a wealth of student-led societies at Keele which cover a diverse range of interests.
Joining a society is a great opportunity to continue to develop your skills away from your studies and can be beneficial when it comes to applying for graduate roles.
As a university and as a School, we are committed to equality, diversity and inclusion.
This means we aim to create a diverse and inclusive culture in which you can thrive.
Our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) agenda is embedded throughout our curriculum, and the School of Psychology are proud to have been recognised for our activities in this area by holding The Athena SWAN bronze award.
Prepare for an exciting career across business, psychology and related industries.
Upon graduation, you will become equipped with transferable skills including critical thinking, communication and problem-solving, that can be applied to various careers such as: business coaching, human resources, organisational development and research.
Having an Occupational Psychologist as the Psychology careers tutor within the School means that you will have the opportunity to access support in identifying a career path which suits your values and strengths.
Occupational Psychologists use a range of evidence-based psychological skills, tools and techniques to work with individuals in a coaching capacity, enabling you to highlight your individual skills and attributes.
Expand your opportunities, with a career in:
To become a chartered psychologist, you will need to receive further training in the specific field of psychology that you want to work in.
It is important to consider it will take at least six years to become a fully qualified psychologist, which includes a full three year degree, such as this one and three years of postgraduate training.
Learn from experienced academic staff who are leaders in business psychology research and practice.
Our team of qualified business psychologists brings a wealth of real-world experience and cutting-edge research to the classroom, ensuring you engage with a contemporary and practical education.
Our Business Psychology BSc teaches you through a diverse range of methods that suit various learning styles.
Benefit from hands-on experiences of critical analysis, research design, planning and analytical review, allowing you the opportunity to engage with tutor-led and peer discussions.
Teaching methods include:
You will also engage in independent study, with use of academic journals and textbooks, whilst also building team working skills alongside your peers.
With this learning combined, you will become equipped with skills and knowledge in preparation for your final year dissertation 'Being a Psychology Researcher', with the opportunity to undertake a piece of independent research.
As you progress through your degree, you will engage with an arrange of learning styles which are complemented by your assessments, enabling you to demonstrate the knowledge and expertise you have gained.
With a mix of assessment methods, you will attain transferable skills, showing the versatility of your skill-set.
You will be assessed via:
The School of Psychology is housed in the Dorothy Hodgkin building.
Located at the heart of campus, our school offers a supportive environment with a close-knit student and staff community.
The majority of lecture theatres, resource facilities and academics are situated within the building.
Having everyone housed under one roof supports collaboration with peers and fostering new networks.
In the School of Psychology, you will have access to our laboratories that house advanced equipment for research involving adults and children.
This includes:
You may also study in Keele's state-of-the-art, Central Science Laboratories and benefit from world-class learning facilities.
An entire floor is fully equipped with PCs and all necessary software for practical labs throughout teaching semesters.
Located at the heart of Keele University Science & Innovation Park and one of the leading developments of its kind in the UK, Keele Business School houses a variety of innovative companies and offers a hub for fostering networks and linking with industry.
Our teaching is driven by research and you will learn about some of the latest topics in the field.
Research within the School of Psychology is supported by four research groups : Cognition, Brain, & Behaviour Research Group, Health, Well-being, and Behaviour Change Research Group, Identities, Values and Social Change Research Group, and Justice, Security, & Institutional Change Research Group.
In addition, we have a Keele Augmented, Virtual, and Extended Reality Network (KAVERN), and various members of the school are engaged in interdisciplinary research, including the Keele Policing Academic Collaboration (KPAC) , and projects with colleagues in Health, Social Sciences and Humanities disciplines.
Find out more about our academic experts and their research in the field of psychology.
The Keele Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Business Psychology degree.
For example, the Foundations of Social Sciences 1 module introduces you to the ‘backbone’ of social sciences, the concept of social inclusion, the factors that lead to exclusion and the impact this may have on individuals, families and communities.
In addition, the Foundations of Psychology module introduces you to the principles and concepts of psychology in a theoretical context, while also demonstrating the application of concepts to everyday life.
Applicants will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Business Psychology with Foundation Year (UCAS code CN82) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/businesstechnology:
Emerging technologies are transforming the business landscape.
Combine your passion for technology with a broad understanding of business operations and the technical expertise to drive business innovation and success.
You’ll explore a wide range of technologies and gain hands-on experience of applying them to real-world contexts.
Our Business Technology BSc builds your knowledge of key business concepts including leadership, management, marketing and strategy, so you have the skills to bridge the gap between business and IT, becoming a highly sought-after employee.
The integration of business operations and the latest technology is creating a complex environment for organisations, driving demand for individuals who have expertise in both areas.
Our Business Technology degree will equip you with cutting-edge skills and knowledge, preparing you to address the technological challenges you may encounter working in areas such as tech companies, financial services and the public sector.
You’ll discover how technology is impacting and enhancing the business environment and develop your understanding of information systems, cybersecurity management and artificial intelligence.
You will explore and apply emerging technologies to enhance operations and gain practical experience of applying your technical skills in everyday business situations.
Our curriculum has a strong focus on industry collaboration, and you’ll explore the fundamentals of business operations including how businesses are impacted by political, economic, technological and societal factors.
Contemporary business practices such as project management techniques are analysed, and you'll explore the complexities of strategic management and how it enables organisations to stay competitive and sustainable.
Introduction to Business Technology This module provides you with foundational understanding of the role of technology in modern business.
It covers key concepts, tools, and applications that businesses use to enhance operations, decision-making, and strategic planning.
You will gain practical skills and theoretical knowledge necessary to understand and leverage technology in business contexts.
Emerging Technologies and Issues Emerging Technologies and Issues explores emerging technologies that are shaping the future, preparing students to adapt to and leverage these technologies in their future careers.
Through theoretical lectures, hands-on workshops, and case studies, you will gain insights into cutting-edge technologies such as artificial intelligence, Internet of Things (IoT), blockchain, Augmented Reality (AR), Virtual Reality (VR), and quantum computing.
Information Systems, Cybersecurity and Management The Information Systems, Cybersecurity and Management module is designed to provide you with a comprehensive understanding of cybersecurity principles, practices, and management strategies.
In today's interconnected world, cybersecurity has become a critical concern for organisations of all sizes.
This module will equip you with the knowledge and skills necessary to address cybersecurity challenges effectively, emphasising the integration of cybersecurity with organisational management practices.
You can choose between undertaking a solo project or working with a group to collaborate on a large project.
Artificial Intelligence Applications The Artificial Intelligence Applications provides an in-depth understanding of advanced AI techniques and their practical applications across various domains.
Through a combination of theoretical lectures, practical workshops, and hands-on projects, you  will explore cutting-edge AI algorithms and tools used to solve complex problems and enhance decision-making processes.
The module will also examine the ethical and societal implications of AI applications, fostering discussions on responsible AI development and deployment.
Jobs that a graduate of this programme could progress to:
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Business Technology BSc, tailored to the module theme and level.
Students will need to apply for BSc Business Technology with Foundation Year ( N124 ) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/chemistry:
From core chemical principles, models and vocabulary to the pivotal role chemistry plays in addressing global, economic and environmental challenges, Chemistry BSc at Keele offers maximum flexibility to explore topics across the full breadth of the subject.
With hands-on access to sector-leading laboratory facilities, and professional and practical skills embedded into the curriculum, you will graduate with a toolkit of chemistry skills to enter a wide range of science-related careers.
Hear from our students and staff – who share their personal experiences of what it's like to study Chemistry at Keele.
Chemistry is the science which bridges the fundamental atomic building blocks of the universe to the complexity of the living world.
The impact of chemistry on modern life ranges from the advanced materials powering our devices, to the sustainable production and re-use of resources, the key processes which influence our environment and climate, and the life-saving drugs essential to modern medicine.
Our Chemistry degree explores the pivotal role chemistry plays in tackling global, economic and environmental challenges of the 21st century, threading sustainability and industrial chemistry through traditional chemical principles and theories.
You will have opportunities for individual advanced project work, collaborative learning, work and educational placements, and to explore frontier topics guided by our world-leading researchers.
During your first two years of your chemical science degree, you will be taught the core concepts in the fundamental areas of inorganic, organic, physical and analytical chemistry.
From the outset, you will explore how chemistry interfaces with biology, physics and environmental science.
Your learning will be supported through interactive teaching, workshops and small group activities, as well as frequent opportunities to practice key concepts in our state-of-the-art laboratories.
Throughout the programme you will have the opportunity to study topics of interest across chemistry, including some at the forefront of modern chemical sciences research.
As our programmes share a common first year, should you wish to and have opted for the relevant second year modules, you will have the opportunity to transfer to our medicinal or materials chemistry degree.
One of the highlights of your degree is your third year independent research project, which can be aligned to your own interests and career goals.
Rather than scripted laboratory work, you will collaborate with an academic member of staff to complete approximately 80 hours of project work, spread over both semesters.
You will also conduct an in-depth literature review, giving you the opportunity to delve into an area of your own personal interest which you may connect to your research project, or diversify into another area.
These activities will allow you to focus and fully immerse yourself at the forefront of your field and apply your skills of scientific inquiry to make a tangible impact.
Designed to provide you with the specialist skills you will need as a professional, modern chemist, our chemistry courses have practical and professional development modules embedded throughout our curriculum.
From hands-on experience using specialist computational tools and research-grade instrumentation in our sector-leading laboratory facilities, to dedicated career-focused sessions and authentic assessments, we will provide you with the knowledge, tools and connections to develop a strong foundation for your future career.
At Keele we're leading the sector in sustainability, not just in our ambitions to become carbon neutral by 2030 but also through our teaching and our ground-breaking research into climate change and renewable technologies.
In 2021 we were awarded the prestigious title of Global Sustainability Institution of the Year (International Green Gown Awards, 2021).
Within the School of Chemical and Physical Sciences we promote sustainability through our teaching to raise awareness of the environmental issues within chemistry.
On the programme you will explore how chemistry is placed within the social, political and economic context of 'the real world' with a heavy emphasis on environmental sustainability and the implications for humanity.
You will also discover how chemistry associated with industrial processes has changed to become more sustainable and how it must continue to change to further this progress.
Find out more about Keele’s commitment to sustainability
This programme is accredited by the Royal Society of Chemistry.
Accreditation fulfils part of the academic requirements to enable students to pursue the award of Chartered Chemist (CCHEM).
Practical and Professional Chemistry Skills A professional, modern chemist requires a range of specialist skills, which you will begin to develop in this module.
In the laboratory you will learn a range of experimental synthetic and analytical techniques and be trained in how to prepare and run your own samples on UV-vis, IR and NMR spectrometers and process and interpret spectra.
There is a focus on transferable employability skills emphasising communication (oral and written), chemical safety, professional note taking, sustainable laboratory practices and green chemistry.
Chemical Structure and Reactivity Why do atoms bond?
How can we predict reactivity?
How can we measure and observe chemical reactions?
This module answers these questions and teaches you core chemical principles, models and vocabulary essential for your understanding of atomic and molecular structure, physicochemical properties, chemical bonding, spectroscopy and reactivity.
The learning activities are designed to support your knowledge, understanding, problem-solving and information literacy skills through the effective use of feedback and from ongoing reflection on your progress.
Chemistry Connections This module spans the breadth of the chemical sciences and complementary disciplines, exploring the chemical basis of human biology and materials science and developing transferable skills in scientific programming and statistics.
Learning activities include focused chemistry case studies and are designed to initiate progress towards Keele's Graduate Attributes with an emphasis on team working, problem-solving and independent research skills, as well as giving you the multi-disciplinary knowledge to place your chemistry studies in a wider scientific and societal context.
Sustainable Chemistry Chemistry, as a central science, is critical to the transformations before us from moving from a linear economy to a circular one, combatting environmental degradation, and ensuring a sustainable future for our planet.
In sustainable chemistry we will take a systems thinking approach to tackle the complexity of these challenges and focus on the role of chemistry in working towards solutions.
Assessment will build your skills in evaluating information and presenting scientific knowledge in different formats for a broad audience.
Science and Society In this module you will consider the role that the Natural Sciences can play in the resolution of the major challenges facing society.
You will have opportunities to apply foundational knowledge and skills, methodological and analytical tools, perspectives to specific problems and societal challenges introduced through the Grand Challenges lecture series.
You will also develop information literacy, oral presentation, and academic writing and reading skills, and problem-solving skills that are essential to longer-term success within your degree programme.
Practical and Professional Chemistry The practical and professional skills you developed at level 4 will be broadened and enhanced in this module.
You will study new more advanced lab skills required for the synthesis of molecules.
You will collect data and compare it with theoretical models, using advanced functions of Excel and error analysis.
Through assessment, you will continue to develop your ability to professionally record, analyse and communicate your findings, and develop further employability and entrepreneurship skills through an industrial chemistry-themed group project.
Chemical Characterisation and Transformations Your fundamental understanding of core chemical principles developed at level 4 will be further developed in this module, with a deeper exploration of key techniques, principles and quantitative models in organic, inorganic and physical chemistry.
Supported by an interactive teaching style which builds links between fundamental theory and observable phenomena, you will gain an advanced competency in the essential chemical concepts which underpin the modern applications and practices in the rest of the programme.
Environmental Analysis In this module you will gain experience with a wide range of modern spectroscopic and analytical techniques, focusing on their use in environmental analysis.
These techniques include analytical chromatography, mass spectrometry and multinuclear NMR, which are widely used in commercial analytical laboratories and constitute essential employability skills.
You will gain hands-on experience in using some of these techniques in the lab, as well as professional data analysis, interpretation and presentation in a series of structured exercises and a group project .
Structure and Function in Materials Chemistry In this module you will learn about the chemistry and structure of solids and how solid-state processes can be manipulated to store, convert and deliver energy in modern batteries and fuel cells.
You will gain hands-on experience processing and interpreting X-ray diffraction data in structured workshops, and apply your understanding of solid-state chemistry to research, produce and present a poster detailing the chemical principles and sustainability implications of an aspect of battery or fuel cell chemistry.
Structure and Function in Medicinal Chemistry This module introduces the fundamental basis of medicinal chemistry in a multi-faceted exploration of the chemistry of enzymes.
You will develop new understanding in heterocyclic chemistry as both a key component of enzymes and a route to their chemical inhibition, explore the physical chemistry of enzyme catalysis, and discover the coordination chemistry dictating the core function of metalloenzymes.
You will perform, quantify and interpret an enzymatic reaction and apply your knowledge to a structured exercise predicting and rationalising enzyme chemistry.
Materials Properties and Nanoscience This module expands your understanding of solid-state chemistry into a study of the physical behaviours of materials and their response to physical, chemical and electronic stimuli, and examines how these behaviours change as materials transition in size from the macroscopic to the nanometre scale.
You will gain familiarity with nanomaterial characterisation methods and apply this understanding to interpret, process and critically analyse datasets from spectroscopic and nano-characterisation techniques .
Principles of Drug Design This module explores the interaction of small molecules with biological targets and applies this to the design of drug molecules.
Topics are presented with case studies and interactive workshops, building upon the taught material using on-line resources such as the Protein Data Bank and docking software to give real-world examples.
The module culminates in a drug design exercise where you work as a team to take a molecule through iterative stages of optimisation in a simulated drug discovery programme.
Flexible Work Placement In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
Kinetics, Catalysis and Mechanism This module develops and brings together theories, concepts and models from physical and inorganic chemistry and spectroscopy to account for experimental observations of inorganic and organic reactions.
As well as advanced chemical kinetics, this module will give you a complete, balanced understanding of transition metal catalysis both from an inorganic mechanistic standpoint and as a tool in advanced organic synthesis.
A distinctive feature of the module is the analysis and interpretation of data and observations in peer-reviewed research articles.
Synthetic Strategies in Organic Chemistry In this module you will expand your organic chemistry knowledge to explore advanced ideas and essential topics in modern organic synthesis at the forefront of real-world processes.
Pericyclic reactions, asymmetric synthesis and organoelement chemistry will be discussed in detail, using examples from across the industrial spectrum.
You will gain the skills to rationalise, predict and design advanced synthetic transformations and apply these both in a written examination and in an exercise designing new synthetic routes to pharmaceutically relevant molecules.
Inorganic, Physical and Quantum Chemistry This module builds upon important theories and concepts in inorganic and physical chemistry introduced at Levels 4 and 5 and applies these to explore new phenomena at the forefront of modern understanding in these fields.
In this module you will use computational chemistry software to perform quantum chemical calculations and put theory into practice by locating and analysing real data from the scientific literature to solve problems relating to reactions dynamics and electronic spectroscopy of coordination compounds.
Chemical Analysis: Instrumentation and Evaluation Building on your learning in Level 5, this module equips you with hands-on experience and an in-depth knowledge of a wide range of state-of-the-art instrument-based analytical techniques and the skills to apply this knowledge to solve problems and characterise the structures of unknown chemicals and materials.
Independent Research Project In consultation with an academic member of staff, you will select and carry out an individual, practical research project chosen from a wide range of topics across the breadth of the chemical sciences which may include organic, inorganic, physical, analytical, educational and computational fields.
You will plan, collect and analyse data in a contemporary project notebook and present your results in an authentically prepared scientific paper, and defend your original hypotheses and findings in an oral examination.
Scientific Literature Review In this module you will select a subject in an area of chemistry of your choice and undertake a comprehensive review of the primary chemical literature to plan, research and produce a written literature review, and share your findings in an oral presentation.
You will use appropriate research databases and digital repositories to fully immerse yourself in your chosen subject and develop your critical analysis skills to ask and answer novel questions at the forefront of your area of interest.
Topics in Chemical Science This module comprises advanced topics representing areas of academic, industrial and commercial significance in chemistry, materials and medicinal chemistry.
You will have the opportunity to study all topics but will choose which to be assessed on.
You will also research the work of an eminent chemist and its impact on contemporary chemistry, and present, advertise and answer questions on your findings.
These learning activities are designed to develop your advanced problem solving, information literacy, presentation and communication skills.
Mechanisms of Drug Action In this module you will learn how to use pharmaceutical databases to explore the pathway of drug substances through the body, looking at pharmaceutics, pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics.
This is followed by mini-symposia where you will prepare and deliver an oral presentation on a drug molecule of your choice.
You will demonstrate your breadth of knowledge though creating a set of Top Trumps style cards in which you will be assessed on your critical judgement of factors contributing to successful pharmaceuticals.
Semiconductors and Catalysts: Materials for Sustainability Semiconductors and heterogeneous catalysts underpin much of the modern chemical industry.
They provide the backbone to electronics, offer the fastest route to decarbonisation through photovoltaics, and enable sustainable practices in chemical manufacturing.
Building on and applying your foundational understanding in materials science from Level 5, in this module you will learn the solid-state chemistry principles behind these materials and how they are prepared and characterised, and apply your skills to a design task.
In between year two and three of your studies, there is the opportunity to undertake a placement, gaining valuable practical experience with a chemistry-focused company or organisation.
This will enable you to apply the skills and theories you have learnt to real situations in the industrial workplace, and enhance your employability.
Throughout your placement you will be supported by an academic advisor and a placements and project manager, who is based in the School of Chemical and Physical Sciences.
This exciting opportunity enables you to experience education from different cultural perspectives and to establish international networks.
We offer exchange opportunities with a wide variety of partner institutions, in between year two and year three of your degree.
.
From your second year you will be invited to attend our Chemical Sciences Seminar Series, featuring speakers from academia and industry presenting material at the forefront of current scientific knowledge.
This will provide you with invaluable insights into the latest research, trends and advancements from experts actively involved in their fields.
It will also enable you to gain insight into job market trends and build valuable connections that may help you with future career pursuits.
BBC in three A levels including C in Chemistry
Contextual Offer : CCC in three A levels including C in Chemistry
DMM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science, including completion of three out of four of the following units: Applications of Organic Chemistry, Applications of Inorganic Chemistry, Industrial Chemical Analysis, Practical Chemical Analysis
Contextual Offer : MMM  in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science, including completion of three out of four of the following units: Applications of Organic Chemistry, Applications of Inorganic Chemistry, Industrial Chemical Analysis, Practical Chemical Analysis
Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and C in Chemistry A level, or Distinction and Merit in Applied Science BTEC National Diploma / Diploma including completion of three out of four of the following units: Applications of Organic Chemistry, Applications of Inorganic Chemistry, Industrial Chemical Analysis, Practical Chemical Analysis, and C in any A level
Distinction in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and CC in two A Levels including C in Chemistry.
Merit in any of the following T Levels: Science, with specialism in Laboratory Sciences.
554 in three Higher Levels including 4 in Chemistry, or 29 points including 4 in Higher Level Chemistry
Contextual Offer : 543 in three Higher Levels including 4 in Chemistry, or 27 points including 4 in Higher Level Chemistry
112 UCAS points in an Access to HE Diploma with Chemistry related content, including Distinction in at least 15 Level 3 credits.
BCCCC in five Highers including Chemistry Higher, or CD in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers including Chemistry Higher or Advanced Higher, or CCD in three Advanced Highers including Chemistry Advanced Higher.
H3, H4, H4, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate including H4 in Chemistry or Physics and Chemistry (combined).
70% in the Gaokao including 70% in Chemistry.
Average of 65% from four subjects including 70% in Chemistry in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 70% from four subjects including 75% in Chemistry in any other Standard XII.
2.4 overall average in the Abitur including 12 in Chemistry.
12 in the French Baccalaureate / International Option Baccalaureate including 13 in Chemistry / Physics, or 12 in the Baccalauréat Français International including 12 in Chemistry / Physics.
443 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE including 4 in Chemistry.
Overall average of 7 in the Título de Bachillerato including 8 in Chemistry.
75% in the Esame di Stato including 8 in Chemistry.
17.5 / 83% in the Apolytirion including 18 in Chemistry.
Overall average of 15 in a Secondary Certificate including 16 in Chemistry.
60% / BCCCC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma including 70% in Chemistry.
443 from three Advanced Placement subjects including 4 in Chemistry.
BBC in three Advanced Levels including C in Chemistry.
BBC in three subjects in the STPM including C in Chemistry.
BBC in three H2 Levels including C in Chemistry.
70% overall with 7 in Chemistry.
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with BBC including C in Chemistry.
BBC in three Principal level subjects in the Advanced Certificate of Education including C in Chemistry
National Senior Certificate: BBC in three Advanced Level subjects including C in Chemistry or Biology.
BBC in three Advanced Level subjects including C in Chemistry
A dynamic group of staff with a broad range of expertise teach on the programme and bring a wealth of experience acquired through fundamental and applied research across a diverse range of areas.
Many of our teaching staff are Fellows or Senior Fellows of the Higher Education Academy, the professional body for teachers in Higher Education.
Fellowship provides individuals with recognition of their practice, impact and leadership of teaching and learning.
A number of our academic staff have also achieved national recognition for their excellence and innovation in teaching and hold awards from a variety of institutions, including the Royal Society of Chemistry and and AdvanceHE .
In testament to our teaching excellence, many of our teaching methods have been adopted by other chemistry departments in the UK and beyond.
Practical teaching will take place in Keele’s state-of-the-art £34m Central Science Laboratories (CSL).
You will have access to a wide variety and high volume of industry-standard equipment that is housed within a space designed to encourage and enable collaborative and interdisciplinary working.
We continue to invest in high quality equipment and instrumentation to an industry standard.
You will be trained how to use research level equipment from the first semester of your first year.
This means that by the time you graduate you will have extensive experience in the use of the instrumentation that you may use in your career or research within the field.
Our open-door policy enables you to engage with us directly, meaning you can seek support, gain feedback or discuss any matters related to the course.
You will also benefit from the support of an academic mentor and Keele's dedicated Faculty Student Experience and Support team .
You will graduate with a strong grounding in laboratory techniques, a suite of practical and professional employability skills and an awareness of the ethical implications and issues relating to environmental impact and sustainability.
Graduates of this programme enter a wide range of professions, both in and out of the laboratory.
Many also further their knowledge by undertaking further study at Master's level.
Roles that are related to your degree include:
The department has a dedicated careers tutor for chemistry and medicinal chemistry who organises subject specific careers sessions.
These include workshops and mock interviews with chemical companies and talks from returning graduates on how they have used their Keele degrees in their careers to date.
"Chemistry at Keele offers the perfect microcosm to flourish.
It cemented my love for science and has truly nurtured me into a critical and enthusiastic scientist.
Emma, Chemistry
You will have regular opportunities to talk through particular areas of difficulty, and any learning needs you may have, with your academic mentor or module lecturers on a one-to-one basis.
Your understanding and skills will be assessed through a diverse range of authentic activities which will develop your specialist and transferrable skills and prepare you for your future career.
You will receive personalised and comprehensive feedback, including opportunities for formative assessment in various formats.
Formative assessments allow both us and you to monitor your understanding whilst you're learning, which in turn allows adjustments and improvements to be made, both by us in the way that we teach and by you in the way that you learn.
"The chemistry department are so wonderful and till this day they’re helping me in my career as an educator.
I am especially grateful for introducing me to the wonders of team based learning, as I plan on implementing this in my career as a teacher."
Eniola, Chemistry
At Keele we are proud to be at the forefront of important research in tackling society's global challenges.
Keele chemists are helping to develop metal-organic frameworks for hydrogen storage - the fuel of the future, molecules that harvest light to create a new generation of solar panels and new drug molecules to fight illnesses such as malaria, cancer and viral disease.
In Chemistry we take an interdisciplinary approach to our work and collaborate with various research centres at Keele in addition to a range of national and international universities and industrial partners.
Much of our research is published in internationally-recognised journals.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Chemistry course.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Chemistry with Foundation Year (UCAS code F103) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/chemistrywithintegratedmasters:
Our Chemistry with Integrated Master's MChem offers maximum flexibility in allowing you to explore topics across the full breadth of chemistry, with a focus on your development as an independent researcher.
From undertaking a year-long research project, to extensive access to advanced laboratory facilities and research-grade instrumentation, you will gain the enhanced analytical techniques, data fluency, applied problem solving and employability skills to pursue a career as a professional chemist or further your studies with a PhD.
Our accredited MChem degree provides in-depth fundamental and applied knowledge in addition to current research trends from across the chemical sciences.
Threading sustainability and industrial chemistry through traditional chemical principles and theories, you will explore the fascinating role chemistry plays in addressing humanity's most urgent global, economic, health and environmental challenges.
In the first two years of study, you will build a strong foundation of core concepts in the fundamental areas of inorganic, organic, physical and analytical chemistry.
Your learning will be supported through interactive teaching, workshops and small group activities as well as frequent opportunities to apply key concepts in laboratory classes and other practical exercises.
During your third year you will have the opportunity to unleash your creativity and undertake an independent research project.
Rather than scripted laboratory work, you will collaborate with an academic member of staff to complete approximately 80 hours of project work , spread over both semesters.
You will also complete a literature review, giving you the opportunity to delve into an area of your own personal interest which you may connect to your research project, or diversify into another area.
The majority of your final year is devoted to your year-long independent research project.
Working in a collaborative research environment, your project will advance knowledge and tackle a new question in your subject, working towards contributing your own findings to the international scientific literature in your field.
Alongside your project you will participate in a series of research skills seminars that will train you in aspects of chemical research, advanced analytical techniques, and how to present data and scientific arguments to publication standard.
You will also study a range of synoptic and advanced chemistry topics that include applied problem solving and research at the forefront of chemistry.
As you complete your education as a well-rounded chemist you will have developed a full toolkit of skills, including advanced analytical techniques and applied problem solving.
Find out more about Keele’s commitment to sustainability .
You will gain hands-on experience in using some of these techniques in the lab, as well as professional data analysis, interpretation and presentation in a series of structured exercises and a group project.
You will gain familiarity with nanomaterial characterisation methods and apply this understanding to interpret, process and critically analyse datasets from spectroscopic and nano-characterisation techniques.
Synoptic Topics and Modern Trends in Chemistry This module explores a range of advanced topics in chemistry, medicinal chemistry and materials chemistry in an interactive seminar-based style.
A synoptic element will help reinforce your understanding of the core topics explored in Levels 4-6, promoting a holistic approach to the learning of chemistry and the connections between traditional discipline boundaries.
This is then built upon by exploring a series of modern chemistry topics, providing a degree of choice to allow students to specialise in their favoured areas.
MChem Research Training This module will give you the tools to succeed in research by developing your critical understanding of modern chemical sciences literature and research trends, learning about the research process and wider landscape, and gaining a selection of high level analytical and data processing skills.
You will also hone your communication skills, exploring modern methods for graphics, referencing and critical discussion necessary to prepare publication-quality scientific writing.
MChem Independent Research Project This module is an independent research project in your area of interest, chosen from across the chemical sciences.
With guidance from an academic staff member, you will design and carry out original experiments, interpret data, survey relevant literature and critically analyse your findings.
At the end of the project, you will present your findings as an authentic piece of original scientific writing with context from modern research literature in your area, and discuss your findings in an oral viva.
From your second year you will be invited to attend our Chemical Sciences Seminar Series in which you will experience speakers from academia and industry presenting material at the forefront of current scientific knowledge.
A number of our academic staff have also achieved national recognition for their excellence and innovation in teaching and hold awards from a variety of institutions, including the Royal Society of Chemistry and AdvanceHE.
In testament to our teaching excellence, many of the teaching methods we use have been adopted by other chemistry departments in the UK and beyond.
Our open-door policy enables you to engage with us directly, meaning you can seek support, gain feedback or discuss any matters related to your course.
You will benefit from the support of a academic mentor and Keele's Student Experience and Support team .
You will graduate with Master's level knowledge, strong laboratory techniques, a suite of transferable skills and an awareness of the ethical implications and issues relating to environmental impact and sustainability.
Graduates of this programme enter a range of professions, both in and out of the laboratory.
Many also further their research knowledge by studying at PhD level.
We take an interdisciplinary approach to our work and collaborate with various research centres at Keele in addition to a range of national and international universities and industrial partners.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the Mchem Chemistry with Integrated Master's (MChem) course.
In addition to meeting the Foundation Year progression requirements, students must also meet all credit requirements in each year of their studies to be awarded a Master’s Degree.
In addition to the modules above, students will study an additional 15 credits in semester one and 30 credits during semester two from a range of moduled (subject to timetabling).
Applicants will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Chemistry with Foundation Year (UCAS code F103) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/chemistrywithmaterialschemistry:
Our Chemistry with Materials Chemistry BSc combines the principles of chemistry with the study of materials and their real-world, practical applications in tackling global challenges, such as energy security.
From discovering frontier topics guided by our world-leading researchers to applying key concepts in our sector-leading laboratories, you will develop the practical and professional skills - including data fluency and materials design - to pursue a career in the chemical and allied industries, as well as sectors outside physical sciences.
Semiconductors, batteries, fuel cells and catalysts are essential to our green transition and net zero ambitions, by allowing us to transport, convert, deliver and conserve energy in all aspects of our industrial society.
At the intersection of Chemistry and Materials Science, our Chemistry with Materials Chemistry BSc provides you with an in-depth understanding of the fundamental theory and practical applications of such materials.
While continuing to develop a strong grounding in core chemistry, you will apply your understanding and skills to the modern problems at the forefront of materials science, gaining the conceptual and practical competencies needed to enable a sustainable future.
During your studies you will have opportunities for individual advanced project work, collaborative learning, placements, and exploration of frontier topics - guided by our world-leading researchers.
During the first two years of your studies, you will explore core concepts in the fundamental areas of inorganic, organic, physical and analytical chemistry.
Your learning will be supported through interactive teaching, workshops and small group activities as well as frequent opportunities to apply key concepts in our sector-leading laboratories - where you will gain individual, practical confidence using specialist computational tools and research-grade instrumentation.
Throughout your studies you can tailor your learning by choosing from a variety of optional modules  - including some at the forefront of modern chemical sciences research.
Your understanding and skills will be assessed through a diverse range of authentic activities which will develop your specialist and transferrable skills to prepare you for your future career.
To deepen your learning, we will provide you with personalised and comprehensive feedback and formative opportunities on assessed work in various formats.
In your final year you will undertake a substantial piece of meaningful research on a topic which aligns to your interests and career goals.
You will also conduct an in-depth literature review on an area of your own personal interest which you may connect to your research project, or diversify into another area of materials chemistry.
As you complete your education as a well-rounded materials chemist, you will develop a toolkit of skills, including data fluency, materials design and an understanding of their real-world application.
Building on and applying your foundational understanding in materials science from Level 5, in this module you will learn the solid-state chemistry principles behind these materials and how they are prepared and characterised, and apply your skills to a design task .
You will graduate with a depth and breadth of fundamental and applied knowledge from across chemistry and relevant topics in materials science, a strong grounding in laboratory techniques and an understanding of the intersection of chemistry and materials chemistry with sustainability, ethical practices and wider societal challenges.
Graduates of this programme may enter a wide range of professions, both in and out of the laboratory.
You may also further your knowledge by undertaking further study at Master's level.
Roles related to your degree include:
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Chemistry with Materials Chemistry course.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Chemistry with Materials Chemistry with Foundation Year (UCAS code F107) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/chemistrywithmaterialschemistrywithintegratedmasters:
Could you develop new materials needed in our move towards a completely renewable energy society?
Combining the principles of chemistry with the advanced study of materials and their practical applications in tackling global challenges, our Chemistry with Materials Chemistry with Integrated Master's MChem, will equip you with the advanced analytical techniques, data fluency, chemical design, applied problem solving and employability skills to pursue a research career as a professional materials chemist, or further your studies with a PhD.
Focusing on your development as an independent researcher and at the intersection of Chemistry and Materials Science, our MChem degree will provide you with an advanced understanding of the fundamental theory and practical applications of materials such as batteries, fuel cells and catalysts that allow us to transport, convert, deliver and conserve energy in all aspects of our industrial society.
The Materials Chemistry specialism applies a strong grounding in chemistry towards the materials chemistry principles required to solve problems at the interfaces of chemistry, physics and engineering.
Threading sustainability and industrial chemistry through traditional chemical principles and theories, you will also explore the fascinating role chemistry plays in addressing humanity's most urgent global, economic, health and environmental challenges.
Your development as a professional chemist is a central theme throughout the degree and you will benefit from embedded core practical, professional and employability skills woven throughout each year of your studies.
In your final year, you will undertake an extensive, year-long independent research project.
MChem Materials Chemistry Research Project This module is an independent research project in your area of interest, chosen from across the chemical sciences.
You will graduate with an advanced depth and breadth of fundamental and applied knowledge from across chemistry and relevant topics in materials science, a strong grounding in laboratory techniques and an understanding of the intersection of chemistry and materials chemistry with sustainability, ethical practices and wider societal challenges.
You may also enhance your knowledge by undertaking further study at PhD level.
You will acquire skills in:
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the Chemistry with Materials Chemistry with Integrated Master's course.
Students will need to apply for Chemistry with Materials Chemistry with Integrated Master's with Foundation Year (UCAS code F109) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/chemistrywithmathematics:
Develop a strong foundation in core chemical concepts, underpinned by advanced mathematics, to explore cutting-edge topics in our Chemistry with Mathematics BSc.
Guided by our nationally recognised educators and leading researchers, you’ll have access to specialist computational tools and research-grade instrumentation, opportunities for industry experience, and dedicated professional development and employability modules.
You'll graduate equipped with the analytical, practical and professional skills that employers value in a wide range of industries.
This programme will be put forward for accreditation by the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC).
The impact of chemistry on modern life ranges from the advanced materials powering our devices, to the sustainable production and re-use of resources.
The natural incorporation of mathematics into this programme will not only give you a breadth of knowledge, but more importantly will enable you to fully develop skills in problem solving, mathematical validation, logical arguments and abstraction, key for many scientific endeavours and solving some of the most pressing chemical challenges.
During the first two years of studying our Chemistry with Mathematics BSc, we will support you in learning the core concepts in the fundamental areas of inorganic, organic, physical and analytical chemistry, whilst developing your pure mathematical knowledge and skills to fully understand their use in a chemical context.
Designed to provide you with the specialist skills you will need as a professional, modern chemist, our chemistry course includes dedicated practical and professional development modules to enhance your employability.
In your second year, you'll refine your practical and professional abilities through extended problem-solving, report writing, effective communication, and teamwork.
Building on your first-year mathematics foundation, you'll take two specialised mathematics modules to apply mathematical concepts to real-world chemical processes.
Additionally, you'll have the opportunity to customise your learning through optional modules, industry placements, or studying abroad.
In your final year you will complete your education as a scientist, developing a toolkit of chemistry and mathematical skills.
To align your studies to your career aspiration, you can tailor your learning by choosing optional modules, including some topics at the forefront of modern chemical sciences research.
You will also have the opportunity to unleash your creativity and undertake an individual independent research project and an in-depth literature review.
Limits, Series and Calculus This module aims at deepening your understanding and appreciation of the origins of the essential techniques of elementary calculus, explaining why these methods work.
Starting with developing important preliminary ideas such as the real numbers, functions, sequences and series, on a more formal basis this leads to a fundamental concept of a limit, serving as a basis for further advances in differential and integral calculus.
Differential Equations and Multivariable Calculus Many real-world problems are governed by differential equations, the solution of which can help us understand their properties.
For instance, oscillation of a pendulum, and the population evolution of a fish species, can all be described by ordinary differential equations.
This module, being a prerequisite for several modules in the second and third years, will introduce you to the basic techniques for solving differential equations and familiarize you with multivariable calculus, including partial derivatives, double integrals, and their applications.
Linear Differential Equations Differential equations are used as mathematical models describing various processes in the real world.
This helps investigating problems related to population dynamics, heat dissipation in objects, vibrations of engineering structures and wave propagation, among many others.
Some situations require more than one differential equation to be solved at once, e.g., modelling dynamics of two populations (e.g., foxes and rabbits).
Within this module you will study a variety of methods for solving differential equations.
Complex Variable and Vector Calculus This module will introduce you to both vector calculus and complex variable.
Vector calculus studies vector functions of one or more real variables and its techniques and results are essential tools in many areas of applied mathematics, such as fluid mechanics.
Complex variable studies functions mapping complex numbers to complex numbers.
In this module, you will achieve elegant results in integration which can often be used to evaluate definite integrals of real-valued functions, without any knowledge of the indefinite integral.
Partial Differential Equations A large variety of physical phenomena, e.g.
wave propagation, heat conduction, traffic flows, and even the price evolution of the stock market, are governed by partial differential equations (PDEs).
This module introduces the basics of PDEs and equips you with separation of variables and Fourier transform/series).
This module would be useful if you intended to do a Master’s or PhD degree in financial mathematics or continuum mechanics.
Nonlinear Differential Equations Systems evolving in time are often modelled by differential equations, with numerous applications including climate change, stock markets, population dynamics, mechanical systems, etc.
We will study nonlinear differential equations, for which very few exact solutions are known, hence, introducing qualitative methods for describing various types of behaviour.
In particular, we will focus on geometrical representations of dynamics and systematic approximation techniques.
The consideration will then progress to dynamics of maps, setting the path for studying multiple periods and chaos.
Professional Experience in Education This module allows undergraduates to gain academic credit for their work in schools and colleges.
The undergraduate will develop a range of skills and be presented with an opportunity to experience an early taste of teaching for those interested in pursuing teaching or training as a career.
The undergraduate will work in a school or college for a total of 64 hours, to be agreed between the placement host and student.
The timing of the placement is flexible to support students’ home, study and work life balance, and to meet the needs/requirements of the placement host, but ideally within a concentrated block rather than dispersed over the whole year.
Suggested options include 8 × 8-hour (whole day) sessions, or 16 × 4-hour (half day) sessions.
Students will have the flexibility to source their own placement, a useful skill for seeking out future employment opportunities, but also can apply for a range of roles sourced by the university.
A dynamic group of staff with a broad range of expertise teach on the chemistry with mathematics programme and bring a wealth of experience acquired through research and scholarship across a diverse set of areas.
Our staff regularly make scholarly contributions to national education conferences, journals and books, as well as attract funding for teaching innovation projects, on topics spanning authentic assessment, embedding technology in teaching, team-based and active learning, gamification and induction to HE.
In between year two and three of your studies, you can undertake a placement.
This will provide you with practical experience and the opportunity to enhance your employability by applying the skills and theories you have learnt to real situations in the industrial workplace.
We also offer work placements based in schools and colleges , specifically for students interested in entering the teaching profession.
In between years two and three of your studies you can choose to spend a year studying abroad.
Find out more here .
ABC/BBB in three A levels including C in Chemistry and B in Maths
Contextual Offer : BCC in three A levels including C in Chemistry and B in Maths
DDM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science and B in Maths A level
Contextual Offer : DMM  in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science and B in Maths A level
Distinction and Merit in Applied Science BTEC National Diplomas / Diplomas and B in Maths A Level.
Distinction in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BC in two A Levels including C in Chemistry and B in Maths.
Unfortunately we do not accept T Levels for this Combined Honours course.
However please do explore our other courses in Chemistry or Maths, which do typically accept T Levels.
555 in three Higher Levels including 5 in Chemistry and 5 in Maths (Any), or 30 points including 5 in Higher Level Chemistry and 5 in Maths (any)
Contextual Offer : 553 in three Higher Levels including 5 in Chemistry and 5 in Maths (Any), or 28 points including 5 in Higher Level Chemistry and 5 in Maths (any)
122 UCAS points in an Access to HE Diploma with Chemistry and Maths related content, including Distinction in at least 30 Level 3 credits.
BBBCC in five Highers including Chemistry and Maths Higher, or CC in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers including Chemistry and Maths Higher or Advanced Higher, or CCC in three Advanced Highers including Chemistry and Maths Advanced Higher.
H3, H3, H4, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate including H4 in Chemistry or Physics and Chemistry (combined) and H4 in Maths.
73% in the Gaokao including 70% in Chemistry and 70% in Maths.
Average of 70% from four subjects including 70% in Chemistry and 70% in Maths in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 75% from four subjects including 75% in Chemistry and 75% in Maths in any other Standard XII.
2.2 overall average in the Abitur including 12 in Chemistry and 12 in Maths.
13 in the French Baccalaureate / International Option Baccalaureate including 13 in Chemistry / Physics and 13 in Maths, or 12.5 in the Baccalauréat Français International including 12.5 in Chemistry / Physics and 12.5 in Maths.
444 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE including 4 in Chemistry and 4 in Maths.
Overall average of 7.4 in the Título de Bachillerato including 8 in Chemistry and 8 in Maths.
70% in the Esame di Stato including 8 in Chemistry and 8 in Maths.
18 / 86% in the Apolytirion including 18 in Chemistry and 18 in Maths.
Overall average of 15.5 in a Secondary Certificate including 16 in Chemistry and 16 in Maths.
65% / BBBCC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma including 70% in Chemistry, 70% in Advanced Functions and 70% in Calculus and Vectors.
444 from three Advanced Placement subjects including 4 in Chemistry and 4 in Calculus (either).
ABC/BBB in three Advanced Levels including C in Chemistry and B in Maths.
ABC/BBB in three Principle level subjects in the STPM including C in Chemistry and B in Maths.
ABC/BBB in three H2 Levels including C in Chemistry and B in Maths.
72% overall with 7 in Chemistry and 7 in Maths (5 period).
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with BBB including B in Chemistry and B in Mathematics.
National Senior Certificate: 66666 in five subjects including 6 in Physical Science and 6 in Mathematics or Technical Mathematics (not including Maths Literacy).
ABC/BBB in three Advanced Level subjects including C in Chemistry and B in Maths
Practical and computational teaching will take place in Keele’s state-of-the-art, £34m Central Science Laboratories (CSL).
You will be trained how to use research level equipment f rom the first semester of your first year.
This means you will be familiar with the type of instrumentation you may use in your career within the field.
You will also have access to dedicated computer labs, including remote access, which will enable you to gain experience with specialised scientific software and Python coding facilities.
From an academic mentor to the use of electronic learning resources - including lecture notes, slides, laboratory scripts, assessments and briefing documents, past examination papers, online quizzes, videos, screencasts and audio clips -  we will give you plenty of support and guidance throughout the programme, so you can reach your full potential.
Based within your Faculty, you will also have access to a dedicated team of Student Experience & Support Officers (SESOs).
Whether you need advice, guidance or one-on-one support, you can talk to them throughout your time at Keele, whether it’s about your studies or life outside of them.
Whether you are considering postgraduate study or moving straight into a challenging career, you will graduate with a strong grounding in laboratory techniques, a suite of practical and professional employability skills and an awareness of the ethical implications and issues relating to environmental impact and sustainability.
Please note you may need to take further postgraduate study to enter some of the professions listed.
Our Chemistry with Mathematics programme is delivered with an emphasis on live, in-person, interactive sessions, supported by online materials on the KLE allowing flexible engagement.
Methods of teaching include interactive lectures supported by seminars, problem classes, workshops, team-based learning sessions and tutorials.
Practical classes ensure you develop hands-on experience of a range of skills and techniques, as well as dedicated PC labs where you familiarise yourself with specialised scientific software and gain more general employability skills.
You will receive personalised and comprehensive feedback and formative opportunities on assessed work in various formats.
Assessments include written and practical examinations, laboratory reports, scientific papers, research papers, problem sheets, literature reviews, posters and infographic assessments, presentations, vivas, technical interviews, group assignments and dissertations.
Within mathematics our research specialisms span a wide remit and feed into modules in the latter years of your degree.
Our research work has countless applications in engineering, biology, oceanography, meteorology, medicine, finance, economics and the digital world.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme that provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Chemistry with Mathematics degree.
Students will need to apply for Chemistry with Foundation Year (UCAS code F103) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/chemistrywithmedicinalchemistry:
Our accredited Chemistry with Medicinal Chemistry BSc will equip you with a solid grounding in the core areas of chemistry, exploring the complex biological and chemical problems involved in the design and synthesis of new clinical drugs.
From applying key concepts in our sector-leading laboratories to practical and professional development, you will develop a toolkit of skills including drug design and chemical synthesis, allowing you to pursue a career in biomedical research or the pharmaceutical industry.
Medicinal Chemistry focuses on the search for new drugs to treat a wide range of human ailments, from viral infections to cancer.
Our Chemistry with Medicinal Chemistry degree applies a strong grounding in chemistry towards the medicinal chemistry principles required to solve problems at the interfaces of chemistry, biochemistry, molecular biology and pharmacology.
Threading sustainability and industrial chemistry through traditional chemical principles and theories, you will explore the pivotal roles chemistry and medicinal chemistry play in addressing global, economic and environmental challenges.
In the first two years of study, you will learn the core concepts in the fundamental areas of inorganic, organic, physical and analytical chemistry.
From the outset, you will explore how chemistry interfaces with biology, leading to an in-depth exploration of the interfaces of medicinal chemistry as the degree progresses.
The second year continues to develop your understanding of core chemical principles.
You will also study specialist modules exploring the organic, inorganic and physical chemistry that underpins medicinal chemistry - identifying the ways that drug molecules interact with the body and applying this to the process of drug design.
One of the highlights of our Chemistry with Medicinal Chemistry BSc is your final year individual independent research project, which can be aligned to your own interests and career goals.
You will also conduct an in-depth literature review which can be connected to your research project, or into another area of medicinal chemistry.
Your learning will be supported through interactive teaching, workshops and small group activities as well as frequent opportunities to apply key concepts in our sector-leading laboratories and other practical exercises.
Forensic Toxicology In this module, you will examine the work of a forensic toxicologist.
You will study the pharmacological journey of compounds through the body as a lead into the process of toxicological investigation.
In addition to learning about the subject’s legal aspects, the role of the analyst will be explored, from sampling to the determination of toxins and poisons, with the use of toxicological cases and scenarios as authentic applications of the content.
From your second year you will be invited to attend our Chemical Sciences Seminar Series, in which you will experience speakers from academia and industry presenting material at the forefront of current scientific knowledge.
Practical teaching will take place in Keele’s state-of-the-art £34m Central Science Laboratories (CSL) .
You will have access to a dedicated synthetics laboratory plus computational and industry-standard equipment that are housed within a space designed to encourage and enable collaborative and interdisciplinary working.
"The interactive learning environment and collaborative opportunities at Keele further enhanced my skills and expanded my perspective on the diverse nature of medicinal chemistry"
Sarah, Medicinal Chemistry and Biochemistry
You will also benefit from the support of a academic mentor and Keele's Student Experience and Support team .
You will graduate with strong laboratory techniques, a suite of transferable skills and an awareness of the ethical implications and issues relating to environmental impact and sustainability.
Transferable skills you can acquire include:
If you are interested in gaining research experience you may have the opportunity to work on individual research projects with our academics during your studies.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Chemistry with Medicinal Chemistry course.
Applicants will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Chemistry with Medicinal Chemistry with Foundation Year (UCAS code F122) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/chemistrywithmedicinalchemistrywithintegratedmasters:
Are you looking to acquire the advanced knowledge and skills needed for a career as an independent researcher?
If so, our accredited Chemistry with Medicinal Chemistry with Integrated Master's MChem, offers a strong foundation across the entire spectrum of chemistry, with a particular emphasis on medicinal chemistry.
You will apply key concepts in our cutting-edge laboratories and engage in both practical and professional development.
This will equip you with the advanced analytical, problem-solving, and data processing skills, including predictive algorithms in drug design, to pursue a career in research or employment in the chemical, pharmaceutical, and related industries.
Our Chemistry with Medicinal Chemistry with Integrated Master's MChem will provide you with a deep understanding of the complex biological and chemical problems that are involved in the design and synthesis of innovative clinical drugs.
Threading sustainability and industrial chemistry through traditional chemical principles and theories, you will also explore the pivotal roles chemistry and medicinal chemistry play in addressing global, economic and environmental challenges of the 21st century.
In your first two years of your MChem degree, you will study the organic, inorganic, and physical chemistry fundamental to medicinal chemistry.
As you progress, you will explore how drug molecules interact with the body and apply this knowledge to drug design.
To personalise your learning you will have the opportunity to choose optional modules topics that align with your career aspirations or personal interests.
Your learning will be supported through interactive teaching, workshops and small group activities as well as frequent opportunities to apply key concepts in laboratory classes.
Group-based investigative project work in your first and second year provides a structured approach to developing your skills and expertise.
You will also complete a literature review, giving you the opportunity to deep-dive into an area of your own personal interest, which you may connect to your research project, or diversify into another area.
Studying in a collaborative research environment, your project will advance knowledge and tackle a new question in your subject, preparing you for contributions to scientific literature.
As you complete your education as a professional chemist, you will develop a full toolkit of skills, including applied problem-solving, drug design, chemical synthesis and an understanding of the pharmaceutical industry.
You will also acquire practical confidence in using specialist computational tools and research-grade instrumentation in our sector-leading laboratories.
The module culminates in a drug design exercise where you work as a team to take a molecule through iterative stages of optimisation in a simulated drug discovery programme .
For students who require a test, this course requires a result from .
Our open-door policy enables you to engage with us directly, meaning you can seek support, gain feedback or discuss any matters relating to your course.
You will graduate with the advanced knowledge, laboratory and research skills to pursue a career in research or you may wish to enter a profession within the pharmaceuticals industry.
You may also choose to complete further learning at PhD level.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the Mchem Chemistry with Integrated Master's course.
In addition to the modules above, students will study an additional 15 credits in semester one and 30 credits during semester two from a range of modules.
Applicants will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Chemistry with Medicinal Chemistry with Foundation Year (UCAS code F122) through UCAS at www.ucas.com.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/computerscience:
Informed by the latest research and industry trends, our accredited Computer Science BSc will teach you how to apply the latest computing techniques and problem-solving skills to a wide range of real-world problems.
With opportunities to spend time in industry and employability focused modules, you’ll graduate with the problem solving, computational thinking and modelling skills that are in high demand across various sectors.
Hear from our students and staff – who share their personal experiences of what it's like to study Computer Science at Keele
Computer systems are now vital to business, government, science and society, and there is pressing need for graduates with the professional understanding, practical skills, and theoretical foundations to harness software and hardware technologies to solve real-world problems and develop the systems of the future.
From the start of your journey with us, you will gain a robust grounding in computational problem-solving skills, programming and fundamental mathematics, to equip you with the skills required for further study.
Building on these foundational topics, you will explore current and emerging areas in the field, including data science, artificial intelligence and software engineering.
You can also explore new topics or deep dive into areas you are passionate about by studying optional modules.
Throughout the programme, you’ll engage with real-world scenarios to enhance your learning.
From year two you can choose to spend time in industry with full time or modular placement opportunities.
You can also develop invaluable professional and employability skills and even pursue a personal interest in computer science by proposing a project that showcases your knowledge and skills.
You will benefit from a variety of teaching and learning activities informed by and involving our partners from industry.
This includes a series of guest lectures from organisations such as Microsoft, the BBC, and CapGemini, as well as grouped and individual projects involving real-world data from industry.
In your final year you will unleash your creativity and undertake a substantial piece of research, applying theoretical knowledge and problem-solving skills to a technical, software, research or business problem.
Your project is an excellent opportunity for you to draw together skills in experimental study design, critical interpretation of data, presentation and project management.
You will also have the broadest choice in personalising your studies with our wide variety of optional modules.
Our programme is highly flexible as you can tailor the degree to suit your individual preferences.
Our specialised pathways enable you to focus in the areas of artificial intelligence, cyber security, digital forensics, games and software engineering.
By choosing a bracketed degree, you will gain recognition of your specialism in the title of your final award.
As we recognise that your aspirations and interests in the field of Computer Science may develop as you are exposed to the diverse themes throughout the programme, you can transfer between our programmes before year two of your studies, to give you the time and space to find your passion (so long as any compulsory modules of the new programme have been taken).
Accredited by the BCS - The Chartered Institute for IT
BCS - The Chartered Institute for IT is a professional body which accredits computing and IT courses in the UK.
The accreditation provides an indicator of quality to employers and offers a pathway to professional registrations such as CITP (Chartered IT Professional), CEng (Chartered Engineer), IEng (Incorporated Engineer) and RITTech (Registered IT Technician).
This accreditation is on the condition that a student must pass the final year project at 40% or above.
Introduction to Programming This module will introduce you to the fundamental concepts underlying computer programming and computational thinking.
You will gain an understanding of problem-solving techniques and learn to implement your ideas using Python.
No prior coding experience is assumed.
The aim is to get you up to a good standard of coding by the end of the module.
There is a strong practical element and several real-world examples.
You will attain a solid practical foundation for modules building upon these fundamental concepts.
Computer Systems and Fundamentals You will learn fundamental concepts of computer hardware and software, and achieve a foundation for other computer science modules.
You will obtain an overview of computer systems, bridging theoretical concepts with practical applications and gain an understanding of the capabilities and limitations of modern IT.
You will see logic design for core hardware components, the architecture of operating systems, essential features of programming languages, a selection of computing applications, hardware design, operating systems, and computational principles like parallelism and caching.
Mathematical Foundations of Computing In this module, you will learn a variety of mathematical problem-solving skills, useful in a range of contexts, but particularly in Computer Science and Data Science.
The module assumes no mathematical knowledge above that at GCSE, and is designed to teach you the mathematics needed for further study in various areas of computing.
You will gain problem-solving, digital readiness, and basic research skills and techniques, and you will have opportunities to develop creativity and innovation skills.
Introduction to Algorithms In this module you will learn to apply a variety of computational problem-solving techniques to solve problems from the real world.
You will be introduced to algorithmic design strategies and learn how to analyse an algorithm to determine its correctness and efficiency, to solve problems from a variety of real-world domains.
You will learn transferable skills such as interdisciplinary expertise, creativity, and problem-solving.
Object-Oriented Programming This module builds upon programming concepts explored in introduction to Programming, by developing problem solving skills in a new programming paradigm, that of object-oriented design.
You will learn the theories and principles of modelling real-world problems through object-oriented design for the development of robust, professional, and high-quality software systems.
You will put these ideas into practice by learning to program in Java, enhancing your employability.
Professional Practice in Computing This module introduces you to aspects of professionalism and ethics, communication and writing styles: these are also useful transferable skills in science and engineering more generally.
The module provides you with important transitional skills that will be built upon in future modules and subsequent careers.
The module provides guidance on enhancing employability skills, and advice on working in teams.
Delivery of the module will include workshop activities providing you with opportunities to work individually or as part of a team, and involvement with careers and the library via guest lectures.
Cybercrime This module allows you to actively engage in the digital society, with an understanding of risks that can be encountered, and measures that can be taken to counteract them, both in an individual and a collective business context.
You will learn various types of cyber-crime, and see how to implement practical counter-measures to protect against them, alongside the use of tools that can be used for digital evidence gathering.
You will develop your global awareness, sustainability and digital readiness skills.
Database Systems Databases and database management systems are an integral part of any computing application that needs to store data and manage its transactions efficiently.
This module introduces you to databases and database management systems by providing theoretical knowledge and practical experience in data modelling, database design, implementation and administration.
The module explores essential topics in data management including database security and how databases are integrated with other technologies, especially the Web, for enhanced user interfaces, ease of data access and distribution.
Web Technologies This module provides the knowledge and skills necessary to enable you to develop multi-tier web applications.
It aims to provide you with an understanding of Internet communication architectures (such as client-server) regarding standard protocols and to enable the development of web applications and the configuration of the servers on which they rely.
This module is hands-on and supported by practicals about different web technologies.
Transferrable skills include independent and self-directed learning, creativity and innovation, and reflective practice.
Data Science Techniques Data Science is becoming an increasingly important topic, bordering Computer Science and Mathematics, and with applications in many areas of everyday life.
You will learn to apply processes and techniques to extract essential information from raw data, allowing it to be analysed to discover meaning from the data and allowing it to inform decision-making.
You will be introduced to concepts of ethics and security related to the collection, storage and dissemination of data.
Human-Computer Interaction In this module you will learn and apply the underlying concepts and principles of interface and interaction design for a variety of devices.
This will include current industry standard areas of user-centred design such as persona, scenarios, card sorting and requirements elicitation, as well as general usability evaluation techniques.
You will also learn about visualisation, creativity, HCI guidelines and the sensory, cognitive and physical capabilities of users.
This will culminate in the completion of a design portfolio and design solution to an authentic scenario.
Software Engineering This module will provide you with up-to-date knowledge and practice of industry standard techniques and processes to undertake team-based development of software and digital products.
The module gives hands-on experience of agile software engineering in a self-organising team and the opportunity to compare theory and practice.
The module is delivered via a combination of weekly workshops, directed reading and viewing and guest talks from industry professionals.
Previous speakers have been from companies such as the BBC, Microsoft, Capgemini and Accenture.
Computational and Artificial Intelligence I This module will provide you with an introduction to the core computational intelligence topics of evolutionary algorithms and neural networks, and some of the similarities and differences between natural and synthetic intelligent systems.
You will gain an appreciation of how AI is used in many real-world scenarios, both within the UK and internationally.
Individual Study Topic in CS Computer Science is multi-faceted and rapidly changing, with new and niche topics on the periphery of the standard curriculum.
This module gives you the opportunity to pursue supported independent learning and practice of new skills that are not otherwise incorporated into the curriculum.
You will apply self-directed learning and creativity, learn various communication skills when creating a poster and presentation, and gain research and time management skills.
Computer Graphics and Animation In this module you will learn the fundamental concepts and techniques that underpin computer graphics and animation.
You will learn how to create 2D and 3D graphics, and how to time and control animations and visual effects.
The module will be delivered by weekly lectures and practical sessions where you will put theory into practice and develop the skills related to creating and composing graphics and animations.
Computer Games Development You will learn the fundamental concepts of designing and implementing simple and intermediate level text-based, and 2D computer games, in a modern programming language.
You will see how to break down the development of a computer game into subcomponents and see how these can be connected together and implemented independently.
You will have an opportunity to demonstrate and reflect on the creativity and innovation skills that you have acquired.
Computer Science Project You will undertake an individual project across two semesters.
The module enables you to apply theoretical knowledge and problem-solving skills to a technical, software, research or business problem, potentially on real-world industrial inspired problems.
You will be allocated an academic supervisor, providing guidance alongside taught lectures.
You will develop essential transferrable skills including self-directed learning, critical thinking, reflective practice, communication, adaptability, and time management.
If you are on a bracketed pathway, you must choose a project related to that specialism.
Machine Learning Applications In this module you will receive in-depth training in the use of machine learning tools and techniques that can be used to analyse real world data and to deliver valuable insight that can be used to provide business services.
You will learn about ethics, integrity and working in a global sector.
Cyber Security You will learn the necessary cyber security competencies to protect vital information systems, and their data and services, from unauthorised access, harm or misuse.
You will also learn how to keep up-to-date with new recommendations and practice in this volatile and constantly evolving area.
You will also gain an appreciation of other important areas such as legal factors, management of systems, risk analysis, and social and human factors.
Advanced Programming and Software Design This module provides a deeper understanding of object-oriented programming and concurrent programming.
You will learn to apply common design patterns to effectively structure software projects, apply the programming language structures to guarantee appropriate synchronisation of concurrent code and enforce mutually exclusive access to shared data, and analyse the fundamental issues that need to be addressed due to the application of concurrent patterns.
You will gain familiarity with industry-relevant skills like using version control systems, unit testing and continuous integration tools.
Software Development Management This module provides you with a comprehensive foundation in software development management and its process.
This will cover the skills needed to manage software products and their quality.
The module also explores modern development techniques such as API and microservices testing and Test-Driven development.
You will be able to apply software testing and planning to real-world scenarios and systems.
You will also gain familiarity with industry-relevant skills like using built-in API clients, and performance testing tools.
Programming for Virtual Worlds You will learn the skills and techniques to create virtual worlds in 3D, using modern games engines such as Unity.
As part of the assessment you will design and implement a game level, and program it with interactivity or artificial intelligence.
You will gain an opportunity to showcase your creativity and innovation, and gain digital readiness and research skills.
Advanced Databases and Applications The core aim of this module is to provide an advanced understanding of database techniques and current issues associated with database deployment.
It enables you to develop a detailed and coherent knowledge of distributed database architectures, including techniques for semantic interoperability (schema homogenisation, data integration, query optimisation, and distributed transactions control) between heterogeneous data models and legacy information systems.
Data warehousing concepts, architecture, analytical processing techniques and data mining are also covered as one of the distributed database applications.
Communications and Networks This module extends your knowledge of principles and practice in communications, computer network, and security technologies and their deployment.
Learning about fundamental concepts is complemented by practical activities such as analysing network packets, developing network applications, designing computer networks and cryptography.
The module provides valuable transferable skills in critical thinking and problem solving.
The module content is applicable to those seeking careers in computing research, network security, network management and other digital communication and network areas.
Advanced Web Technologies Modern multi-tiered web applications are developed with a wide range of techniques, libraries, languages, and tools.
This module will teach you the necessary skills to develop such applications that can be used in a variety of settings, from small-scale web apps, to larger multi-tiered web apps serving thousands of clients.
You will gain the knowledge to develop robust, distributed, and secure systems, that can withstand the high demands of today’s highly interconnected world.
Computational and Artificial Intelligence II This module will expand on the range of computational intelligence (CI) themes, and complementary Artificial Intelligence topics, introduced earlier in the degree.
Importantly, the module will allow you to explore in greater depth, selected research-led topics at the forefront of current thinking in the rapidly evolving CI field.
After completing this module, you can potentially pursue further research in industry or in education (e.g.
as an MSc or PhD student).
Data Ethics and Security Writing efficient and correct code and learning practical skills are just some of the required skills of a Computer Science or Data Science professional.
Alongside these skills, an appreciation of relevant ethics, regulations, governance frameworks and standards must be understood, both in a theoretical and practice sense.
This module will help you to appreciate, debate, and apply these ideas, within the UK  and globally.
You will be assessed on a portfolio of case studies with practical and theoretical components.
My placement at Pektron has been invaluable to both my understanding, studies, and future career.
I really enjoyed being part of the engineering team, learning directly from industry professionals, working on real-world computer science applications, and improving my coding skills.
I'm delighted that Pektron has offered me a full-time position upon completion of my studies.
Billy, Computer Science placement - Embedded Software Engineer at Pektron
Throughout your placement you will be supported by an academic advisor and a placements and project manager, who is based in the School of Computer Science and Mathematics.
During your studies you will have the opportunity to spend a year or a semester studying abroad.
You can find more information here
BBB in three A levels OR BBC in three A levels including B in Maths or Computer Science
Contextual Offer : BCC in three A levels OR BCD in three A levels including B in Maths or Computer Science
DDM OR DMM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Engineering
Contextual Offe r: DMM OR MMM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Engineering
Distinction and Distincton in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and C in one A Level OR Distinction and Merit in BTEC Diploma and B in Maths or Computer Science
Distinction in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BC in two A Level OR Merit in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels including B in Maths or Computer Science
Merit in any T level
555 in three Higher Levels or 30 points OR 554 including 5 in Maths (any) or Computer Science or 29 points including 5 in Higher Level Maths (any) or Computer Science
Contextual Offer : 554 in three Higher Levels or 29 points OR 543 including 5 in Maths (any), or Computer Science or 28 points including 5 in Higher Level Maths (any) or Computer Science
You will also need: 4 / C in GCSE Maths or Level 2 Functional Skills Maths, or 5 in IB Middle Years Maths, or 4 in IB Diploma Standard Level Maths (any), plus an English language qualification (see below)
122 UCAS points in any Access to HE Diploma, including Distinction in at least 30 Level 3 credits.
OR 112 UCAS points in an Access to HE Diploma with Maths or Computer Science related content, including Distinction in at least 15 Level 3 credits.
BBBCC in five Highers, or CC in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers, or CCC in three Advanced Highers OR BCCCC in five Highers including Maths or Computer Science Higher, or CD in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers including Maths or Computer Science Higher or Advanced Higher, or CCD in three Advanced Highers including Maths or Computer Science Advanced Higher
You will also need: C in National 5 Maths, or C in Higher Maths (including as one of the Highers taken as part of your offer), or 4 / C in GCSE Maths or Level 2 Functional Skills Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
H3, H3, H4, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate OR H3, H4, H4, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate, including H4 in Maths or Computer Science
73% in the Gaokao OR 70% in the Gaokao including 70% in Maths or Computer Science
Average of 70% from four subjects in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 75% from four subjects in any other Standard XII OR Average of 65% from four subjects, including 70% in Maths or Computer Science in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 70% from four subjects including 75% in Maths or Computer Science in any other Standard XII
2.2 overall average in the Abitur OR 2.4 overall average in the Abitur, including 12 in Maths or Computer Science
13 in the French Baccalaureate / International Option Baccalaureate / Baccalauréat Français International.
OR 12 in the French Baccalaureate/International Option Baccalaureate including 13 in Maths or Computer Science, or 12.5 in the Baccalauréat Français International including 12.5 in Maths or Computer Science
444 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE OR 443 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE including 4 in Maths or Computer Science
Overall average of 7.4 in the Título de Bachillerato OR Overall average of 7.0 in the Título de Bachillerato including 8 in Maths or Computer Science
80% in the Esame di Stato OR 75% in the Esame di Stato including 8 in Maths or Computer Science
18 / 86% in the Apolytirion OR 17.5 / 83% in the Apolytirion including 18 in Maths or Computer Science
Overall average of 15.5 in a secondary certificate OR Overall average of 15 including 16 in Maths or Computer Science
65% / BBBCC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma OR 60% / BCCCC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma including 70% in Advanced Functions and 70% in Calculus and Vectors or Computer Science
On successful completion, you can progress to an undergraduate degree at Keele
444 from three Advanced Placement subjects OR 443 from three Advanced Placement subjects including Calculus (either) or Computer Science
You will also need: Grade C in Grade 12 High School Diploma Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
BBB in three Advanced levels OR BBC including B in Combined Maths or Computer Science
You will also need: C in O-Level Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
BBB in three Principal level subjects in the STPM OR BBC in three Principal level subjects in the STPM including B in Maths or Computer Science
BBB in three H2 levels OR BBC in three H2 levels including B in Combined Maths or Computer Science
72% overall OR 70% overall with with 7 in Maths (5 period) or Computer Science (5 period)
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with BBB and Grade C in EAP English Language module OR Pass NCUK Foundation Year with BBC including B in Mathematics or Computer Science and Grade C in EAP English Language module
BBB in three Principal level subjects in the Advanced Certificate of Education OR BBC in three Principal level subjects in the Advanced Certificate of Education including B in Maths or Computer Science
National Senior Certificate: 66666 in five subjects including Mathematics or Technical Mathematics (not including Maths Literacy).
BBB in three Advanced Level subjects OR BBC in three Advanced Level subjects including B in Pure Maths or Computer Science
You will also need: 4 / C in GCSE Maths or B in Maths O Level or Level 2 Functional Skills Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
Computational teaching takes place in Keele’s state-of-the-art Central Science Laboratories (CSL) and the Colin Reeves Building, home to the School of Computer Science and Mathematics.
During your studies you will have access to a suite of facilities including seven computer labs*, a high-performance cluster of computers (used for research and projects), a Jupyterhub server (used to write Python code off-campus) and a dedicated gaming lab (The Overclockers Lab).
*You will also have the opportunity to gain out of hours entry to the building that houses the School's computer laboratories (subject to the request, approval and collection of a key fob).
"Studying at Keele has given me the confidence to take on challenges and step outside of my comfort zone.
The small class sizes and constant support from staff has enabled me to take my learning to a deeper level and develop a wider skill set."
Cassidy, Computer Science
Throughout your studies we will give you plenty of support and guidance to help you reach your full potential.
From an academic mentor to module leaders, our open-door policy makes it easy to reach us when you need help.
Based within the Faculty of Natural Sciences, you will also have access to a dedicated team of Student Experience & Support Officers (SESOs).
Keele University strives to be a place where learning, living and working is a positive experience for all.
Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) are core values underpinning the University’s mission to making a difference in society by providing innovative, high-quality education for students from all backgrounds and by undertaking world-leading research that transforms understanding and brings benefit to society, communities and individuals.
As a School, we embrace this approach and will actively aim to ensure that all our activities will be organised so that everyone is made to feel safe and welcome, and that diversity is encouraged.
We believe that this attitude is vital to help everyone flourish and feel valued for who they are.
To achieve this, we promote fair treatment for all, irrespective of gender identity, age, disability, sexual orientation, relationship status, caring responsibilities, race, religion or belief.
Our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) agenda is embedded throughout our curriculum, and we are proud to hold a school-level Athena SWAN Bronze Award in recognition for our activities in this area.
You will graduate with a wide variety of in demand, subject specific and transferable skills across many areas including problem solving, computational thinking, team working, management and modelling.
The opportunities for graduates with computing skills are continuously growing.
Many of our graduates move into employment that is directly computing-related, for example as systems analysts, software engineers and consultants.
A number of graduates go on to study for higher degrees in a wide range of subject areas.
Please note you may need to take further postgraduate study to enter some of the professions listed above.
Our Careers and Employability team (Shortlisted for Best University Careers Employment Service - National Undergraduate Employability Awards, 2021), offer a variety of personal and career development opportunities to enhance your employability.
"Keele's School of Computer Science and Mathematics helped me turn a freshly discovered interest in computing into a full-fledged passion for all things Computer Science.
My course had the perfect combination of compelling subject matter and insightful lecturers which resulted in a genuine excitement for each tutorial, lecture & workshop.
During my placement year, Keele supported me in my 15-month software engineering internship with IBM - a true industry leader - that then evolved into full-time employment following my final year of study."
Jonah, Computer Science graduate
We embrace a modern approach to learning that includes a balanced mixture of immersive lectures and lab-based sessions.
Each taught module will include traditional lectures with all support material provided via our virtual learning environment and our labs are also offer remote accessibility.
You will also benefit from a variety of teaching and learning activities informed by and involving our partners from industry.
This includes a series of guest lectures from organisations such as Microsoft, the BBC, and CapGemini, as well as grouped and individual projects potentially involving real-world data from industry.
Teaching methods include traditional lectures, practical sessions in our state-of-the-art computer laboratories, tutorials, web-based learning and group projects.
Our assessments often connect to the real-world working environment, putting your understanding of the subject matter to the test in real-life situations.
Assessments include examinations, class tests, coursework, short reports, dissertations, project reports, oral and video presentations.
"I worked as both a test engineer and software engineer on the FC BISA project, one of the largest Space, Defence and Intelligence Projects at one of the most renowned IT and Business consultancy firms in the world - CGI.
Developing my presentation skills, technical skills and intrapreneurial skills have helped me increase my employability as a graduate"
Jack, Computer Science placement - Technical industrial placement student at CGI
Keele is at the forefront of research and our academics in Computer Science are internationally recognised leaders in research on synthetic biology, wearable technologies, health and cultural informatics, responsible artificial intelligence, computer vision, evolutionary robotics.
We focus on research that has the potential to create a significant impact on the computational understanding and engineering of complex systems, to improve people’s quality of life and to pave the way for world leading innovations that improve the security, reliability and quality of computing devices and services used in industry.
Keele is also in the unique position of hosting the first living laboratory for energy-efficient technologies: the multi-million-pound Smart Energy Network Demonstrator (SEND).
Our expertise feeds into modules in the latter years of your degree.
Research themes within our computer science division include:
Find out more about our computer science research .
Our Foundation Year allows you to develop your critical thinking, academic reading, writing, and communication study skills along with subject-specific knowledge and skills.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Computer Science.
For example, Foundations of Computational Theory and Programming will introduce you to the key principles of Computer Science and programming, while Advancing Programming will allow you to hone these skills in an individual project, all of which will be useful in your degree and professional career.
You will develop new, flexible and abstract ways of thinking, which will enable you to use logic to solve problem-based activities.
You will be introduced to key principles such as Boolean algebra, error control coding and the development of the modern computer, while also beginning to develop your skills in using high-level programming languages.
In addition to subject-specific modules, you will complete a skills module, which will underpin your ability to communicate data and information accurately.
Semester Two continues to build on your understanding of these techniques.
Your programming skills will be further developed, while exploring new principles such as working for clients and designing interfaces.
Applicants will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Computer Science with Foundation Year (UCAS code G401) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/computerscienceartificialintelligence:
Learn to apply advanced algorithms and analysis techniques to big data sets to make predictions, draw conclusions, and program the AI software of the future.
Our research-focused Computer Science BSc combines a solid foundation in computing, mathematics, and programming with specialisation in advanced areas such as machine learning.
From engaging with real-world challenges to spending time in industry, you will graduate with the practical, technical and logical reasoning skills sought by employers.
Our research-focused programme provides a robust grounding in computational problem-solving, programming and mathematics to equip you with the skills needed for further study.
In later years you will build upon these foundational topics, in current and advanced areas of computer science, including data science, artificial intelligence, graphics and game development, digital forensics, and software engineering.
By following the artificial intelligence pathway through the degree programme, you will have the opportunity to discover modern approaches to artificial intelligence including computational intelligence and nature-inspired algorithms.
You will explore practical application of cutting-edge techniques on real-world problems and later spend time researching current research topics and writing a novel research proposal.
The specialism includes study of artificial neural networks, evolutionary computation, as well as covering adaptive behaviour in natural systems from the perspective of computational neuroscience.
You can spend time in industry with a year-long or modular placement, develop professional and employability skills, and pursue a personal interest in computer science by proposing a project that showcases your knowledge and skills.
You can also personalise your degree, by choosing from a variety of optional modules.
This gives you flexibility to explore new topics or deep dive into areas you are passionate about.
In your final year you will unleash your creativity and undertake a substantial piece of research, applying theoretical knowledge and problem-solving skills to an AI-related technical, software, research or business-related problem.
Your final year project is an excellent opportunity for you to draw together skills in experimental study design, critical interpretation of data, presentation and project management.
You will also deepen your understanding in AI by studying a pre-defined advanced module in Computational and Artificial Intelligence, whilst choosing optional modules in subjects that are aligned to your interests.
You can find more information here.
"For my third year project, I created a Neuroevolutionary algorithm that could be used to predict the way a constituency would vote in a general election based on demographic data of the area such as age distribution, number of vehicles owned, and level of education.
Being able to bring together all of the skills I had acquired throughout the course into an adventurous piece of work meant that to this day it is still one of my proudest achievements."
Liam, Computer Science
Throughout your studies we will give you plenty of support and guidance, to help you reach your full potential.
Based within the Faculty of Natural Sciences, you will also have access to a team of Student Experience & Support Officers (SESOs).
Whether you need advice, guidance or one-on-one support, you can talk to our dedicated team throughout your time at Keele, whether it’s about your studies or life outside of them.
Pursuing a career in AI allows you to work with modern innovations and specialise in cutting-edge technology.
You will graduate with a wide variety of subject specific and transferrable skills across many areas including problem solving, computational thinking, team working, project management, modelling and professional considerations.
Jobs that a graduate of this programme may also pursue include
Each taught module will include traditional lectures with support material provided via our virtual learning environment.
Our labs also offer remote accessibility.
Teaching methods include traditional lectures, practical sessions in our state-of-the-art computer laboratories, tutorials, web-based learning and group projects.
Keele is at the forefront of research and our academics in Computer Science are internationally recognised leaders in research on synthetic biology, wearable technologies, health and cultural informatics, responsible artificial intelligence, computer vision, evolutionary robotics, automata theory, formal languages, and theory of computation.
This Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Computer Science (Artificial Intelligence).
For example, Foundations of Computational Theory and Programming will introduce you to the key principles of computer science and programming, while Advancing Programming will allow you to hone these skills in an individual project, all of which will provide useful in your degree and professional career.
You will be introduced to key principles such as Boolean algebra, error control coding and the development of the modern computer, while also beginning to develop your programming skills.
In addition to subject-specific modules you will complete a skills module which underpins your ability to communicate data and information accurately.
Semester Two continues to build on your understanding of these techniques, along with additional study skills.
Your programming skills will be further developed while exploring new principles such as working for clients and designing interfaces.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/computersciencecybersecurity:
Traverse the complexities of the digital landscape while defending against cyber threats.
Our Computer Science (Cyber Security) BSc combines a solid grounding in computing, mathematics, and programming with exploration and application of specialist topics including risk analysis.
From acquiring sought after employability skills, to the option of spending time in industry, you will graduate with the critical thinking and problem-solving skills required to pursue a career across a variety of sectors.
From ransomware attacks to internet fraud, cybercrime is a rapidly growing global issue, making this specialisation highly sought after in industry.
By following the Cyber Security pathway through the degree programme, you will learn how to identify the major types of cybercrime, implement counter-measures to protect against them and explore laws relating to the major forms of cybercrime and cyber security.
You will also learn the cyber security competencies required to protect information systems from unauthorised access, harm or misuse and gain practical experience of the theoretical and practical fundamentals required in this field.
Our research-focused programme provides a robust grounding in computational problem-solving, programming and fundamental mathematics to equip you with the skills needed for further study.
In later years you will build upon these foundational topics, in current and emerging areas of Computer Science, including data science, artificial intelligence, graphics and game development, digital forensics, and software engineering.
You can spend time in industry with a year-long or modular placement, develop professional, and employability skills and pursue a personal interest in computer science by proposing a project that showcases your knowledge and skills.
You will also have the opportunity to personalise your degree, by choosing from a variety of optional modules.
In your final year you will unleash your creativity and undertake a substantial piece of research, applying theoretical knowledge and problem-solving skills to a cyber security-related technical, software, research or business-related problem.
You will gain an appreciation of how AI is used in many real-world scenarios, both within the UK and internationally
Individual Study Topic in Computer Science Computer Science is multi-faceted and rapidly changing, with new and niche topics on the periphery of the standard curriculum.
In between year two and three of your studies, there is the opportunity to undertake a placement , gaining valuable practical experience.
In between year two and three of your studies you can choose to spend a year or a semester studying abroad.
Throughout the programme, we will give you plenty of support and guidance, so you can reach your full potential.
You will graduate with a wide variety of subject specific and transferrable skills across many areas including problem solving, computational thinking, team working, management and modelling.
By following the cyber security pathway, you will learn competencies required to protect information systems (hardware, software and associated infrastructure), the data on them, and the services they provide, from unauthorised access, harm or misuse.
You will develop practical experience of the theoretical and practical fundamentals of cyber security, as well as other important areas such as legal, management, crime, risk, social and human factors.
Many of our graduates move into employment that is directly computing-related, whilst a number of graduates go on to study for higher degrees in a wide range of subject areas.
Jobs that a graduate of this course may pursue include:
Teaching methods include; traditional lectures, practical sessions in our state-of-the-art computer laboratories, tutorials, web-based learning and group projects.
Keele is at the forefront of research and our academics in Computer Science are internationally recognised leaders in research on synthetic biology, wearable technologies, health and cultural informatics, responsible artificial intelligence, computer vision, evolutionary robotics, automata theory, formal language, and theory of computation.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Computer Science (Cyber Security).
The module details given below are indicative and will give you a good idea of the range of subjects that we teach.
We regularly review our teaching to ensure that the modules we offer are up-to-date; therefore, the modules available to study are liable to change.
UK students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Computer Science with Foundation Year (UCAS code G401) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .
If you are a UK student, already have your qualifications, are not expecting any further results and only wish to apply to Keele, please contact the Admissions Office directly.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/computersciencedigitalforensics:
Dive into the intriguing world of forensics, discover how crime scene science operates within the UK legal system and learn the techniques and processes that allow the recovery, trace and capturing of digital data.
Our Computer Science degree blends a solid foundation in computing, mathematics and programming with the technical and analytical skills to make an impact in the fight against cybercrime.
With dedicated professional development and employability modules, and the opportunity to spend time in industry, we’ll support you to develop the practical, technical and communications skills sought by employers.
The field of digital forensics has experienced significant growth in the last few years due to the rapid pace of technological development and its use in crime.
From mobile devices to the internet, cybercrime creates significant financial losses to companies and threatens national and international security.
Given the ongoing need for industry to be concerned with identifying, reporting and responding to security breaches, our Digital Forensics programme will enable you to locate and analyse evidence, conduct digital forensic investigations, undertake research to solve problems, write reports about your findings and compile evidence that would stand in a court of law.
At the beginning of your Computer Science degree, you will gain a robust grounding in computational problem-solving skills, programming and fundamental mathematics, to equip you with the skills required for further study.
You will also begin to explore the fundamentals of forensic science as a professional discipline in the context of the crime scene and common forensic evidence.
You will learn the skills, protocols, and methodologies that are used when gathering evidence in a variety of forensics settings and see how crime scene science operates within the UK legal system - honing skills related to ethics, integrity, and respect, as well as digital readiness.
You will strengthen your knowledge in digital forensics by exploring the principles of a digital forensic investigation, how evidence is collected, the tools used to analyse data, and details of operating systems, mobile devices, the internet, and the law.
To put your learning into practice, you will use a simulated crime scene to gather digital evidence and be introduced to software used within the industry.
You can spend time in industry with a year-long or modular placement, develop employability skills and even pursue a personal interest in computer science by proposing a project that showcases your knowledge and skills.
In your final year you will unleash your creativity and undertake a substantial piece of research, applying theoretical knowledge and problem-solving skills to a digital forensic-related technical, software, research or business problem.
You will also deepen your understanding in your specialism whilst choosing optional modules in subjects that are aligned to your interests.
Digital Forensics: Identification and Investigation This module will introduce you to the fundamentals of forensic science as a professional discipline in the context of the crime scene and common forensic evidence.
You will learn fundamental skills, protocols, and methodologies that are used when gathering evidence in a variety of forensics settings.
You will see how crime scene science operates within the UK legal system and hone skills related to ethics, integrity, and respect, as well as digital readiness.
Delivery of the module will include workshop activities providing you with opportunities to work individually or as part of a team, and involvement with careers and the library via guest lecture
Digital Forensics: Crime and Technology Digital Forensics is becoming increasingly important now that digital evidence is frequently a subject of criminal investigations.
You will learn the principles of a digital forensic investigation, how evidence is collected, the tools used to analyse data, and details of operating systems, mobile devices, the internet, and the law.
You will attend a simulated crime scene to gather digital evidence and be introduced to software used within the industry.
Digital Forensics: Applications and Examinations This module will expand on the knowledge and understanding gained from the Digital Forensics: Crime and Technology module.
Using AXIOM, software used within industry, you will work through a number of set tasks to gain the skills vital for working within a digital forensics unit.
You will be asked to complete a written assessment and at the end of the module, you will take an external examination to become a certified examiner within the software.
The small class sizes and constant support from staff has enabled me to take my learning to a deeper level and develop a wider skill set"
In between year two and three of your studies, there is the opportunity to undertake a placement and gain valuable practical experience.
You will have the opportunity to spend a year or a semester studying abroad.
This exciting opportunity enables you to understand your field from different cultural perspectives, establish international networks whilst showing you have the personal attributes to embrace new experiences.
"My course had the perfect combination of compelling subject matter and insightful lecturers which resulted in a genuine excitement for each tutorial, lecture & workshop.
During my placement year, Keele supported me in my 15-month software engineering internship with IBM - a true industry leader - that then evolved into full-time employment following my final year of study"
Throughout your studies, we will give you plenty of support and guidance to help you reach your full potential.
Our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) agenda is embedded throughout our curriculum, and we are proud to hold an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in recognition for our activities in this area.
By choosing the digital forensics pathway, you will also learn the principles of a digital forensic investigation, how evidence is collected, the tools used to analyse the data, focusing on different areas, such as operating systems, computer and mobile devices, the internet, and the law.
Jobs related to your degree include:
Teaching methods include: traditional lectures, practical sessions in our state-of-the-art computer laboratories, tutorials, web-based learning and group projects.
Methods of assessment include: class tests, coursework, dissertations, examinations, oral presentations, short reports and tutorials.
Find out more about our computer science research
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Computer Science (Digital Forensics) course.
For example, Foundations of Computational Theory and Programming will introduce you to the key principles of computer science and programming, while Advancing Programming will allow you to hone these skills in an individual project, all of which will be useful in your degree and professional career.
Applicants will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Computer Science (Digital Forensics) with Foundation Year (UCAS code G415) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/computersciencegames:
Get ahead in the fast-paced field of games development.
From understanding the fundamentals of computer science to programming complex graphical applications in modern programming languages and games engines, you will learn how to apply computing techniques and problem-solving skills to a wide range of real-world problems, equipping you with the analytical, problem-solving and communicative skills to pursue a career across a variety of sectors.
From the start of your journey, you will gain a robust grounding in computational problem-solving skills, programming and fundamental mathematics, to equip you with the skills required for further study.
You will also learn the fundamental concepts of designing and implementing simple and intermediate level text-based, and 2D computer games, in a modern programming language.
By following the Games pathway, you will gain a deep understanding of the architecture of computer systems, a thorough knowledge of practical software engineering in multimedia contexts and a strong ability to program complex graphical applications in a modern programming language.
You can spend time in industry with a year-long or modular placement, develop professional, and employability skills and even pursue a personal interest in computer science by proposing a project that showcases your knowledge and skills.
In your final year you will unleash your creativity and undertake a substantial piece of research, applying theoretical knowledge and problem-solving skills to a computer game development-related technical, software, research or business problem.
Your final year project is an excellent opportunity for you to draw together skills in experimental study design, critical interpretation of data, presentation and project management..
You will gain an opportunity to showcase your creativity and innovation, and gain digital readiness and research skills
In between year two and three of your studies, you can undertake a placement and gain valuable practical experience.
In recent years, our students have completed placements in companies including
Our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) agenda is embedded throughout our curriculum, and the School of Computer Science and Mathematics are proud to hold an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in recognition for our activities in this area.
You will graduate with a wide variety of subject specific, transferrable and employability skills across many areas including problem solving, computational thinking, team working, management and modelling.
From engaging with guest speakers, to dedicated sessions focusing on careers and placements, we will provide you with the knowledge, tools and connections to develop a foundation for your future career.
By following the Games pathway, you will build the advanced programming, design, and mathematics skills required to develop advanced, modern 2d and 3d Computer Games, using a variety of programming languages and games engines.
Please note you may need to take further postgraduate study to enter some of the professions listed above.[JB1] [PB2]
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Computer Science (Games) course.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/computersciencesoftwareengineering:
For those who want to shape the way people interact with technology, our BCS accredited Computer Science (Software Engineering) programme combines a solid foundation in computing, mathematics, and programming, with training in managing software engineering activities, including team-based agile development techniques and processes.
Through real-world challenges, placement opportunities and professional development, you’ll graduate with the practical, analytical and technical skills employers seek.
By following the Software Engineering pathway you will learn the effective management of software engineering activities including the techniques and processes to undertake team-based agile development of software systems, based on the needs of clients and users.
You can spend time in industry on a year-long or modular placement, develop professional, and employability skills and even pursue a personal interest in computer science by proposing a project that showcases your knowledge and skills.
To align your learning to areas you are passionate about, you can personalise your degree, by choosing from a variety of optional modules.
In your final year you will unleash your creativity and undertake a substantial piece of research, applying theoretical knowledge and problem-solving skills to a software engineering-related technical, software, research or business problem.
You will also deepen your understanding in your specialism, whilst choosing optional modules in subjects that are aligned to your interests.
In between year two and three of your studies, you can undertake a placement, gaining practical experience in industry.
This will enable you to apply the skills and theories you have learnt to real situations in the workplace.
Throughout your studies we will give you plenty of support and guidance to reach your full potential.
By choosing to specialise in the software engineering pathway, you will also gain skills in team-based development, agile methods, and hands-on experience with self-organising teams, reflecting on modern commercial practices.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Computer Science (Software Engineering) course.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/computerscienceandmathematics:
If you're fascinated by the logical beauty of mathematics and the practical capabilities of computing, our Computer Science and Mathematics programme explores their intrinsic connection in tackling real-world challenges.
With industry placements and specialist modules focused on professional skills development and employability, you'll graduate equipped with the theoretical knowledge, professional insights, and practical abilities to tackle a range of challenges across various sectors.
As many real-world computational problems are interdisciplinary in nature and solving them requires skills and techniques from both computer science and mathematics, there is high demand for graduates with the theoretical foundations, professional understanding and practical skills required to create the systems of the future.
Computer Science and Mathematics at Keele will support you in learning a variety of techniques and skills from these closely connected disciplines, allowing you to solve a diverse range of scientific and technical problems across various sectors.
Your first year will introduce you to core topics in both computing and mathematics, including programming, computer systems, algorithms, sets, functions and proofs, calculus, algebra, and differential equations.
During year two you will continue to build your understanding of core topics.
From databases and scientific computing to differential equations, you will strengthen your learning by applying your knowledge to real-world scenarios.
You also have the opportunity to tailor the programme to your career aspirations by choosing from a variety of optional modules including computer graphics and animation.
You can also hear from industry guest speakers and develop invaluable professional and employability skills.
In your final year you will unleash your creativity and undertake an individual project involving computer science and mathematics.
The project will enable you to apply theoretical knowledge and problem-solving skills to a technical, software, programming, research or business problem.
Your project is an excellent opportunity for you to draw together skills in experimental study design, critical interpretation of data, presentation, project management and critical thinking.
Advanced core modules in partial differential equations and AI will strengthen your analytical skills and teach you how to use machine learning tools and techniques to analyse real-world data.
Sets, Functions and Proofs The aim of this module is to support your progress from the methods-based approach to the higher levels of understanding and rigour expected at degree level Mathematics.
You will be introduced to mathematical statements, the meaning of proof, and some proof strategies.
The concepts of sets and functions will then be discussed.
Finally, the module will cover the algebraic development of number systems and their properties.
Linear Algebra This module will begin with an introduction to number theory by looking at topics such as divisibility, greatest common divisors and modular arithmetic with a strong emphasis on rigour.
Then you will study core concepts from linear algebra including matrix algebra, solving linear equations, determinants, eigenvalues and eigenvectors.
You will also cover aspects of vector algebra with a particular emphasis on three-dimensional vector algebra and geometry with a discussion on lines and planes, linear independence and bases.
This module, being a prerequisite for several modules in the second and third years, will introduce you to the basic techniques for solving differential equations and familiarise you with multivariable calculus, including partial derivatives, double integrals, and their applications.
Computational Mathematics with Python The aim of this module is to introduce you to the three elements of scientific computing; numerical analysis, programming and modelling.
The programming element provides you with valuable transferrable skills in Python.
No prior knowledge of the language is assumed or required for the module.
We also aim to give you a broad appreciation of the Jupyter environment for writing Python code, displaying computational results and annotating the algorithmic developments with the underpinning mathematics using markdown.
Professional Mathematics and Data Analysis This module gives the opportunity to further develop skills of mathematical problem solving and application of mathematical results to real-world scenarios, especially those involving the analysis and interpretation of large data sets.
This will contribute to further development of your professional skills that are needed when undertaking employment or research, such as working in depth on a problem over an extended period, writing reports, communicating mathematical results to different audiences, and working in collaboration with others.
The module gives hands-on experience of agile software engineering in a self-organising team and the opportunity to compare theory and methods that underpin software engineering.
The module will be delivered by weekly lectures and practical sessions where you will put theory into practice and develop the skills related to creating and composing graphics and animations Complex Variable and Vector Calculus This module provides a first course in both vector calculus and complex variable.
Complex variable studies functions which map complex numbers to complex numbers.
In this module, it leads to elegant results in integration which can often be used to evaluate definite integrals of real-valued functions, without any knowledge of the indefinite integral.
Abstract Algebra Abstraction is a powerful idea in Mathematics: by focusing on the underlying properties of Mathematical systems we can identify connections and similarities that are not visible on the surface.
This module explores these techniques and styles of thinking.
The central concept is that of a group; the module establishes some of the fundamental abstract results concerning groups and studies applications to problems in combinatorics, geometry, and number theory.
Other algebraic structures such as rings and fields are also introduced, providing a solid foundation for numerous modules in Pure Mathematics.
Computer Science and Mathematics Project You will undertake an individual project across two semesters, involving Computer Science and Mathematics.
The module enables you to apply theoretical knowledge and problem-solving skills to a technical, software, programming, research or business problem within the discipline, potentially with industrial input.
This module introduces the basics of PDEs and equips you with some fundamental analytical skills (e.g.
the methods of separation of variables and Fourier transform/series).
Computational and Artificial Intelligence II Writing efficient and correct code and learning practical skills are just some of the required skills of a Computer Science or Data Science professional.
Group Theory Group theory provides a language for the abstract study of symmetry, and instances of groups are found throughout Mathematics.
Groups are mathematical objects defined by just a few rules but exhibiting a rich and fascinating amount of structure.
This module studies the ways in which groups can act upon other objects such as sets, vectors, shapes in the plane, platonic solids, and even other groups.
It also explores tools for comparing groups to one another and for obtaining complete classifications of groups of certain sizes.
Number Theory and Cryptography Number theory studies properties of the integers, with particular emphasis on the prime numbers.
It is one of the oldest areas of Mathematics but also one of the most active areas of modern research.
Recently, classical ideas from number theory have been used in the design of secure ciphers and secret-sharing schemes.
This module traces the development of the subject from its ancient beginnings to these modern applications, including primality tests, factoring algorithms, modular arithmetic, the RSA and ElGamal ciphers, and techniques for attacking these ciphers.
Waves The module will provide you with knowledge of mathematical techniques for modelling wave propagation which are typically accompanied by physical interpretations.
The exposed mathematical theory is illustrated by the discussion of real-world applications, including the waves arising in musical instruments, such as violins, drums, and flutes.
The module also involves small demonstrations and computer-generated animations.
The main topics covered in the module include the mathematical background of wave phenomena, elastic waves on stretched strings, membranes and beams, sound waves, and waves in liquids.
Mathematical Modelling The aim of the module is to demonstrate how real-world problems can be modelled mathematically.
Mathematical tools that will be used in the model construction and solution process include linear and nonlinear ordinary differential equations and their solution methods, such as phase-plane analysis, and partial differential equations and their solution techniques, such as separation of variables and method of characteristics.
Computational tools will include programming using Python for the numerical solutions of ordinary and partial differential equations.
The modelling ideas will be developed through novel and innovative case studies of real-world scenarios and through individual/group projects contributing to further development of professional skills.
In between year two and three of your studies, there is the opportunity to undertake a placement, gaining valuable practical experience with a computer science-focused company or organisation.
BBB in three A levels including B in Maths.
Contextual Offer: BCC in three A levels including B in Maths.
DDM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Engineering.
Contextual Offer: DMM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Engineering.
Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in Maths A Level.
Merit in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels including B in Maths.
Merit in any of the following T levels: Engineering and Manufacturing.
555 in three Higher Levels including 5 in Maths (any), or 30 points including 5 in Higher Level Maths (any).
Contextual Offer: 544 in three Higher Levels including 5 in Maths (any), or 28 points including 5 in Higher Level Maths (any).
122 UCAS points in an Access to HE Diploma with Maths related content, including Distinction in at least 30 Level 3 credits.
BBBCC in five Highers including Maths Higher, or CC in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers including Maths Higher or Advanced Higher, or CCC in three Advanced Highers including Maths Advanced Higher.
H3, H3, H4, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate including H4 in Maths.
73% in the Gaokao including 70% in Maths.
Average of 70% from four subjects including 70% in Maths in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 75% from four subjects including 75% in Maths in any other Standard XII.
2.2 overall average in the Abitur including 12 in Maths.
13 in the French Baccalaureate / International Option Baccalaureate including 13 in Maths, or 12.5 in the Baccalauréat Français International including 12.5 in Maths.
444 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE including Maths.
Overall average of 7.4 in the Título de Bachillerato including 8 in Maths.
80% in the Esame di Stato including 8 in Maths.
18 / 86% in the Apolytirion including Maths.
Overall average of 15.5 in a Secondary Certificate including 16 in Maths.
65% / BBBCC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma including 70% in Advanced Functions and 70% in Calculus and Vectors.
444 from three Advanced Placement subjects including Calculus (either).
BBB in three Advanced Levels including B in Combined Maths.
BBB in three principal subjects in the STPM including Maths.
BBB in three H2 Levels including B in Combined Maths.
72% overall with 7 in Maths (5 period).
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with BBB including B in Mathematics.
BBB in three Principal level subjects in the Advanced Certificate of Education including Maths.
National Senior Certificate: 66666 in five subjects including 6 in two of Maths, Maths Literacy, Technical Maths, Agricultural Sciences, Agricultural Technology Civil Technology, Computer Applications Technology, Geography, Information Technology, Life Sciences, Mechanical Technology, or Physical Science You will also need: 4 in NSC Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
BBB in three Advanced Level subjects including B in Pure Maths.
"My degree has helped me become a part time coding tutor, teaching young minds how to code.
It has also helped me get on to the master’s course I am studying right now.
I chose Keele because of the campus, and because of the AI modules.
The department has great opportunities, as well as great staff who are very understanding and helpful."
Sarah, Computer Science
In the School of Computer Science and Mathematics we embrace this approach and will actively aim to ensure that all our activities will be organised so that everyone is made to feel safe and welcome, and that diversity is encouraged.
Thanks to the growing importance placed on technology and big data, opportunities for graduates with computing and mathematical skills continues to expand.
From problem-solving and critical thinking to modelling and interpreting data, you will gain extremely transferable skills, relevant to a wide range of industries.
You will also develop the real-world skills needed for a career in computer science, with our suite of professional development and employability modules.
From engaging with guest speakers, to dedicated sessions focusing on careers and placements, we will provide you with the knowledge, tools and connections to develop a foundation for your future career.
Many of our graduates move into employment that is directly computing-related, for example as systems analysts, software engineers, data analysts and consultants, as well as working on mathematical aspects in finance, accountancy and engineering.
A number of graduates go on to study for higher degrees in a wide range of subject areas, at Keele and elsewhere.
Key areas of employment include:
Jobs that a graduate of this programme could pursue include:
Each taught module will include traditional lectures with all support material provided via our virtual learning environment.
Teaching methods include lectures, online resources, activities and communities around our live teaching sessions, practical sessions in our state-of-the-art computer laboratories, tutorials, web-based learning and group projects.
Assessments may include examinations, class tests, coursework, short reports, tutorial participation, a dissertation and oral presentations.
Applicants will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Computer Science with Foundation Year (UCAS code: G401) through UCAS at www.ucas.com.
You will then be contacted to confirm your second subject by a member of our team.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/computerscienceandmusicproduction:
Become a creative technical analyst through our Computer Science and Music Production BA at Keele.
Enhance your career opportunities, building industry expertise in computer hardware and software, programming and sound engineering.
This exciting programme blends a theoretical grounding in the key concepts and systems of computer science whilst building practical skills in technology for music production and sound design.
You'll be ready to embark on a creative career in fields such as information technology, music production and software engineering.
Our Computer Science and Music Production BA at Keele focuses on the theoretical underpinnings and practical applications of two key disciplines across various industries and creative fields.
Computing is vital to business, government, science and society, while music production is essential for thriving in diverse music genres and creative practice fields.
The program fosters the development of your computing expertise, technical proficiency, and academic understanding.
It also nurtures your production capabilities, creative practices and artistic vision.
Cover the logic design for core hardware components, the architecture of operating systems, essential features of programming languages and computational principles including data science and software engineering.
You will explore the fundamental concepts of computer programming and learn to implement your ideas using Python.
Become equipped with industry-relevant skills in music production, sound design and audio visuals through hands-on experience of techniques and processes.
You will be introduced to the foundational skills and concepts needed to record and mix in the recording studio and learn about industry best practice, developing the critical listening needed to achieve identified production aesthetics and explore your own creative workflow in music production.
Gain first-hand industry experience through innovative professional engagement activities with our external partners.
Having this experience will develop your personal and professional skills which can be applied to various workplace environments.
You will also have the opportunity to design and deliver a final year project in 'Computer Science' and/or 'Music Production', that will enable you to construct computer-based systems or a substantial creative and academic portfolio in music production.
This will help you to prepare you for a range of careers across creative roles and practices in sound recording, audio engineering, data, production and broadcasting.
At Keele, you will have a variety of opportunities to enhance your academic and professional development.
Whether you wish to broaden your horizons by studying abroad, learn a foreign language, or complete a work placement year for industry experience, you can tailor your degree programme based on your future career aspirations.
Unlocking the Studio: Your Journey into Sound Engineering This module provides a solid grounding of the foundational skills and concepts needed to record and mix in the recording studio.
Using professional recording studios with state-of-the-art equipment, staff with practical industry experience will introduce you to microphones, mic technique, routing, tracking, printing, overdubbing, re-amping, mix-prep, dynamic processors, and effects.
You will learn about industry best practices and genre-specific workflows, develop the critical listening needed to achieve identified production aesthetics and explore your own creative workflow.
Becoming a Cultural Citizen Acquiring the foundational tools and skills you need to develop your student profile is the focus of this module.
You will learn about the different pathways in your cultural or creative field while developing your own identity as a cultural critic, creative, and citizen.
You will explore and map out your personal and professional development goals and plans, ensuring you make the most of your time at university and beyond.
You will gain professional skills in communication and team working.
Sound Synthesis in Music Production Sound synthesis in Music Production offers a fun and engaging way to explore synthesis techniques (additive, AM/FM, granular, chorus, AI-based concatenative) and supports the development of your creative sound generation abilities.
You will design your own software synthesiser and organise your musical ideas into audio tracks.
You will reflect on the many popular music genres, such as Hip-hop, House, and Techno, which will prepare you for future exploration of sound for visuals, games, advertisements and Foley in your second semester.
Popular Music and Digital Platforms This module introduces key theoretical and practical aspects of popular music, exploring its socio-cultural contexts, functions, performers, markets, and scenes.
It challenges cultural assumptions about sound and listening, examining popular culture, fandom, and sound recording.
You will learn about music dissemination, consumption, and sharing on digital platforms, covering ethics, strategies, methodologies, and realities in today’s music world.
Sound for Moving Image This module introduces you to the world of sound effects for visual media, revealing the process of audio-visual synchronization across various contexts, including video games, films, and advertisements.
You will acquire practical skills in creating convincing and believable sound effects and learn the basics of Foley artistry.
With a hands-on, practical learning approach, you will be guided step-by-step in crafting unique sounds to complement visual spaces, events, and themes in moving image contexts.
Studio Engineering and Live Sound In this module, you will gain comprehensive skills by integrating live sound and studio engineering practices.
You'll learn industry best practices and gain practical experience as both a live sound technician and engineer.
This includes professional PA setup and mastering a cutting-edge digital PA system for live performance events.
The studio engineering segment will build on your first-year foundations, allowing you to develop advanced techniques in various genres, ensuring a well-rounded expertise in both live and studio environments.
Augmenting Live Performance Augmenting Live Performance introduces you to leading-edge, modern live music performance techniques and gives you the chance to build your own digital performance devices and apply them live contexts.
You will explore current and historical issues around liveness and learn the semiotics of performance.
Building on first-year skills you will explore specific augmenting live performance techniques, including recording studio and electronic music production techniques in live performance events, FX as performance tools, Launching, Reactive elements, Chance elements, and Live looping.
Sampling and Remix This module equips you with sampling and remixing skills through hands-on learning in Ableton Live.
You'll explore the historical roots of sampling and learn various contemporary music production techniques, including AI-based stem separation.
Engaging with key sample-based music pieces, you'll delve into discussions on creative reuse and recontextualization.
Critical discussions will cover topics such as, intertextuality, authenticity, ownership, legal and ethical issues.
You'll also learn remix principles, allowing you to rework and reinvent musical ideas across various genres and styles.
Professional Experience for Music Production (Year 2) This module offers you the chance to contribute to the world outside Keele either through completing a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of projects for different clients) or working as a team to deliver a successful festival or event.
You will be trained to showcase your creative and collaborative skills and abilities effectively before applying for an opportunity advertised through the module (or you can source your own, subject to it meeting the module’s requirements).
Pathways with Music Production: Developing Your Profile Broadening your knowledge of the variety of career pathways open to you enables you to identify, analyse, and showcase your degree skills and experiences effectively.
Through completing and reflecting on problem-based tasks relating to different sectors, such as telling the story of a business, or writing a funding proposal to support a music festival, you will build and refine your creative and collaborative skills and learn how to articulate them in ways that will be attractive to employers.
The American South: US Summer School (Level 5) Study Southern US culture on location!
The American South is a distinctive but difficult to define geographical and cultural entity, and attitudes to the South range from celebration to derision.
Studying with others from a range of disciplines, you will think through historical and current constructions of the US South through its history, literature, film, and wider culture.
You spend four weeks at one of our partner universities taught by Keele staff, shaping your own research project with their support.
Please note: You must take one of the professional development modules, 'Pathways with Music Production: Developing Your Profile' or 'Professional Experience for Music Production (Year 2)'.
Music Production Project Using skills from the first two years of your degree, you’ll build a portfolio showcasing your strengths in music production and sound design.
You will develop works using studio and lab tools, guided by research questions and supervision.
Projects may include mastering an album, creating industry-standard sound designs (foley, video games, audio-visual ads) or writing about practice-led research.
Your work will be presented in a concert or show, enhancing your portfolio for postgraduate study and boosting employability.
Advanced Audio Tools This module explores the design, function, technology, and visual aesthetics of advanced audio tools like VST plugins, audio units, and M4L devices.
Through two practical assessments, you will build and programme audio tool prototypes for music production contexts.
Topics include emulation, skeuomorphism, and visual feedback, focusing on effective user experience (UX) and engaging graphical user interfaces (GUIs).
Activities include prototype testing, pitching ideas to an industry focus group, and designing new graphics for audio tools.
The Art of Mixing, Mastering and AI in Modern Music Production The contemporary skill set needed to be a mix and mastering engineer involves a range of tools and audio principles knowledge.
You will learn how to prepare music releases, game audio and music, TV, Radio, podcasts, and audio for streaming platforms.
You will engage in more advanced multitrack mixing involving analogue and digital hardware.
You will also acquire critical mastering skills and explore the practical and creative use of cutting-edge Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools in highly efficient and future-proof ways.
Music and Social Movements This module explores music as a tool for conflict transformation through activism and its darker aspects, such as manipulation, power, and violence.
It examines how music can acknowledge trauma, understand conflict roots, facilitate debate, preserve memory, and subvert the status quo, while also being used for political power, population manipulation, torture, and maintaining hegemonies.
Additionally, it considers how music technology and the industry impact music’s potential to inspire resistance or submission.
Professional Experience for Music Production (Year 3) In your final year we offer you another opportunity to complete a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of clients), or work as part of a team to deliver a successful festival or event.
Completed during the final stages of your degree, the module gives you cutting-edge experience of the sector you wish to enter following graduation as well as valuable employer contacts, thereby providing you with an effective career launchpad.
Employing Music Production: Putting Your Subject into Practice Now you are preparing for life after graduation, this module enables you to put your degree skills into practice and work with employer-clients on a series of real-life projects.
Enhancing the creative and collaborative skills you developed on ‘Pathways with Music Production’, ‘Employing Music Production’ will train you to work effectively with clients from a variety of settings, including charities, publishers, and museums, and will give you the opportunity to present your work to your chosen employer-client.
The American South: US Summer School (Level 6) Study Southern US culture on location!
Please note: You must choose one of the two year-long project modules, either ‘Music Production Project’ or ‘Computer Science Project’.
You can choose to take both if you wish.
You also must take one (only) of the professional development modules: ‘Professional Experience for Music Production (Year 3)’ or ‘Employing Music Production: Putting Your Subject into Practice’.
Our Apple MacBook Loan Scheme ensures that all Music Production students have equal access to high quality resources to support learning.
As a Music Production student, you will be provided with an Apple MacBook for the full duration of your degree, at no cost to yourself*.
Pre-installed with the necessary software required for your studies, the loan scheme allows you to optimise your learning experience and engage with industry-standard hardware.
*a charge will be made in the event of loss or damage to the MacBook.
Throughout your placement you will be supported by an academic advisor and a placements and project manager, who are based in the School of Computer Science and Mathematics and the School of Humanities .
Learn more about our study abroad opportunities at Keele.
Supported by the Mericos Foundation and exclusive to Keele.
Our Music Fellowship Scheme provides the opportunity to apply for a Studio Innovation Fellowship Award of £750 (two available each academic year) to facilitate the creation, performance or production of new music in Keele’s Courtyard Studio.
You can apply for the award individually or as a group, and benefit from access to studio production facilities, collaboration with creative partners and engagement with the local community.
This opportunity enables students to demonstrate their creativity, skills and expertise through Keele’s campus facilities.
To help you meet your academic and personal needs, we offer a multi-layered support structure.
You will have access to an academic mentor and member of staff from the Student Experience and Support team if you need any additional support, or someone to talk to, whether about your degree programme or life outside of your studies.
We have a wealth of student-led societies here at Keele which cover a diverse range of interests.
It’s also a great way to make friends and share interests with fellow students.
The School of Computer Science and Mathematics are proud to hold an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in recognition for their activities under the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) agenda.
Their approach actively aims to ensure that all activities are organised so that everyone is made to feel safe and welcome, and that diversity is encouraged.
Building skills in problem-solving, analytical thinking and creative communication, will help to open up career opportunities across different industries and technical fields.
These skills will enable you to demonstrate your unique approach to computing, music production and sound design.
You will graduate with a wide variety of in demand, subject-specific and transferable skills suited to a future in software engineering, consultancy, the public arts, game audio, audio streaming and beyond.
You may wish to explore the following roles/careers:
Please note: You may need to take further postgraduate study to enter some of the professions listed above.
We offer an exciting mix of learning opportunities at Keele, including traditional lectures, computer lab-based sessions, workshops and tutorials.
You will engage with active discussions with peers and academics, debating key topics and contributing to creative tasks through seminars.
This will be further enhanced through group project sessions that allow you to build both independent and team working skills.
Throughout the programme, you will practice and refine your independent skills through web-based learning using online tools and resources, developing your communication skills through reading and writing.
With a range of teaching styles, you will build transferable skills that can be applied to a range of assessment methods, demonstrating your expertise and knowledge gained throughout the programme.
Practical computer science sessions will take place in Keele’s state-of-the-art, £34m Central Science Laboratories (CSL) and the Colin Reeves Building, home to the School of Computer Science and Mathematics.
The Colin Reeves Building offers a suite of facilities including:
At Keele, you will enjoy the use of designated teaching spaces and will study in our beautiful 19th-century Clockhouse and have access to comprehensive studio facilities.
There are six key areas housing equipment for sound recording, music production, computer music, audio-visual creative work, sound design, and music software development.
Keele has expanded its music facilities with a new multi-purpose studio for live sound recording, mixing and mastering, equipped with cutting-edge technology.
Our Courtyard Studio is home to a control room with Dolby Atmos multi-speaker audio system, a live room with foley recording facility, voiceover booth, and a band rehearsal room.
Our facilities provide the opportunity to explore emerging technologies and techniques, encouraging innovation in studio production and developing skills across music design, performance and recording.
We are also in the unique position of hosting the first living laboratory for energy-efficient technologies: the multi-million-pound Smart Energy Network Demonstrator (SEND).
The School of Humanities has a vibrant research community and diverse and supportive research culture.
Research in the School of Humanities is made up of the following areas: Music Production and Sound Design, History, Media, Film, English and Creative Writing.
We host a range of specialisms in Music Production, with research-active staff.
The staff group has extensive experience of undergraduate and postgraduate teaching in universities in the UK, continental and Eastern Europe and Latin America.
Learn more about research in the School of Humanities.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Computer Science and Music Production degree.
For example, the Foundations of Humanities 1 module introduces you to the broad range of source material across the Humanities disciplines - from media to history which enables us to analyse political, social or economic perspectives and attitudes to individuals, marginal groups and 'mainstream' society.
Students will need to apply for BSc Computer Science with Foundation Year (UCAS code G401) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/computersciencewithintegratedmasters:
Gain the advanced technical, practical and research skills needed to fast-track your career in today’s fast-paced, tech-focused business world.
Covering everything from foundational Python programming to Cloud Computing and employability focused modules, you’ll graduate ready to pursue PhD study or gain a competitive edge in the graduate employment market.
Our four-year MComp programme allows you to immerse yourself in the tools, techniques, and foundational theories that drive innovation in science and technology, offering the widest scope of learning in the field.
During your first year, we will support you in gaining a robust grounding in computational problem-solving skills, programming and fundamental mathematics, to equip you with the skills required for further study.
You can hear from industry guest speakers, develop employability skills, spend time in industry with a year-long or modular placement, and even pursue a personal interest in computer science by proposing a project that showcases your knowledge and skills.
In your third year you will unleash your creativity and undertake a substantial piece of research, applying theoretical knowledge and problem-solving skills to a technical, software, research or business problem.
In your final year, you will also explore master's level research-led topics, in the development of software and the critical evaluation of scientific literature.
You will also complete a substantial final year project.
This will allow you to integrate and apply your theoretical knowledge and problem-solving skills to an identified design and implementation need and/or an advanced research problem within the discipline.
To equip you with the skills needed for your final year project, you will learn how to develop a novel research idea and plan for a research proposal in addition to exploring advanced analytics and statistical modelling techniques - to enable you to make sense of the exponential growth of big data.
MComp Project In this module, you will undertake an individual project across two semesters.
You will evaluate, integrate and apply theoretical knowledge and problem-solving skills to a programming, research or business problem within the discipline.
You will be allocated an academic supervisor to provide guidance during the project.
You will gain an opportunity to extensively develop your research skills and subject knowledge, as well as providing transferrable skills for employment including critical thinking, communication, adaptability, reflective practice and time management.
Mathematical Techniques for Computational Sciences A knowledge of some of the fundamental concepts in mathematics is important to all our MSc programmes, and something that will give you enhanced understanding in areas such as AI, data management and cyber security.
This module is designed for students without recent mathematical knowledge or experience and will support you to explore the power of Linear Algebra for solving complex systems, use Probability and Statistics to make data-driven decisions, and harness the beauty of Calculus to understand dynamic changes.
Foundations of Programming and Software Engineering Programming is an essential skill in all areas of Computer Science.
This module is specifically designed for students from non-computing backgrounds, building confidence and competence in programming, using Python, the most widely used programming language in the world.
Through a series of closely supported practicals, you will gain an understanding of concepts such as Data Types, Variables, Functions and Control Structures, as well as the basics of Software Engineering and industry tools such as GitHub to manage your projects.
Ethics, Governance, and Professionalism in AI and Data Science Embark on a transformative journey into key professional standards that underpin current, and future AI and Data Science.
You will delve into critical topics like fairness and bias, privacy and ethical frameworks; and explore the impact of regulations and compliance and AI’s impact on society.
To support you in preparing for future employment, you'll access cutting-edge research in areas like explainable and responsible AI, gain insights from invited industry speakers, and receive expert guidance from our dedicated employability and careers team.
Cryptography and Network Security - Theory and Applications Linked with current industry certification requirements e.g.
ISC2, this module will build your proficiency in the theory and application of cryptography and network security.
After an overview of the Cyber Threat Landscape and Basic Cyber Hygiene practices, you will master Symmetric and Asymmetric Cryptography, Cryptographic Protocols, and Key Management.
You will also learn about Networks, Protocols and Architectures, and the role of Firewalls and Intrusion Detection Systems.
You will then explore Malware and Attack Technologies and effective Incident Response techniques.
Data Management and Cloud A solid understanding of data and its management is crucial for all areas of computer science, driving innovation and informed decision-making.
You will learn how to prepare data and how to design and build databases for efficient data management using a language called SQL; the most in-demand technical skill for data jobs.
You will also explore Big Data technologies like Hadoop and Spark and gain hands-on experience with Cloud Platforms such as Amazon Web Services.
Advanced Applications of AI and Machine Learning During interactive lectures and practicals, delivered by experts from the University and Industry, you will learn to master methods such as Exploratory Data Analysis, Machine Learning and Neural Networks with common frameworks like PyTorch and TensorFlow.
You will also encounter concepts such as Deep Learning, Natural Language Processing, and Computer Vision as well as Generative Models which drive technologies such as ChatGPT.
We will then explore how these techniques can be contextualised for your future career.
Agile Web Engineering Immerse yourself in the dynamic world of web design and development as you experience working in a small “Agile” team using industry standard project management techniques such as Scrum.
We will start with an introduction to User Interface Design Principles, user research methods and User Experience (UX).
You will then gain proficiency in Full-stack development covering areas such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP and related frameworks such as Node.js, all with consideration of relevant security and industry best practices.
Usable Cyber Security - Analytics and Management For security to be effective, it must be usable and designed to work for people.
This module sits at the intersection of usability and security and covers areas such as Operating Systems and Virtualisation Security, Software and Application and Platform Security.
We will then look at the influence of human factors such as social engineering and usability on security, along with training and ethical and legal issues; giving you a comprehensive view of the area, beyond standard approaches.
In between years two and three of your studies, there is the opportunity to undertake a placement.
You will explore advanced topics and techniques at the leading edge of computer science research, allowing you to pursue a more advanced academic or industrial career.
You will also graduate with a wide variety of advanced subject specific and transferrable skills across many areas including leadership, problem solving, computational thinking, integrity, team working, modelling, critical thinking, communication, adaptability, reflective practice and time management.
Please note you may need to take further postgraduate study to enter some of the professions listed
This includes a series of guest lectures from organisations such as Microsoft, the BBC, and CapGemini, as well as grouped and individual projects, potentially involving real-world data from industry.
The Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the MComp Computer Science with Integrated Master's.
Applicants will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Computer Science with Foundation Year (UCAS code G401) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/creativewriting:
Develop your voice as a writer within a supportive community of academics, published authors, and creative peers on our Creative Writing BA.
Become a skilled creative practitioner with a deep understanding of a wide range of literary texts, genres and cultures.
Whether you aspire to become a writer or explore other creative industries, you'll be well-equipped with the tools, inspiration and experience to pursue your career ambitions.
Keele's Creative Writing degree allows you to develop your writing skills in various literary forms while deepening your understanding of the historical, social, ethnic, gender, and geographical contexts of the texts studied in this programme.
You will start by studying three core genres—fiction, poetry, and scriptwriting, as well as writing for children - and you'll explore the narratives, characteristics, and structures that will help you to refine your writing skills for various audiences and platforms (including digital formats), whilst also considering the research and practices of writers worldwide.
Graduate with not only a profound understanding of literature, but also a portfolio of work and the confidence to pursue your ambitions in the dynamic world of writing.
Throughout the programme you will engage with texts from both the past and present, analysing how they function within their cultural contexts and how they reflect, generate, or challenge the ideas of their time.
You will have the opportunity to apply your learning and tailor your individual practice through specialist modules and a final-year project, culminating in a 'Creative Writing Portfolio' or an 'Extended Screenwriting Project.'
At Keele, you can tailor your degree programme based on your future aspirations, with the opportunity to take a placement year, study abroad with a partner university, to learn a modern language , or to gain a recognised TESOL qualification , through our Global Challenges Pathway, which will help you to develop global perspectives and build your awareness and experience of other cultures and practices.
This provides a head start in your employment journey, enabling you to develop your writing style and shape your identity with the collaboration of professionals in industry, and support from academic staff.
Writing Fiction This module introduces you to key characteristics of fiction.
You will gain an understanding of how these can be employed to explore the meaning of a text.
Engaging with prose writers from all over the world, you will learn how to analyse core elements such as narrative voice, structure and the evocation of place, and develop your own ability to write short, creative prose pieces.
You will attain a solid foundation for writing longer prose pieces in the future.
Writing for Children It starts at a secret location.
You receive a blank book and start to write.
It’s a journal: you submit it later, alongside your creative or critical piece.
Back in Keele you look at children’s writing from different periods and cultures.
You consider imagination and myth, the politics of representation, the construction and subversion of gender roles.
You think about voice and vision.
Your expressive skills flower as you explore storytelling techniques and the transformative power of narrative.
Delivery, Performance, and Other Platforms: All the Writing Selves This module prepares you for studying creative writing at university, introducing you to all the ‘writing selves’ needed when seeking publication and building an authorial profile.
You will explore how self-narratives, new journalism, guerrilla-writing, and broadcasting platforms foster ways to extend and complement your practice outside traditional routes; how to deliver manuscripts to publishers, agents, and competitions, including how to respond to commissions via authentic briefs.
You will also gain a practical foundation in performing your work publicly on/offline.
Writing Poetry This module introduces you to the characteristics and structure of poems, through an examination of 5 key ‘modes’ of poetry, looking closely at how these achieve their ends.
You will learn how to identify these characteristics and structural elements through lecture input, discussion and consideration of example poems by a range of authors.
You will also learn how to deploy this understanding into the writing of your own poetry, and share/discuss your own creative work with your fellow writers.
Writing Scripts This module will introduce you to the key dramatic principles required to write scripts for stage and screen.
Drawing on texts from contemporary theatre, film and television, you will learn a series of fundamental skills, developing your understanding of character, dialogue, and structure.
You will engage in a combination of lectures, seminar groups, and practical writing workshops, and guided by feedback from peers and tutors alike, you will work towards writing your own original script.
History in Media and Film: The Presentation of the Past in Contemporary Culture The past is presented in many different ways, including in contemporary film and media.
In this module you will consider ‘public history’, examine representations of the past in visual culture, and discuss the importance of these representations to collective memory, constructions of identity, and contemporary politics.
Working with students from different subjects, you will begin to develop key skills for Humanities students, including how to evaluate and interpret sources and communicate your arguments to audiences of all backgrounds.
Popular Music & Platforms This module introduces key theoretical and practical aspects of popular music, exploring its socio-cultural context, functions, performers, markets, and scenes.
Becoming a Cultural Citizen This module provides you with the foundational tools and skills you need to develop your student profile.
You will gain professional skills in communication and team-working.
Voices and Audiences: Building Your Professional Communication Skills This module introduces you to the many ways that your literary knowledge and communication skills will be useful in future employment.
Studying a range of poems, speeches, and plays, you will learn how to employ effective rhetorical strategies to communicate professionally with different audiences, enabling you to give speeches, design lesson plans or exhibitions, or run social media campaigns.
The module includes masterclasses from professionals working in, for example, museums, theatres, and social media.
Genre, Forms and Modes This module will develop and deepen your understanding of how narrative forms, genres and modes are used in creative writing.
It introduces you to forms of creative prose besides fiction.
It asks questions about how genre writing and creative nonfiction are formed, how writers read other literary texts – not as critics, and not necessarily as fans, but as practitioners – and aims to equip your own texts with the structures and techniques which are necessary to develop your own writing.
Sources of Writing This module will develop your knowledge of key ideas about the creative processes behind the writing of original texts (poetry and prose).
You will explore these processes, increase your understanding of the influences and sources that inspire new writing, and enhance your understanding of writers’ workshops gained in your first year at Keele.
Through the production of your own prose, poetry and critical analysis, the module will prepare you for your independent study project in your third year.
Local Literature in Action This module reflects on what writing can do in the world.
It develops your place-writing skills, supporting you to create vivid settings that are closer to home (Stoke or elsewhere).
It thinks about form, genre, and voice (regional/global Englishes).
Building on writing’s capacity to shape and reshape people’s lived experiences of cities, towns and regions, the module includes practical training to equip you with the skills to conceive and plan your own ways of working with communities outside university.
Screenwriting: Principles and Practices This module forms a gateway to the worlds of professional screenwriting and story development.
It introduces you to key screenwriting concepts, which you will explore in practical, writing-based seminars.
You will analyse a range of film and TV industry texts as well as producing a number of screenplay samples which respond to the theme of the seminars, receiving feedback in regular writing workshops.
You will develop your own creative project plan, which will provide an invaluable basis for any project work in your final year.
Literature and Society Building on your first year, in this second-year module you will extend your knowledge of different literary approaches and theories, exploring topics such as feminism, race studies, ecocriticism, and the history of emotions.
You will explore how literature reflects and influences social issues, both those contemporary to the literature you study and those relevant in today’s society.
You will deepen your skills in critical analysis as you apply your literary understanding to real-world debates and situations.
Literature, Creativity and the Cultural Industries This module builds on L4 introductions to cultural platforms/industries and to adaptation/script-writing, enabling a focused study of how the New Vic Theatre adapts texts for the stage; you will explore how the theatre as cultural industry produces social value through programmes of research and creativity; you will use this knowledge to reflect on societal impacts of cultural industries more widely, for example music, film, creative writing.
You will be assessed in ways that enable you to reflect on your own creative and critical practice.
Promotional Cultures Why is brand culture so ubiquitous in how we understand ourselves and our society, and the way we live our lives?
You’ll investigate the histories and politics of marketing, advertising and consumerism, considering how and why promotional culture became such a key component of contemporary economies and societies.
You’ll think critically about the social and political impacts of brand culture, including environmental harm, exploitation, and inequality.
You’ll identify, discuss, and critically analyse key themes and trends in contemporary promotional culture.
Pathways with Creative Writing: Developing Your Profile This module broadens your knowledge of the variety of career pathways open to you, enabling and enable you to identify, analyse, and showcase your degree skills and experiences effectively.
Through completing and reflecting on problem-based tasks relating to different sectors, such as telling the story of a business, or writing a funding proposal to support a film festival, you will build your creative and collaborative skills and learn how to articulate them in ways that will be attractive to employers.
Professional Experience with Creative Writing This module offers you the chance to contribute to the world outside Keele either through completing a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of projects for different clients), or working as a team to deliver a successful literary festival or event.
Writingscapes This module enables you to specialise in various forms of place-writing.
It introduces you to some spatial theories, including sensoryscapes, geopoetics, and psychogeography, offering you different approaches you might adopt in your writing.
You are  supported to reflect on the relations between theory and practice, and  read published examples of creative texts (poetry, prose, creative nonfiction) by English-language and bi-/multi-lingual writers from the UK and elsewhere, to help you develop your writing and situate it within broader literary landscapes.
Life Writing ‘Autobiography’: that’s writing about the self, right?
Wrong!
That’s Rule One.
You look at canonical texts by saints and sinners, scientists and sages.
You study key theories.
Then you look for other voice.
You construct a counter canon and interpret it.
This is about your creative practice as well as your academic development, though.
What grain of sand will be your pearl?
Workshops provide support, but this is your journey through the self to the world.
Remember Rule One.
Creative Writing Portfolio This module gives you the opportunity to plan and develop an extended creative writing project, such as a collection of poems or short stories, or a longer piece of fiction.
In Semester 1, you will read and discuss contemporary writing and experiment with examples of your own in a workshop, so you can settle on a project.
In semester 2, you will work closely with a supervisor to produce a portfolio of creative writing.
You might consider using any acquired understanding of digital/alternative platforms for the presentation of your Portfolio as an alternative to traditional text-based work.
Extended Screenwriting Project This final-year project is the culmination of your critical and practical work on screenwriting, building on modules undertaken in years one and two.
With the consultation of tutors, you will identify and devise your own screenplay idea (for a feature film, TV show ‘pilot’, short film or adaptation), producing a professional-standard treatment to showcase your skills.
The module will therefore provide a significant platform and output for anyone hoping to move into careers within the creative film and TV industries.
Other-than-human worlds: nature writing, environmental writing This module supports you to hone your place-writing to focus on non- or other-than-human worlds.
You’ll study a wide variety of nature and environmental texts by global majority writers, working-class writers, disabled writers, queer writers, and others.
You’ll analyse various uses of form, reflecting on the possibilities and limitations of, for example, hybrid, multimodal, and critical-creative writing.
The module thinks about interrelations between humans and the other-than-human, and the potentials for writing to effect social and environmental change.
Working-class Fictions This module introduces you to the practices of working-class fiction, a genre grounded in matters of identity and social realism.
You will explore literary traditions through a series of set texts (e.g.
Angry Young Men of the 60s, Shuggie Bain), film adaptations, and protest songs to inspire your own practice.
You will be alerted to debates and propaganda that continue to influence whilst exploring how to experiment with medium to best represent the class-subject past and present.
Shakespeare on Film How have Shakespeare's works been adapted by the film industry, and why do screenwriters and directors make the creative decisions they make?
In 'Shakespeare on Film' you will explore a range of Shakespeare plays adapted for film, and develop your understanding both of the original works and of the possibilities they offer for reinterpretation and adaptation.
You can practise film adaptation yourself, as you explore possibilities for cutting and modernising Shakespeare’s text for the screen.
Creative Magazine Production You’ll plan and produce a group digital 'journal' or 'magazine' focused on culture.
Each group will negotiate the types of articles to include, and the design and style of the publication in relation to their chosen market and target audience.
Your finished work will be published online, capable to be presented in various digital formats.
You’ll refine the creative and collaborative skills built up so far, including encounters at Y1 and Y2 with cultural/creative platforms; you’ll develop your awareness of audiences and markets; and you’ll have a product to showcase after graduation.
Thresholds: Young Adult Fiction Young Adult Fiction, occupying a borderline between children's and adult fiction, often focuses on moments of crisis, its characters caught between innocence and ruin, naivety and understanding, and sometimes literally between two worlds.
What is it about young adulthood that invites these explorations of the threshold and the liminal?
Can we read 'growing up', through these fictions, not as gradual development but as series of shocks?
This module emphasises diversity and we will read fan-fiction, genre fiction, and ‘issue’ novels.
Media and Climate Change Are you passionate about telling new and more powerful stories about climate change, biodiversity loss and human-nature disconnection, the key environmental concerns of our time?
This module develops your creative storytelling skills in the context of environmental communication.
You will discover different approaches to environmental communication and learn how to devise effective stories responding to briefs set by external partners from the environmental sector.
You will gain vital skills relevant to professional roles in a wide variety of communications, environment and sustainability related fields.
Employing Creative Writing: Putting Your Subject into Practice Preparing for life after graduation, this module enables you to put your degree skills into practice and work with employer-clients on a series of real-life projects.
Enhancing the creative and collaborative skills you developed on ‘Pathways with Creative Writing’, Employing Creative Writing trains you to work effectively with clients from a variety of settings, such as charities, publishers, museums, or even the construction sector, and gives you the opportunity to present your work to your chosen employer-client.
Professional Experience with Creative Writing (Year 3) In your final year we offer you another opportunity to complete a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of clients), or work as part of a team to deliver a successful festival or event.
"The Work Experience module provides career options that you may not be aware of, as well as offering real opportunities to develop new skills and invaluable experience, regardless of how much work experience you already have.
My role was intern at Writing West Midlands, a literary development agency that supports and promotes writers across the region.
I was to assist the Festival Director, who coordinates the programme of live events at the Birmingham Literary Festival.
In my role, I met several publishing houses where I learnt about roles in publishing and how books are commissioned and promoted.
I developed new skills in reviewing books and writing summaries that identified themes, so the team could develop a long list for consideration for the festival programme."
Alexa, Creative Writing
Opportunities to enhance your employability are at the heart of our Creative Writing programme and you will have the chance to engage with work placements as part of your degree through modules or an additional work placement year (optional).
This allows you to collaborate with professionals and demonstrate your creative expertise in the workplace, building key skills in communication, analytical thinking and problem-solving.
Our placement year option between years two and three of your degree programme provides preparation for employment after university, through hands-on experience.
This will enable you to build confidence and demonstrate your abilities in a professional environment, using the skills you have gained throughout your degree programme.
Alternatively, you may choose to study abroad for just a semester in your second year which will count towards your second-year grades.
Our Global Opportunities team will support you through the process, ensuring you are able to get the most out of your international experience.
The American South: US Summer School is an exciting optional module that can be taken in Year 2 or 3 to study Southern US culture on location!
Studying with others from a range of disciplines, you will explore historical and current constructions of the US South through its history, literature, film, and wider culture.
Four weeks are spent at one of our partner universities taught by Keele staff, shaping your own research project with their support.
In 2023 and 2024, students studied at the University of North Carolina, Wilmington.
Discover languages at Keele.
Whether you are a complete beginner or already have a foundation of knowledge, we offer a flexible and guided route to developing your skills.
We currently offer British Sign Language, Mandarin Chinese, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Russian and Spanish.
Being multilingual can assist with your career prospects and encourage you to stand out against competition, as well as increasing your employment prospects overseas.
This is also a fantastic opportunity for your personal development where you can practise your reading, writing and oral skills and build key characteristics such as time management, adaptability, and motivation.
Throughout your studies, you will be encouraged to reflect on the academic, creative and employability skills you are developing and, more importantly, how you can articulate these skills in the workplace environment, across industries.
Our programme enables you to communicate confidently, work as a team and independently, to demonstrate your creativity and expertise across relevant roles and responsibilities.
You may wish to explore a career in publishing, marketing, copywriting or culture and heritage.
There are a wide range of careers that would value a creative writing graduate such as:
Our exciting programme is delivered through a range of different teaching methods to suit your learning style, such as:
With an array of teaching styles on this programme, you will be assessed using various methods to illustrate the skills and expertise you have gained throughout your degree.
These include:
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Creative Writing degree.
For example, the Foundations of Humanities 1 module introduces you to the broad range of source material across the Humanities disciplines - from media to history - which enables us to analyse political, social or economic perspectives and attitudes to individuals, marginal groups and 'mainstream' society.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) Creative Writing with Foundation Year (UCAS code W801) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/criminology:
Keele pioneered the teaching of undergraduate Criminology in the UK and has since delivered a research-led programme combining theoretical understandings of crime with practical application of this knowledge.
With links to various criminal justice agencies, our Criminology BA enables you to benefit from networks with the police, probation services and prisons to explore real-world scenarios and prepare for a career across a range of sectors.
We are proud to be at the forefront of active research, making a difference in society.
Hear from our students and staff – who share their personal experiences of studying and teaching at Keele.
Pioneers of undergraduate teaching of Criminology in the UK, Keele provides a modern, research informed programme, taught by active criminological researchers.
Our Criminology degree explores themes of crime control, justice, victimisation and harm through contemporary case studies, building your awareness across a range of different perspectives.
Our Criminology programme draws from diverse social and human sciences to offer a comprehensive understanding of the 'crime problem', emphasising problem-based learning, allowing you to apply your knowledge to real-world issues, challenges and situations relating to crime and social justice.
We have developed professional partnerships with a range of criminal justice agencies, including the police, probation services, and prisons that provide you with opportunities to hear from, and network with, those working in criminal justice related fields.
There are also opportunities for you to gain work experience through placements.
This programme is designed to equip you with transferable skills to make a positive social impact as an independent scholar and critical thinker, working effectively with peers and practitioners on collaborative group projects.
You will build a personal sense of social and ethical responsibility and the skills to strive for, and enact, social change.
Understanding Crime, Understanding Criminal Justice This module aims to lay the foundations for your criminological studies and to ignite your ‘criminological imagination’.
The module introduces you to criminology as a subject, to where our understanding of ‘crime’ comes from, and to the ways in which criminological theories and ideas can help us to understand contemporary crime problems.
You will also be introduced to theories of criminal justice and the work of, and relationships between, the main institutions of the criminal justice system.
Policing, Prevention and Punishment How and why is crime committed?
How can crime be prevented, and whose responsibility is it to prevent it?
How is crime investigated, and how are perpetrators identified and prosecuted?
How do we punish convicted offenders, and what do we hope to gain from that punishment?
These core issues in policing, criminology and criminal justice are explored in their social, political, economic, cultural and psychological contexts.
The module also includes visits from practitioners and guest speakers working in these areas.
Murder, Death and Destruction This module introduces you to the ways in which criminologists and criminal justice professionals attempt to theorise, contextualise and respond to the most serious forms of criminal and harmful behaviour in society (including murder, homicide, ‘public’ and ‘hidden’ forms of violence and abuse, state violence, and environmental crimes).
You will be applying theory to current real-world incidents and engaging with issues such as age, gender, ethnicity, social exclusion and inequality, media representations, legal and evidentiary challenges, and preventative approaches.
Becoming a Social Scientist This module transitions you to university scholarship and introduces the employability and professional skills that a social science degree provides through a range of action-focused activities, e.g.
analysing local council budgets and making decisions about where to invest money.
Overall, the module introduces you to vital academic and professional skills and competencies that will allow you to thrive in the first year of your undergraduate studies.
Imagining Social Order & Deviance Imagining Social Order and Deviance explores societal norms, values, and the construction of deviance through a series of real life case studies.
You are invited to engage with diverse perspectives on what constitutes social order and deviant behaviour and consider the complexities of social control mechanisms, the stigmatisation of marginalised groups, and the dynamics of power in shaping perceptions of deviance.
By fostering a deep understanding of the intricacies of social order and deviance, this module empowers you to challenge prevailing narratives and envision more equitable and inclusive societies.
Crime Across Borders This module introduces cross-border crime and the impacts of globalisation and technological innovation on crime and criminal justice.
You will learn how cross-border flows impact upon transnational crimes such as: drug use and distribution; human trafficking; immigration crimes; terrorism; cybercrime; hate crime; state crime; organised crime; and environmental crime.
You will explore theories of globalisation, risk and network societies, and delve deeper into perspectives that decentre the nation-state, such as post- and de-colonial criminology, green criminology and queer criminology.
Social Science Research Methods and Data Analysis This module introduces you to the core social science of designing, implementing, and analysing social phenomenon.
You will learn to identify and analyse data sources that might be used by social scientists in real world situations.
From quantitative surveys to qualitative interviews and ethnographic studies, you will explore a diverse range of methodological approaches to understanding society and develop practical researcher skills that prepare you to carry out a significant piece of original research in your final year.
Social Science at Work This module begins to introduce you to possible careers for social scientists and links to the work you are doing in your subject core and option modules asking the question ‘how can we mobilise academic study into the real world?’ You will also be encouraged to prepare for placement work that you may pursue and reflect on your social media footprint; developing your personal/professional brand and digital networking platforms.
Prisons, Punishment, Probation What is it like to live in or work in prison?
Why do many people return to prison repeatedly?
Are prisons doing more harm than good?
This module explores the continuum of custodial sentences, from the time a person may spend in prison, to their release into supervision in the community and transition to life ‘on the outside’.
The module is underpinned by theories of punishment, rehabilitation and integration; in/equality and intersectionality; penal reformist perspectives, abolition and alternatives to custody.
Challenges and Issues in Criminal Justice This module examines current and emerging challenges and issues in criminal justice policy, process and practice.
We will examine contemporary case studies of issues requiring a criminal justice response to prevent, deter or reduce problematic impacts and explore the ways in which we can contextualise, measure and respond to these challenges and issues.
The module will include visits from practitioners working in criminal justice to provide the opportunity to network and gain insights into potential future employment.
Social Design Social Design is an interdisciplinary module exploring the interplay between societal structures, human behaviour, and crime.
This module equips you with the knowledge and skills to critically analyse, design, and implement interventions that foster safer and more inclusive communities.
You will explore how social factors influence crime patterns and the efficacy of preventive measures.
Depending on your subject interest, you may explore the role of social policies in shaping community dynamics or design principles for crime prevention strategies, to address complex social challenges.
Work Placement for Social Sciences This module gives students studying subjects in the School of Social Sciences the opportunity to contribute to the world beyond the University, in any workplace where the specialist knowledge, research, analytical, and communication skills developed as part of your Social Science degree can be used and can make a difference.
The chosen workplace or volunteering opportunity may be, for example, with a local government agency or third sector organisation, a charity, a community group, a criminal justice agency, a campaign group, a public service, a school or education provider, or another suitable opportunity identified by the student and approved by the module leader.
Dissertation/Independent study Project in Criminology The dissertation module provides you with the opportunity to undertake independent study on a criminological subject of your choice.
Where appropriate, you will be encouraged to design your dissertation in response to regional/localised issues or invited to work alongside staff on professional research projects to inform your dissertation.
The module encourages you to develop expertise and specialisms culminating in a coherent and rigorous written dissertation of around 8,000 words.
You can undertake empirical research or desk-based/library study as appropriate.
Engaged Social Science Moving on from the previous skills modules, you will further consider how your degree can link to a range of life skills and careers through engagement with community groups, activists and people working in public and private sectors.
You will be supported in your next steps either through transition to the workplace or postgraduate study.
Policing the 21st Century The module will explore changes, challenges and opportunities in 21st century policing relating to topics such as decision making, public protection, response policing, roads policing, vulnerability and risk, domestic abuse, counter terrorism, community policing, policing and the digital and police investigation.
The module will include visits from practitioners working in policing or related fields and is particularly useful if you are considering a career in policing through the Degree Holder Entry Programme (DHEP).
Crime Prevention, Partnerships and Community Safety This module explores the issue of crime prevention and reduction through the lens of multi-agency partnership working involving a range of partner agencies from across criminal justice, local government, the public sector and beyond.
It explores the shift from the rhetoric of 'crime prevention' to 'community safety' in the aftermath of the Morgan Report (1991) and in the context of the 1998 Crime and Disorder Act and subsequent legislation focussing on community safety, anti-social behaviour and localised crime reduction initiatives.
Harm, Justice and Power What, and who, is criminology for?
Criminology has long debated whether it should support governments, or whether it should seek to challenge unequal power relations and systemic injustices within contemporary societies.
A variety of perspectives on justice and power have emerged, including the idea that criminology's focus should not simply be on crime but on social harm.
This module explores examples such as ‘crimes of the powerful’, state crime, corporate crimes, environmental harms; harms associated with capitalism, neoliberalism, and austerity.
Crime: from the Everyday to the Extremes This module explores how the extreme and the everyday intermingle.
It looks on the one hand, at extreme perspectives, groups, and actions, and on the other hand, discusses a range of everyday experiences of citizen involvement in processes of legal and extra-legal crime control and punishment.
It explores how extremism connects to everyday experiences of crime and policing.
Themes include gender-based violence; religious and political terrorism; immigration and anti-immigration activism; prejudice; hate crime; vigilantism, surveillance and the criminalisation of participation.
Beyond Human Beyond Human explores social behaviour, structures, and interactions among non-human entities, such as animals, artificial intelligence, and other forms of non-human life, seeking to understand the social dynamics present in non-human societies and their interactions with human societies.
From examining the ethics of Artificial Intelligence to exploring the implications of environmental degradation on crime patterns, you will explore the complexities of human and non-human interconnectedness in shaping societies.
Work Placement for Social Sciences Final Year Students This module is designed to give students studying subjects in the School of Social Sciences the opportunity to contribute to the world beyond the University, in any workplace where the specialist knowledge, research, analytical, and communication skills developed as part of your Social Science degree can be used and can make a difference.
During your studies, you will have the opportunity to opt for a Work Placement Year in the School of Social Sciences between Year 2 and Year 3, or to take a Work Placement Module.
This will allow you to apply your knowledge and practical skills in a workplace environment, enabling you to build key skills in communication, teamwork and project management.
You will be able to demonstrate your abilities and creative thinking, working with fellow professionals as well as independently.
You will be supported by staff in your preparation to apply for a work placement that suits your interests and career prospects.
This opportunity will allow you to develop both personally and professionally during your studies, preparing you for employment after university.
On this programme, you will have the exciting opportunity to study for a semester or year abroad at a partner university .
Our Global Opportunities team will support you through the process, ensuring you are able to get the most out of your international experience .
Choosing to study abroad can enhance your career prospects and help in your employment search to stand out from the crowd.
Your experience overseas will broaden your perspectives and approach to learning, enabling you to expand your skillset and mindset towards both personal and professional opportunities.
If you choose to study abroad for a semester, this will be taken in your second year of study.
Alternatively, if you opt for the International Year, this will be taken between your second and third year of study and allows you to graduate with an enhanced degree title, on successful completion of all modules across the year.
To help you meet your academic and personal needs, we offer a multi layered support structure.
As a Keele Criminology graduate, you will become equipped with a suite of transferable skills, aligned to your chosen career path or further study and training.
Your expertise as a critical thinker and problem-solver will enable you to hit the ground running, applying your knowledge in your desired role, across diverse social disciplines such as policing, probation, criminal justice and youth justice.
The networks you will build on this programme will help to prepare you for the workplace environment through collaboration and insights into areas including crime reduction, offender rehabilitation and community safety.
You may wish pursue a career as a:
Criminology at Keele is taught by research active staff through diverse teaching methods and assessments.
Your teaching sessions will include lectures, seminars and workshops which will enhance your learning experience, engaging with discussions with academics and peers.
You will explore criminological issues and social problems, encouraging independent learning with opportunities to demonstrate your ideas and solutions for subject matter.
This is further enhanced through your final year dissertation/independent study project and web-based learning.
The teaching team have excellent links with local, national and international practitioners and policy makers who regularly attend lectures and seminars to offer their expertise.
This gives students the opportunity to see how the learning is applied in practice and also to ask questions directly of those 'on the ground' whilst gaining an understanding of the work experience requirements for entry into different professions.
From essays, class tests to poster presentations, we use a broad range of assessment styles to reflect the knowledge and skills gained throughout the programme.
These allow you to demonstrate your learning of problem-solving skills and critical analysis for criminological research.
Other assessment methods include:
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Criminology degree.
FYO-00247
Foundations: Breaking the code - Understanding Academic Writing
15 credits
FYO-00263
Foundations of Social Sciences 1
FYO-00265
Foundations of Social Sciences 2
FYO-00267
Foundations of Social Sciences 3
FYO-00269
30 credits
FYO-00271
University Research Portfolio
Applicants will need to apply for BA (Hons) Criminology with Foundation Year (UCAS code ML93) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/criminologyandcriminaljustice:
Keele is proud to have pioneered the teaching of undergraduate Criminology in the UK.
Delivered by research-active criminologists who work closely with a range of criminal justice agencies, our Criminology and Criminal Justice BA will help to prepare you for a career within areas such as, policing, probation, prisons, criminal justice and youth justice.
With opportunities to engage directly with agency representatives, you will build an advanced awareness of the challenges associated with crime, applying your knowledge to real-world scenarios, demonstrating key analytical skills and an evidence-based understanding of this complex, developing field.
Keele’s Criminology and Criminal Justice degree combines a theoretical understanding of crime with the practical application to criminal justice systems.
You will explore courts and prisons, policing and probation and the wider range of agencies and institutions that aim to tackle crime, its causes and impacts.
You will delve into the study of crime by identifying what is considered a crime, how crime is defined by the law and public opinion, and how the criminal justice system operates within society.
This will enable you to build advanced skills, in preparation for an exciting career in the criminal justice field.
As a Criminology and Criminal Justice student at Keele, you will gain experience that allows you to apply your knowledge and skills to real-world scenarios relating to crime and social justice.
Our connections with professional industry partners including the police, probation services, and prisons provide valuable insights and opportunities to hear from, and network with, those working in criminal justice related fields.
There are also opportunities for our students to gain work experience through placements.
Dissertation/Criminal Justice Research Project You will identify and explore a challenge or emerging issue in criminal justice policy and/or practice in a systematic and evidence based manner, and develop a set of critically informed proposals for evidence-based policy and/or practice.
You will produce a piece of independent research, carried out under the supervision of an academic supervisor.
This project may also involve (subject to agreement) a collaborative research element involving several students and an external partner to produce a co-designed and coproduced output.
As a Keele graduate, you will attain various professional attributes that will enhance your career prospects, enabling you to apply your practical research skills with an understanding of crime and criminal justice systems.
Your expertise as a critical thinker and problem-solver will enable you to hit the ground running, applying your knowledge in your desired role, across diverse social disciplines such youth justice, policing, probation and criminal justice.
The networks you will build on this programme will help to prepare you for the workplace environment through collaboration and insights into sectors including crime reduction, offender rehabilitation and community safety.
Graduates of this programme may wish to pursue a career as a:
Criminology and Criminal Justice at Keele is taught by research active staff through diverse teaching methods and assessments.
These allow you to demonstrate your learning such problem-solving skills and critical analysis for criminological research.
Our Foundation Year allows you to develop your critical thinking, academic reading, writing, and communication study skills along with subject-specific knowledge invaluable in your academic studies and beyond.
Upon meeting the progression criteria and successfully completing our Foundation Year, you will automatically progress on to your Keele undergraduate degree with the confidence that you have the skills and knowledge needed to thrive on your chosen course
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Criminology and Criminal Justice degree.
Advancing Social Sciences
Applicants will need to apply for BA (Hons) Criminology and Criminal Justice with Foundation Year (UCAS code ML94) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/criminologyandhistory:
Uncover the past, make sense of the present and investigate crime and its causes with our Criminology and History BA.
Explore themes such as crime, justice, victimisation and crime control while decoding the past to discover the social, economic, political and cultural forces that have shaped today’s world.
This programme equips you with real-world expertise, critical thinking and analytical skills, and the professional capabilities needed to pursue diverse career pathways in sectors including the police, law, journalism and the civil service.
Curious about crime and its impact?
Fascinated by the past and how crime has changed over time?
Our Criminology and History degree lets you explore both subjects, deepening your understanding of crime and society through studying diverse criminological perspectives and pivotal historical events.
You'll develop a strong foundation in current theories, concepts, and methodologies to better understand contemporary global challenges.
Explore the nature of crime, how it’s defined by law and public opinion, and its impact on society.
Through real-world case studies, you’ll examine criminal behaviour, justice, victimisation, and crime control.
Delve into the social, cultural, and international factors influencing crime, analyse criminological data, and evaluate global approaches to criminal justice.
Develop critical thinking skills to question the effectiveness of crime prevention and justice systems.
A diverse range of historical topics are explored that will sharpen your knowledge, critical thinking and analytical skills.
You’ll trace the forces of change in human history, analysing how these defining moments have impacted on societies and the world.
In doing so, you will build research skills, evaluate historical evidence, and reflect on key events to hone your critical thinking and gain transferable skills to effectively interpret information.
Optional modules allow you to tailor your studies to specific areas of interest.
You can choose from topics such as murder, death and destruction, social order and deviance, history in film and media and 21st century policing.
Our career-focused approach includes real-world projects, work placements, and study abroad opportunities preparing you with employability skills for wide ranging career opportunities in roles within policing, youth services, local government, heritage and more.
Defining Moments in World History, 1000-2000 Were there 'defining moments' in the past?
You will debate this question through exploring a series of 'moments' in the last 1000 years of world history, encountering different History staff at Keele and learning about different types of History.
As you encounter a range of scholarly writing and primary sources and develop the core skills you will need to study History at university, you will consider the relevance of this History to the world we live in today.
Murder, Death and Destruction This module introduces you to the ways in which criminologists and criminal justice professionals attempt to theorise, contextualise and respond to the most serious forms of criminal and harmful behaviour in society (including murder, homicide, ‘public’ and ‘hidden’ forms of violence and abuse, state violence, and environmental crimes).You will be applying theory to current real-world incidents and engaging with issues such as age, gender, ethnicity, social exclusion and inequality, media representations, legal and evidentiary challenges, and preventative approaches.
Imagining Social Order & Deviance This module explores societal norms, values, and the construction of deviance through  real life case studies.
You will engage with diverse perspectives on what constitutes social order and deviant behaviour and consider the complexities of social control mechanisms, the stigmatisation of marginalised groups, and the dynamics of power in shaping perceptions of deviance.
By fostering a deep understanding of the intricacies of social order and deviance, this empowers you to challenge prevailing narratives and envision more equitable and inclusive societies.
Modern History: From the Industrial Revolution to the Global Pandemic As you encounter key ideas, individuals and events in modern history around the world, you will discover how societies changed over time and across place from c.1750 to the present.
You will develop fundamental skills including communicating to academic and non-academic audiences, and an awareness of core concepts in modern history.
You will also encounter a wide range of primary sources and learn how to analyse them effectively in preparation for your next two years of study.
Becoming a Social Scientist This module transitions you to university scholarship and introduces the employability and professional skills that a social science degree provides through a range of action-focused activities.
You will learn vital academic and professional skills and competencies that will allow you to thrive in the first year of your undergraduate studies and throughout your degree.
Applied History: What’s Past is Present History is ever-present outside of the academic setting in places such as heritage sites, museums, schools, advocacy organizations, newsfeeds and social media.
In this module you will grapple with how history is communicated to different groups for different purposes.
A field trip will serve as a case study to complement your teaching programme, and you will put your skills into practice by producing and reflecting on your own public history intervention, with guidance from staff.
Themes, Sources and Debates in History There are many varied approaches to studying History.
This module will consolidate your understanding of these approaches through a lecture series, and you will choose a strand of theme-based seminars.
You will be guided to produce your own research project through group workshops and individual supervisions, developing the key research and analytical skills that will be essential for the individual research project that you will embark on in your final year.
Social Design This module explores the interplay between societal structures, human behaviour, and crime to equips you with the knowledge and skills to critically analyse, design, and implement interventions that foster safer and more inclusive communities.
Social Sciences Placement This module provides the opportunity to contribute to the world beyond the University, in any workplace where the specialist knowledge, research, analytical, and communication skills developed as part of your degree can be used.
The workplace or volunteering opportunity may be, for example, with a local government agency, third sector organisation, community group, criminal justice agency, campaign group, a public service, a school or education provider, or another suitable opportunity identified by the student and approved by the module leader.
Colonial Legacies: The Inconvenient Histories of Individuals, Families, and Communities since 1800 Modern Britain has been shaped and developed by its empire.
This module explores the impact of Britain’s colonial legacy on the lives of individuals, families, and communities since the nineteenth century.
This is a history that contradicts conventional, textbook accounts, as you will discover through oral history testimonies, memoirs, life writing, and digital archives.
You will also learn about the ‘archival silences’ that mask these histories.
This second-year module will enhance your critical thinking ability and develop independent research skills.
Race, The Environment and Struggles for Justice in American History The United States has a powerful mythology of abundance and independent landownership.
But throughout its history, clashes over land use, dispossession, and environmental degradation have undermined access to this dream for many.
This module explores clashes over African American and Native American rights, land use, and environmentalism.
In this module, you will continue to hone both public-facing and academic writing and communication skills.
History in the Headlines This second-year module explores the reporting of history in the news across the twenty-first century world.
Each week will take a different theme and examine it in a practical workshop: headlines reporting sales or repatriation of national treasures might be examined alongside published criteria for exporting historical artefacts and reports of thefts from the British Museum, for example.
Building on your first year, you will further develop skills in evaluating the presentation of history in print, broadcast, and social-media news.
Persecution in Medieval Europe Between 1000-1300, minority groups including Jews, heretics, lepers, the disabled, homosexuals and prostitutes faced increasing restrictions, persecution and even death.
Building on the skills you developed at Level 4, you will explore how these groups were depicted in text and image and assess the reasons for their increasing marginalisation.
Through seminar discussions, you will evaluate debates about whether the treatment of minority groups were independent phenomena or whether Medieval Europe became a ‘persecuting society’.
World Wars and the Age of Extremes Take a journey through the so-called ‘age of extremes’ (1900-1989), marked by whirlwind change but also crisis, conflict, and violence.
Explore a world of war and revolution; of competing utopian visions - like socialism and fascism – challenging democracy; of hopes for peace and freedom frustrated, only to rise again.
Building on knowledge gained in your first year, you will further develop skills in engaging with key concepts that shaped past and present, analysing documents, and communicating with wider audiences.
Professional Experience with History (year 2) This module offers you the chance to contribute to the world outside the university through completing a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of projects for different clients), or working as a team to deliver a successful festival or event.
Applied History: Working with the Past During this module you will make a personal contribution to the world beyond the University, developing and sharing your research, powers of analysis, and communication skills.
After initial guidance in composing your CV and talking to employers, you will respond to either an industry brief developed with a partner organization, such as the V&A, or a series of smaller micro-briefs.
You will develop a portfolio celebrating your contribution, and learn how to present your skills effectively in the real world.
Social Science Methods How can we know the world and the societies around us?
This module introduces the core principles of social science research, exploring how to design, interpret, and analyse social phenomena.
You will explore methodological approaches and the different quantitative and qualitative methods used by social scientists to uncover patterns, challenge assumptions, and address ethical dilemmas to advance our understanding of the world.
Independent study Project in Criminology The dissertation module provides you with the opportunity to undertake independent study on a criminological subject of your choice.
Independent study Project in History Through this final-year independent research project you will showcase the skills that you have developed over the three years of your degree, and consolidate the type of Historian you have become.
Through group workshops and individual supervisions you will work closely with a member of the Keele History team to produce either a dissertation or a digital, public-facing project.
Either route will require you to use advanced skills in historical research, scholarly debate, and primary source analysis.
Work Placement for Social Sciences Final Year Students This module provides the opportunity to contribute to the world beyond the University, in any workplace where the specialist knowledge, research, analytical, and communication skills developed as part of your degree can be used.
Age of Migration in a Global Perspective Drawing on sources by and about migrants, in this module you will explore the Age of Migration through four core themes: gender, disability, race, and place, using a range of global examples from Africa, Australasia, the Americas, and Britain.
You will critically analyse sources, learn about 'archival silences', and consider how digitisation, identity politics, and postcolonialism affect the histories that we tell.
You will also reflect on how the complex histories of migration continue to shape modern societies.
Slavery and Abolition in America since 1619 Clashes over slavery in civic and political society defined early America from the settlement of Jamestown to the civil war.
In this module, you will examine the social and political history of slavery, both the lived experiences of enslavement and the political conflicts over its expansion and emancipation.
Through your exploration of slavery in early America, you will enhance your skills to communicate ideas to others, synthesize information from a range of sources, and create original arguments.
Sites of Sexual Conflict in South Asia This module explores the sites where sexuality has been constructed, defined and debated in the Indian sub-continent across the ages.
Through film, art, literature, and cartoons, you will investigate how ancient sexual images have been used historically, and consider how contemporary Indians deal with nudity.
You will discover the power dynamics of ‘space’ in gendered terms in the harem, the zenana, the brothel, and the home, and explore the politics of sexual conflict through obscenity trials and laws against homosexuality.
Killing the King: The English Revolution, 1640-49 This final-year module explores some of the most dramatic events in English history: civil wars, the execution of Charles I, and the declaration of a republic.
These amount in many scholars’ estimation to a revolution, not just in politics but in cultural and religious life.
Through exploring turbulence and both short-term and far-reaching change, you will develop and consolidate your skills in using primary sources, the evaluation of conflicting arguments, as well as the ability to explain ideas to others.
Professional Experience with History (Year 3) In your final year we offer you another opportunity to complete a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of clients), or work as part of a team to deliver a successful festival or event.
Applied History: Looking to the Future This module prepares you for life as a History graduate, as you engage with industry experts from a range of professions.
You will reflect on your Keele journey and consolidate skills acquired in previous Applied History modules.
A series of ‘industry voices’ presentations and conversations with Keele alumni will help you to articulate your achievements and develop the outlines of your path beyond university.
You must take ONE of the following professional development modules: ‘Engaged Social Science’; ‘Professional Experience with History (Year 3)’; ‘Applied History: Looking to the Future’; or ‘Work Placement for Social Sciences Final Year Students’.
You cannot take more than one professional development module.
You must choose either Independent Study Project in Criminology, or Dissertation/Independent Study Project in History.
You may do both.
Of the remaining 75 credits, you must choose 30 credits from Criminology option modules and 45 credits from History option modules.
Optional work placement modules in history and social sciences provide you with the opportunity to apply for a placement within an organisation to further enhance your professional skills.
These offer the opportunity to apply your specialist knowledge, research, analytical, and communication skills in a real-world setting with the guidance and support of module tutors.
You could contribute through a work placement, a client project (or multiple projects), or by collaborating on a festival or event or decide to focus on potential workplaces or volunteering opportunities include local government agencies, third-sector organizations, community groups, criminal justice agencies, campaign groups, public services, schools, or education providers.
Previous students have undertaken work placements in a range of settings including museums and schools.
You will engage with taught sessions in addition to your time at your chosen organisation and will be encouraged to reflect upon your experiences to identify how you can apply your learnings throughout your studies and beyond.
You will also have the opportunity to opt for a Work Placement Year between Year 2 and 3.
This will allow you to apply your knowledge and practical skills in a workplace environment enabling you to build key skills in communication, teamwork and project management.
This opportunity will allow you to develop both personally and professionally during your studies which will assist you in your employment after university.
Enhance your career prospects with an International Year at one of our partner institutions.
Utilising this opportunity between 2nd and 3rd year can help in your employment search to stand out from the crowd and broaden your horizons, potentially working across the globe.
On successful completion of all modules across the year, you will graduate with an enhanced degree title.
This can be highly beneficial for your career prospects and through experiencing different cultures; you will not only grow as an individual, but you will also strengthen your knowledge and interests within society.
To help you meet your academic and personal needs, we offer a multi layered student support structure.
Joining a society is a great opportunity to continue to develop your skills away from your studies and can be beneficial when applying for graduate roles.
It’s also a great way to meet like-minded people, make friends and share interests with fellow students.
A degree in Criminology and History will prepare you for a wide range of roles which allow you to utilise both your academic and practical learnings to the workplace.
You will be able to confidently problem solve and also have the ability to articulate and share ideas and suggestions.
Jobs that a graduate of our Criminology and History BA could go on to do include:
We integrate a range of learning and teaching methods on this programme depending on the subject matter and module level.
These currently include:
The Keele Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Criminology and History degree.
For example, the Foundations of Humanities 1 module introduces you to the broad range of source material across the Humanities disciplines – from music to media – which enable us to analyse political, social or economic perspectives and attitudes to individuals, marginal groups and ‘mainstream’ society.
In addition, Foundations of Social Sciences 1 module introduces you to the ‘backbone’ of social sciences, the concept of social inclusion, the factors that lead to exclusion and the impact this may have on individuals, families and communities.
In addition to the modules listed, students will study a further 15 credits in semester one.
The optional modules available for students to choose from is dependent on their degree and timetabling restrictions.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/criminologyandsociology:
Criminology and Sociology BA at Keele equips you to analyse complex social phenomena, explore the intersections of society and criminal justice, whilst developing innovative solutions to current and future societal challenges.
Combining insights from two dynamic disciplines, this programme draws on a range of theories, methodologies, and data sets to address pressing social and criminological issues.
Prepare to become a social scientist through engagement with community groups, activists and people working in public and private sectors.
Build an understanding of crime, its causes and impacts in society through a Criminology and Sociology degree.
Our programme offers a foundation in two core disciplines and the tools to examine inequality and social justice.
Learn to recognise the classic theories and influences of social divisions around race, class, gender and sexuality, developing a clear understanding of the causes and impacts of various forms of discrimination.
Foster an in-depth understanding of how individuals operate within social structures and institutions.
The integration of both subjects allows you to apply sociological and criminological theory and evidence to real-world context to examine underlying causes of social issues.
Develop as a social scientist and learn to drive positive social change and influence crucial debates in criminal justice.
Explore how social factors influence crime patterns and the efficacy of preventive measures within broader social and global contexts.
Become familiar with effective skills to navigate and resolve social crises through appropriate concepts and methods.
You will engage with public, private, and community sectors to see how criminological and sociological knowledge can be applied in real-world contexts.
Apply this to your learning and Independent Study Project in Criminology or Sociology to investigate a range of topics from gender identity, environmental justice and the impact of technological change to issues like organised crime, state violence, and victimisation.
Supported by engaged researchers and a curriculum that bridges theory and practice, you will develop your analytical thinking and research skills.
At Keele, we offer opportunities for placements, collaborations, and professional connections that enhance your employability and prepare you to work effectively in diverse environments.
Understanding Inequalities How can we mobilise our sociological imagination to make sense of the social divisions and inequalities that persist across time and are reproduced in different cultures and societies?
This module introduces the theoretical foundations of sociological thinking, tracing its origins as a 'science of society' to its contemporary applications in understanding inequality.
You will learn to recognise how classical theories illuminate social divisions around race, class, gender, sexuality, and ability, through a discussion of the causes and impacts of wide-ranging forms of discrimination.
Power, Identity and Resistance Exploring the ways in which individuals interact with others to shape meaning about identities, the purpose of this module is to understand power in social relations.
You will learn how to identify the relationship between institutions, groups and individuals in forming knowledge and regulating behaviour.
Crucially, we consider resistance to dominant forms of meaning through an examination of deviance and subculture, culminating with a reflection of the construction of self in digital societies.
Imagining Social Order and Deviance Imagining Social Order and Deviance explores societal norms, values, and the construction of deviance through a series of real-life case studies.
Please note: Students must take either 'Murder, Death and Destruction' or 'Power, Identity and Resistance'.
Students cannot take both modules.
Redefining Social Theory: Digital and Global Perspectives How can we mobilise our sociological imagination to understand the complexities and challenges of the modern world and our place within it?
This module rethinks classic sociological theories for the global digital world, considering poststructural, intersectional and non-Western perspectives.
You will gain a critical appreciation of how competing sociologies have emerged as our understanding of positionality and difference has developed, and look to the ways in which the sociological project has been stretched to incorporate debates about our non-human world.
Difference and Division: Race, Class and Belief In this module we explore how socio-cultural narratives and practices around the intersections of race, class and belief influence notions of selfhood, belonging, and social cohesion.
You will investigate the role of ritual in shaping individual and collective identities and explore faith, spirituality and the occult in diverse historical and cultural contexts.
You will develop critical skills to understand these debates through an analysis of the influence of multiculturalism, secularism and counter and sub-cultures in challenging mainstream beliefs and prejudices.
Family, Community and Personal Life How do we express love, friendship, and community in increasingly diverse social and cultural contexts?
Have changes to work and gender roles altered the way we think about the division of labour?
This module explores these questions and more against theories and debates about the transformations to personal life.
Considering a broad range of examples from love in a digital age to the role of community in health and wellbeing, you will develop skills in analysing what ‘family’ means today and consider its role in shaping individuals and societies.
Social Design Social Design is an interdisciplinary module exploring the interplay between societal structures, human behaviour, and crime, that equips you with the knowledge and skills to critically analyse, design, and implement interventions that foster safer and more inclusive communities.
Depending on your subject interest you may explore the role of social policies in shaping community dynamics or design principles for crime prevention strategies, as a means to address complex social challenges.
Please note: Students must take either 'Crime Across Borders' or 'Redefining Social Theory: Digital and Global Perspectives'.
Independent Study Project in Criminology The dissertation module provides you with the opportunity to undertake independent study on a criminological subject of your choice.
Independent Study Project in Sociology The Independent Study Project (or Dissertation) module provides you with the opportunity to undertake independent study on a sociological topic of your choice.
You will work with a supervisor to design and produce an original study that allows you to apply your theoretical and methodological understandings of sociology to a research problem in either academic literature or the social field.
You can also choose to collaborate with an external organisation, conducting research that provides valuable insights to benefit their work.
Social Futures What is society in a world governed by data and algorithms?
How do we adapt to and influence social change?
In this module, you will analyse how societies respond to and resist transformations wrought by the technological revolution.
Considering a series of case studies relating to the big social challenges of our time, from the spread of misinformation and rise of conspiratorial thinking to the human response to climate change, you will apply your knowledge of sociology to provide a roadmap for navigating the changing world and suggest optimistic alternatives for the future.
Gender, Sexuality and Power This module explores the cultural construction of gender and sexuality norms.
Through diverse case studies, we deconstruct how femininities, masculinities, and sexualities are shaped by societal expectations and power dynamics.
You will analyse how gender and sexuality intersect with other systems of privilege and oppression, such as race, ethnicity, class, and age.
Additionally, we will explore debates surrounding beauty standards, including the impacts of multimedia and emerging technologies on gendered embodiment.
Home and Belonging in a Precarious World What does home mean to you?
What does it mean to belong or not belong somewhere?
This module explores our relationship to the notion of home.
We consider how emotions shape our connections to place and space, influencing feelings of belonging and exclusion amidst the backdrop of border control, debt, the housing crisis, and displacement.
You will critically investigate the dynamics of migration within the context of international conflict and climate crisis, analysing how movement across borders redefine notions of home and community.
From examining the ethics of Artificial Intelligence to exploring the implications of environmental degradation on crime patterns, you will critically explore the complexities of human and non-human interconnectedness in shaping societies.
Please note: Students must take an Independent Study Project (ISP) in either Criminology or Sociology.
Students cannot take an ISP in both subject areas.
The project should integrate perspectives from both Criminology and Sociology, enabling a comprehensive approach to the chosen topic while remaining grounded in one disciplinary framework supported by prior learning and supervision in the chosen subject area.
On this course, you will have the opportunity to opt for a Work Placement Year in between Year 2 and 3.
This opportunity between 2nd and 3rd year can help in your employment search to stand out from the crowd and broaden your horizons, potentially working across the globe.
This experience will expose you to a different culture and society where you will be able to reflect on your learning and apply your knowledge further.
You will also gain insight into the different challenges faced by the community and develop your understanding of sociological factors that impact the way in which people live their lives.
This will enhance your expertise in this subject area and allow you to grow personally and professionally, ready for when you leave university.
Learn more about our study abroad opportunities .
From education and government, to policing and criminal justice, a degree in criminology and sociology can open up a variety of opportunities across different areas of society.
Having a greater understanding and social awareness of different environments, people and social structures will enable you to demonstrate your skills across a range of social and professional contexts.
Throughout this programme, you will become equipped with a suite of transferable skills including communication, analytical thinking, problem-solving and interpersonal skills to work effectively with others.
Criminology and Sociology combines an array of teaching styles to encourage independent and interactive learning.
From lectures, seminars and workshops you will have the opportunity to engage with discussions and debates with academics and peers, making use of support from teaching staff.
You will also engage with web-based learning available on the Keele Learning Environment (KLE) to support your studies throughout the programme.
Our wide variety of assessment styles support the teaching delivered on this programme to test your knowledge and understanding gained throughout your degree.
From essays, critical reviews and presentations, you will demonstrate your written and oral communication skills, as well as research expertise.
Other assessments include:
The Keele Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Criminology and Sociology degree.
In addition, the Advancing Social Sciences module aims to take the Social Sciences out of the classroom and into the real world to investigate the impacts of industrialisation, de-industrialisation and gentrification on Stoke-on-Trent.
The optional modules available for students to choose from is dependent on the degree programme and timetabling restraints.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/datascience:
With the increasing reliance on data-driven decision making across industries, data scientists are in high demand.
Our industry-informed BSc blends theoretical foundations and practical experience with dedicated professional and employability modules to equip you with the statistical knowledge, technical, problem-solving, computational and communication skills to implement an ethical approach to analysing real-world data.
Data driven systems are now vital to business, government, science and society, and there is an increasing demand for graduates with required practical skills able to implement an ethical and well-organised approach to analysis of real-world data, present its visualisations and explain the associated business implications.
Data Science at Keele offers a unique combination of robust mathematical and computational skills, including statistical techniques and extensive application of AI and machine learning, essential for success in the rapidly growing field of Data Science.
You will start your degree by exploring the theoretical underpinnings of the data science discipline, providing a solid foundation in mathematics, statistics and programming, along with a strong emphasis on the practical skills of a data analyst.
This practical focus will become even more pronounced as you progress through the programme, studying various aspects of AI and machine learning, ethical handling of data, as well as developing presentation, communication and visualisation skills.
Building on foundational topics, you will explore current and emerging areas in the field, including data science techniques, probability, artificial intelligence, database systems, applied deep learning and visualisation for data science.
An example of this can be found in year two where you will collaborate in groups for an extended time to analyse a business problem, conduct research, create reports, and present your findings to various audiences.
You can also choose to spend time in industry with full time or modular placement opportunities, hear from industry guest speakers and develop invaluable professional and employability skills.
Introductory Mathematics for Data Scientists The aim of this module is to help your transition from the methods-based approach in mathematics to the higher levels of understanding and rigor expected at degree level.
You will be introduced to fundamental aspects of discrete mathematics and algebra of logic, and more generally, mathematical statements, the meaning of proof, and some proof strategies.
Professional Practices in Data Science The aim of this module is to introduce you to professional practices in Data Science, with input from employers.
The key aspects will involve handling data, developing communication, presentation and teamworking skills, ensuring awareness of ethical considerations, as well as computational and programming practices.
You will also acquire an additional skill of basic coding in Java in relation to data science problems, complementing programming skills in Python and R provided in other modules.
Linear Algebra This module begins with an introduction to number theory by looking at topics such as divisibility, greatest common divisors and modular arithmetic with a strong emphasis on rigour.
Then you will discuss core concepts from linear algebra including matrix algebra, solving linear equations, determinants, eigenvalues and eigenvectors.
You will also cover an introduction to vector algebra with a particular emphasis of on three-dimensional vector algebra and geometry with a discussion on lines and planes, linear independence and bases.
Statistics with Applications in R This module aims to provide you with a sound knowledge of core statistical concepts, skills and techniques.
It will enable you with applying statistical ideas to solve problems from a wide range of disciplines; developing competency in interpreting and explaining solutions of problems in non-technical language; giving fluency in procedural skills, common problem-solving skills and strategies; using statistical tools to analyse real data sets in the statistical software environment R.
Probability Probability is the mathematics of uncertainty and randomness.
You will begin with classical notions of probability associated with the analysis of games of chance using cards, dice, etc., then moving to treatment of probability of random events and further to definitions of statistical independence and conditional probability.
Then, you will study discrete and continuous, univariate and bivariate, random variables, covering key concepts of expectation, variance, covariance.
Applications to a wide range of theoretical and real-world problems will also be discussed.
Visualisation for Data Science This module will provide you with skills essential for data visualisation, with a general aim of exploration of data analytics within organisations and how this would relate to the information needs of different stakeholders.
Evaluation and application of the most appropriate visualisation for given situations will be studied, with benefits and limitations discussed.
Applied Deep Learning This module will provide you with an introduction to deep learning techniques, with a focus on its capabilities and limitations, as well as programming using a software library to apply deep learning to various tasks including pattern recognition and classification when applied to text processing, computer vision and image processing.
Data Science Projects for Employability This module gives the opportunity to further develop skills of problem solving in application to real-world scenarios, especially those involving the analysis and interpretation of large data sets.
This will contribute to further development of your professional skills,  needed when undertaking employment or research, such as comprehending the problem from business prospective, working on it in depth over an extended period, carrying out analysis, writing reports, presenting and communicating results to different audiences, and working in collaboration with others.
Professional Experience: Natural Sciences Placement Module (Level 5) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
Data Ethics and Security Writing efficient and correct code and learning practical skills are just some of the required skills of a Computer Science or Data Science professional.
This module will help you to appreciate, debate, and apply these ideas, within the UK and globally.
Data Science Project In this module, you will undertake an individual project across two semesters.
The module will enable you to integrate and apply theoretical knowledge and problem-solving skills to a relatively complex technical, software, research or business data science problem.
You will be allocated an academic supervisor to provide guidance alongside taught lectures.
You will develop transferrable skills that will help in your future career including independent and self-directed learning, critical thinking, reflective practice, communication, adaptability, and time management.
Being one of the oldest areas of Mathematics, it is also an active area of modern research.
Recently, classical ideas from number theory have been used in the design of secure ciphers.
In this module you will trace the subject development from its ancient beginnings to modern applications, including primality tests, factoring algorithms, modular arithmetic, the RSA and ElGamal ciphers, and techniques for attacking these ciphers.
Data Analysis and Modelling Modern science is very data rich.
Using hands-on exercises, you will gain proficiency in using some commonly used statistical and modelling techniques for analysing scientific data.
As well being presented with the theory underpinning the techniques, you will develop the skills required to apply these statistical techniques to real data sets.
You will gain some expertise required to judge which technique is applicable in a given situation and whether the results are meaningful.
Medical Statistics This module provides you with knowledge and fundamental skills to gain deeper understanding of statistical and epidemiological methods, and applications in public health, health policy, clinical medicine, and health economics.
After completing this module, you will be able to choose and perform appropriate statistical techniques, interpret the results of statistical analysis and communicate them in a clear, concise and appropriate manner.
This module opens employment opportunities to develop career as medical statistician in the academia, research organisations, and pharmaceutical industry.
Professional Experience: Natural Sciences Placement Module (Level 6) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
The ability to gain actionable insight from big data is highly valuable as it enables companies to understand their audience on a granular level and make decisions based on data-driven evidence.
From programming in Python, through to large-scale data engineering and working on the latest deep-learning research in applied settings, you will graduate with statistical knowledge and the technical expertise, problem-solving, computational, communication, presentation, visualisation, and teamwork skills employers seek.
You will also benefit from a suite of professional development and employability skills.
From guest talks by industry professionals and dedicated sessions focusing on careers and placements to understanding the context of professional, economic, social, environmental, moral and ethical considerations involved in data analysis; we will provide you with the knowledge, tools and connections to develop a foundation for your future career.
Our Data Science degree is great preparation for employment in related fields of finance, healthcare, transport, business intelligence and e-commerce, as well as further academic study.
Your experience of research and self-directed learning will equip you with the abilities needed to respond to the latest developments in this fast-changing field in the years ahead.
Careers related to your degree include:
Each taught module will include traditional lectures with support material provided via our virtual learning environment (our labs also offer remote accessibility).
Our assessments often connect to the real-world working environment, putting your understanding of the subject matter to the test in real-world situations.
Assessments include examinations, class tests, coursework, short reports, project reports, oral and video presentations.
Keele is at the forefront of research and our lecturers in Computer Science are internationally recognised leaders in research on synthetic biology, wearable technologies, health and cultural informatics, responsible artificial intelligence, computer vision, evolutionary robotics, automata theory, formal languages, and theory of computation.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Data Science degree.
For example, the Foundations of Computational Theory and Programming module will introduce you to the key principles of Computer Science and programming.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Data Science with Foundation Year (UCAS code G422) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/digitalmedia:
Digital Media is a vibrant and crucial field that fuels social change and ignites creative expression in today’s world.
Our Digital Media BA covers a diverse range of topics - from Data and Design to Social Media Cultures, and from Content Creation to Audience and User Research - offering you a comprehensive blend of critical, creative, and professional approaches.
You will gain the critical tools, innovative insights, and cutting-edge techniques necessary to both understand and shape the ever-evolving digital media landscape throughout your career.
Delve into the theory behind digital media, exploring the critical frameworks and methods that reveal its profound impact on society, while also honing the creative and professional skills necessary to produce compelling digital content across various formats.
This dual approach empowers you to become a thoughtful and responsible digital citizen, capable of making a positive impact on individuals and communities through your work.
Our Digital Media degree is structured around three core elements:
You will explore how these areas interconnect, gaining insights into how knowledge in one influences the others, fostering a holistic understanding of the digital media ecosystem.
As a Digital Media student, you will acquire the expertise to navigate the digital media industry with professionalism, ethical integrity, and responsibility.
The programme also offers flexibility, allowing you to tailor your degree through a selection of optional core modules.
These modules enable you to broaden your understanding of various career pathways or to actively engage with the world beyond Keele—whether through a work placement, client-based projects, or collaborative efforts to deliver successful festivals or events.
This thoughtfully designed curriculum strikes a perfect balance between theoretical and practical learning, offering opportunities to gain invaluable industry experience through placements.
Digital Media at Keele will not only prepare you for a successful career in the media industry, but also equip you with the skills and knowledge to excel in related fields.
From the outset I loved Keele, its campus and atmosphere.
During my last year at Keele I carried out work experience at University Hospitals of North Midlands, in the Human Resource (HR) department.
This enabled me to explore how a number of teams like human resources and communications worked within a large organisation, and it left me wanting to learn more and ultimately start a career within a communications team.
The course gave me the transferable skills and attributes needed for industry while also providing me with the digital and creative skills I needed and have the opportunity to use now on a daily basis.
Lauren, Media, Communications and Culture
Social Media Content Creation This module introduces you to creating content for social media.
You’ll work as a team to respond creatively to an industry brief and devise content in a range of formats that will connect with audiences.
You will analyse what makes social media content compelling, exploring contemporary applications from marketing and entertainment to self-expression, art, storytelling, and activism.
You’ll be introduced to professional practices and standards and develop skills in creative decision making, while developing an understanding of platforms, content, and audiences.
Understanding and Producing Digital Media The role of digital media in contemporary politics and society is a hotly debated topic, and one that aspiring digital content producers need to be aware of.
This module will allow you to think critically about the challenges and possibilities of a digital world and your place and responsibilities within it, enabling you to think critically and creatively about the social context for digital content production.
The module provides a transition to University study by developing foundational study skills.
Media Industries This module introduces you to key tools you can use to analyse the social contexts, cultures, politics, and economics of media industries.
From huge corporations to content creators, go behind the scenes to find out how media is produced, funded, regulated, distributed, and made across the globe.
You will learn how media ownership, profit, and work are changing, and the role they play in shaping the media that gets made.
The module further develops your academic skills needed for success in your degree.
Storytelling for Change Learn how to tell compelling and persuasive multimedia stories about the issues you care about.
You will work with other students to analyse what makes multimedia stories impactful, exploring narrative structures, design concepts, storytelling applications, and interactive and transmedia elements.
You will develop a nuanced understanding of the dynamics of storytelling across media forms and put this into practice.
The module builds your project management skills in preparation for your final year project.
Researching audiences and users Understanding media audiences and users is fundamental to analysing how meaning is communicated and negotiated.
This module provides you with the concepts and tools you need to understand how audiences interpret and participate in media.
You will learn about the methods and approaches media researchers use to find out about audiences’ perspectives and experiences while gaining hands-on audience research skills.
If you would like to do an independent research project in your final year, this module provides essential preparation.
Data and Design Where data comes from and how it is put to work are important questions for today’s digital designers and creators.
In this module, you will explore the politics and power of ‘datafication’ and examine its opportunities and challenges.
You will then put this knowledge into practice by developing your skills in socially conscious design.
You will think about how to design creative digital media products and projects with awareness of the social, economic, and political questions of design justice.
OPTIONAL CORE (professional development): Professional Experience for Media (Year 2) This module offers you the chance to contribute to the world outside Keele either through completing a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of projects for different clients), or working as a team to deliver a successful festival or event.
OPTIONAL CORE (professional development): Pathways with Media: Developing Your Profile This module broadens your knowledge of the variety of career pathways open to you, enabling and enable you to identify, analyse, and showcase your degree skills and experiences effectively.
Digital Curation and History Are you interested in learning how to display artefacts online and archive them digitally in order to capture and reveal their historical significance?
Taught by historians, digital media specialists, and curators, this module develops your skills in historical interpretation and presentation for public and professional audiences.
You’ll acquire techniques for collecting, organising, and preserving information; you’ll experiment with the best formats for storing and retrieving data; and you’ll address the ethics of access and representation in digital archives and websites.
Students MUST pick ONE of the following optional core professional development: either Professional Experience for Media (Year 2) OR Pathways with Media: Developing Your Profile.
Students must select one or the other, not both.
Digital Media Project Your project is the culmination of everything you’ve learned on your degree, where you’ll have the freedom to develop a project on a topic of your choosing.
You can select from two pathways: a research project or professional content creation.
On both you’ll develop independent project management skills.
Guided by an expert supervisor, you’ll be supported to communicate your ideas and content to high academic and professional standards, putting into practice what you’ve learned, showcasing your voice and skills .
Technologies and Futures From smartphones to algorithmic social media feeds to generative AI, new technologies are inextricable from processes of economic, environmental, cultural, and political change.
But should we believe claims that a new technology will revolutionise how we live, interact, or work?
You’ll examine the social impacts of emerging technologies, considering their effects on your own professional and creative practice.
You’ll think about how technologies could be developed in more ethical, socially beneficial ways, reflecting on your own interactions with emerging technologies.
Memes, trends, and vibes: participatory social media cultures Where do social media trends come from and what can they tell us about the politics and culture of our time?
You’ll look in-depth at cultures of online participation, where marketers and users interact and contribute to the reproduction and circulation of content that promotes lifestyles and cultivates feelings or 'vibes'.
You’ll engage creatively and critically with the aesthetics and cultures of social media memes, trends and vibes, because what’s 'trending' tells us lots about our specific historical moment.
Professional Experience for Media (Year 3) In your final year we offer you another opportunity to complete a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of clients), or work as part of a team to deliver a successful festival or event.
Employing Media: Putting Your Subject into Practice Now you are preparing for life after graduation, this module enables you to put your degree skills into practice and work with employer-clients on a series of real-life projects.
Enhancing the creative and collaborative skills you developed on ‘Pathways with Media’, Employing Media will train you to work effectively with clients from a variety of settings, such as charities, publishers, museums, or even the construction sector, and will gives you the opportunity to present your work to your chosen employer-client.
Social media management Social media management skills are in demand across businesses, the public sector, charities, and political campaigns.
This module will develop your content creation skills by exploring how communication is managed in organisations.
You will learn how to manage integrated social strategies using analytics and insights to grow and engage audiences, working with real clients.
You will place social media management in a critical context by thinking about the responsibilities and challenges involved in this fast-moving sector.
Podcast and Radio Production This practice-based module gives you the opportunity to develop your own podcast and learn audio storytelling techniques, production skills, and social marketing strategies to enable you to produce your own podcast and promote it to your target audience through an online platform, with advice and feedback from practitioners in an industry pitching session.
We’ll also analyse podcast trends and explore the impact of podcasting on the media landscape, including its influence on public service broadcasting and podcast adaptation for TV.
News, Politics and Power News appears to be a neutral product but there are powerful relations underpinning its construction.
You will learn about the global ownership of news, journalism’s professional codes, and the changing technologies of news production.
This will build on your previous knowledge of the media industries and representation.
You will be encouraged to reflect on this by producing your own news content.
This module will be of interest if you wish to pursue career pathways across news media.
Creative magazine production You’ll plan and produce a group digital 'journal' or 'magazine' focused on culture.
You’ll refine the creative and collaborative skills built up so far; you’ll develop your awareness of audiences and markets; and you’ll have a product to showcase after graduation.
Social Media Work From Silicon Valley entrepreneurs to live streamers, influencers, and crowd workers, on this module you will explore what work really looks like in the global digital economy.
You will deploy critical tools to understand the role that digital work plays in contemporary political and economic structures and apply this to analysis of working lives by engaging with guest Q&A sessions with workers.
The module allows you to communicate your critical ideas about social media work in a creative format.
Students MUST pick ONE of the following optional core professional development modules: either Professional Experience for Media (Year 3) OR Employing Media: Putting Your Subject into Practice.
Having the opportunity to undertake a placement is a valuable experience which will enable you to demonstrate and develop your skill set further.
You may choose to apply for a Work Placement Year that allows you to apply your knowledge and prepare for employment after university through a year long placement.
This will enable you to build your confidence in the workplace and demonstrate your abilities in a professional environment, using the skills you have gained throughout your degree programme.
There is an option to do a work placement module at level 5 and 6.
This could provide you with a platform to work within an organisation, and further develop your professional skills.
You’ll have the opportunity to engage with projects and placements, drawing on our extensive network of existing placement partners or using our support to find your own opportunity.
This allows you to combine your degree programme with practical experience, apply your learning to real-world situations, and enhance your CV.
Enhance your career prospects with an international year at one of our partner institutions.
Learn more about our study abroad opportunities.
In addition to the Study Abroad options of spending a semester or a year at one of Keele’s international partner universities, you can choose a unique 4-week study abroad optional module (15 credits), taking place in the summer before either Year 2 or Year 3: The American South: US Summer School.
Previous placements on the module have been funded in part by the Turing Scheme, with additional funding made available for students from Widening Participation backgrounds.
Discover languages at Keele, whether you are a complete beginner or already have a foundation of knowledge; we offer a flexible and guided route to developing your skills.
You also have opportunities to gain a recognised TESOL qualification , through our Global Challenges Pathway.
Graduating with a degree in Digital Media will equip you with a wide range of creative, practical and critical skills.
You will benefit from the use of digital communication tools and platforms, enabling you to demonstrate your theoretical and practical skills gained throughout the programme.
Digital and social media employment are growing sectors and on this programme, you will explore the skills required for a variety of careers across industries, paving the way for possible roles in content creation, communication and the creative arts.
You may wish to explore the following careers:
Teaching on this programme will be delivered through a diverse range of methods that will provide you with the opportunity to build a suite of advanced skills in communication, writing and presentation.
These will be based on subject topics/areas and the modules chosen on this course.
You will engage with interactive lectures that encourage group discussion and independent reading to delve into the theory of digital media, as well as seminars that will allow you to explore the application of such theories.
This may include the analysis of digital media technologies, platforms, practices and content.
You will also have the opportunity to get involved with practical learning through workshops where you will be able to demonstrate your individual creativity through producing content which may include videos, photography, audio and text.
Throughout the duration of the programme, you will engage with web-based learning and independent study, exploring cultural texts, research, academic journals and current media outlets.
Your knowledge and expertise will be assessed through a variety of assessment types for which you will receive constructive feedback from the teaching staff on this programme.
These may include:
Our core modules involve a range of assessments in the form of coursework to develop your theoretical and practical skills.
Optional modules on this programme, delivered across other Schools (subject areas) may adopt other assessment methods such as examinations.
Keele hosts a range of facilities that will support your learning and assessments during your studies.
Our dedicated teaching spaces on campus combine teaching and independent learning with specialised editing suites, a photographic studio and equipment.
These facilities are open for you to implement and challenge your practical skills alongside your theoretical learning.
Our Apple Macintosh labs allow you to develop your editing skills and design skills using Adobe Creative Suite and enhance your employability prospects having used specialist equipment, as well as Nikon and Canon cameras.
Our on-campus library holds a wide range of written and visual material that you will have access to for your course.
There are also designated study spaces for individual and group work which will be useful when completing theoretical work and having the space to share ideas with peers.
This can be a useful time to brainstorm ideas, work on storyboarding and editing content.
Keele’s new Digital Society Institute is a collaborative research centre focused on data and digital technology that will allow companies in the business, health, and cultural sectors to innovate and expand in a competitive and dynamic business environment.
Launched in October 2023, the Institute is based inside the Innovation Centre 7 building on Keele campus and hosts a Data Visualisation Suite, a Virtual Reality (VR) room, a conference area, a digital training space, and hi-tech meeting and collaboration space.
Students on this programme may have the opportunity to get involved in activities and events hosted at the institute.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Digital Media degree.
FYO-00257
Foundations of Humanities - 1
FYO-00259
Foundations of Humanities - 2
FYO-00261
Advancing Humanities
Students should apply for BA (Hons) Digital Media with Foundation Year ( UCAS code: P302) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/digitalmediaandmarketing:
Digital Media and Marketing BA at Keele will launch you into a world where creativity meets strategy.
Master the art of compelling content, develop industry-ready skills, and become a forward-thinking digital professional who can transform innovative ideas into powerful marketing solutions.
With work placements, professional development and opportunities to work on real-world projects, you will gain the knowledge and skills to shape the ever-evolving digital media landscape in a variety of industries.
Digital media and marketing is an exciting combination that will equip you with cutting-edge skills in content creation, strategic communication, and digital technologies.
From the start you will learn essential analytical frameworks, concepts, and methodologies to critically evaluate digital media, marketing strategies, and their societal impact.
Simultaneously, the programme emphasises hands-on content creation skills, fostering the creative, professional, and technical expertise required to craft compelling digital content across various formats.
This dual approach ensures you are well-versed in both the theoretical underpinnings and the practical execution of digital media and marketing initiatives.
While the programme embraces the promise of technologies and platforms for creativity and communication, you will also consider the potential social, political, and environmental harms and limitations, to ensure you practice professionally, ethically, and responsibly.
A core focus of the course is professional and academic development.
You will identify your own strengths t hrough a variety of authentic assessment methods , learn to navigate the contemporary employment market, manage your online presence, and practice for interviews.
A major benefit of studying at Keele is our close ties with companies.
Keele Business School shares a building with multiple businesses, the School of Humanities has a wide range of partners in the creative and cultural industries, and our stunning campus is also a business innovation park.
This gives you hand-on practical experience and valuable insights from real-world professionals.
Throughout the programme you will have the opportunity to tailor your studies to your career aspirations and interests.
You can choose from a wide range of creative, professional and analytical optional modules, such as writing scripts, documentary filmmaking, and learning marketing research tools and techniques.
In your final year, you will have the opportunity to choose from a variety of theoretical and/ or practical final year digital media and marketing projects.
From undertaking a substantial piece of research to working with employer-clients on a series of real-life projects, you can personalise the programme to suit your interests and career aspirations.
Understanding and Producing Digital Media he role of digital media in contemporary politics and society is a hotly debated topic, and one that aspiring digital content producers need to be aware of.
The module provides a transition to University study by developing foundational study skills
Teams, People and Performance The ‘Teams, People, and Performance’ module focuses on enhancing practical skills for effective teamwork.
Module rules: You must choose at least one of the following modules: ‘Becoming a Cultural Citizen’ or ‘Professional and Academic Development 1’.
Creative Marketing Communication in the Digital Age The ‘Creative Marketing Communication in the Digital Age’ module encourages you to explore the expanding marketing communication toolbox available to marketing professionals.
Marketing Communication plays a pivotal role in connecting organisations with different target audiences and fostering positive relationships.
Throughout this module, you will be introduced to core communication theories and concepts to help you experiment with how to optimise the marketing communication toolbox to develop creative and impactful results for organisations.
Professional Experience for Media (Year 2) This module offers you the chance to contribute to the world outside Keele either through completing a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of projects for different clients), or working as a team to deliver a successful festival or event.
Pathways with Media: Developing Your Profile This module broadens your knowledge of the variety of career pathways open to you, enabling and enable you to identify, analyse, and showcase your degree skills and experiences effectively.
Marketing and Society:  Issues, Impact and Implications The ‘Marketing and Society: Issues, Impact, and Implications’ module enables you to critically investigate the impact marketing practice can have on different organisations and stakeholders.
Throughout the module, you will engage in key debates around ethical and sustainable marketing practices, corporate social responsibility, digital disruptions, and global marketing strategies.
By fostering a holistic understanding of the impact of marketing within society, you will emerge as a conscientious marketer who can balance profitability with societal well-being.
Marketing Research: Principles, Process and Practice The ‘Marketing Research: Principles, Process and Practice’ module equips you with the core processes and practices to collect, interpret and present different forms of data to help inform organisational change and prepare you to face emerging challenges and opportunities within the marketplace.
Over the course of the module, you will explore different digital and traditional marketing research tools and techniques to discover the role of marketing research within both day to day and strategic activities within different organisational contexts.
Module rules:
Throughout the module, you will investigate how Digital Marketing is utilised across various organisational contexts to create engaging, immersive, and memorable customer experiences.
You will actively engage with existing and new digital marketing technology and tools to build your digital marketing expertise for the future.
Marketing Project In your final year of study, you will undertake a significant project that reflects the subject area of your degree.
This is the opportunity to follow your own interests.
We offer the flexibility of undertaking a solo project or working with a group to collaborate on a large project.
Your solo project might include undertaking a piece of research or a Marketing report.
Guided by an expert supervisor, you’ll be supported to communicate your ideas and content to high academic and professional standards, putting into practice what you’ve learned, showcasing your voice and skills.
Enhancing the creative and collaborative skills you developed on ‘Pathways with Media’, Employing Media will trains you to work effectively with clients from a variety of settings, such as charities, publishers, museums, or even the construction sector, and will gives you the opportunity to present your work to your chosen employer-client.
Digital Showcase The ‘Digital Showcase’ is your opportunity to demonstrate your digital skills through the creation of a comprehensive digital project.
Social Media Management Social media management skills are in demand across businesses, the public sector, charities, and political campaigns.
Our final year media work placement gives the option to complete a work placement, work on a client-focused project, or work as part of a team to deliver a successful festival or event.
This culminating module offers hands-on industry exposure, helping you forge critical professional connections that positions you for career success after graduation.
Keele Media graduate Kimberley Columbo, now Brand Manager of Nescafe in Amsterdam, told us that her final year work placement at BBC Radio Stoke opened up opportunities that led to her current role.
In between years two and three of your studies you can choose to spend a year or a semester studying abroad .
We have a robust support system in place for our students.
You will be allocated an academic mentor at the start of the course who will review your progress, meet regularly with you, and is contactable by phone and email.
Academics can also provide guidance about specific course modules.
A Student Experience and Support team is based within our Faculty.
They are part of the University's student services department and work closely with teams across Keele to you can easily access the help you need.
Extra assistance is provided by our School’s Disability Inclusion Tutor.
They provide an additional layer of support for students with disabilities and can advise on matters relating to disability including dyslexia and specific learning difficulties.
You will also have access to a mixture of advice and support services at Keele including;
Keele Students' Union also offers support through their sabbatical officers.
Digital roles in marketing are among the fastest growing in the industry, with demand for social media jobs and skills increasing at a high rate.
On successful completion of the Digital Media and Marketing degree, you will graduate with the creative, professional, digital, technical and analytical skills required for a variety of careers across industries.
"I worked at the Peter Pan Centre in Newcastle-under-Lyme, supporting their fundraising and marketing team.
My role included attending events and meetings, liaising with corporate clients, and helping to plan social media content and activities.
The placement gave me valuable, relevant experience and much clearer insight into the kind of work I’d like to pursue after graduation, which I hadn’t figured out before.
I would recommend this module to others because it gives you real-world experience, boosts your confidence in professional settings, and helps you meet students from different courses and years.
It’s a fantastic way to build your CV and prepare for graduate employment."
Alex, Marketing and Media
Our varied methods of teaching include:
The wide variety of assessment methods used on this programme reflects the broad range of knowledge and skills that are developed as you progress through the degree.
Combing the strengths of two academic schools at Keele, the School of Humanities and Keele Business School, you will have access to our dedicated media facilities and state-of-the-art Keele Business School.
You will have access to our Media Suite, where you will hone your practical skills using industry standard production facilities, equipment and software.
The Park offers companies a business environment that provides an innovative research culture, combined with academic expertise.
As a Keele Business School student, you will study alongside innovative companies that are based in the Business School building, a hub for fostering networks and linking with industry.
Our foundation year allows you to develop your critical thinking, academic reading, writing, and communication study skills along with subject-specific knowledge and skills.
Upon meeting the progression criteria and successfully completing our foundation year, you will automatically progress into your Keele undergraduate degree with the confidence that you have the skills, and knowledge needed to successfully complete your course.
Our foundation year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Digital Media and Marketing degree.
For example, the Foundations of Business 1 module helps you develop appropriate investigative skills in order to analyse financial information and make informed business decisions.
Meanwhile, the Foundations of Humanities 1 module introduces introduce you to the broad range of source material across the Humanities disciplines – from music to media – which enable us to analyse political, social or economic perspectives and attitudes to individuals, marginal groups and ‘mainstream’ society.
Course content has been developed in collaboration with degree teaching teams, so that by the time you begin Year 1, you will be ready to excel at your studies, as the majority of our foundation year students do.
Find out more about the Keele foundation year, including information about teaching and assessment methods by visiting the foundation year homepage .
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) Digital Media with Foundation Year (UCAS code: P302) through UCAS at www.ucas.com.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/digitalmediaandmusicproduction:
Are you ready to create, innovate and make a positive impact as a responsible digital citizen or music producer?
Develop your creative edge with our Digital Media and Music Production BA.
Build cutting-edge digital media skills and gain professional music production expertise.
You’ll work with industry-standard software and equipment and collaborate on real-world projects.
Undertaking a work placement will provide you with industry experience, and you'll build a professional portfolio to help shape your future career in the fast-moving and innovative creative industries.
Our Digital Media and Music Production degree’s contemporary curriculum is designed for aspiring creatives.
You’ll critically explore the theories behind digital media and music production and develop hands-on content creation skills.
This will provide you with the creative, professional and technical skills to produce dynamic digital content and high-quality audio, opening doors to wide ranging careers in areas such as broadcasting, sound engineering, television and marketing.
You’ll build skills and knowledge in areas including content creation for social media, analysing what makes good content and understanding the different platforms, content and audiences.
Using professional recording studios and state-of-the–art equipment you’ll gain a solid grounding in recording and mixing skills and gain practical experience as sound technician and engineer.
You’ll examine the contemporary music scene and put your understanding of the nuances of crafting compelling and persuasive multimedia stories into practice focusing on an issue you’re passionate about.
Optional modules throughout this programme allow you to tailor your studies to your interests, enhancing your creative, digital, or analytical skills.
Topics range from creating sound for moving images, digital curation and history, sampling and remixing, media and climate change, social media management and the American South – a summer school in the US.
Our practical, career-focused approach includes real-world projects, work placements, and study abroad opportunities.
You'll develop workplace-ready skills including critical thinking, communication and problem-solving and graduate with a professional portfolio created using industry-standard equipment and software, highly valued in the digital media and creative industries.
Related courses:
"I had an exceptional experience during my internship.
Developing project management skills, learning, producing a premiered documentary about the impact of the YMCA Crewe team during the COVID pandemic.
This led to being a finalist in the ‘Best Intern’ category at the National Undergraduate Employability (NUE) Awards 2022.
The Keele Media programme has built my confidence, pushed me out of my comfort zone by continually presenting me with opportunities to formulate and express my creative ideas, all with supportive lecturers, ensuring my excellence in chosen projects.
Practical Modules, especially, have been outstanding for me."
Abasiama, Media, Communications and Creative Practice
Using professional recording studios with state-of-the-art equipment, staff with practical industry experience will introduce you to microphones, mic technique, routing, tracking, printing, overdubbing, re-amping, mix-prep, dynamic processors, and effects.
You will learn about industry best practices and genre-specific workflows, develop the critical listening needed to achieve identified production aesthetics and explore your own creative workflow.
Understanding and Producing Digital Media The role of digital media on contemporary politics and society is a hotly debated topic, and one that aspiring digital content producers need to be aware of.
Digital Curation and History Are you interested in learning how to display artefacts online and archive them digitally in order to capture and reveal their historical significance?
Music Production Final Year Project Using skills from the first two years of your degree, you’ll build a portfolio showcasing your strengths in music production and sound design.
You must take one or the other of the project modules: ‘Digital Media Project’ or ‘Music Production Final Year Project’.
You can choose to take both project modules.
You must take a minimum of 45 credits from modules with a MDS code and a minimum of 45 credits from modules with a MUS code.
You also must take one of the following modules: ‘Professional Experience for Music Production (Year 3)’, or ‘Employing Music Production: Putting Your Subject into Practice.’
Through this course you will become a creative individual with the ability to critically evaluate, synthesise and produce content effectively through various methods.
The optional work placement modules provide you with a platform to work within an organisation, and further develop your professional skills.
You will identify an organisation based on your interests, with the guidance of the module tutors, and will spend a semester engaging with projects and tasks set out by the employer, as well as taught sessions at university.
This may include working at a local radio station, the city council, local football club or film and marketing agencies.
Recent student placements include production assistant at a film production company and social media content creator for a charity.
Keele Media graduate Kimberley Columbo , now Brand Manager of Nescafé in Amsterdam, told us that her final year work placement at BBC Radio Stoke opened up opportunities that led to her current role.
You will also have the opportunity to apply for a Work Placement Year that allows you to apply your knowledge and prepare for employment after university.
This opportunity will enable you to build confidence in the workplace and demonstrate your abilities in a professional environment, using the skills you have gained throughout your degree programme.
You will be supported to prepare for your placement with advice on CV writing and cover letters, as well as the chance to attend Q&A workshops to discuss individual experiences with alumni and employers.
This is a valuable, character-building experience where you will develop both personally and professionally.
As a Digital Media and Music Production graduate you will possess a wealth of knowledge and practical industry relevant experience, providing a foundation for kick-starting your career in the creative industries or further study.
You will be able to apply your skills in across various sectors including sound recording, music production, filmmaking, audio streaming and broadcasting and explore careers in:
Find out more about our careers and employability services, including career planning, alumni mentoring, jobs, internships, starting your own business and much more.
We use a wide variety of teaching methods on this programme which currently include:
The different assessment methods used on this programme reflect the broad knowledge and skills you will develop during your studies.
You will benefit from the use of dedicated teaching spaces including a specially equipped screening room.
If you choose to take practical modules in Media, you will also have access to filmmaking equipment, providing the opportunity to gain hands-on experience to practice your skills and create a portfolio of work.
You will learn how to use equipment and build your skill set throughout the process, including editing; building a portfolio of work ready to showcase to employers.
At Keele, you will enjoy the use of designated teaching spaces and may study in our beautiful 19th-century Clockhouse and have access to comprehensive studio facilities.
There are also designated study spaces for individual or group work which will be useful when completing your theoretical work and having the space to share ideas with peers.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Media and Music Production degree.
Students will need to apply for Music Production with Foundation Year (UCAS code J932) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/digitalmediaandsociology:
Shape the future in a digital world.
Our Digital Media and Sociology degree combines two closely connected disciplines, giving you insights into how media and technology shape society.
You'll explore sociological theories of power, identity, and inequality while developing practical skills in digital media, preparing you for careers in marketing, broadcasting, business, the public sector, charities, and more.
Explore social division and inequalities across cultures and critically analyse the role of digital media in contemporary politics, a key consideration for future digital content producers.
Go behind the scenes of the media industry from big corporations to content creators to understand how media is produced, funded, regulated, and distributed, and use your sociological imagination to make sense of today’s world by rethinking classical theories for the digital age.
Develop expertise in key concepts and tools that reveal how people engage with media and apply your sociological knowledge to navigate a world shaped by data, algorithms, disinformation, and the rise of conspiracy theories.
With a range of optional modules, you can tailor your studies to your interests.
Topics covered in this programme include social order and deviance, the mediation of identity, race, class, and belief, podcast and radio production, and the American South – a summer school in the US.
Through real-world projects, work placements, and study abroad opportunities, you’ll develop critical thinking, research, and transferable skills.
Graduating workplace-ready, you will have the creative, analytical, and communication abilities to thrive in careers across diverse sectors.
This module rethinks classic sociological theories for the global digital world, considering post-structural, intersectional and non-Western perspectives.
Researching Audiences and Users Understanding media audiences and users is fundamental to analysing how meaning is communicated and negotiated.
The Mediated Self How do we draw on media texts, practices, and technologies to understand, construct, and represent who we are?
This module develops your critical engagement with central questions in media studies about the mediation of identity, from the power of representation to selfies and self-branding.
You will learn about how key concepts of the mediated self can be applied to analysis of media texts, participants, and creators, and even help you better understand your own mediated identity.
Social Sciences Placement This module gives students studying subjects in the School of Social Sciences the opportunity to contribute to the world beyond the University, in any workplace where the specialist knowledge, research, analytical, and communication skills developed as part of your Social Science degree can be used and can make a difference.
On both, you’ll develop independent project management skills.
Independent Study Project in Sociology The Independent Study Project, or dissertation, is the culmination of your sociological journey.
You will work with a supervisor to design and produce an original sociological study on a topic of your choice.
The dissertation allows you to apply your theoretical and methodological understandings of sociology to a research problem in either sociological literature or the social field.
News Politics and Power News appears to be a neutral product but there are powerful relations underpinning its construction.
"I chose the Work Placement module in my third year as I wanted to apply the skills, I had learnt on my degree to a real-world work environment.
For my placement I fulfilled the role of Director for Earth Stories Film Festival, an environmental film festival which aims to provide a platform for young people to voice their concerns about the climate crisis through film.
As Director, my main responsibilities were team management and organisation of the festival and the annual Awards Event.
I have developed my workplace skills, personal confidence, gained a clearer understanding of how skills learnt in my degree transfer to the workplace, and gained confidence moving forward to start my career."
Aaliyah, Media and Sociology
There may be an option to do a work placement module.
Keele Media graduate Kimberley Columbo, now Brand Manager of Nescafé in Amsterdam, told us that her final year work placement at BBC Radio Stoke opened up opportunities that led to her current role.
You will also have the opportunity to apply for a work placement year that allows you to apply your knowledge and prepare for employment after university.
During my final year at Keele I carried out work experience at BBC Radio Stoke which opened up an opportunity for me to work for the European Broadcasting Union / Eurovision News Exchange in Geneva.
After about two years as a news producer, I transitioned to a social media and digital role working for the Solar Impulse Foundation and its CEO Bertrand Piccard.
This ultimately led me to my current role as Brand Manager of Nescafé in Amsterdam, taking care of one of the world’s most iconic coffee brands.
Kimberley Colombo, Media, Communications and Culture, and Music
Societies We have a wealth of student-led societies here at Keele which cover a diverse range of interests.
A degree in Digital Media and Sociology can open doors to different career possibilities, equipping you with the type of versatile skills employers are looking including problem-solving, data analysis and information handling.
You will have gained insights into the various elements of the world we live, with experience in theoretical and practical aspects of two exciting and evolving subjects.
Your understanding and knowledge of society will help you adapt to various environments and demonstrate your skills in the workplace.
You may wish to explore a career in:
At Keele, there are also a range of internships available to students that will enable you to gain real work experience with employers.
This may involve full time or part time positions and roles that will allow you to gain a head start in your career.
Having the opportunity to take an internship will develop your practical skills in industries you may wish to pursue after graduation and the chance to engage with paid work during your time at university and beyond.
You will be supported by staff and will be able to discuss your options to tailor your interests and career aspirations.
Students have secured various roles in video production and other content creation for both local businesses, charities, and national companies.
These include Stoke Football Club, BBC Radio Stoke, NHS and AstraZeneca.
Keele prepared me for my future as I had the opportunity to get involved in some incredible extra curricular activities such as Model UN.
This undoubtedly helped me in my early career as the skills in debating and negotiation were so valuable when it came to doing assessment centres for graduate schemes.
I would definitely advise students to be open to every opportunity that comes their way!
Stephen Barber, Communications Manager for BBC’s Strictly Come Dancing, Politics and Sociology Graduate
You will be taught using different teaching and learning methods dependent on the subject matter and module level.
Explore our specialised editing suites with facilities open for you to implement and challenge your practical skills alongside your theoretical learning.
You will have access to our photographic studio, screening room featuring a small cinema, and Apple Macintosh labs.
This will help to develop your editing skills further and enhance your employability prospects having used specialist equipment as well as Nikon and Canon cameras.
The Keele foundation year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Media and Sociology degree.
In addition, the Foundations of Social Sciences 1 module introduces you to the ‘backbone’ of social sciences, the concept of social inclusion, the factors that lead to exclusion and the impact this may have on individuals, families and communities.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/ecologyandconservation:
Are you interested in exploring how we can conserve species, habitats, landscapes, and ecosystems?
Discover the science behind society’s ecological and conservation challenges, and hone your practical skills through fieldwork, laboratory activities, and work placement opportunities on our Ecology and Conservation BSc.
You'll graduate equipped with the expertise needed for roles such as ecological consultant, nature conservation officer, or conservation research scientist, positioning you to make a meaningful impact in the field of ecology and conservation.
Do you have a passion for science and a drive to tackle some of the world’s most urgent ecological and conservation challenges?
Our Ecology and Conservation degree provides you with the expertise to understand these complex issues and explore innovative solutions.
You will build a solid foundation in ecology and conservation in your first year, preparing you for advanced study in years two and three.
Key topics covered on the programme include conservation policy, sustainability, the crisis in biodiversity, human impact on the environment and how animals adapt to changing environmental conditions.
You’ll develop crucial research skills, enhance your data handling, analysis and statistical abilities, and gain confidence applying new technologies and using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) in an ecology and conservation context.
Employability is embedded into our curriculum, with a strong emphasis on developing practical skills, equipping you with up-to-date methods and techniques needed for future employment.
You’ll gain hands-on experience using equipment, samples and digital resources in our state-of-the-art Central Science Laboratories and master a range of fieldwork skills through various residential and one day field courses in diverse ecosystems.
Our programme offers study abroad and work placement options along with strong links with the ecology and conservation industry.
In your final year, you’ll have the opportunity to earn a Field Identification Skills Certificate (FISC), highly regarded by employers.
Keele is a leader in sustainability education and our campus acts as a ‘living laboratory’ with 600 acres of natural environments for fieldwork.
From our lake system and extensive woodlands to the mining and industrial heritage of the local area, we offer opportunities to study in an authentic environment while practicing sustainability, preparing you to thrive in your future career.
Fieldwork opportunities are integrated into our programme, immersing you in real-world situations.
They allow you to apply both theoretical knowledge and practical skills, providing essential hands-on experience while developing and refining the skills required for a career in the sector.
You’ll practice key research and fieldwork skills such as species identification, environmental impact assessment, and habitat mapping.
Previous field courses have taken place in the Peak District, Pennines, Lake District, North Wales and the Welsh Borders.
This programme is currently seeking the Institute of Sustainability and Environmental Professionals (ISEP) accreditation.
Academic, Professional and Field Skills This module will introduce you to the essential skills required of Geographers, Geologists and Environmental Scientists.
You we will explore our ‘living lab’ campus and take you on a series of four, one-day field courses in Staffordshire.
The module will help you develop your own academic and professional practice, providing you with the foundations for not only completing your degree successfully, but also helping you think about future study or employment.
Environment and Sustainability Understanding and managing environmental issues, from global to local scales, requires multiple disciplines and interdisciplinary approaches for effective action.
You will evaluate some of society’s main environmental, ecological, and sustainability problems and how we can address them and develop reflective practice skills to support learning.
Students will also develop report writing skills from case study workshops and formative feedback.
Ecology Commence an exhilarating journey into ecology, delving into organisms’ habitats, interactions, and environmental dynamics.
This foundational module introduces key ecological concepts, laying the groundwork for advanced studies in your degree program.
Enhance your writing, fieldwork techniques, and ecological comprehension as you unravel nature’s mysteries with us.
Conservation policy and practice Whether it is natural resource depletion, changing climate, protecting wilderness, saving endangered species, or living during a pandemic, we worry about the impacts society has on nature and vice versa.
Conservation practices have emerged to safeguard the parts of the natural world we particularly value.
However, our ideas about nature are often multiple and contradictory, and discussions about our duties to nature often disguise deeper claims about economic benefits and social equity.
This module engages with interdisciplinary ideas about nature, focusing on conservation approaches in policy and practice.
Sustainable Staffordshire In this module, you will explore sustainability within Staffordshire (Keele’s local area).
Topics include environmental issues, renewable energy, and community-led conservation efforts.
You will examine regional case studies, engage with local sustainability initiatives and learn about these activities build on Staffordshire’s rich geology, geography and history.
Through interactive learning on and off campus, you will develop your knowledge of sustainability practices, identify strategies to enhance Staffordshire’s ecological resilience and community well-being, and how these can be implemented beyond Staffordshire.
Environmental and Sustainability Impact Assessment: Methods and Research Design Enhance your employability with this hands-on module.
You will acquire the specialist field, laboratory, social survey and computer-based research skills required to work in the environmental sector.
You will acquire these skills by completing an Environmental and Sustainability Impact Assessment on Keele campus.
By completing the module, you will also gain the research, fieldwork and data analysis skills required to conduct your third-year research project.
Lake District Field Course The Lake District Field course provides hands-on experience in one of the UK’s most iconic landscapes.
This module involves a weeklong intensive field study focusing on the region’s unique physical geography, ecology, culture and built environment.
You will conduct various fieldwork activities, including data collection, environmental analysis, and ethnographic observation.
This immersive experience enhances practical skills in geographical and environmental research and fosters a deeper understanding of the interactions between natural environments and human activities within the Lake District.
GIS and remote sensing Geographical Information Systems and remote sensing are essential tools and techniques for spatial data analysis and visualisation.
This module will teach you to collect, manage, and interpret data from satellite imagery and aerial photography.
The course covers GIS software applications, spatial analysis, and map creation, emphasising practical skills through hands-on projects.
By the end of the module, you will be proficient in using foundational GIS and remote sensing technologies to solve real-world geographic and environmental problems.
This module takes you on a summer field course, part of which uses Keele’s wonderful campus, to study a range of terrestrial and marine aquatic habitats.
Biodiversity crisis Explore the pressing question of a potential sixth mass extinction, where you will learn all about human impacts on our environment.
Human Impact on the Environment Humans impact processes, conditions and components of our planet and biosphere on global, regional and local scales.
Scientific understanding is key to managing these for better environmental and human well-being.
You will explore issues from climate change and circular economy futures to pollution, biodiversity loss, and ocean health concerns.
By the end of the module, you will be able to articulate the context of human impacts and evaluate the scientific evidence for potential solutions.
Environmental Analytical Methods Environmental investigations and monitoring activities require robust sample collection, processing procedures, and accurate laboratory analytical techniques.
The ability to accurately interpret and evaluate data is also essential.
In this module, you will gain hands-on practical experience and theoretical understanding of experimental design, sampling strategies, sample processing and preservation, use of analytical instruments to characterise environmental media (e.g.
water, soil, biota) and the interpretation of data.
The knowledge and skills developed are highly relevant for careers in environmental management, regulation, consultancy and research.
Animal Adaptations On Animal Adaptations, you will study physiological and behavioural adaptations of a range of vertebrate and invertebrate animals to challenges presented by various harsh environmental conditions.
You will further develop skills in data collection, analysis and presentation.
You will also explore how to present technical and scientific information linked to the module themes to different audiences.
Flexible Work Placement (level 5) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
Independent Research Dissertation For the capstone research dissertation project, you will conduct independent research on a topic of your own choice within your field of study.
Guided by an academic advisor, you will establish research objectives, undertake fieldwork or data collection, and analyse your findings.
This module emphasises critical thinking, methodological rigour, and effective communication of results.
Completing the dissertation allows you to demonstrate your expertise, contribute to subject knowledge, and prepare for professional careers or post-graduate study.
Professional Environmental Field Skills There is a graduate skills gap in the ecology and environmental sector.
This module aims to bridge that gap by giving you advanced plant and animal identification skills and hands-on experience with industry-standard field survey techniques, focusing on UK-protected species and habitats.
Crucially, you will have the opportunity to earn a FISC qualification (see here), which is highly valued by employers, boosting your employability and equipping you to conduct UKHab surveys.
Sustainable Futures Consultancy The Sustainable Futures Consultancy module will equip you with the knowledge and skills to address environmental and/or societal challenges through sustainable practices.
Focusing on a real-world application you will work with other students on a consultancy project to develop strategies for sustainable solutions in a particular sector.
Emphasis is placed on critical thinking, stakeholder engagement, and practical implementation, preparing you for careers in regional planning, sustainability consultancy or environmental management.
Applied GIS This module will provide you with the broader context of GIS applications to address real-world societal and environmental issues within human and physical geography, geology and environmental sciences.
You will gain essential skills in acquiring, analysing, and displaying spatial data and explore how GIS can be integrated with environmental impact assessment and be used to support decision-making.
By the end of the module, you will gain GIS skills that are important across all sectors in business, government, and science, thereby enhancing your future employability.
Tropical Biology Field Course This module allows you to explore the vibrant world of tropical ecology and join an exciting opportunity to explore the challenges facing tropical ecosystems and how humanity impacts them.
Delve into conservation with guest speakers, gaining first-hand insights into this multifaceted domain.
We will learn about some adaptations that explain their success and how to manage pest and beneficial insects that affect human activities.
A journal club format will help you approach complex issues sensitively, handle nuance, and build your opinions based on scientific facts.
Plant Science and Sustainability This module takes an applied and integrated approach, examining green production systems from the perspectives of plant science, ecology, and sustainable land management.
Animals and Society Non-human animals interact with humans on a daily basis, such as wildlife, livestock, food, clothing, companions, beasts of burden, entertainment, and therapy.
In this module you will learn about how geography has a pivotal role in shaping these everyday lives and deaths, and influencing these human-animal interactions and identities.
Through this module, you will gain knowledge, skills and hands-on experience in conducting ecotoxicology laboratory protocols (terrestrial and aquatic systems), constructing and interpreting dose-response curves, sourcing and evaluating ecotoxicology data, deriving Predicted No Effect Concentrations (PNECs), and ecotoxicological risk assessment.
Blue Economy: sustainable futures with an ocean focus Growing interest in ocean and coastal development needs collaboration because marine spaces and ecosystems are interconnected.
You will develop knowledge through concepts derived from exploring case studies, ocean advocacy and solutions for an ocean-focused sustainable future.
Extinction!
This module explores the causes and consequences of extinction events throughout Earth’s history.
You will investigate mass extinctions, such as the Permian and Cretaceous events, and explore the role of factors like climate change, asteroid impacts, and human activities.
You will learn about evolutionary biology, palaeontology, and conservation science, highlighting current biodiversity crises and strategies for species preservation.
Through lectures, seminar projects, and case studies, you will gain an in-depth understanding of extinction dynamics and their implications for the future.
Flexible Work Placement (level 6) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
Professional Placement Year This module gives students interested in pursuing teaching or training as a career the opportunity to gain experience in the world of teaching in schools and colleges.
Our unique 600-acre campus offers a fantastic experimentation environment to perform fieldwork, test new ideas and discover solutions to real-world problems.
From our lake system and extensive woodlands to the mining and industrial heritage of the local area, there are many opportunities to study in an authentic environment whilst practicing sustainably.
In previous years our students have undertaken field courses in the UK to the Peak District, Pennines, Lake District, North Wales and the Welsh Borders.
A work placement year between years two and three of your degree is a fantastic way to gain industry experience with an ecologically focused company or organisation, helping you to stand out in the competitive job market.
Employers seek to recruit individuals with high-level subject knowledge and skills who also understand the workplace.
Placements provide an insight into what it is like to work in a specific area of the industry and allow you to familiarise yourself with the professional working environment and enable you to apply the skills and theory you’ve been learning.
Alternatively, you could choose our optional flexible work placement module to gain further practical experience.
This exciting opportunity enable you to experience different cultural perspectives and to establish international networks.
We are proud to be named Global Sustainability Institution of the Year (International Green Gown Awards, 2021), which demonstrates our commitment to embedding sustainability into all that we do.
We provide a comprehensive support system to meet your academic and personal needs.
With our open-door policy you can easily engage with us to seek support, gain feedback, and discuss any concerns.
Your assigned Academic Mentor will also provide individual support throughout your degree.
Additionally, you will have access to the dedicated Faculty Student Experience and Support team, which offers advice, guidance and one-on-one support.
We have a wealth of student-led societies at Keele, which cover a diverse range of interests.
Joining a society related to the field is a great opportunity to continue to develop your skills away from your studies.
This is another excellent way of demonstrating your genuine interest for the area and can be beneficial when it comes to applying for graduate roles.
A degree in ecology and conservation will provide you with broad knowledge about current environmental issues and challenges on a local, national and global scale.
You will graduate with transferable and subject specific skills including field and laboratory skills, data collection and analysis, Geographic Information Systems, critical thinking, team working and project management.
These are all skills highly valued by employers and are applicable in a range of careers.
Job sectors that a graduate of this programme could go on to include:
Jobs that a graduate of this programme could go on to include:
Keele’s Careers and Employability team (Shortlisted for Best University Careers Employment Service - National Undergraduate Employability Awards, 2021), offer a variety of personal and professional development opportunities to enhance your employability.
From mock interviews and CV advice to arranging networking events, they will help you make the most of your time and support you throughout your studies.
We offer a personalised learning experience in an environment where you can feel part of a community here at Keele.
You will be taught by academics who currently work in or have worked in ecology and conservation, ensuring that you learn from sector experts.
Our small class sizes will enable you to forge close connections with other students and study in a focused environment where you will find staff who are friendly, accessible and supportive.
To ensure you receive a high-quality learning experience, teaching is delivered through a diverse range of methods, depending on the subject matter and level.
This may include lectures, tutorials, seminars and workshops, problem-solving classes, practical and laboratory classes, field courses, group presentations and online learning through Keele’s virtual learning environment (KLE) and other digital platforms.
With no traditional exams, you will be assessed through different methods that reflect the breadth of skills and knowledge you will have acquired during your studies.
Many of these assessments will directly reflect the skills you might use in your future career and range from essays, literature reviews, dissertations, reflective diaries, field research and laboratory reports, podcasts, placements, class tests, posters, presentations, research proposals and other projects.
These are designed to support your learning and enable you to showcase your skills and knowledge.
Benefit from a dedicated teaching space in Keele’s state-of-the-art Central Science Laboratories (CSL).
Featuring 80 new polarising microscopes and 20 new low powered microscopes, the CSL allows us to innovate and enhance the teaching experience of our students and supports a highly tailored approach to practical learning.
Other facilities in the School include:
Our ice lab features a dedicated freezer laboratory for water and ice samples from polar environments.
Ice lab research is driven by the need to understand and develop new methods, such as analysis of ice core ‘biomarkers’, within polar environments in order to inform on key questions surrounding global ocean and atmospheric change, sea ice variability, and humanity’s role in polar ecological change.
We also have geochemistry, water chemistry and sediment laboratories, where you can conduct geochemical analysis and experiments, measure physical and chemical properties of water and analyse the compositional properties of sediments.
Keele's weather station provides valuable data locally, nationally.
This includes data for wind speed and direction, rainfall, humidity, sunshine/radiation, air and ground temperatures.
This Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Ecology and Conservation degree.
For example, the Advancing Geography, Geology and the Environment module takes the knowledge built in 'Foundations of Geography, Geology and the Environment' module and applies it to a variety of human interactions, such as exploitation of the Earth’s resources, rural and urban development, monitoring and management of natural hazards, and environmental change.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Ecology and Conservation with Foundation Year (UCAS code C182) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/ecologyandconservationwithintegratedmasters:
Analyse the actions needed to tackle society’s ecological and conservation problems.
Study in detail how we can protect species, habitats, landscapes and ecosystems on our four-year Ecology and Conservation with Integrated Master's MSci.
Develop the research, field and laboratory skills that are essential in making a difference in the sector.
We are in the process of refreshing our curriculum for the 2025/26 academic year to reflect best practices and the latest advancements in academia.
Updated course content and modules will be available on this page in due course.
Our Ecology and Conservation with Integrated Master's degree offers an advanced understanding of ecology, conservation biology, conservation practice and environmental management to address the ecological and conservation issues facing our planet.
With a strong emphasis on applied learning, the programme includes fieldwork opportunities - such as day activities and residential field courses during each year of your studies.
Integrated Master's are highly valued by employers as you will graduate with an enhanced depth and breadth of knowledge and a range of advanced skills and competencies needed for particular specialist roles in the field.
The first year of the programme is carefully designed to bring together the diverse learning experiences across the cohort, enabling common understanding of ecology and conservation issues.
Core first year modules examine topics such as approaches to conservation in policy and practice, the diversity of animals in the world and ecology and plant biology.
To help you develop the appropriate skills needed to succeed in this field, you will study a 'core skills' module.
This will provide you with a suite of study skills and subject-specific practical skills in areas such as:
Throughout your studies you will have the opportunity to choose from a variety of optional modules.
This will add breadth and depth to your learning and enable you to personalise your degree towards your career aspirations and interests.
During your second year, you will develop an understanding of more advanced topics in the field - such as environmental biology.
From carrying out research in the real world through an environmental impact assessment, to spending time gaining work experience in a relevant industry - our curriculum offers multiple opportunities to apply your learning to environments similar to those you may encounter within your career.
Your studies will culminate with the opportunity to unleash your creativity and build on the techniques you have acquired during your studies.
You will have the opportunity to conduct an ecology and conservation-focused dissertation project.
Our 600-acre campus may serve as a ‘living lab’ where you can conduct your dissertation.
Alternatively, you may wish to develop a dissertation project in consultation with our many external conservation partners.
To personalise your degree to your career aspirations or interests, you can also choose from a wide variety of optional modules.
Your final year will include a dissertation and research skills module, as well as the option to take modules in applied ecology and conservation, biodiversity skills and advanced GIS and remote sensing.
From mapping habitats to sampling waters, soils and invertebrates, fieldwork is embedded into core modules throughout your studies to ensure you graduate with key ecology and environmental observation and interpretation skills.
Fieldwork activities may include:
Employability is at the heart of our curriculum, and we aim to equip you with the necessary tools and practical experience to support your graduate journey.
The programme is taught by staff who currently work in or have worked in the ecology and conservation sector.
This means that you will benefit from learning relevant and up-to-date skills and techniques that will enhance your employability.
Our optional year two employability module offers a variety of work relevant experiences.
From project-based learning to research opportunities - you will learn about and experience a variety of career paths and identify skills that are essential in these roles.
Between years two and three of your degree, you can also spend a year gaining work experience with an ecologically focused company or organisation.
This will benefit you by providing familiarisation with the professional working environment and the opportunity to apply the skills and theories you have learnt.
There is an additional opportunity in year three that will could help your portfolio of skills stand out.
If you choose to undertake the Advanced Environmental Field Skills module, you will sit the external Field Identification Skills Certificate (FISC) that is recognised by employers.
The certificate is the run by the Botanical Society of Britain and Ireland (BSBI) and the assessment is paid for by the School of Life Sciences.
This exciting opportunity enables you to experience different cultural perspectives and to establish international networks.
Our open-door policy enables you to engage with us directly, meaning you can seek support, gain feedback or discuss any matters related to your course on a regular basis.
You will also benefit from the support of an assigned academic mentor and a member of staff from Keele's Student Experience and Support team .
We have a wealth of student-led societies which cover a diverse range of interests.
Compulsory Modules
Optional Modules
Compulsory modules
Optional modules
Studying ecology and conservation at Master's level will develop your critical thinking and research skills, and prepare you to for progression onto related postgraduate degree courses, and in particular PhD study.
You will graduate with a broad subject knowledge that crosses the traditional natural science-social science divide and a strong set of transferable skills.
Key transferable skills include:
Job sectors that a graduate of this course could enter include:
Jobs that a graduate of this course could go on to include:
We offer a personalised learning experience in an environment where you can feel part of a community.
Our small class sizes will enable you to gain individual attention from your lecturers, forge close connections with other students and study in a focused environment.
To ensure you receive a high-quality learning experience, teaching will be delivered through a diverse range of methods.
Some classes are taught in workshop format integrating both lecture and practical material.
Fieldwork provides a deep, immersive learning experience that puts geological processes and their products into their four-dimensional context.
The programme includes a range of assessments to develop both academic and employability skills.
Benefit from a dedicated teaching space in Keele’s state-of-the-art, £34m Central Science Laboratories (CSL).
IceLab research is driven by the need to understand and develop new methods, such as analysis of ice core ‘biomarkers’, within polar environments in order to inform on key questions surrounding global ocean and atmospheric change, sea ice variability, and humanity’s role in polar ecological change.
This Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the MSci Ecology and Conservation Integrated Master's.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/economicsbsc:
How is the behaviour of households, organisations and governments determined?
How is that affected by their economic environment?
How do global markets work?
Which public services should be funded?
Explore how economics seeks to answer these and other questions on our Economics BSc, and develop your understanding of the subject’s theories and techniques to open doors to a range of exciting future career opportunities.
Interested in unravelling the complexities of economics and deciphering the motives and behaviours of key market stakeholders?
Study economics to cultivate the skills for analysing these interactions and attain a comprehensive understanding of economic models and tools.
This will equip you to accurately assess environments and devise effective policies as a future economist.
Our curriculum provides you with expertise in economic principles, seamlessly blending theory with practical applications.
It focuses on strengthening core areas including econometrics and business analytics, statistics with Bloomberg, artificial intelligence and labour markets, growth strategies and policies, international money, cryptocurrencies and applied quantitative research.
You will enhance your skills in economic research and communication across diverse audiences, conduct advanced analysis of economic relationships, improve your proficiency in statistical software, and engage in real-world projects and live trading simulations to strengthen your competencies in understanding and applying economics principles.
Introductory Macroeconomic and Microeconomic Principles Macroeconomics covers inflation, supply-side economics, macroeconomic equilibria, output and aggregate demand, consumption, money supply & money demand, fiscal & monetary policy, and exchange rate economics.
Within microeconomics, production, consumption, and government interventions are explored through the connection between economic theories and concepts and their applications to real case examples.
Quantitative Methods for Economics and Finance This module equips you with the essential mathematical and statistical skills that underpin modern theoretical and empirical analysis in Economics and Finance.
Mathematical concepts covered include the application of algebra, linear and non-linear functions, and calculus for analysing economic and financial decisions.
For empirical analysis, the module covers core statistical concepts including common methods for summarizing data, carrying out inferential statistics and inferential testing, and the ability to test hypotheses using information drawn from samples and populations.
Sustainability and the Global Economy In this module you will learn about the links between social, economic, and environmental challenges with a problem-solving approach.
From access to clean and affordable energy to climate change migration, from sustainable food systems to poverty and income inequalities, you will apply economic thinking to analyse a range of ‘wicked problems’ and identify potential policy solutions.
You will develop self-awareness about how living in globalized interconnected economies adds a layer of complexity to achieving a transition to sustainability.
Using approved psychometric tools and Government Economic Service training skills, you will learn about your strengths to uncover your inherent talents which will help you to shape your professional identity.
You will engage in hands-on activities, group projects, and case studies to apply theoretical knowledge in real-world scenarios.
By the end of the module, you will have gained essential experience in collaboration, problem-solving, and performance optimization within diverse team environments.
Intermediate Economic Principles Intermediate Macroeconomics addresses open-economy monetary and fiscal policy and evaluates policy effectiveness under different exchange rate regimes.
Other topics covered include IS-LM-BP model in a modern context, supply-side economics, national accounting balance of payments and exchange rates, supply and demand for money, consumption and investment, inflationary expectations, and unemployment.
Intermediate Microeconomics covers decision making by consumers and businesses.
The focus is on competitive markets.
Other topics include general equilibrium and implications, social welfare, consumption over time and introduction to game theory.
Statistics with Bloomberg and Introduction to Econometrics The module develops a range of quantitative techniques widely employed by professional economists and financial analysts.
There is an emphasis on equipping students with digital skills using industry-standard software including Excel, STATA, and Bloomberg Terminals delivered in computer-lab classes.
The module covers the whole process of conducting statistical analysis; finding and retrieving relevant economic/financial data, data evaluation and assessment, presentation of data trends, using the data to formulate and construct a model, model estimation and findings interpretation and evaluation.
Professional and Academic Development 2 Using your commercial awareness and enterprise skills, you will tackle an actual organizational challenge, collaborating with a team gain first-hand experience of working with an organization.
You will also engage with the Government Economic Service (GES) interview and application processes.
Labour Economics and the Future of Work This module provides an understanding of the labour market and labour market policies.
The module considers factors underlying firms’ labour demand and workers’ labour supply.
Issues related to human capital investment, discrimination and immigration are analysed.
It explores the effect of the IT revolution on labour markets, including implications for wage inequality and the distribution of rewards between labour and capital.
It evaluates how automation has shaped labour markets over time, providing students with tools to understand the current and future impacts of new technologies such as AI.
Environmental Economics In this module you will develop a deeper understanding of how economic policy instruments can be used to achieve environmental goals.
Giving an economic value to environmental goods and services helps policymakers design the right economic incentives for sustainable behavioural change.
You will learn about cost-benefit analysis but also about environmental taxes, subsidies, and carbon markets.
You will also be introduced to environmental valuation techniques and to the complex area of adaptation and mitigation policy design to tackle climate change.
Economic Growth Strategies The module explores issues relating to economic growth and policy.
International Money and Banking This module equips you with tools facilitating appraisal of the financial system from a global perspective.
It analyses money, financial instruments, financial markets, financial institutions, central banks, and regulatory agencies, reflecting on the determinants of a well-functioning financial system in the efficient allocation of credit and, consequently, in promoting economic growth and welfare.
Emphasis is also placed on latest field developments including cryptocurrencies and central bank digital currencies.
Interest rate policies by the Bank of England, the FED and the ECB are also addressed.
Advanced Economic Principles Advanced Macroeconomics covers advanced macroeconomic theories, models, and issues, including macroeconomic stabilization; monetary policy ( interest and the exchange rate transmission mechanisms, the current institutional setup, and monetary targeting); fiscal policy ( deficit financing, debt profile characteristics, evolution of the debt-to-GDP ratio, and debt management); growth theory models and growth accounting .
Advanced Microeconomics covers decision-making under uncertainty, general equilibrium approaches and modelling, competitive markets, oligopolistic behaviour and cartel formation, game theory applications, auction theory, selection mechanisms, non-linearity, and chaos in economics.
Econometrics and Data Analytics The module builds on the material covered in the ' Statistics with Bloomberg and Introduction to Econometrics' module.
It utilises a hands-on approach using computer-lab classes to develop competence in applying econometric and data analytic methods with an emphasis on developing coding skills for deploying industry-standard statistical packages.
Content covered include estimating time series models particularly CAPM, forecasting and the prediction of values, analysing panel data models, and achieving causal identification distinguished from analysis of correlations.
Artificial Intelligence, Labour Economics and the Future of Work This module provides an understanding of the labour market and labour market policies by evaluating factors underlying firms’ labour demand and workers’ labour supply.
International Money, Banking and Cryptocurrencies This module equips you with tools facilitating appraisal of the financial system from a global perspective.
Environmental and Climate Change Economics In this module you will develop a deeper understanding of how economic policy instruments can be used to achieve environmental goals.
You will learn about cost-benefit analysis but also about environmental taxes, subsidies and carbon markets.
Economic Growth, Strategies and Policies The module explores issues relating to economic growth and policy.
You will develop knowledge of theory and empirical evidence to understand economic growth and development and analytical skills for critically evaluating economic policy decisions.
Development Finance This module will delve into the obstacles that developing countries face to raise financial resources necessary to improve their levels of development.
You will learn about the burden of excessive sovereign debt, the current structure of international financial markets and institutions, and how it conditions the access to investment for basic development infrastructures.
You will have the opportunity to critically analyse if instruments such as public private partnerships or financial services digitalization can help developing countries overcome their financial constraints.
Dissertation The module develops research tools covered in the first two years of your degree and applies these in relevant contexts.
The context involves identifying a current economic and/or business challenge and its key components in a research proposal and applying research techniques with the aim of developing a remedy.
The nature of the challenge needs to be current and could relate to institutions (UK government policies, local authorities, Bank of England, local businesses, private sector firms etc.) or the wider UK economy and businesses (e.g.
employment, productivity, labour markets, international trade).
The Digital Showcase In the "Digital Showcase" module you are empowered to demonstrate your digital skills through the creation of a comprehensive digital project.
You will develop and present your project using cutting-edge tools and techniques.
Emphasizing creativity, technical proficiency, and practical application, this module allows you to showcase your digital talent.
"I chose to study at Keele because of its diversity and freedom of choice, it’s one of the few university that offered a combined honours degree with the chance to add in additional modules to compliment my studies.
The Keele experience is a truly unique one, it’s so much more than just a university, it’s where friends become family, halls of residence become second homes.
It also gives you a learning experience that lasts a life time.
Sriya, Economics and Finance
You’ll acquire a solid foundation in the discipline of economics on this programme and key professional attributes which are highly regarded by employers.
You will have developed a wide range of additional skills including enhanced critical thinking, cutting edge empirical skills, an entrepreneurial mindset and improved communication capabilities.
Engagement on our Professional and Academic Development Programme will have enriched your personal and professional development to empower you to succeed in various industries and careers in fields such as finance, banking, consultancy, impact analysis and investment management.
"On my work placement, everyone is so friendly, well that is until it comes to Mario Kart at lunch and then it’s war.
It’s safe to say no two days are the same at Nintendo, one day I will be comprising my own sales reports to present and the next I’ll be standing on a field getting blown away by helicopters volunteering with Starlight.
It’s hectic and ever changing but I have already grown so much and I am ready for the year ahead, bring it on!
Meghan, Economics and Maths
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Economics BSc, tailored to the module theme and level.
Our practical lab-based classes provide hands-on experience in data analysis, including training using our Bloomberg Terminals, and we create a safe and supportive space to practice your decision-making skills through simulated business contexts.
You will be assessed via different methods that reflect the breadth of the skills and knowledge you will acquire on this programme.
These may include unseen closed and open book assessments, and class tests which evaluate your understanding and application of economic principles.
Essays and reports will demonstrate your ability to carry out bibliographic research and effectively communicate your findings.
You will also create a portfolio to compile your achievements and reflections which will not only serve as a tool for academic evaluation but also highlights your skills to potential employers.
Short research papers and your dissertation will showcase your grasp of different research methodologies and your ability to formulate and answer complex research questions.
Additionally, our IT labs facilitate tests on ‘live trading' techniques in our intermediate and advanced quantitative modules.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Economics degree.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) Economics with Foundation Year (UCAS code L101 ) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/economicsandfinance:
Discover the dynamic nature of the world of economics and finance.
Investigate the economic behaviour of households, companies and governments, analyse investor decision making, and explore the way financial markets operate on our engaging Economics and Finance BSc.
Discover the financial complexities of economic analysis and explore the various motives and interactions that shape different markets.
Expand your understanding of stakeholders in financial markets, exchange rate markets, stock markets, banking, financial intermediaries, cryptocurrencies, and central bank digital currencies with our Economics and Finance degree.
The goal is to equip you with the skills to accurately assess financial environments and implement effective interventions, paving the way for a successful future career as an economist.
Our programme offers an in-depth understanding of financial economic models and tools, building your expertise in financial econometrics and business analytics, statistics with Bloomberg, international money and cryptocurrencies, and applied quantitative research.
The curriculum also introduces you to some of the core subject topics including macroeconomics and microeconomics, financial and management accounting, and examines how new technology is impacting financial markets.
Within microeconomics production, consumption and government interventions are explored through the connection between economic theories and concepts and their applications to real case examples.
Principles of Financial and Management Accounting The modules cover fundamental concepts and key techniques of accounting.
Professional and Academic Development Our foundational professional development module is designed to help you identify and take advantage of your unique strengths.
Intermediate Economic Principles Macroeconomics addresses open-economy monetary and fiscal policy and evaluates policy effectiveness under different exchange rate regimes.
Microeconomics covers decision making by consumers and businesses.
Advanced Economic Principles Macroeconomics covers advanced macroeconomic theories, models and issues, including macroeconomic stabilization; monetary policy ( interest and the exchange rate transmission mechanisms, the current institutional setup, and monetary targeting); fiscal policy ( deficit financing, debt profile characteristics, evolution of the debt-to-GDP ratio, and debt management); growth theory models and growth accounting .
Microeconomics covers decision-making under uncertainty, general equilibrium approaches and modelling, competitive markets, oligopolistic behaviour and cartel formation, game theory applications, auction theory, selection mechanisms, non-linearity, and chaos in economics.
Econometrics and Data Analytics The module builds on the material covered in the 'Statistics with Bloomberg and Introduction to Econometrics' module.
Investment Management and Financial Engineering This module immerses you in the practical world of finance, leveraging the powerful Bloomberg terminal throughout their study.
You will engage with complex financial instruments such as futures, options, and swaps.
You will engage with diverse performance management techniques, all while emphasizing intricate real-life calculations.
Finally, you will achieve an in-depth understanding of the limitations of finance.
Studying economics and finance will equip you with expertise in two complementary disciplines, developing a portfolio of skills and knowledge highly sought after by employers.
What’s more, you will also have a breadth of additional skills such as excellent empirical skills, enhanced critical thinking, improved communication abilities and an entrepreneurial mindset.
Plus, through our Professional and Academic Development Programme you will have enhanced your personal and professional development to ensure you are well prepared for careers in government, stock markets, finance, banking, consultancy, wealth fund management, exchange rates forecasting, actuary, data analysis and more.
It also gives you a learning experience that lasts a life time."
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Economics and Finance BSc, tailored to the module theme and level.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Economics and Finance degree.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) Economics and Finance with Foundation Year (UCAS code LN31 ) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/economicsba:
How can qualitative analysis help economic problem solving?
What socio-economic factors influence markets and policy decisions?
Explore the dynamic field of economics and uncover the answers to these questions and more on our Economics BA.
You’ll develop your understanding of economic methods and techniques and acquire practical experience by engaging with real-world projects and placement opportunities, unlocking a wide range of exciting career paths in a variety of fields.
Are you curious about the complexities of economics?
Do you want to understand the motivations and actions of major market players such as individuals, governments and organisations?
Study economics and develop the skills to analyse these interactions and deepen your understanding of economic models and techniques on our programme.
Our contemporary economics degree programme will broaden your knowledge of the discipline and provide you with the core skills to effectively assess different economic environments and design policies that drive excellent economic outcomes.
You’ll explore key topics including growth strategies, game theory, money and banking, cryptocurrencies, qualitative economic research and analysis, macroeconomic and microeconomic principles, sustainability, the global economy, and labour economics.
You will strengthen your research skills in applied economics, enhance your digital and IT skills in the analysis of qualitative data and refine your skills to communicate confidently with diverse audiences.
Students can transfer to the BSc Economics subject to meeting the relevant thresholds in quantitative economic modules.
Quantitative Methods for Economics and Finance This module equips students with the essential mathematical and statistical skills underpinning modern theoretical and empirical analysis in Economics and Finance.
Mathematical concepts covered include the application of algebra, linear and non-linear functions, and calculus for analyzing economic and financial decisions.
For empirical analysis, module covers core statistical concepts including common methods for summarizing data, carrying out inferential statistics and inferential testing, and the ability to test hypotheses using information drawn from samples and populations.
From access to clean and affordable energy to climate change migration, from sustainable food systems to poverty and income inequalities, you will apply economic thinking to analyze a range of ‘wicked problems’ and identify potential policy solutions.
Other topics include general equilibrium and implications, social welfare, externalities, consumption over time and introduction to game theory.
International Money and Banking This module equips students with tools facilitating appraisal of financial systems from a global perspective.
It analyses money, financial instruments, financial markets, financial institutions, central banks, and regulatory agencies, reflecting the determinants of a well-functioning financial system in the efficient allocation of credit and, consequently, in promoting economic growth and welfare.
Emphasis is also placed on the latest developments including cryptocurrencies and central bank digital currencies.
Interest rate policies by the Bank of England, the Fed and the ECB are also addressed.
Professional and Academic Development 2 The module continues enhancing students’ essential academic tools.
In addition to writing skills such as referencing and structuring of different types of documents relevant for Level 5 modules, students learn how to find relevant information and distinguish reliable sources from ‘fake news’.
Students will engage with the Government Economic Service (GES) interview and application processes.
Students will gain awareness of the importance of independent research and develop skills relating to accessing, handling and presenting different types of data using Excel.
Labour Economics and the Future of Work This module provides students with an understanding of the labour market and labour market policies.
Issues related to human capital investment, discrimination and immigration are analyzed.
Giving an economic value to environmental goods and services helps policymakers design the right economic incentives for sustainable behavioral change.
Microeconomics covers decision-making under uncertainty, general equilibrium approaches and modelling, competitive markets, oligopolistic behavior and cartel formation, game theory applications, auction theory, selection mechanisms, non-linearity and chaos in economics.
Strategic and Behavioural Economics The module provides a comprehensive assessment of strategic behaviour and its implications for modelling bilateral and multilateral trade relations and their applications and the behavioural aspects of economic interactions.
Topics include strategic trade theory & policy, applied game theory in international trade, trade wars, UK-EU trade relations, UK trade beyond Brexit, strategic behaviour & defence applications, behavioural economics versus rationality, behavioural adjustments to asymmetric information.
Skills include strategic thinking, scenario analysis, constrained optimization techniques & negotiation principles.
You will engage in recruitment and selection simulations, exploring both traditional CV and innovative non-CV approaches using various media.
Artificial Intelligence Labour Economics and the Future of Work This module provides students with an understanding of the labour market and labour market policies.
Economic Growth Strategies and Policies The module explores issues relating to economic growth and policy.
Development Finance This module delves into the obstacles that developing countries face to raise financial resources necessary to improve their levels of development.
You will learn about the burden of excessive sovereign debt, the current structure of international financial markets and institutions, and how they condition access to investment for basic development infrastructures.
You will have the opportunity to critically assess whether instruments such as public private partnerships or financial services digitalization can help developing countries overcome their financial constraints.
Dissertation The module furthers research tools and concepts covered in years 1 & 2 and applies these in relevant contexts.
These involve identifying a current economic challenge and its key components in a research proposal and applying research techniques with the aim of providing a remedy.
The nature of the challenge needs to be current and could relate to institutions (UK government policies, local authorities, Bank of England, local businesses, private sector firms etc.) or the UK economy (e.g.
employment, productivity, labour markets, trade).
The professional capabilities you’ll gain on this programme are highly valued by employers.
You will have developed a solid grounding in the fundamentals of economics and established a portfolio of additional skills including enhanced critical thinking, cutting edge empirical skills, an entrepreneurial mindset and improved communication capabilities.
Our engagement with our Professional and Academic Development Programme will have enriched your personal and professional development, enabling you to progress to successful careers in fields such as finance, banking, consultancy, impact analysis and investment management.
Previous economics graduates have gone on to work for:
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Economics BA, tailored to the module theme and level.
These methods may include interactive lectures, independent study, group tutorials, and engaging in web-based learning via Keele’s virtual learning environment (KLE).
Our practical lab-based classes provide hands-on experience in descriptive/soft data analysis, and interpretation including training using our Bloomberg Terminals, and we create a safe and supportive space to practice your decision-making skills through simulated business contexts.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) Economics with Foundation Year (UCAS code L102 ) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/education:
Embark on a journey to uncovering the contemporary challenges surrounding education.
Become a successful and dynamic educational professional with a proactive approach to navigating the ever-evolving education sector.
Whether you want to work in a school and later pursue teaching, or explore youth work in the community, or train as a child psychologist, or maybe even shape educational policy, our Education BA will help to get you started.
Our programme equips you with advanced transferable skills in communication, critical thinking, and problem-solving, preparing you for a wide range of careers working with learners and helping people to succeed.
Investigate how the education system operates in the modern world and examine a range of theories from disciplines such as sociology, history, psychology and philosophy.
Our Education degree covers a broad range of topics from key psychological theories and models to explain how young people develop in the classroom, to core social science principles of designing, implementing, and analysing social research.
This programme adopts a distinctive approach to exploring learning theories and themes such as social mobility and inequality.
Our unique combination of educational theory combined with active practical application will provide insight into real world situations to help enhance your skills and expertise as a practitioner in the classroom.
You will consider how theories, ideas, and concepts can be applied in practice across a range of environments and age groups, from young people in classrooms to adults in the local community.
Throughout the programme you will gain a thorough understanding of education in the past and present and what this means for our future.
You will be encouraged to reflect on how political ideas and ideologies shape policy, and learn to design educational solutions for emerging issues such as artificial intelligence and climate change.
This can be explored further through your own 'Independent Research Project' by investigating an area of your choice involving data collection and analysis.
Through the use of field trips, guest speakers, and practical learning opportunities such as placements in schools, you will be able to apply your theoretical knowledge to real-world settings, building advanced skills in critical thinking, communication and emotional intelligence.
You will have the opportunity to engage with the local community of Stoke-on-Trent and/or Newcastle-under-Lyme to investigate the challenges of inequality in society and how this can impact a person's life and how we can navigate the challenges of marginalisation of particular groups such as the working class, those from ethnically diverse backgrounds, or children with Special Educational Needs (SEN).
"My study of Education at Keele was a fantastic experience.
I was given the freedom to choose from a diverse list of modules which meant the degree I studied was shaped by my own interests.
The degree programme offered many opportunities to gain transferable skills through placements in schools and involvement in community projects.
The teaching and classes were genuinely enjoyable, and they were delivered by a team of knowledgeable and engaging lecturers."
Carina, Education and English Literature
Education Past and Present This module will introduce you to the history of education and how it has developed since Victorian times.
Not only will you explore important policies and the impact they had in shaping our education system, but you will also see how many of the debates we have around education today have their origins in the past.
By exploring the educational experiences of people from different periods of time, including undertaking an interview with someone from a different generation, you will be able to see how we can learn from the past to potentially solve the issues of today as well as reflecting on your own experiences of schooling.
Education Identities and Spaces This module explores what it means to ‘be’ a teacher or someone working with learners in the 21st century and what the biggest challenges are currently facing the profession.
Alongside this, you will have the opportunity to explore different places and spaces where education and learning take place, many of which are outside of the formal school environment.
Your learning will be facilitated by field trips and visiting guest speakers and there will be opportunity to reflect on your ambitions as an educator and plan your future career.
Understanding Learning in the Classroom To know how to teach children effectively it is essential to understand how they learn and so this module introduces you to a range of key psychological theories and models which underpin and explain how young people develop in the classroom.
In advance of your placement and other work-based opportunities, you will also be encouraged to think about how these models can apply in real life and use them to transform yourself into an informed and reflective practitioner.
Children and Learners in Society This module explores the ways in which children and learners are portrayed and understood within wider society.
By looking at a range of films, television programmes, newspapers, and social media platforms you will examine the assumptions we as adults hold about children and learners and their role and place in the world around us.
This will then be compared to other countries around the globe to offer comparative analysis.
Educational Inequalities Understanding the role that education can play in helping children overcome different forms of disadvantage is one of the most pressing concerns of the modern world.
In this module you will visit and work with the local community of Stoke-on-Trent and/or Newcastle-under-Lyme to try and understand not just why inequality occurs in society and how it impacts a person’s life chances but also, by creating audience-facing learning resources, what you as a teacher, or as someone working with young people, can do about it.
Diversity and Inclusion in Education Our society is now more diverse than ever before and this module explores approaches to teaching which seek to support children from marginalized communities whether as a result of their gender, ethnicity, where they live, or for those with Special Educational Needs (SEN).
You will be encouraged to develop your own classroom-based interventions, based on academic theory, to tackle these issues and to develop a questioning and critical mindset.
Delivery of this module is supported by visiting international academics sharing their perspectives on these issues.
Social Science Research Methods and Data Analysis How can we know the world and the societies around us?
This module introduces you to the core social science principles of designing, implementing, and analysing social phenomena with a focus upon education.
From quantitative surveys to qualitative interviews and ethnographic studies, you will explore methodological approaches to understanding education and society and develop practical researcher skills that prepare you to carry out original research.
Social Science at Work This module introduces you to possible careers for social scientists and links to the work you are doing in your subject core and option modules asking the question ‘how can we mobilize academic study into the real world?’ You will also be encouraged to prepare for placement work that you may pursue, alongside reflecting on your social media footprint; developing your personal/professional brand, and digital networking platforms.
Critical Issues in Higher Education With nearly 50% of 18-year-olds going on to university this module explores the big questions relating to higher education.
In particular, what is the purpose of university?
Who is it for?
How should it be funded?
You will also be encouraged to reflect critically on your own experiences to date of being a student, what you feel you have gained, and what you feel you need to develop to achieve your career goals.
Work Placement for Social Science This module gives students studying subjects in the School of Social Sciences the opportunity to contribute to the world beyond the University, in any workplace where the specialist knowledge, research, analytical, and communication skills developed as part of your Social Science degree can be used and can make a difference.
Education students will have the opportunity to undertake their work placement in a local school however, should you wish, other options are available which may include charities, community groups, criminal justice agencies, campaign groups, public services or another suitable opportunity identified by the student and approved by the module leader.
Educational Policy: Making Change Politics makes a huge difference to people’s lives and nowhere is this truer than in education.
Understanding how political ideas and ideologies shape policy and how this in turn changes the lives of children is one of the central features of this module which aims to prepare you to think critically about education practice.
You will act as the role of ‘change-maker’ in this module, devising your own educational policy or manifesto and presenting it to external audiences.
Education Trends and Futures What are the biggest challenges facing education globally today and what will these look like in the future?
More importantly, how will today’s students look to solve them?
This module encourages you to reflect on how the world will change in your lifetime and encourages you to design educational solutions to some of the problems that will emerge.
These issues include the rise of A.I., the increasing need for ‘technological literacy’, the impact of mass migration, and climate change.
Independent Research Project This module gives students the chance to devise and carry out their own small-scale (8000 word) research project.
Working with a supervisor, projects can be on any educational topic (broadly defined) and will include a review of literature in your chosen field, a discussion of methods involved in your data collection and analysis, as well as a write up of your findings.
This module consists of workshops organized around thesis writing as well as dedicated one-on-one support from your supervisor.
What is Education For?
Should schools teach children moral values and how to be a good person?
What does a good person look like?
Are some values ‘better’ than others?
These are important questions, and this module will help you to make sense of them by examining how historical and contemporary philosophical debates can shed new light on important educational issues.
You will also be given the chance to design and trial teaching activities to test different ideas of education and philosophy in the classroom.
Education students will have the opportunity to undertake their work placement in a local school however, should you wish, other options are available including local government agencies or third sector organisations, charities, community groups, criminal justice agencies, campaign groups, public services or another suitable opportunity identified by the student and approved by the module leader.
These will allow you to apply your knowledge and practical skills in a workplace environment, enabling you to build key skills in communication, teamwork and project management.
"As I am looking at a career in teaching, I chose to take a Placement module.
I had the opportunity to spend time in primary, secondary and special schools.
This was really beneficial as I was able to put the theoretical knowledge from the course into practice and was able to see how policies are implemented in schools and their effects on both teachers and learners."
Rachel, Education
It is also a great way to make friends and share interests with fellow students.
Whether you would like to work in a school, train as a youth worker, take further study to become a child psychologist, or shape educational policy, this dynamic and forward-looking course is your gateway to changing the lives of young people and adults in the future.
Our Education BA will be the first step in your journey to becoming a successful and dynamic educational professional whether in the classroom or related areas such as charities, the criminal justice system or social work.
You will gain a diverse set of skills that can be transferred across different roles and responsibilities, and sectors that work with various stakeholders and service users.
You may wish to go on to pursue a career in:
If you are considering a career in Primary school teaching, the Education Single Honours programme is a great option to prepare you for your career in the Primary sector.
Alternatively, if you are considering a career in Secondary school teaching, you will be required to have a good knowledge of the subject you would like to teach.
Learn from academic staff with expertise across a broad range of educational areas including the history of education, education policy, and sociology of education.
With insights into various areas, you will gain a foundation of knowledge in a developing field.
Teaching will be delivered via:
You will also engage with independent learning, with access to the Keele Learning Environment (KLE) where you can make use of various web-based resources.
Our assessments are designed to enable you to apply your learning and demonstrate your expertise on subject matter and contemporary issues.
You will build a wide range of skills through a diverse mix of assessments that challenge your written and oral communication skills, emotional intelligence, interpersonal skills and critical thinking.
Upon meeting the progression criteria and successfully completing our Foundation Year, you will automatically progress into your Keele undergraduate degree with the confidence that you have the skills, and knowledge, needed to successfully complete your course.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Education degree.
The module details given below are indicative and they are intended to provide you with an idea of the range of subjects that are taught to our current students.
The information presented is therefore not intended to be construed and/or relied upon as a definitive list of the modules available in any given year.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) Education with Foundation Year (UCAS code X3L3) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/educationandenglish:
Education and English BA at Keele blends the academic and practical study of education with a deep engagement in English literature.
Explore how educational theories and practices intersect with the cultural, historical, and social contexts of literary works.
The programme combines academic study in both subjects with hands-on experience in diverse learning environments, from classrooms to community work, helping you build your portfolio and prepare for a successful career in education, further study, or other professional fields.
On our Education and English degree, you will engage with essential questions in education - such as What should students learn, and why?; How can teaching and assessment be most effective?; and What role do schools play in shaping individuals' futures?
These questions will guide your studies through the lenses of sociology, history, psychology, and philosophy.
In parallel, you will delve into the world of English literature, critically examining texts from a wide range of time periods, cultures, and genres, from Renaissance drama to modern children's fiction, to understand how literature reflects and shapes social values and ideas.
By studying these two fields side by side, you will discover how the disciplines complement and enhance one another, deepening your understanding of the educational contexts for teaching literature and the value of literature for evaluating learning strategies and theories.
The degree also includes practical, hands-on opportunities to connect your academic studies with real-world experiences.
You will go on field trips and have a range of experiential learning, including spending time in classrooms with children and working with the local community.
You will also be able to develop your skills and enhance your employability further through work placement modules and the option of a work placement year.
These placements will enhance your professional development, helping you to build a strong portfolio of experience and establish valuable professional connections and help to prepare you for your future career.
Becoming a Critic How do you craft a compelling university essay, analyse a literary text, and put criticism to use?
How can you interpret a work within its historical context, or apply literary theory to it?
Through studying a wide range of texts, from novels such as Wuthering Heights, to Renaissance tragedy, to the poetry of Toni Morrison, you'll develop essential skills for academic reading and writing.
This module will enhance your appreciation of literature and prepare you for advanced study throughout your degree.
Classic Literature and its Adaptations What makes a work of literature 'classic'?
What do we mean when we call something an example of 'popular culture'?
This module invites you to compare 'classic' texts (such as Hamlet, The Great Gatsby, and The Color Purple) with adaptations that share their themes or challenge their values.
You'll learn new ways to think about why some texts are called 'classics' and some are not, and enrich your understanding of the way that texts interact with one another across genres.
Engaging with fiction by writers from all over the world, you will learn how to analyse core elements such as narrative voice, structure and the evocation of place, and develop your own ability to write short, creative prose pieces.
Guided by Keele's award-winning novelists, you will attain a solid foundation for writing longer prose pieces in the future.
Writing for Children The module starts at a surprise location.
Gothic Nightmares: Robots, Monsters and Witches Gothic Nightmares introduces you to the representation of spooks, automatons, monsters and supernatural horrors in literature, film, and TV from the late eighteenth century to the present day.
Each week you will read a short story and a critical text, and watch an example of the gothic genre from film or TV.
Why has the gothic persisted as it has?
Why do we need (or want) to be scared?
What are we afraid of anyway?
Students MUST take EITHER 'Becoming a Social Scientist' OR 'Voices and Audiences'.
Revolutions in Thought: Medieval Pioneers to Romantic Rebels The 1500s to the 1830s was a period of rapid historical change, including shifts in cultural norms, new debates about gender, class, empire, and race, and the questioning of traditional religious beliefs.
You will explore how English poetry, drama, and fiction responded to these transformations, and develop your understanding of how texts relate to their wider social and cultural contexts.
You will acquire the advanced critical skills you will need to draw on in the final year of your degree.
Radical Writing: From Modernity to Counter-Culture Radical Writing looks at twentieth-century experimental writing, from Modernism's rallying call of 'Make it New!' to the mid and late twentieth century’s experiments with poetry, narrative forms, film, and revolutionary counter-politics.
Why did this impulse towards radical politics and disruption of literary form occur in tandem at this time?
What do we mean when we call something ‘experimental’?
What were these writers trying to do or to rebel against?
Professional Experience with English (Year 2) This module offers you the chance to contribute to the world outside the University through completing a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of projects for different clients), or working as a team to deliver a successful festival or event.
Pathways with English: Developing Your Profile This module broadens your knowledge of the variety of career pathways open to you, enabling you to identify, analyse, and showcase your degree skills and experiences effectively.
Through completing and reflecting on problem-based tasks relating to different sectors, such as telling the story of a business, or writing a funding proposal to support a literary festival, you will build your creative and collaborative skills and learn how to articulate them in ways that will be attractive to employers.
Cultures in Conflict: Victorian to Contemporary World Literature This module expands your understanding of literature’s relation to History.
You will study novels, poems, and plays from the Victorian period to the present, relating them to social, political and cultural contexts including class, race, gender and sexuality.
You will be exposed to a range of literary styles and genres including realism, modernism, postmodernism and the postcolonial, extending your knowledge of different types of literature in preparation for the final year of your degree.
Teenage Dreams: Youth Subcultures in Fiction and Film Youth culture has had profound influences on society.
On 'Teenage Dreams' you will examine the historical development of subcultures from the ‘classic’ period to postmodernism and study a range of representations of youth subcultures, from the 1950s to the present, including fiction, film, fashion, and music.
These texts will be explored through theories of subcultures, building on critical skills you acquired in year 1, and thinking about pressing issues of class, gender, sexuality and ethnicity.
Students must take ONE of the FOUR available professional development modules: 'Professional Experience in English (Year 2)', 'Pathways in English', 'Social Science at Work', 'Work Placement for Social Science'.
The Alcohol Question From Shakespeare to Bridget Jones, alcohol has always held a fascination for writers.
On this module you will extend considerations of gender, sexuality, and class from previous modules and apply these questions to literary, televisual and filmic representations of alcohol use and drinking cultures.
You can produce critical and creative work on key themes such as pub culture, alcoholism, and lads and ladettes – and you can even write your own drinking song or temperance tale!
English Project In your final-year independent research project you will showcase the skills that you have developed over the three years of your degree.
In group workshops and individual supervisions you will work closely with a member of the Keele English team to produce either an 8-10,000-word dissertation on a topic of your choosing, or a modern edition of a (normally pre-1800) lesser-known text.
Either route will require you to use advanced skills in English literature research, theoretical debate, and textual analysis.
Independent Research Project (Education) This module gives students the chance to devise and carry out their own small-scale (8000 word) research project.
Employing English: Putting Your Subject into Practice Now you are preparing for life after graduation, this module enables you to put your degree skills into practice and work with employer-clients on a series of real-life projects.
Enhancing the creative and collaborative skills you developed in your second year, this final-year module will develop your ability to work effectively with clients from a variety of settings, such as charities, publishers, museums, and will enhance your confidence in presenting your work to your chosen employer-client.
Professional Experience with English (Year 3) In your final year we offer you another opportunity to complete a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of clients), or work as part of a team to deliver a successful festival or event.
Not just superheroes!
Contemporary Comics and Graphic Novels Contemporary comics and graphic novels deal with a startling range of themes: alongside superheroes, they explore questions of racial identity, sexual politics, teenage angst, events such as 9/11 and the legacy of colonialism.
You will learn how to read these complex, exciting texts, exploring the challenges and pleasures that graphic narratives offer to readers.
In discussing how the combination of text and image offer new approaches to understanding contemporary issues, you will develop an advanced appreciation of different literary genres.
Students MUST choose AT LEAST ONE of the Final Year 'Education Project' AND/OR 'English Project'.
You may choose to do both.
Students MUST take ONE of the FOUR available professional development modules: 'Engaged Social Science', 'Work Placement for Social Science (Year 3)', 'Professional Experience in English (Year 3)', 'Employing English: Putting Your Subject into Practice'.
You will have have the opportunity to apply for a Work Placement Year to gain valuable real-world experience as part of your degree.
Collaborate with industry professionals, apply your expertise, and develop key skills like problem-solving, leadership, and organisation.
You can also opt for a placement year between years two and three, boosting your confidence and employability in a professional setting.
Enhance your career prospects with an International Year or a semester abroad at one of our partner institutions.
Studying in a different environment broadens your horizons, offers global perspectives, and strengthens your skills.
Completing an International Year earns you an enhanced degree title, improving job prospects while allowing you to grow personally and academically.
Our Global Opportunities team will support you throughout the process.
Learn more .
Expand your skills by learning a new language at Keele, whether you’re a beginner or already have experience.
We offer courses in British Sign Language, Mandarin, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Russian, and Spanish.
Being multilingual boosts career prospects, enhances global opportunities, and develops key personal skills like adaptability and time management.
Education and English will equip you with strong verbal and written communication skills, with the ability to problem-solve and demonstrate your critical thinking skills.
This will help to prepare you for the workplace environment, building rapport with colleagues and working independently.
You will develop as a confident writer, researcher and presenter with a critical and creative approach towards your work.
You may wish to explore a career in teaching or other organisations engaged with training, support and learning.
The Keele University Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Education and English degree.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) Education with Foundation Year (UCAS code X3L3) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/educationandsociology:
Would you like to make a meaningful difference in the world, shaping lives and communities?
This Education and Sociology BA explores the relationship between education and society, focusing on issues such as inequality and the role of education in our digital world.
You’ll benefit from work placements, real-world projects,  international study options and gain key employability skills to pursue inspiring careers working with young people, community organisations, in policy making, teaching and beyond.
How does education shape society, and how do social issues impact learning?
Our Education and Sociology degree explores the relationship between both disciplines, equipping you with the knowledge and transferable skills to tackle real-world challenges and pursue a meaningful career across a range of sectors.
Discover how education drives social and political change by examining the impact of educational policies on our system, and how we can learn from history to tackle some of today’s challenges.
You'll examine social divisions and inequalities across cultures, developing practical research skills in quantitative surveys, qualitative interviews, and ethnographic studies to understand how social scientists use data in real-world contexts.
Apply your sociological imagination to make sense of today's rapidly changing world.
This might mean rethinking how classical theories apply to digital societies, designing classroom interventions to support children from marginalised communities, or exploring how education can challenge social inequalities.
Optional modules allow you to tailor your degree to your interests, with themes including social order and deviance, social design, critical issues in higher education, and ideas of home and belonging.
Through real-world projects, work placements, community-based learning, and study abroad opportunities, you'll gain critical thinking, communication, and research skills.
You will graduate with in-demand skills and expertise, ready to apply your creativity and analytical thinking across a range of careers – from education and social policy to community work and beyond.
Education: Past and Present This module will introduce you to the history of education and how it has developed since Victorian times.
By exploring the educational experiences of people from different periods of time, including undertaking an interview of someone from a different generation, you will be able to see how we can learn from the past to potentially solve the issues of today as well as reflecting on your own experiences of schooling.
Society, People and Place: Global Issues and Local Realities This module explores the theories and methods used by sociologists for analysing culture and society.
You will learn how global and local processes interact through a consideration of North Staffordshire, which becomes the backdrop for thinking about contemporary social concerns such as the housing crisis, generational conflict, and the effects of deindustrialisation.
Beyond examining local expressions of wider global problems, we also speak to people working in frontline community organisations to learn how culture and community can deliver ethical change.
This module encourages you to reflect on how the world will change in your lifetime and encourages you to design educational solutions to some the problems that will emerge.
Working with a supervisor, projects can be on an educational topic (broadly defined) and will include a review of literature in your chosen field, a discussion of methods involved in your data collection and analysis, as well as a write up of your findings.
Gender, Sexuality, and Power This module explores the cultural construction of gender and sexuality norms.
Work Placement for Social Sciences Final Year Students This module gives students studying subjects in the School of Social Sciences the opportunity to contribute to the world beyond the University, in any workplace where the specialist knowledge, research, analytical, and communication skills developed as part of your Social Science degree can be used and can make a difference.
On this course, you will have the opportunity to opt for a Work Placement Year in either subject between Year 2 and 3.
Choosing this optional opportunity between 2nd and 3rd year can help in your employment search to stand out from the crowd and broaden your horizons, potentially working across the globe.
"I chose to study a combined honours degree in Education and English Literature which broadened my subject expertise and demonstrated how two distinct fields can merge and inform each other.
The teaching and classes were genuinely enjoyable, and they were delivered by a team of knowledgeable and engaging lecturers.
My study of Education at Keele was a fantastic experience."
Education and Sociology will provide a sound understanding of sociological theories and the educational environment, preparing you for a career of your choice, across various fields.
You will develop key skills in problem-solving, data analysis and information handling to make informed decisions in the workplace and demonstrate your expertise.
Having transferable skills including good communication, will help you to engage well with students and fellow professionals.
Your understanding and knowledge of society will help you to adapt to various environments and demonstrate your skills in the workplace.
You may choose to pursue a career in:
If you are considering a career in Secondary School teaching, you will be required to have a good knowledge of the subject you would like to teach.
Studying an Education Combined Honours programme is a great option to help prepare you for your career and meet this requirement.
Alternatively, if you are considering a career in Primary School teaching, the Education Single Honours programme is a great option to help prepare you for your career in the Primary Sector.
The Keele Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Education and Sociology degree.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/english:
Develop your skills as a writer, creative thinker and analyst of language, both literary and everyday.
Delve into a diverse range of literary works from various cultures and historical periods, and discover how better to understand the world that surrounds us.
Our English BA enables you to build advanced skills applicable to a huge variety of careers and take advantage of the placement opportunities embedded throughout the programme to prepare for your chosen career, benefiting from hands-on insights, work experience with skilled practitioners and collaboration with your peers.
And specialise as you advance through the degree, focusing more on authors, periods, genres, and approaches that appeal to you.
With our English degree at Keele you will engage your imagination with texts from near and far and from the past and present, and develop your understanding of the cultures that they are part of and the ways that they reflect, generate or contradict the ideas of their time.
This programme ranges from the classics of literature to contemporary writing such as graphic novels and Young Adult and Children’s Fiction: you’ll get the chance to study poetry, drama and fiction from the Medieval period right up to the present day.
You’ll become a skilled critic of literature and build key skills in communication, creativity and critical thinking.
You’ll be shown how to develop well-evidenced and reasoned arguments that will culminate in your final-year ‘English Project’ where, with the support of an academic supervisor, you will either complete an extended piece of research or create your very own scholarly edition of a text of your choosing.
Benefit too from Keele’s vibrant Creative Writing culture: you can work on your own creative writing skills if you want to, and regularly hear published poets and novelists reading their work in our lively Keele Hall Readings series.
Just as we encourage you to make the most of your time at Keele, we also prepare you for life after university, and even help you kick-start your own career.
You’ll also have the opportunity to study abroad with a partner university, to learn a modern language , or to gain a recognised TESOL qualification , through our Global Challenges Pathway, which will help you to develop global perspectives and build your awareness and experience of other cultures and practices.
Please note: You must choose either ‘Pathways with English: Developing Your Profile’ or ‘Professional Experience with English (Year 2)'.
Brave New Worlds?
Science Fiction and Fantasy Building on your understanding of genre fiction, ‘popular’ literature, and questions of value developed in year 1, on 'Brave New Worlds?' you'll examine the connections between two types of 'speculative fiction': sci-fi and fantasy.
As you explore how their strange fictional worlds critique the real world, you'll think further about the relationship between ‘popular’ genres and the literary establishment, consolidating your skills in independent critical analysis.
Why are such genres still often not regarded as ‘serious’ literature?
Is this justifiable?
Local Literature in Action As you are introduced to place-writing skills, you will reflect on what writing can do in the world.
You will be supported to create vivid settings that are close to home (Stoke or elsewhere).
As you think about form, genre, and voice, you will explore writing’s capacity to shape and re-shape people’s lived experiences of cities, towns and regions, and explore the concept of regional and/or global Englishes.
You will receive practical training in working with communities outside the University.
You’ll explore key screenwriting concepts in practical, writing-based seminars, as well as analysing a range of film and TV industry texts.
You’ll then produce a number of screenplay samples which respond to the theme of the seminars, receiving feedback in regular writing workshops.
You’ll go on to develop your own creative project plan, which provides an invaluable basis for any project work in your final year.
Please note: You must take either 'Employing English: Putting Your Subject into Practice’ or ‘Professional Experience with English (Year 3)’
Angels and Demons: Conflict and Rebellion in Seventeenth-Century Literature In 'Angels and Demons' you will focus on one of the most turbulent periods in English history.
In the mid-1600s, civil war turned the country upside down, and writers turned to the supernatural to explain their experiences of conflict, as well as to justify or condemn rebellion.
Through studying a range of printed matter – including epic supernatural tales, ghost narratives, and religious prophecies – you will enhance your ability to scrutinise the ways in which imaginative writing shaped political debate.
Mean Streets: The Detective and the American City As you explore the relationship between literary detectives and the city since the early nineteenth century, you will extend the understanding of genre that you established in the first and second year of your degree.
Through literature, painting, and film, you will examine how literary detectives reflect anxieties about cultural and political changes in urban worlds, and will consider whether, in their quest to reconstruct plots and deliver explanations, detectives might function as avatars of readers and writers.
Into the Matrix: Postmodernism in Fiction, Film and Theory On 'Into the Matrix', you'll explore postmodernism: a cultural and literary movement characterised by scepticism towards authority and an emphasis on irony, playfulness, and fragmentation.
You’ll examine its implications for notions of history, identity, sexuality, politics, and consumer society, considering how techniques like intertextuality and unreliable narration challenge traditional structures and conventions.
You'll assess the influence of these ideas on authors and film directors and study the main themes and techniques in postmodern fiction and film.
Then you look for other voices.
Literature and the Lived Experience of Ageing, 1908-2018 How is the experience of ‘older age’ represented in the literature of the twentieth and twenty first centuries, among men, women, families, people who migrated to Britain from different continents, and people who live on those continents?
Is dementia an inevitable feature of ageing?
What is it like to live with dementia?
We will answer these questions by studying novels, memoirs, films, and policy/critical texts that have shaped a pressing experience of our times.
You’ll be supported to reflect on the relations between theory and practice.
You’ll also read published examples of creative texts (poetry, prose, creative nonfiction) by English-language and bi-/multi-lingual writers from the UK and elsewhere, to help you develop your writing and situate it within broader literary landscapes.
The American South: US Summer School Study Southern US culture on location!
"In my third year, I completed my placement with Support Staffordshire, a local environmental charity, working as a Content Assistant.
I learnt how to research, create and upload content for their social media channels, alongside building on my soft skills such as communication, problem solving and adaptability.
This module has enlightened me to the type of career path I would like to work towards and has provided me with the skills, experience and knowledge I need in order to reach it."
Erin, English Literature
Opportunities to enhance your employability are at the heart of our English programme and you will have the chance to undertake a work placement as part of your degree through modules or an additional work placement year (optional).
We currently offer British Sign Language, Mandarin Chinese, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Russian and Spanish, as well as a TESOL qualification through our Global Challenges Pathway.
"Initially, I chose the Work Placement module because it enabled me to work on a project I’d been involved in, the Earth Stories Film Festival, and gain credits for my work.
Over the past year I have held the role of Assistant Director of the festival, and in completing the module it has helped me in the role far beyond how I envisaged it would.
The help and support of the staff have enabled me to appreciate that what I was doing was in fact ‘real world’ work and I have learnt to apply crucial workplace skills to the project."
Emily, English Literature
You will have an academic mentor and access to a member of staff from the Student Experience and Support team if you need any additional support, or someone to talk to, whether about your degree programme or life outside of your studies.
A degree in English prepares you for a broad range of careers because it gives you multiple skills that are transferable to all sorts of different workplaces.
You will be a confident writer, researcher and presenter with a critical and creative approach that will encourage you to share ideas in the workplace.
You will develop core skills that will enable you to work independently and in collaboration with colleagues to communicate effectively and demonstrate your attention to detail and problem-solving skills.
These are just a few of the professions that welcome English graduates:
"I chose to study the Humanities Work Placement module during the final year of my English Literature degree in the hopes of gaining experience working in a library or heritage setting.
While on placement, I was given the opportunity to engage with a variety of fascinating archival materials dating back to the 1200s, learning about the archiving process from acquisition to preservation and public access.
I also gained experience in community engagement, attending the theatre and public speaking events while working to produce an online blog.
The confidence that this experience has enabled me to develop has led to further success in obtaining a job as a Library Assistant since graduating."
Rebecca, English Literature
You will be taught by experienced academic staff from a range of backgrounds, with expertise in a number of research areas.
Learning and teaching methods used on the programme vary according to the subject matter and level of the module.
Almost all teaching is in person.
English teaching methods are predominantly focused on the communication and discussion of ideas, and aimed at fostering dialogue, debate, thoughtful reflection and the questioning of preconceptions (our own as well as other people’s).
Methods include:
English at Keele includes many different types of assessment, which are designed to allow you to demonstrate the multiple skills you’ll be acquiring: for example, to exercise your powers of reasoning, to research the different topics that interest you, and to communicate your conclusions in different ways to many different audiences.
Assessments may include:
This mix of assessments allows you to showcase your ability to write, present and think creatively.
You will be trained in, and then assessed on, all sorts of things that will be valuable in your future career: time management skills, for example, organisation and adaptability to different tasks, and digital design skills.
Keele Library has a wide selection of books, special collections and online databases accessible at Keele Library but also remotely, and we have access to Box of Broadcasts and film streaming services such as Kanopy too.
We also have dedicated spaces such as The David Bruce Centre and Creative Writing Room that can assist with your work and provide resources useful for your analysis and inspiration.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) English degree.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) English with Foundation Year (UCAS code Q3VA) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/englishandcreativewriting:
Study English and Creative Writing BA at Keele and you'll develop your critical skills and nurture your voice as a writer, through the exploration of literature and engagement in creative practice across several genres of writing.
You will build a wide range of skills that will prepare you for a variety of careers, with work placement opportunities providing insights into various industries.
Develop and refine your critical and creative practice through a study of contemporary and historic literature and the examination of texts as both a reader and a writer.
On our English and Creative Writing degree, you will analyse texts to understand the cultures they’re part of and how these reflect, generate, or contradict ideas of their time, and experiment with writing in different literary forms.
You will develop your ability to speak to a range of audiences via critical and creative texts, including poetry, fiction and screenwriting.
Throughout your degree you will build key skills in communication, creativity and critical thinking that help to build confidence, develop your analytical and communication skills and shape your writing style.
Your studies will culminate in your final-year ‘English Project’ and ‘Creative Writing Project’, where with the support of an academic member of staff with relevant expertise you will complete an extended piece of research, or plan and develop a creative writing project.
You can also regularly hear from professional writers at Keele Hall’s reading events.
There are opportunities to perform or publish your work at open mic events or in Keele's Creative Writing Anthology.
"I chose to undertake my work placement at Newcastle College, assisting with the GCSE English Language resit classes.
This module enabled me to try out a potential career path and evaluate whether it is well suited to me.
The experience was invaluable in helping me to secure two teaching abroad jobs this summer and will help vastly when I am choosing my postgraduate options.
This module is incredibly useful for exploring career pathways, developing transferable skills, and setting yourself apart in the workplace."
Maria, English Literature and Creative Writing
Through studying a wide range of texts, you'll develop essential skills for academic reading and writing.
Indicative texts might include: novels such as Wuthering Heights, Renaissance tragedy, short stories by Toni Morrison.
This module invites you to compare 'classic' texts  with adaptations that share their themes or challenge their values.
Indicative texts might include Hamlet, The Great Gatsby, The Color Purple.
Cultures in Conflict: Victorian to Contemporary World Literature This module expands your understanding of literature’s relation to history.
Please note: You can either choose 'English Project' or 'Creative Writing Portfolio' or the 'Extending Screenwriting Project'.
You can choose to complete two of these three options if one of the two is the 'English Project'.
You must also take 'Employing English: Putting Your Subject into Practice’ or ‘Professional Experience with English (Year 3)’.
"I chose the work placement module to complete alongside my English Literature degree as I felt as though it offered numerous benefits that would further enhance my academic experience and provide an insight into what my future could look like if I pursued this line of work.
I spent my time at a publishing house called Inspired Quill, where I was given the opportunity to learn about SEO, and curating and editing articles to increase the website rankings.
I would say that the most helpful aspect of my work experience was being given the space to write, edit, and publish my very own article onto the website.
This process taught me a lot about the real world of the publishing industry, and it is something I wouldn't have learned about without the help of this placement."
Mohini, English Literature and Creative Writing
Opportunities to enhance your employability are at the heart of our English and Creative Writing programme and you will have the chance to engage with work placements as part of your degree.
You also have the option to gain hands-on experience with a placement year in between years two and three of your degree programme and prepare for employment after university at greater lengths.
English and Creative Writing equips you with a wide range of skills and attributes that will be beneficial for various careers.
Throughout your degree programme, you will develop key transferable skills that you will apply to your career and develop further through employment.
You will be able to demonstrate that you are an effective communicator and are able to share your ideas and contributions within the workplace environment as well as adapt to new situations with an open-minded approach.
Previous English and Creative Writing students have gone on to a variety of careers, including:
Through your English and Creative Writing degree programme you will engage with various teaching methods including lectures, seminars, workshops and one-to-one supervision sessions.
Taking part in smaller group sessions encourages you to discuss themes, books, readings and ideas with academics and your peers.
This allows you to develop your skills working with others and contribute to activities as well as completing individual research.
English and Creative Writing teaching methods are predominantly focused on the communication and discussion of ideas, and aimed at fostering dialogue, debate, thoughtful reflection and the questioning of preconceptions (our own as well as other people’s).
Your learning will be demonstrated through an array of methods including:
With a wide selection of books, special collections and online databases accessible at Keele Library as well as remotely, you will be equipped to delve deep into readings and research for your degree programme.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) English and Creative Writing degree.
Students should apply for for BA (Hons) English and Creative Writing with Foundation Year ( UCAS code: Q3W9) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/englishandfilmstudies:
Explore the craft of storytelling across page and screen on our English and Film Studies BA.
Discover stories about people’s lives, gain new perspectives on the world and express your creativity through writing, literary analysis and the art of film and filmmaking.
With professional placements and study abroad opportunities this programme will prepare you for careers in the literary, film or media industries, and related fields such as education, publishing, and beyond.
Spark your creativity with our English and Film Studies degree.
This is an exciting combination that engages your imagination, allowing you to explore both subjects deeply and expand your creative horizons.
You will discover diverse texts from around the world, spanning genres and historical periods, hone your creative writing skills, master film analysis techniques, and gain hands-on filmmaking experience.
You will examine how the books, films, and media you study reflect and challenge the cultures and ideas of their time, develop critical interpretation skills and gain the confidence to communicate complex ideas and present well-reasoned opinions.
Enhance your appreciation of literature by studying literary works from the Medieval period through to the present day, including English and American literature, children’s and young adult fiction, and literature on film and in graphic novels.
You’ll encounter different literary styles and genres, such as realism, modernism, postmodernism and postcolonial.
Film is studied within a global context, examining its cultural, political and economic aspects.
You will examine the different techniques employed by filmmakers, both historically and in today’s film and TV industries, consider the ethics around artificial intelligence, and gain practical experience with digital camera work and post-production.
Align your studies with your interests through optional modules, including analysing film as an art form, scriptwriting, and documentary films, as well as writing for children, science fiction, and fantasy.
You can also explore southern U.S.
culture on location during a four-week summer school.
Boost your employability through engaging with placements, projects and activities outside of the classroom.
These opportunities offer valuable professional experience, and through our connections with external partners in the screen industries, you'll learn directly from industry professionals and gain hands-on experience in screen media.
Filmmaking Fundamentals This first-year practice-centred module provides you with the foundational technical knowledge and theoretical tools for approaching creative filmmaking work, and an understanding of the ethics of creative work in contemporary AI contexts.
Whether your interests lie in film direction, cinematography or editing, you’ll develop skills in these varied areas of practice, building experience of digital camera-work and post-production tools.
The final short film output will demonstrate your acquired technical skills and your creative application of theory and practice.
Sights and Sounds: Analysing Film This springboard module provides you with essential tools for analysing and discussing film as a vital art form.
Looking at films from diverse contexts, you will develop the critical and creative methods needed for your studies, alongside an understanding of film authorship in today’s technological contexts.
Producing a visual- or video essay, you’ll display your acquired knowledge and skills, focusing potentially on film style and history, film genre, or critical ideas around the representation of race, class, gender or sexuality.
Classic Literature and Its Adaptations What makes a work of literature 'classic'?
History in Media and Film: The Presentation of the Past in Contemporary Culture In this module you will encounter how the past is presented in a number of disciplines, including contemporary film and media.
Through considering 'public history', you will examine visual culture representations of the past as central to collective memory, constructions of identity, and contemporary politics.
Voices and Audiences: Building Your Professional Communication Skills This module will introduce you to the key dramatic principles required to write scripts for stage and screen.
Please note: You must choose one of the two professional development modules in semester 2, either ‘Voices and Audiences: Building Your Professional Communication Skills’ or ‘Becoming a Cultural Citizen’.
The Power of Cinematic Representation This module explores issues of representation, inequality and activism in global film culture.
You’ll build on your knowledge from the first year, critically assessing theories of cinematic representation around aspects of identity including gender, sexuality, race and ethnicity.
Through an array of both mainstream and experimental films, you’ll extend your understanding of film form, spectatorship and industry, as well as cinema’s capacity to engage with society and culture, exploring issues such as poverty, migration, transgender rights, and the environment.
Documentary Film Building on the practical skills and critical filmmaking knowledge acquired in first year, this module introduces you to the exciting specialist field of documentary filmmaking.
Drawing on a range of film examples, theories and practical methods, you will explore the varied creative ways in which real-life experiences can be transformed into powerful and engaging stories on the screen.
Guided by expert tutors, working in small teams, you will take charge of your own documentary film project and acquire the skills to conceptualise and produce a short documentary film from start to finish.
Radical Writing: From Modernity to Counterculture Radical Writing looks at twentieth-century experimental writing, from Modernism's rallying call of 'Make it New!' to the mid and late twentieth century’s experiments with poetry, narrative forms, film, and revolutionary counter-politics.
Global Cinemas: Beyond Hollywood Global Cinemas expands the focus of your work and knowledge up to this point, looking towards an increasingly diverse horizon of filmmaking traditions and theories.
The module identifies key movements and figures in international filmmaking, looking also at the role of film festivals, exhibition and streaming services in promoting contemporary cinemas.
Encouraging you to draw critically on your own viewing of film, the module provides an invaluable platform for the longer research project you might undertake in your final year.
Please note: You must choose one of the two professional development modules in semester 2, either ‘Pathways with English: Developing Your Profile’ or ‘Professional Experience with English (Year 2)’.
Extended Research Project in Film Studies Your Extended Research Project is the chance to explore in depth a subject of your choosing, specialising in interests built up over previous years of study.
With the guidance of a supervisor, you’ll hone your skills in independently seeking out, analysing and making use of film- and critical texts.
The form of your project will be matched to your strengths and interests – potentially, a dissertation, a video essay or potentially a blog – showcasing your creativity, knowledge-base, and professional skills.
Shakespeare on Film How have the works of Shakespeare been adapted by the film industry in the modern era, and what motivations lie behind the creative decisions made by screenwriters and directors?
In this module, you will explore a range of Shakespeare plays on film, and develop your understanding both of the original works and the possibilities they offer for reinterpretation and adaptation.
You will also have the chance to practise film adaptation for yourself, engaging practically with cutting and modernising Shakespeare’s text for the screen.
In the Matrix: Postmodernism in Fiction, Film and Theory In this module you will explore ideas around postmodernism, a cultural phenomenon developed in the second half of the twentieth century.
The module develops work introduced in your second year and encourages a critical assessment of the implications of postmodern thinking for contemporary notions of history, identity, sexuality, politics and consumer society.
You will assess the influence of these ideas on writers and directors and study the main themes and techniques in selected postmodern fiction and film.
Science Fiction Cinema This module takes a consolidated and interdisciplinary approach to this exciting area of film, building on your prior work in film, combined with an in-depth analysis of the cultural and political contexts informing science fiction’s development.
You will produce a case study focusing on an area of science fiction specific to your developed interests and skills: such as an analysis of representation in the genre, a history of its technologies and styles, or a study of science fiction’s special effects.
Britain on Film: Trends, Theories, Debates This final-year module provides you with the critical frameworks for understanding the histories and current state of British filmmaking, both as part of Britain’s creative industries and a vital means of expression and representation.
Alongside the study of key movements and styles, you’ll develop your own research project on a subject of your choice.
Your key outputs – potentially a film pitch, film history, or video essay – will display your understanding of the forces shaping British film, both then and now.
Youth and Film: Growing Up on Screen From infancy to adolescence, to the cusp of adulthood, growing up remains a powerful cinematic subject.
Youth and Film allows you to explore this topic from a range of disciplinary perspectives – from the analysis of genre, to aspects of film style, to developmental psychology – encouraging you to take an independent and intensive approach.
Your final output will demonstrate your understanding of youth on film as a distinctive aspect of global cinema, highlighting your awareness of the form’s narratives and styles.
The Apocalypse will be Televised: Extinction on film since 1945 Since 1945, we have been fascinated and horrified by the threat of our own extinction, whether real or imaginary.
And since the moment of the first nuclear bomb, those fears have been captured on film.
In this module, we will focus on film as historical source to guide us through the debates and complexities of environmental crises, extinction panics, and cold war fears that have defined recent history, and their relationship to the real crises of our times.
Professional Experience in English (Year 3) In your final year we offer you another opportunity to complete a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of clients), or work as part of a team to deliver a successful festival or event.
Please note: You must choose at least one of the year-long Project modules but can opt to do two if you wish.
These are: ‘English Project’, ‘Extended Research Project in Film Studies’, and ‘Extended Screenwriting Project’.
You must choose one of the two professional development modules in semester 2, either ‘Professional Experience in English (Year 3)’ or ‘Employing English: Putting Your Subject into Practice’.
Opportunities to enhance your employability are at the heart of our English and Film Studies programme and you will have the chance to undertake a work placement as part of your degree through modules or an additional work placement year (optional).
Discover languages at Keele whether you are a complete beginner or already have a foundation of knowledge, we offer a flexible and guided route to developing your skills.
Our multi-layered support structure is there to ensure you feel supported throughout every stage of your studies.
At the start of the programme you will be allocated an academic mentor who will be your first point of contact for any issues relating to your academic progress.
You will also have access to Keele’s Student Experience and Support team should you need any additional support or someone to talk to, whether about your degree programme or life outside of your studies.
English and Film Studies BA will equip you with a versatile and creative skillset, preparing you for a bright future working in the creative industries or related fields.
Among the skills in your creative portfolio will be analytical and critical skills in reading and reviewing text, a broad cinematic and literary knowledge base, and the ability to work independently and collaboratively.
You’ll also be adept with digital platforms, have excellent communication skills and be able to confidently engage with subject- specific debates and gather evidence in support of arguments.
Our English and Film Studies programme is taught by experienced academic staff with expertise in diverse research areas and who come from different backgrounds.
You will engage with various teaching methods which may include:
We use a wide variety of assessment methods which reflect the diverse range of knowledge and skills you’ll gain on this English and Film Studies programme.
Explore our specialised film editing suite, accessible for students taking practical modules.
The facilities are open for you to implement and challenge your practical skills alongside your theoretical learning.
You will have access to our photographic studio, screening rooms, and Apple Macintosh labs.
This will help to develop your editing skills further and enhance your employability prospects having used specialist equipment.
The Keele Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) English and Film Studies degree.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) English with Foundation Year ( UCAS code: Q3VA) through UCAS at www.ucas.com.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/englishandhistory:
Our English and History BA brings together two core disciplines, exploring the richness of historical events, diverse cultures, and landmark literature to connect the past and present.
Investigate how the formal characteristics of literature develop over time and build connections between major events in global history.
This degree will develop your powers of analysis, research and critical thinking, preparing you to embark on an exciting career across a wide range of sectors such as education, media, government and policy.
Combine the study of two core disciplines on our English and History degree to examine the connections between key historical events and literature through time.
The study of English will enable you to undertake rigorous and critical investigation of literature from the English-speaking world, whilst History explores societies from around the world, from the medieval period to the present day.
Through studying both subjects, you will build an understanding of the connections between English and History with an appreciation of literature and the relevance of History to the world we live in today.
Studying English encourages you to engage imaginatively with texts to understand the world from various perspectives.
You will consider how texts function within different cultures, developing your own ideas and opinions in becoming a critic.
Having a thorough interpretation of existing texts will enhance your appreciation of literature and build your skills in academic reading and writing.
Explore how understandings of the past continue to shape the present, and you will learn how to apply History to address urgent issues facing the world today.
Debate 'defining moments' in the last 1000 years and how these have shaped society.
In a global framework, you will explore economic, political, social and cultural approaches to History and grapple with a wide range of themes including war cultures, mobility, gender, religion and revolution.
Learn how to deploy rigorous, reasoned and well-evidenced arguments.
Express complex ideas, and develop skills that allow you to communicate effectively and persuasively to a variety of audiences about the topics, news and issues that are aligned to your interests and career prospects.
Your academic studies will be complemented and enhanced through optional modules that allow you to explore professional development opportunities, gaining experience across English and/or History in preparation for employment.
Power, Belief and Identity: The Medieval and Early Modern Worlds, 500-1789 In this module you will explore key developments in global societies and the interactions between them in the medieval and early modern world.
The value of different approaches to the past is a core part of this module, so you will encounter social, political, religious, economic, and cultural History.
You will develop skills in academic reading, learn to communicate to varied audiences, and begin to explore pre-modern primary source material, which will prepare you for later years of your degree.
Students must take either ‘Voices and Audiences: Building Your Professional Communication Skills’ or ‘Applied History: What’s Past is Present’.
Reformation and Revolution: Creating Britain and America How were Britain and America created?
How does the past shape the political and cultural world we now live in?
Consolidating the historical skills you began to develop in your first year, you will learn how modern Britain and America were formed, and explore historic reactions to the process of their creation.
While studying this module you will enhance your critical thinking, begin to develop independent research skills, and move towards becoming a practising historian.
Professional Experience with History (Year 2) This module offers you the chance to contribute to the world outside the university through completing a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of projects for different clients), or working as a team to deliver a successful festival or event.
Students must take ONE of the FOUR available professional development modules: 'Professional Experience with English (Year 2)', 'Pathways with English', 'Professional Experience with History (Year 2)' or 'Applied History: Working with the Past'.
The Twisted Road to Hitler The module will explore key themes in German history before the Third Reich.
You will gain a new perspective on the topic, moving away from the usual emphasis on fascism in the interwar period.
We will focus on several areas that preoccupied Germans at the time, including mental health, sexual politics, urban sprawl, racial hygiene, and national belonging.
Based on your previous studies you will further develop skills in analysing visual and written documents and communicating to broad audiences.
Christians, Muslims and Crusaders, 1094-1204 The Crusades were an important phenomenon of the Middle Ages and reveal aspects of cultural relations, popular spirituality, techniques of war and attitudes to violence.
In this module you will explore the origins of the crusades, the campaigns in the Middle East between 1095-1204, and the experiences and motivations of crusaders and settlers.
You will consider the interaction between Christians and Muslims beyond war, analysing translated primary sources and critically comparing different viewpoints on the same issues.
Social History of Medicine, 1710-1860 This final-year module debates the social history of medicine in England.
Through examining different types of patient, practitioner, illness and medical institutions in depth, you will analyse the evolving relationships between doctors and their clients as the practice of medicine developed from the early-eighteenth to the mid-nineteenth centuries.
You will apply specialist historical knowledge and advanced research skills to communicate history via different media.
Gender and Sexuality in Britain since 1700 This module explores the history of sexuality and gender in Britain from the Enlightenment to contemporary debates over LGBTQ+ rights and trans inclusion.
Using a rich variety of source material from texts to paintings, films and online resources you will be encouraged to view Britain in its wider imperial, European and global context by engaging with intersecting issues of class, race and culture.
In the Matrix: Postmodernism in Fiction, Film and Theory On 'In the Matrix', you'll explore postmodernism: a cultural and literary movement characterised by scepticism towards authority and an emphasis on irony, playfulness, and fragmentation.
The Apocalypse will be Televised: Extinction on Film since 1945 Since 1945, we have been fascinated and horrified by the threat of our own extinction, whether real or imaginary.
The 'Information Revolution' in the Early Modern World Information was created and circulated in increasingly diverse ways in the early modern world, through printed newspapers, in coffee-house conversations, and in letters, education, and ballads.
The ‘information revolution’ revolutionised the exchange of information, but what did this mean for society?
Through exploring and comparing different methods of information exchange you will form your own answer to this complex question, while consolidating your skills in independent historical research, critical analysis, and communication to broad audiences.
Final Year History Project Through this final-year independent research project you will showcase the skills that you have developed over the three years of your degree, and consolidate the type of Historian you have become.
Students MUST choose at least ONE of ‘Final Year History Project’ AND/OR ‘English Project’.
You may choose both.
Students MUST take ONE of the FOUR available professional development modules: ‘Professional Experience in English (Year 3)’, ‘Employing English: Putting Your Subject into Practice’, ‘Professional Experience with History (Year 3)’ or ‘Applied History: Looking to the Future’.
Opportunities to enhance your employability are at the heart of our English and History BA and you will have the chance to undertake a work placement as part of your degree through modules or an additional work placement year (optional).
With a degree in English and History, you will have the chance to showcase your originality with subject-specific knowledge and transferable skills in communication, analytical thinking and story-telling.
You will become a confident writer, researcher and presenter, all of which are valuable skills in the workplace.
You may wish to pursue a career in:
Benefit from diverse teaching methods delivered by experienced academic staff with expertise across a number of research areas.
Our programme teaching styles include:
Throughout the programme, you will conduct your own independent study and engage with digital learning to enhance your experience with access to the Keele Learning Environment (KLE), making use of a wide range of resources and research tools.
Interdisciplinary study in English and History is an exciting chance to showcase your originality.
Our different assessment methods allow you to demonstrate the subject knowledge and skills gained throughout the course of the programme.
You’ll have opportunities to produce innovative assessments that develop skills that employers seek – critical thinking, creativity, independence, and working effectively with others.
You will have the opportunity to write creatively and produce coursework that highlights your ability to communicate your ideas about history and literature to different audiences.
Your final-year project work in particular allows you to complete a project that you're passionate about, bringing your expertise in these two areas together.
Your programme will include:
You will also have the opportunity to engage with creative assessments including podcasts to record a presentation on a chosen subject in response to a set theme, blog posts to practice your writing for various audiences and portfolios to reflect constructively on your development and learning.
The Keele Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) English and History degree.
Combined Honours students will need to apply for BA (Hons) English with Foundation Year ( UCAS code: Q3VA) through UCAS at www.ucas.com.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/englishandphilosophy:
English and Philosophy BA at Keele is an exciting programme for those passionate about human thought, creativity, and expression.
You’ll explore literary texts and works of philosophy, while developing critical thinking, communication, and analytical skills.
Placement opportunities through the programme allow you to apply your skills in professional environments, preparing you for a range of careers in publishing, media, education, and beyond.
Our English and Philosophy degree is a dynamic, interdisciplinary programme designed for students who are passionate about exploring the depths of human thought, creativity, and expression.
Throughout the course, you will study a wide range of literary texts from the Medieval to the modern period, and have the chance to explore areas such as American literature, children’s literature, film adaptation, and creative writing.
You will also learn about different philosophical traditions past and present, including Anglo-American, Indian, Greek, and German philosophy, while engaging with the fundamental questions of existence, ethics, and meaning.
Work alongside an academic team who are experts in their fields, and hear talks and readings from a variety of published novelists, poets, and thinkers, through the Keele Hall Readings series, the Royal Institute of Philosophy and the ‘Jean-Jacques Rousseau’ Annual Lecture and Conference.
At Keele, you will have the opportunity to engage in projects and placements, combining your degree with practical experience to apply your learning to real-world scenarios and kick-start your career.
Through module selection, you can tailor your degree to your future aspirations and even study abroad at a partner university, gaining global perspectives, learning a foreign language, and building cultural awareness.
Philosophy as Reason and Wonder This module opens your mind to philosophical questioning and gives you a logical toolbox to answer your new questions.
You'll delve into core metaphysical and epistemological issues.
Formal logical skills will be introduced, enhancing your academic and professional abilities.
Additionally, you'll attend a Royal Institute of Philosophy session and report on it, offering an experiential learning opportunity that showcases philosophical debate in action.
What does it mean to be good?
You will be introduced to the ethical, practical concerns of philosophy, centring on the ancient question “how should we live?” Religious belief and doubt usually had a role in these reflections, so this module makes an excellent link from Religious Studies, which you may have engaged in prior to university.
You will have the opportunity to think philosophically in religious spaces through field trips and site visits.
Assessed debates, as well as assessed PowerPoint presentations, will develop your transferable skills.
Ancient Global Wisdom Ancient philosophy with a twist, for although Greek philosophy is discussed in depth, ideas from traditional Indian, Chinese and African philosophy are given prominence too.
By seeing how similar philosophical concerns arose, you will come to a better understanding of how the past has shaped our thinking.
You will write dialogues and empathetic monologues, in the spirit of ancient philosophy.
For an unforgettable Experiential Learning, you will have an opportunity to perform these in the perfect setting: The Keele Amphitheatre.
Nietzsche’s Death of God Few philosophers hold more fascination to the beginning student of philosophy than Friedrich Nietzsche, the prophetic and iconoclastic 19th century philosopher who predicted a coming age of nihilism, which many think has now arrived; Nietzsche’s final lapse of sanity is often connected to his uncompromising path of thought.
The excitement of reading Nietzsche provides a perfect introduction to close textual reading and analysis, which will prove useful as the degree progresses, and which is another of philosophy’s key transferrable skills.
Revolutions in Thought: Medieval Pioneers to Romantic Rebels How can we mobilise our sociological imagination to understand the complexities and challenges of the modern world and our place within it?
Enlightenment Philosophy It is impossible to properly understand the rise of modern science and decline in the cultural influence of religion in Europe without understanding the rise of modern philosophy, and thus the great metaphysical and epistemological theories of Descartes, Spinoza, Leibniz, Locke, Berkeley, Hume and Kant.
A module such as this is essential to any serious study of philosophy.
Transferable skills are developed through close textual reading and analysis, and through assessed group, which develop presentation and teamwork skills
Cultures in Conflict: Victorian to Contemporary World Literature In the face of challenges from above, below and within, democracy around the world is under threat.
From challenges posed by populism and autocratic leadership, to increasing political mistrust and declining levels of participation set against a backdrop of the threat posed by AI and misinformation, global democracies face numerous different threats.
You will develop your data handling and analysis skills, exploring whether global democracy is resilient or in retreat and complete diverse assessments designed for an external audience.
Meaning and Nihilism A module on our existential condition as mortal human beings: whether there is a meaning of life, or whether nihilists are right that there is not.
For some, nihilism is a source of liberation – ‘Sunny Nihilism’ is a popular online movement – while the traditional view is that it is a source of despair.
In studying this fascinating and personally engaging topic, students will gain sought-after skills in presenting and advocating, e.g., by preparing speeches and drawing up debate maps.
Pathways with English: Developing your Profile This module broadens your knowledge of the variety of career pathways open to you, enabling you to identify, analyse, and showcase your degree skills and experiences effectively.
Social Sciences at Work This module begins to introduce you to possible careers for social scientists and links to the work you are doing in your subject core and option modules asking the question ‘how can we mobilise academic study into the real world?’ You will also be encouraged to prepare for placement work that you may pursue and reflect on your social media footprint; developing your personal/professional brand and digital networking platforms.
Students must take ONE of the available professional development modules: 'Professional Experience in English (Year 2)', 'Pathways in English', 'Social Sciences at Work'.
EITHER Dissertation in Philosophy The dissertation module allows you to undertake independent study on a philosophical subject of your choice.
You’ll receive individual guidance from a staff member to develop expertise, culminating in an 8,000-word dissertation.
In Semester 1, you’ll have the opportunity to present your abstract at a Royal Institute of Philosophy lecture to an external academic.
You will then present your thesis at the Philosophy Student Showcase in Semester 2, honing key skills in initiative, determination, and self-criticism.
OR English Project In your final-year independent research project you will showcase the skills that you have developed over the three years of your degree.
Religion and Metaphysics Mysticism and spirituality are of increasing importance to people in our technological, output-driven age, but few understand their roots in Neoplatonism, Sufism, the Kabbalah and other strands of ‘Perennial Philosophy’.
Against the background of a rational philosophical tradition, today’s trends of mysticism can be critically assessed and improved, leading to clear practical applications.
You will gain valuable skills for researching and reporting from close textual analysis and the need to collate information from a variety of difficult texts.
Evaluating Science with Philosophy The philosophy of science is a central area of contemporary philosophy, as it should be in a world dominated by scientific understanding.
However, not all attitudes to science are rational, with scientism generally regarded as an inappropriate, uncritical, almost religious trust in science.
This module develops transferrable skills with an innovative video-making project for one of its assessments, showcasing how to channel your perspectives into engaging, audience-focused and interactive content.
Practical Philosophy In this module, you will explore the practical application of philosophy through philosophical counselling or other practical approaches to philosophy.
You'll learn how philosophical thinking can improve your life, in a manner similar to psychotherapy, for example.
Assessments include practical tasks like role-playing exercises, developing transferable skills such as empathetic understanding.
Additionally, the module offers a toolkit to enhance your mental health, benefiting you both during and after your studies.
Enhancing the creative and collaborative skills you developed in your second year, this final-year module will develop your ability to work effectively with clients from a variety of settings, such as charities, publishers, museums, and will enhance your confidence in presenting your work to your chosen employer-client Professional Experience with English (Year 3) In your final year we offer you another opportunity to complete a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of clients), or work as part of a team to deliver a successful festival or event.
Work Placement for Final Year Social Sciences This module is designed to give you the opportunity to contribute to the world beyond the university.
The chosen workplace may be, for example, with the local borough council, other government-related institutions, as well as other UK-based public or private sectors (e.g., businesses, risk analysis, PR, Journalism, charity, radio).
While on the placement, you will produce a portfolio that you can draw on in future applications and interviews, reflecting on and giving evidence of the activities/outputs completed at your chosen workplace.
The American South: US Summer School (Level 6) Study Southern US culture on location!
Students must do a final year independent research project, and so must take EITHER 'Dissertation in Philosophy' OR 'English Project'.
Students MUST take ONE of the available professional development modules: 'Professional Experience in English (Year 3)', 'Employing English: Putting Your Subject into Practice', 'Engaged Social Science', 'Work Placement for Social Sciences'.
You will have the opportunity to apply for a Work Placement Year to gain valuable real-world experience as part of your degree.
Learn more.
To help you meet your academic and personal needs, we offer a multi-layered student support structure.
A degree in English and Philosophy will prepare you for a broad range of careers, with transferable skills that will enhance your professional prospects.
You will become a confident writer, researcher and presenter with a critical and creative approach that will encourage you to share ideas in the workplace.
Upon graduation, you may wish to explore one of the following areas:
English and Philosophy at Keele includes many different types of assessment, which are designed to allow you to demonstrate the many skills you’ll be acquiring.
The Keele Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) English and Philosophy degree.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) English with Foundation Year ( UCAS code: Q3VA) through UCAS at www.ucas.com.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/environmentalscience:
What actions can you take to create positive environmental change?
What can be done to address problems such as climate change?
Find the answers on our Environmental Science BSc.
You’ll deepen your scientific knowledge, gain awareness of social, economic and ethical issues, and develop practical skills through fieldwork, laboratory activities and work placements.
This comprehensive approach will prepare you to become a highly employable environmental scientist, in a variety of careers.
From global warming to loss of biodiversity, our planet is facing massive environmental threats.
What measures can we take to counteract the ongoing damage caused by human activities?
Enhance your understanding of our fragile natural environment with our Environmental Science degree, equipping you to tackle these challenges and contribute to a healthier planet for all.
The programme has been designed to provide you with a solid foundation in environmental science in your first year, preparing you for advanced study in years two and three.
You will study themes such as environmental change, human environmental impacts, Geographical Information Systems, environmental impact assessment and sustainability, environmental ethics, and sustainability practices.
As an interdisciplinary subject, environmental science draws on subjects including biology, chemistry, geology and ecology, helping you to analyse environmental systems and confront ecological challenges.
Employability is embedded into our curriculum, and we place a strong emphasis on developing your practical skills through fieldwork, collaborative projects and real-world problem-solving.
You will gain hands-on practical skills using equipment, samples and digital resources in our state-of-the-art Central Science Labs and master different fieldwork skills through various residential and one day field courses.
Our programme offers study abroad and work placement options and you will benefit from our strong links with industry.
These experiences allow you to apply your knowledge in real-world settings and learn from industry experts.
In your final year, you’ll have the chance to earn a Field Identification Skills Certificate (FISC) , highly regarded by employers.
Keele is a leader in sustainability education , and our campus serves as a ‘living laboratory,’ with 600 acres of natural environments for fieldwork.
From our lake system and extensive woodlands, to the mining and industrial heritage of the local area, we offer opportunities to study in an authentic environment while practicing sustainability, preparing you to thrive in your future career.
You’ll practice key research and fieldwork skills sample collection and preservation, soil assessment, environmental survey design and plant and invertebrate identification.
This programme is accredited by the Institution of Environmental Sciences (IES) and The Institute of Sustainability and Environmental Professionals (ISEP).
These accreditations mean you will graduate with the right knowledge, skills and tools to deliver value in a global economy and gain globally recognised GradISEP professional status.
To introduce these skills to you we will explore our ‘living lab’ campus and take you on a series of four, one-day field courses in Staffordshire.
You will also develop report writing skills from case study workshops and formative feedback.
Planet Earth – our environment This module explores the dynamic systems of Planet Earth, focusing on the interconnections between the geosphere, atmosphere, hydrosphere, and biosphere.
You will examine geological processes, weather and climate, oceanography, ecosystems, and be introduced to environmental analytics.
Emphasis is placed on human impact on these systems, environmental sustainability, and contemporary issues such as climate change and resource management.
Through lectures, lab work, and field studies, you will gain a comprehensive understanding of Earth's environment and the challenges it faces.
Sustainable Staffordshire In this module you will explore sustainability within Staffordshire (Keele’s local area).
You will examine regional case studies, engage with local sustainability initiatives and learn how these activities build on Staffordshire's rich geology, geography and history.
Through interactive learning on and off campus, you will develop your knowledge of sustainability practices and identify strategies to enhance Staffordshire's ecological resilience and community well-being, and how these can be implemented beyond Staffordshire.
By completing the module, you will gain the research, fieldwork and data analysis skills required to conduct your third-year research project .
Lake District Field Course The Lake District field course provides you with hands-on experience in one of the UK's most iconic landscapes.
This module involves a weeklong intensive field study focusing on the region's unique physical geography, ecology, culture and built environment.
This immersive experience enhances practical skills in geographical and environmental research and fosters a deeper understanding of the interactions between natural environments and human activities within the Lake District GIS and Remote Sensing Geographical Information Systems and remote sensing are essential tools and techniques for spatial data analysis and visualisation.
Environmental Analytical Methods Environmental investigations and monitoring activities require robust sample collection, processing procedures and accurate laboratory analytical techniques.
In this module you will gain hands-on practical experience and theoretical understanding of experimental design, sampling strategies, sample processing and preservation, use of analytical instruments to characterise environmental media (e.g.
Geoethics and Environmental Justice In this module you will investigate the ethical dimensions of geosciences and their impact on environmental justice.
Topics include principles of geoethics, the role of geoscientists and geographers in society, and the ethical challenges in resource extraction and management.
The module addresses environmental justice issues, focusing on the distribution of environmental benefits and burdens, the rights of indigenous and marginalized communities, and the development of sustainable practices.
Case studies and interactive discussions will highlight real-world applications and ethical dilemmas.
Water in the Environment In this module you will explore key concepts and processes relating to water within the context of different Earth systems.
You will learn about the need for responsible and sustainable use of our global water resources, and how to manage water in the environment to this affect.
You will develop skills in presenting, interpreting and analysing numerical data through working with real-time data from, for example, the global ARGO network and the Environment Agency.
Flexible work placement (level 5) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
This module emphasises critical thinking, methodological rigor, and effective communication of results.
Applied GIS This module will provide you with the broader context of GIS applications to address a range of real-world societal and environmental issues within human and physical geography, geology and environmental sciences.
You will gain essential skills in acquiring, analysing and displaying spatial data and explore how GIS can be integrated with environmental impact assessment and be used to support decision-making.
Through this module you will gain knowledge, skills and hands-on experience in conducting ecotoxicology laboratory protocols (terrestrial and aquatic systems), constructing and interpreting dose-response curves, sourcing and evaluating ecotoxicology data, deriving Predicted No Effect Concentrations (PNECs); and ecotoxicological risk assessment.
Global Environmental Change This module explores Earth's dynamic environment throughout the Quaternary period and examines key debates surrounding past environmental change and the relationship between global changes and surface processes.
You will learn how past environmental change is reconstructed using proxy evidence and geochronological controls, and why this knowledge is crucial for predicting future shifts in our climate.
Through critical analysis, this module will enhance your understanding of the planet’s evolving environment, preparing you to address the challenges of future environmental change.
Natural Hazards Explore the study of natural hazards in this comprehensive module.
You will delve into the origins and impacts of various natural disasters, from minor disruptions to catastrophic events, triggered by both natural and human activity.
You will assess risks, learn how these phenomena affect society, the environment, and the economy, and discover strategies to predict and mitigate their devastating effects.
Get ready to tackle real-world challenges and make a difference in disaster prevention and management.
Clean Technology Learn about how to accelerate energy transitions away from fossil fuels with a specific focus on: energy efficiency, clean energy generation and storage, electrification and their integration within smart energy systems.
You will develop and enhance your energy literacy skills, which will equip you for careers and research opportunities available in the sustainable energy sector.
This module explores the causes and consequences of extinction events throughout Earth's history.
BSc Geology students must choose to study EITHER Independent Research Project OR Geoscience: Independent Field Project BSc Geology students must choose to study EITHER Advanced Geological Field Techniques OR Volcanic and Magmatic Processes
Students may only choose a maximum of one (or none) of the following modules: Flexible Work Placement (level 6); Professional Experience in Education; Global Challenge Pathway.
A work placement year between years two and three of your degree is a fantastic way to gain industry experience with an environmentally focused company or organisation, helping you to stand out in the competitive jobs market.
Alternatively, you could choose our optional flexible work placement module to gain further practical expertise.
"Learning about Geographical Information Systems (GIS) was particularly useful with the skills learnt being applied daily in my current job.
I enjoyed learning how to perform water quality tests including the methods behind data collection and analysing the results.
The field work that I conducted during my degree helped reinforce what I had learnt in lectures and gave me valuable experience that is also applicable to my current job."
Christopher, Applied Environmental Science and Physics
Joining a society related to environmental science is a great opportunity to continue to develop your skills away from your studies.
A degree in environmental science provides you with broad subject knowledge that crosses the traditional science-social science divide and will have allowed you to gain valuable experience working in the sector.
You will have developed sought-after transferable skills in key areas including field and laboratory skills, data collection and analysis, Geographic Information Systems, critical thinking, team working and project management.
Job sectors that a graduate of this programme could enter include:
Jobs that a graduate of this programme could go on to do include:
Please note, working as an environmental scientist or in a career directly related to the field may require further study.
Use the interactive tour to explore Keele's state of the art science facilities and our beautiful living-laboratory campus that we use to enrich your learning experience.
Smaller class sizes enable you to forge close connections with other students and study in a focused environment where you will find staff who are friendly, accessible and supportive.
To ensure you receive high-quality learning, teaching is delivered through a diverse range of methods, depending on the subject matter and level.
Benefits from a dedicated teaching space in Keele’s state-of-the-art, Central Science Laboratories (CSL).
We use our state-of-the-art Scanning Electron Microscope to analyse the morphology and chemical composition of particles in high-resolution.
This Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Environmental Science degree.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Environmental Science with Foundation Year (UCAS code F913) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/environmentalscienceandgeography:
Are you looking for a career focused on driving positive environmental change?
Explore the science behind major environmental crises and the spatial dynamics of human behaviours on our Environmental Science and Geography BSc.
Through fieldwork, industry placements, and laboratory projects, you’ll gain practical hands-on experience, preparing you to advance into careers such as geospatial data analyst, nature conservation officer or environmental consultant.
Understanding environmental science and geography is key to appreciating the characteristics of today’s global society and the major environmental challenges we face.
Discover the Earth’s physical processes and the complexities around how humans interact with the environment on our Environmental Science and Geography degree.
Studying these two fascinating subjects will develop your scientific understanding of the chemical and ecological sciences that underpin environmental science, and provide you with comprehensive knowledge of physical geography exploring climate change, landforms and ecosystems.
You will also explore social, economic and ethical issues so you can fully comprehend the complexities of environmental management and challenges such as climate change, water pollution, water resource scarcity and environmental pollution.
The programme also has a strong focus on sustainable development principles, cultivating a commitment to sustainable practices and policies.
You’ll also strengthen your spatial thinking skills and develop technical skills so you can effectively analyse and interpret spatial data.
Employability and opportunities to enhance your practical experience are integrated into our curriculum.
We offer study abroad and industry work placement options and you’ll gain professional skills using digital, statistical and laboratory-based methods for collecting and analysing data in our state-of-the-art Central Science Labs .
Through different field courses in the local area, across the UK and optional international activities, you’ll gain hands-on experience in applying these techniques and develop key technical skills using specialist software such as Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and remote sensing.
Keele is a leader in sustainability education , and our 600-acre campus serves as a ‘living laboratory’, offering opportunities to study geographical features, ecosystems, and sustainability initiatives right on our doorstep, further preparing you to succeed in your future career.
Planet Earth – Our Environment This module explores the dynamic systems of Planet Earth, focusing on the interconnections between the geosphere, atmosphere, hydrosphere, and biosphere.
Human and Physical Geographies for a changing world This module explores the heart of Geography, connecting Human and Physical topics to help you achieve a detailed understanding of our increasingly complex world.
Geography is an integrative subject, and we combine the study of landscape, climate change, and natural hazards with topics such as social exclusion, modernization, identity politics and (counter-)urbanisation.
Putting this material in the context of big ideas like scientific uncertainty and Geography’s colonial framing, the module provides a strong foundation for further study in the subject.
Conservation Policy and Practice Whether it is natural resource depletion, changing climate, protecting wilderness, saving endangered species, or living during a pandemic, we worry about the impacts society has on nature and vice versa.
However our ideas about nature are often multiple and contradictory,; and discussions about our duties to nature often disguise deeper claims about economic benefits and social equity.
This module engages with interdisciplinary ideas about nature focusing on conservation approaches in policy and practice.
Lake District Field Course The Lake District Field course provides you with hands-on experience in one of the UK's most iconic landscapes.
GIS and remote sensing Geographical Information Systems and remote sensing are essential tools and techniques for spatial data analysis and visualization.
The course covers GIS software applications, spatial analysis, and map creation, emphasizing practical skills through hands-on projects.
Earth’s Changing Landscape Glaciers, volcanoes, coastal erosion, floods...
studying Earth’s spectacular landscapes is increasingly significant in the context of climate change and its impacts on human and physical environments.
Landscapes tell us about Earth’s past, but also help us face the future as we battle natural hazards such as landslides and work to safeguard resources such as fresh water.
This module explores Geomorphology, the science of landscapes, using a global range of examples supported by student-led analysis of remotely-sensed imagery and new scientific research.
Independent Research Dissertation For the capstone research Dissertation project you will conduct independent research on a topic of your own choice within your field of study.
This module emphasizes critical thinking, methodological rigor, and effective communication of results.
This module aims to bridge that gap by teaching advanced plant and animal identification skills and providing hands-on experience with industry-standard field survey techniques, focusing on UK-protected species and habitats.
International Geographical Fieldwork International Fieldwork gives you the opportunity to put your learning into practice in an international setting.
Our current location is Geneva and the French Alps where you can explore diverse geographical phenomena in a renowned mountainous region.
Through hands-on fieldwork, you can investigate topics such as glacial processes, alpine ecosystems, and cultural landscapes.
Field activities may include observational data collection, geographical mapping, and environmental analysis.
This immersive experience enhances your understanding of geographical concepts and methodologies while fostering problem-solving skills in challenging terrain.
Focusing on a real-world application you will work with other students on a consultancy project, developing strategies for sustainable solutions in a particular sector.
You will gain essential skills in acquiring, analysing and displaying spatial data and not only gain essential skills in acquiring, analyzing, and displaying spatial data but also explore how GIS can be integrated with environmental impact assessment and be used to support decision-making.
Through this module you will gain knowledge, skills and hands-on experience of conducting ecotoxicology laboratory protocols (terrestrial and aquatic systems), constructing and interpreting dose response curves, sourcing and evaluating ecotoxicology data, deriving Predicted No Effect Concentrations (PNECs), and ecotoxicological a risk assessment.
Geomorphology: Earth Surface Processes and Landscapes Earth’s spectacular landscapes are impressive and fascinating.
They also provide a record of past environmental change and reveal the interconnected hydrological, atmospheric and terrestrial processes that are changing the planet’s surface right now.
Focusing on case studies such as glacial and coastal geomorphology, we will learn about landforms and the processes that create them.
Looking at sediment transfer from source to sink at local and global scales we will explore landscape as an integral part of the global environmental system.
"Studying geography gave me a wide range of knowledge and skills – I was able to use my interview to talk about water resources, environmental management and GIS.
Showing some of the work I had done at Keele, especially my dissertation, played a key role in getting a job with a company that I am really interested in."
Joe, Geography
A work placement year between years two and three of your degree is a fantastic way to gain industry experience, helping you to stand out in the competitive job market.
Employers seek to recruit individuals with high-level knowledge and skills in geography and business management who also understand the workplace.
In between years two and three of your degree, you can choose to spend an additional year studying abroad.
Contextual Offer: BCC in three A Levels.
Contextual Offer: DMM in any BTEC Extended Diploma / National Extended Diploma.
Distinction and Distinction in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and C in one A Level, or Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in one A Level.
Distinction in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BC in two A Levels, or Merit in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and AB in two A Levels.
555 in three Higher Levels or 30 points.
Contextual Offer: 544 in three Higher Levels or 28 points.
122 UCAS points in any Access to HE Diploma including Distinction in at least 30 Level 3 credits.
BBBCC in five Highers, or CC in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers, or CCC in three Advanced Highers.
H3, H3, H4, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate.
73% in the Gaokao.
Average of 70% from four subjects in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 75% from four subjects in any other Standard XII.
2.2 overall average in the Abitur.
444 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE.
Overall average of 7.4 in the Título de Bachillerato.
80% in the Esame di Stato.
18 / 86% in the Apolytirion.
Overall average of 15.5 in a Secondary Certificate.
65% / BBBCC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diplomas.
444 from three Advanced Placement subjects.
BBB in three Advanced Levels.
BBB in three Principal Level subjects in the STPM.
BBB in three H2 Levels.
72% overall.
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with BBB and a C in EAP English Language module and grade B in EAP for Law courses.
BBB in three Principal Level subjects in the Advanced Certificate of Education.
BBB in three Advanced Level subjects.
From the benefits to businesses to green their operations, employment opportunities in the field of sustainability and the implications of economic developments on the natural environment - sustainability modules are embedded throughout our programme
Find out more about Keele’s commitment to sustainability .
Our student-first approach enables you to engage with us directly, meaning you can seek support, gain feedback or discuss any matters regularly.
Graduating with a degree in Environmental Science and Geography provides you with the skillset to engage in finding viable solutions to fixing some of the big challenges society currently faces.
You will have developed sought-after transferable skills in key areas including field and laboratory skills, data collection and analysis, Geographic Information Systems, critical thinking, problem solving, team working and project management.
Small class sizes enable you to forge close connections with other students and study in a focused environment where you will find staff who are friendly, accessible and supportive.
To ensure you receive a high-quality learning experience, teaching will be delivered through a diverse range of methods, depending on the module subject matter and level.
Teaching methods may include interactive lectures, field courses, practical classes, project work, seminars, group presentations and workshops, directed reading, a research dissertation, individual and small group consultancy, and engaging with web-based learning through Keele's virtual learning environment (KLE) and other digital platforms.
We are pioneers in teaching our undergraduate students how to use, process and analyse drone generated data - in fact some of our former students have even entered careers in this quickly growing sector.
During your studies you may have the opportunity to learn about and use our fleet of drones while working on research projects.
The Keele University Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Environmental Science and Geography degree.
Students will need to apply for Environmental Science with Foundation Year (UCAS code F913) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/esportsbusinessmanagement:
Passionate about gaming and inspired to learn more about the global esports industry?
Our Esports Business Management BA will help you develop a holistic view of this exciting creative industry and provide you with the savvy business knowledge and hands-on experience vital for you to pursue a career in this highly competitive and booming sector.
Explore the esports industry in depth with our degree in Esports Business Management and build a solid foundation in business concepts while gaining valuable practical experience.
You’ll develop professional skills to enhance your employability, preparing you for exciting career opportunities in the thriving esports sector or related fields such as marketing or consultancy.
You’ll draw on your own experiences as an esports consumer, engage in current industry debates, research future trends and analyse the demographics of esports consumers.
You will also develop expertise in areas such as sponsorship, consumer behaviour, environmental issues, media relationships and managing esports teams.
How does the esports industry promote itself, and how does it overcome public misconceptions?
Marketing plays a key role in shaping the public image of esports and addressing preconceived ideas about the sector.
To help you understand the issues, you’ll explore fandom, marketing, media, events and sponsorship in the sphere of esports.
BA (Hons) Esports Business Management is part of our dynamic suite of Business Management degrees, offering you a comprehensive understanding of key business and management principles.
Sports and Esports Management Principles This module will provide you with the grounding knowledge surrounding the sports and esports industry.
In this module you will gain insight into both industries, including marketing, the role of sponsorship, understanding our consumers, exploring environmental issues, media relationships and various job roles within the sports and esports industry.
You will evaluate specific organisations and how successful they are in their management endeavours, whilst you will also research future trends within sports or esports.
Marketing Esports: Consumer Insights and Engagement Marketing in Esports is becoming more and more important.
With many pre-conceptions from the general publics of the industry, esports faces a challenge to promote themselves in a way that changes these but also appeases their  demographic.
In this module you will understand fandom, marketing, media, events and sponsorship in esports.
Furthermore, you will learn about those who consume esports and those who do not to understand them in greater detail, to see where similarities and differences lie.
Governance and Ethics in Sports and Esports The Sports and Esports industries are both at different stages of their development, however ethics, integrity and governance are central, and reoccurring, themes within both.
In this module, you will understand how both are governed and regulated, whether that is in sponsorship, doping, match fixing or financial regulation, whilst also consider the ethics behind sportswashing, greenwashing and sponsorship within both industries.
This will come from applying governance and regulatory frameworks and theory to sports and esports, whilst also analysing topical cases within this space.
Contemporary Issues in Esports Team Management Managing an esports team is not always down to assessing a team’s ability, cohesion or dynamics.
The management of an esports team needs to be aware of, and be responsible for, finances and sponsorship, strategy, marketing or governance.
You will learn about all areas of this role, learning from people in esports teams before specialising in an area or areas that you find most interesting.
For this module, you will have the opportunity to review and investigate an area of this role that interests you.
Dr Matthew Hutchinson is Programme Lead and Lecturer in Sports Business Management at Keele University.
Previously to working at Keele, Matthew worked at Manchester Metropolitan University as a lecturer in Sport Marketing and Policy, and has also worked in several roles outside of academia, including at a sports insights marketing agency, football club charities, and women’s football clubs.
To be part of the growing esports industry and to pursue a successful career you will need skills and experience that set you apart from the competition.
Our Esports Business Management programme gives you a solid understanding of the esports industry plus a strong package of business knowledge and practice experience that will enable you to follow your career ambitions.
By enhancing your skills via our Professional and Academic Development Programme, you will grow in confidence and graduate with intellectual, professional, and personal resources to pursue careers in the dynamic esports world.
Teaching We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Esports Business Management BA, tailored to the module theme and level.
Assessment You will be assessed via different methods that reflect the breadth of the skills and knowledge you will gain on this programme.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme that provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Esports Business Management degree.
Students will need to apply for Esports Business Management with Foundation Year ( G461 ) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/filmandmediastudies:
Launch your career in the creative industries with a Film and Media Studies BA at Keele.
From exploring the social, cultural, political, and economic aspects of media industries to hands-on training with industry-standard equipment and software, you'll graduate with a portfolio of professional-standard work, and skills that are highly sought after in the creative sectors.
Awaken your creativity with a Film and Media Studies degree at Keele.
This intriguing combination explores how visual storytelling creates meaning, impacts audiences and shapes our understanding of the world.
By exploring a range of visual media, film, audio, and digital format, crafting engaging narratives, mastering film analysis techniques, and gaining hands-on filmmaking experience, you will graduate with the required skills to thrive in diverse creative practice fields.
Our Film and Media Studies programme examines a comprehensive analysis of film as both an art form and an industry.
You'll dive deep into how meaning is brought to life - exploring everything from social media and film to television, news, and popular music.
You'll also uncover the inner workings of the film and media industries and see what goes on behind the scenes.
Creatively you will develop your understanding of yourself as a reflective, critical, and responsible practitioner and producer.
You will learn how to create original and engaging outputs that express and communicate the ideas and stories that matter to you.
Professionally you will develop a wide range of workplace ready skills and experience that are highly desirable in the creative and cultural industries and beyond.
You will learn how to use visual media, film, audio, and digital formats and graduate with a portfolio of outputs created using industry standard equipment and software.
Combining theory, practice and professional development, core modules will introduce you to topics including: the practical skills of filmmaking, becoming a cultural citizen who is able to contribute to a digital media landscape in ways that make a positive impact on individuals and communities, and visual representation - where you will learn how meaning is constructed, communicated, and interpreted in visual media texts.
You will also identify the key movements and figures in international filmmaking, examining the role of film festivals, exhibition and streaming services in promoting contemporary cinemas.
Throughout the programme — and especially in your final-year project — you will have the opportunity to tailor your studies to your career aspirations and interests.
You can choose from a wide range of creative, professional and analytical optional modules, such as writing scripts, documentary filmmaking, exploring memes, trends, and vibes or working with employer-clients on a series of real-life projects.
In your final year, you will have opportunities to undertake a variety of assessments including projects in film studies, media, screenwriting and/or a media dissertation.
Your final year project gives you the chance to explore in depth a subject of your choosing, specialising in interests built up over previous years of study.
"I chose the work placement for humanities students module in order to gain first-hand experience in my career industry, filmmaking.
I had my placement with Squeaky Pedal, an award-winning documentary company in Staffordshire.
As a production assistant, I researched historical events, drafted film pitches, and even made a short film about Keele woods.
Working for Squeaky Pedal gave me a professional quality film I can use in a portfolio, a chance to learn about the career I want to go into, invaluable first-hand experience and gave me the opportunity to ask questions about the industry!"
Aliya, Film Studies and Media
Visual Representation This module builds your knowledge of how meaning is constructed, communicated, and interpreted in visual media texts, from advertising to news and social media.
You will learn to conceptualise and analyse the power of media texts, applying ‘ways of seeing’ to your own thinking about how to be a responsible and reflective image producer.
This module provides your transition to university by introducing foundational independent study skills and the use of professional software that you will use throughout your degree.
Animating the Screen Animating the Screen illuminates the histories, theories and practices of film animation in its various forms, across an international context.
You’ll explore the evolving principles and techniques shaping animated film, from Disney to anime to Aardman, as well as the uses of animation in videogames and cinematic visual effects.
Your production of a case study, storyboard, or short animated film will showcase your discoveries, and provide a critical and creative platform for later work in film theory or film practice.
Teenage Dreams: Youth Subcultures in Fiction and Film Youth culture has had a profound influence on society.
On this module you will examine the historical development of subcultures from the ‘classic’ period to postmodernism and study a range of representations of youth subcultures, from the 1950s to the present, including fiction, film, fashion, and music.
These texts will be explored against prominent theories on subcultures with especial reference to issues of class, gender, sexuality and ethnicity.
The module builds on critical skills acquired in year 1.
If you would like to do an independent research dissertation in your final year, this module provides essential preparation.
Extended Media Project This is your chance to create a major media project, such as a narrative, documentary, or short film; a photographic project; or a multimedia display.
Guided by an expert academic supervisor, you’ll integrate the practical skills and research methods acquired throughout the degree.
You’ll present your work alongside an exhibition catalogue in a final year show.
Having delivered and showcased an original project, you’ll have demonstrated your readiness for a wide variety of careers and enhanced your creative portfolio.
Media Dissertation The dissertation gives you the opportunity to produce a substantial piece of independent and original research.
With the guidance of an expert supervisor, you will devise a research topic that engages with the issues that most interest you in Media, Communication and Cultural Studies.
The dissertation is a good choice if you are considering advanced academic research at masters level, or wish to pursue a career in an area of the media and cultural industries relevant to your research.
*Please note you must take at least one of the year-long project modules: ‘Extended Research Project in Film Studies’, ‘Extended Screenwriting Project’, ‘Extended Media Project’, and ‘Media Dissertation’.
You can take two, though these must consist of one ‘Film’ project (‘Extended Research Project in Film Studies’ or ‘Extended Screenwriting Project’) and one ‘Media’ project  (‘Extended Media Project’ or ‘Media Dissertation’).
You must also take either ‘Professional Experience for Media (Year 3)’ or ‘Employing Media: Putting Your Subject into Practice’.
"I did my work placement with the team at Inspired Film & Video in Stoke.
My role was to help with setting up the professional equipment and lighting for filming, working as a runner to support the livestreaming of the events and assisting the videographers.
I also had the opportunity to edit the footage and develop my skills in colour grading and cutting.
Working with Inspired enabled me to develop my filmmaking and editing skills and to learn new techniques.
The experience boosted my confidence but also helped me to develop my communication skills and to understand how to work effectively as part of a team.
It has been a brilliant experience."
Picture of Athan, Film Studies and Media
Between your second and third year of study, you will have the option to undertake a work placement year.
This opportunity will enable you to apply your knowledge, build confidence in the workplace and demonstrate your abilities in a professional environment, using the skills you have gained throughout your degree programme.
To prepare for your placement, you will gain advice on CV writing and cover letters, as well as the chance to attend workshops to discuss individual experiences with alumni and employers.
In your second and/or third years, you will have the opportunity to undertake an innovative work placement module, where you will tackle real-life projects and further enhance your industry connections and professional readiness.
Utilising this opportunity between year two and three can help in your employment search to stand out from the crowd and broaden your horizons, potentially working across the globe.
Alternatively, you may choose to study abroad for just a semester in your second year.
Find out more about our study abroad opportunities .
Discover languages at Keele , whether you are a complete beginner or already have a foundation of knowledge; we offer a flexible and guided route to developing your skills.
Extend your learning beyond lecture by immersing yourself in Keele's vibrant creative community.
Engage with film-screening and film-making societies, or collaborate with the team behind Keele's Earth Stories international film festival , transforming theoretical knowledge into hands-on, real-world experience.
On successful completion of the programme, you will graduate with the technical, analytical, creative, practical and professional skills to open doors to diverse career opportunities across a variety of creative sectors.
You will be equipped with key skills in researching, writing and presenting your ideas through various media forms, and will be able to apply your knowledge in the workplace through practical methods.
You will have a clear awareness of technology and the evolving industry and how you can provide your expertise in an area of interest, working independently or with a team of professionals.
All of our teaching is research-led and social learning is encouraged in sessions.
If you choose to take practical modules in film studies, you will also have access to filmmaking equipment, providing the opportunity to gain hands-on experience to practice your skills and create a portfolio of work.
You will have also have access to our Media Suite, where you will gain practical skills using industry standard production facilities, equipment and software.
You will have the ability to book out state-of-the-art equipment from the media store to film your projects on location or in our film and photography studio.
You will also have independent access to audio recording facilities and two digital labs kitted out with post-production software tools.
Our library holds a wide range of written and visual material that you will have access to for your course.
Our Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the  BA (Hons) Film and Media Studies degree.
Students need to apply for BA (Hons) Film Studies with Foundation Year ( UCAS code: P3V0) through UCAS at www.ucas.com.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/filmandmusicproduction:
Kickstart your career in the creative industries with a Film and Music Production BA at Keele.
From crafting compelling audio-visual works to mastering intricate sound design, you'll develop the theoretical knowledge, hands-on practice, cutting-edge technological skills and professional-level expertise to pursue a wide variety of careers across diverse music genres and artistic fields.
Immerse yourself in a creative landscape where sound and visual storytelling intersect.
Our Film and Music Production degree at Keele combines the in-depth analysis of film and creative music production as an art form and industry.
Studying this exciting combination of subjects will prepare you to excel in the dynamic worlds of film and music production.
You'll graduate with the technical abilities, creative practices, artistic imagination, production skills, and academic understanding to thrive in diverse music genres and creative practice fields.
You will have opportunities to learn and practise creative filmmaking, music production, sound design, screen music, audio-visuals, and music software.
Combining theory, practice and professional development, the core curriculum covers essential areas like live sound production, studio engineering, and fundamental filmmaking techniques.
You'll explore influential figures and movements in global cinema and creative music production, while developing the skills to craft powerful multimedia narratives around causes and topics that matter to you.
A key focus of the course is empowering you to shape your professional identity and master core skills through dedicated professional and academic development training.
You will identify your own strengths using state-of-the-art assessment methods, learn to navigate the contemporary employment market, manage your online presence, and practice for interviews.
To enhance your employability you will apply your learning to real-world challenges and engage with industry employers.
In your second and/or third years, you can undertake a work placement module ('Professional Experience for Music Production’).
This will further enhance your industry connections and professional readiness.
You can also (or instead) choose to study this degree over four years, with a work placement year between your second and third year of study.
Throughout the programme, and especially in your final-year project, you will have the opportunity to tailor your studies to your career aspirations and interests.
You can choose from a wide range of creative or analytical optional modules, such as working with employer-clients on a series of real-life music production projects or understanding the histories and current state of British filmmaking.
In your final year, you will have the opportunity to unleash your creativity by undertaking an extended research project in film studies and a music production project on a topic that excites and challenges you.
Unlocking the Studio: Your Journey into Sound Engineering In this module, you will gain comprehensive skills by integrating live sound and studio engineering practices.
You'll gain practical experience as both a live sound technician and engineer.
Sound Design Have you ever thought about the sound wizardry involved in action films, videogames, TV?
Well, you will prepare something sonically magical in this module – beautiful sounds never heard before – and use them creatively.
You will dive into the marvels of advanced software and develop your sound-design skills using a variety of spectral and time domain techniques.
We will discuss technical and aesthetic aspects of the uses of sound design, providing skills for creative project work in your third year.
Podcast and Radio Production Developing your own podcast and learning about audio storytelling techniques, production skills, and social marketing strategies equips you with new skills to promote and disseminate your musical activities to your target audience through an online platform.
You will receive advice and feedback from practitioners in an industry pitching session.
You will also analyse podcast trends and explore the impact of podcasting on the media landscape, including its influence on public service broadcasting and podcast adaptation for TV.
The Art of Mixing: Mastering and AI in Modern Music Production The contemporary skill set needed to be a mix and mastering engineer involves a range of tools and audio principles knowledge.
*Please note - you must take either Professional Experience for Music Production (Year 3) or Employing Music Production: Putting Your Subject into Practice.
You can choose to take either one or both of the year-long project modules: Extended Research Project in Film Studies or Music Production Final Year Project.
Including your choice of Project module(s), you must take at least 30 credits respectively from both the ‘Film’ and ‘Music Production’ modules at this level.
You must have at least 30 credits from ‘Extended Research Project in Film Studies’; ‘Science Fiction Cinema’; ‘Britain on Film’; ‘Youth and Film’; ‘The Apocalypse will be Televised’; and you must take at least 30 credits from ‘Advanced Audio Tools’; ‘Podcast and Radio Production’; ‘Music and Social Movements’; ‘The Art of Mixing’; ‘Music Production Final Year Project’.
Find out more about our study abroad opportunities.
The Film and Music Production course at Keele prepares you for diverse career opportunities in the creative industries.
With industry-relevant skills in film and music production, sound design, and music for screen, you will be equipped to pursue roles in film, television, music production, sound technology, game design, and other creative fields.
Through hands-on experience, placements, and professional industry connections, you will build a competitive portfolio, enhancing your employability in both creative and technical roles.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Film and Music Production degree.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/filmstudies:
Do you have a passion for film?
Learn to express your creative voice and get to grips with the theory of film with a Film Studies BA at Keele.
You will explore an in-depth analysis of film as an art form, alongside gaining hands-on filmmaking skills using industry standard equipment and facilities on campus.
Our degree will equip you for a variety of possible careers in the creative industries and other related fields.
Become part of the vibrant film community at Keele.
Through our Film Studies degree you will become a creative individual with the ability to critically evaluate, synthesise and produce content effectively through various methods.
You will study closely with the core academic team, benefitting from their wealth of industry experience in filmmaking, screenwriting, and criticism.
You will also have opportunities to draw from the professional expertise of industry partners and gain practical experience on industry placements.
In practical modules you will use film equipment and facilities on campus, helping you to gain real world experience using industry standard equipment.
During your studies at Keele you will explore a curriculum looking at the cultural, political and economic dimensions of film in a global context.
The learning covers a range of aesthetic and technological resources used by filmmakers both historically, and in the contemporary film and television industries.
This carefully considered curriculum balances theoretical and practical learning whilst presenting opportunities to gain invaluable industry experience on placements.
Film Studies at Keele will prepare you for careers in the creative industries or other related fields.
Film students have dedicated teaching spaces.
Our bespoke editing suites are accessible for students taking practical modules.
You will have access to our photographic studio, sound design studios, and Apple Macintosh labs.
You can loan filmmaking equipment to develop your editing skills to enhance your employability prospects.
Documentary Film This module builds on the critical and practical work of your first year, focusing on the arts of documentary filmmaking.
Drawing on a range of films, theories and practical methods, you’ll explore the varied creative ways in which real-life experience – from the global, to the political, to the personal – can be depicted on screen.
Guided by expert tutors, you will take control of your final project, in the form of your own creative piece, or essay on a chosen case-study.
Professional Experience for Film (Year 2) This module offers you the chance to contribute to the world outside Keele either through completing a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of projects for different clients), or working as a team to deliver a successful festival or event.
Pathways with Film: Developing Your Profile This module broadens your knowledge of the variety of career pathways open to you, enabling and enable you to identify, analyse, and showcase your degree skills and experiences effectively.
Students at level 5 must choose to do EITHER Professional Experience for Film (Year 2), OR Pathways with Film: Developing Your Profile
Britain on Film: Trends, Themes, Debates This final-year module provides you with the critical frameworks for understanding the histories and current state of British filmmaking, both as part of Britain’s creative industries and a vital means of expression and representation.
Professional Experience for Film (Year 3) In your final year we offer you another opportunity to complete a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of clients), or work as part of a team to deliver a successful festival or event.
Employing Film: Putting Your Subject into Practice Now you are preparing for life after graduation, this module enables you to put your degree skills into practice and work with employer-clients on a series of real-life projects.
Students at Level 6 can also choose to take the Extended Screenwriting Project, in addition to (but not in place of) the Extended Research Project in Film Studies.
They must choose to do EITHER Professional Experience for Film (Year 3), OR Employing Film: Putting Your Subject into Practice.
Students who took Professional Experience for Film (Year 2) are eligible to do Professional Experience for Film (Year 3).
There is an option to do a work placement module.
You may wish to explore a range of roles that are involved with the early stages of production or perhaps a practical approach such as experimenting with film making or related fields.
Upon graduation, you will be equipped with key skills in researching, writing and presenting your ideas through various media forms, and will be able to apply your knowledge in the workplace through practical methods.
The programme is taught by a core staff of lecturers with expertise across the field of Film Studies.
They may be leading researchers in particular areas of film-making, film history or film theory, or experienced creative practitioners, with specialisms in fields such as digital video, documentary film and screenwriting.
You will engage with a range of teaching methods that encourage you to discuss topics with teachers and peers, developing your own critical approach towards analysis.
You will be taught through seminars and workshops that allow you to uncover important issues and refine your ideas through research and practice.
Regular lectures and screenings provide the historical context and outline the varied approaches to studying film and television.
Film studies challenges you through a variety of creative assessment methods, all of which allow you to develop personally and professionally through different tasks and projects, building on your analytical, organisational and communicational skills.
They include the following:
Students are provided with regular opportunities to talk through particular areas of difficulty, and any special learning needs they may have, with their academic mentors or module tutors on a one-to-one basis and are encouraged to initiate such meetings whenever they need advice.
Apart from these formal activities, students are also provided with regular opportunities to talk through particular areas of difficulty, and any special learning needs they may have, with their Personal Tutors or module lecturers on a one-to-one basis.
At Keele, you will benefit from the use of dedicated teaching spaces.
In practical modules, you will also have access to filmmaking equipment, providing the opportunity to gain hands-on experience to practice your skills and create a portfolio of work.
You will learn how to use equipment and build your skill set throughout the process, including editing and post production, building a portfolio of work ready to showcase to employers.
This will help to develop your editing skills further and enhance your employability prospects having used industry-standard equipment.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Film Studies degree.
Students should apply for BA (Hons) Film Studies with Foundation Year (UCAS code: P3V0) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/filmstudiesandcreativewriting:
Step into the vibrant world of Film Studies and Creative Writing BA at Keele.
Learn from experienced lecturers and benefit from links with industry partners, including hands-on modules and the option of taking work placements.
Our contemporary curriculum covers the analysis of film, screenwriting and literary forms, considering global cultural, political, and economic contexts.
On this course you'll build a diverse portfolio through practical assignments and professional development opportunities.
This programme will equip you with the skills required to create literary or cinematic works in the modern world.
Immerse yourself in the dynamic film and creative writing community at Keele.
Our Film Studies and Creative Writing degree involves an in-depth analysis of film as an art form and industry, focusing on the screenwriter's role.
You will consider the cultural, political, and economic dimensions of film globally.
The learning explores the aesthetic and technological resources used historically and in contemporary film and television.
Additionally, you will examine the historical, socio-political, ethnic, gender, and geographical contexts of literary texts and screenplays, reflecting on the contexts that will shape your own writing style and identity.
From day one of your studies you will have opportunities to engage in the film and creative writing culture at Keele.
You can regularly hear from professional writers at Keele Hall’s reading events.
There are opportunities to perform or publish your work at open mic events or in Keele's Creative Writing magazine.
Join the film-screening or film-making societies and socialise with like minded individuals outside of the lecture theatre.
You can also be part of Keele’s award-winning Earth Stories International Film Festival team.
All of these provide you with opportunities to gain invaluable experience.
You will be trained in the traditional routes to getting your work seen and also newer modes of distribution via digital publishing and online engagement.
By creating diverse outputs through teaching and assessment, and gaining professional development and work placements opportunities, you will build a robust portfolio.
You will leave Keele equipped with the skills needed for a variety of careers in the creative industries.
Delivery, Performance and Other Platforms: All the Writing Selves This module prepares you for studying creative writing at university, introducing you to all the ‘writing selves’ needed when seeking publication and building an authorial profile.
History in Media and Film In this module you will encounter how the past is presented in a number of disciplines, including contemporary film and media.
Sights and Sounds: Analysing Film This springboard module provides you with essential tools for understanding and discussing film as a vital art form.
Looking at films from diverse contexts, you will develop the vocabulary and methods needed for your studies, both from a critical and creative perspective.
By producing a visual- or video essay you’ll display your acquired knowledge and skills in film analysis, focusing potentially on film style and history, film genre, or critical ideas around the representation of race, class, gender or sexuality.
Genre, Form and Modes This module will develop and deepen your understanding of how narrative forms, genres and modes are used in creative writing.
Professional Experience for Film Studies and Creative Writing (Year 2) This module offers you the chance to contribute to the world outside Keele either through completing a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of projects for different clients), or working as a team to deliver a successful festival or event.
Pathways with Film and Creative Writing: Developing Your Profile This module broadens your knowledge of the variety of career pathways open to you, enabling you to identify, analyse, and showcase your degree skills and experiences effectively.
Through completing and reflecting on problem-based tasks relating to different sectors, such as telling the story of a business, or writing a funding proposal to support a literary or film festival, you will build your creative and collaborative skills and learn how to articulate them in ways that will be attractive to employers.
Students at Level 5 must choose EITHER Professional Experience for Film Studies and Creative Writing (Year 2) OR Pathways with Film and Creative Writing
Employing Film and Creative Writing: Putting Your Subject into Practice Now you are preparing for life after graduation, this module enables you to put your degree skills into practice and work with employer-clients on a series of real-life projects.
Professional Experience for Film and Creative Writing (Year 3) In your final year we offer you another opportunity to complete a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of clients), or work as part of a team to deliver a successful festival or event.
Students at Level 6 must take EITHER Employing Film and Creative Writing OR Professional Experience for Film Studies and Creative Writing (Year 3).
Students who took Professional Experience for Film Studies and Creative Writing (Year 2) are eligible to do Professional Experience for Film Studies and Creative Writing (Year 3).
You are supported to reflect on the relations between theory and practice, and read published examples of creative texts (poetry, prose, creative nonfiction) by English-language and bi-/multi-lingual writers from the UK and elsewhere, to help you develop your writing and situate it within broader literary landscapes.
Working Class Fictions This module introduces you to the practices of working-class fiction, a genre grounded in matters of identity and social realism.
Thresholds: Young Adult Fiction Young Adult Fiction, mindful of its borderline status between children's fiction and adult fiction, often focuses on moments of crisis, its characters caught between innocence and ruin, naivety and understanding, or sometimes literally between two worlds.
What is it about young adulthood that invites these explorations of the threshold, the liminal, or the disastrous?
How can we read 'growing up', through these fictions?
Is it a gradual development or is it a series of shocks?
You do either ONE or BOTH of the modules Extended Screenplay Project and Extended Research Project in Film Studies.
You then do either 45 or 75 credits from remaining programme-approved optional modules and GCP options.
A degree in Film Studies and Creative Writing will prepare you for various employment opportunities including jobs in the screen and print media industries.
Through the study, analysis and creative composition of screen media and written forms, you will be equipped with key transferable skills in communication, research and analysis, as well as practical content-production methods that can be applied across a range of industries.
You will have a clear awareness of both technology and the evolving screen media and literary worlds, and how you can provide your expertise in an area of interest, working independently or with a team.
This experience will enhance your organisational skills, as well as your ability to develop ideas and showcase your talent.
They may be leading researchers in particular areas of film-making, film history or film theory, or experienced creative practitioners, with specialisms in fields such as digital video, documentary film, screenwriting and literature.
Film Studies and Creative Writing challenges you through a variety of creative assessment methods, all of which allow you to develop personally and professionally through different tasks and projects, building on your analytical, organisational and communicational skills.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Film Studies and Creative Writing degree.
Find out more about the Beetle Foundation Year, including information about teaching and assessment methods by visiting the Foundation Year homepage .
Students should Apply for BA (Hons) Film Studies and Creative Writing with Foundation Year ( UCAS code: PW39) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/forensicbiology:
Are you fascinated by forensic science and intrigued by the mysteries of the human body?
Our Forensic Biology BSc bridges these disciplines, equipping you with skills in forensic identification, investigation and analysis, alongside an in-depth understanding of anatomy, physiology, and genetics.
You’ll gain hands-on experience gathering, processing, and evaluating forensic evidence in our state-of-the-art labs and authentic crime science facilities, preparing you with the professional skills to excel in the field of forensic biology.
Hear from our students and staff – who share their personal experiences of what it's like to study Forensic Science at Keele
Explore the core principles of biology and acquire essential forensic skills with our Forensic Biology BSc.
You will develop practical, analytical, problem-solving and research abilities that are highly valued by employers and crucial for a successful career in the field.
Our curriculum covers a range of engaging topics, including forensic chemistry, which examines molecular structure, as well as techniques for recovery and analysis in crime scene investigation (CSI), with a focus on human identification.
You’ll also analyse the major physiological systems and anatomical structures of the human body, as well as fundamental biology concepts, from genes and ecosystems to molecular biology.
DNA profiling is explored, and you’ll learn how to confidently interpret, evaluate and present DNA and other forensic evidence to different audiences.
You’ll also advance your CSI skills in areas such as blood spatter analysis and drug-related crime, and gain insights into soft tissue anatomy, forensic ecology, veterinary forensics, the processes the body goes through after death, and forensic toxicology.
Optional modules in the programme allow you to tailor your studies to specific interests and deepen your understanding of topics such as genetics, wildlife crime, and how forensics can detect counterfeits, fakes, and forgeries.
A major focus of the programme is developing your hands-on experience.
You'll use professional equipment and techniques in well-equipped teaching labs and modern forensic science facilities.
Our dedicated crime scene simulation areas include indoor and outdoor scenarios including vehicle and fire examinations and our Crime Scene House .
Keele’s unique 600-acre campus offers a fantastic environment to apply your theoretical knowledge to real life forensic investigation scenarios.
There are opportunities to enhance your employability with additional certifications in expert witness testimony, endorsement in bioscience laboratory skills, the option to undertake a work placement year, complete a flexible work placement module, or gain experience in the field of teaching.
Forensic Chemistry: Molecules under Investigation Here you will gain a solid foundation in the chemical underpinnings of forensic science.
Applying core concepts such as molecular structure and polarity to key spectroscopic characterisation techniques will give you the knowledge required to succeed in our forensic chemical analysis modules later in your degree.
You will receive hands-on training in a variety of laboratory techniques and spectroscopic instrumentation, as well as be introduced to the important topic of statistics in the interpretation and evaluation of forensic evidence.
Forensic Investigation: From Documents to DNA In this module you will be introduced to forensic science as a professional discipline, covering topics such as crime scene investigation, laboratory examination and the role of the expert witness in court.
You will develop your communication skills by presenting data and summarising findings in formats suitable for different audiences, including laboratory-based examination forms and oral presentation work.
You will be introduced to recovery and analysis techniques with emphasis on human identification.
Forensic Genetics: DNA and Crime In this module you will continue to learn about the importance of biological material in forensic casework and how this evidence has the potential to identifying individuals by DNA profiling.
Fundamentals in DNA profiling techniques will be explored, its application in forensic investigations and the presentation of DNA evidence in court.
You will complete a case-study assessment where you will gain experience of interpreting, evaluating, and presenting DNA evidence.
Crime Scenes: Blood, Marks and Prints In this module you will further develop your CSI skills and learn the scientific basis behind the enhancement of different types of evidence found at a crime scene.
You will learn the principles behind blood dynamics and blood spatter analysis; forensic imaging techniques as well as the chemical and physical enhancement of forensic marks, prints and impressions.
You will develop these skills through practical lab work and through simulations.
You will develop scientific writing skills to prepare you for Level 6 and will be assessed on your practical lab skills.
Drugs of Abuse Building on the skills and knowledge gained in Forensic Chemistry: Molecules under Investigation, the Forensic Science Professional Toolkit, and Chemical Analysis and Detection, in this module, you will learn about the role of a forensic analyst in the investigation of drugs and drugs related crime.
You will gain an understanding of the systematic abuse of drugs and alcohol and be introduced to the relevant legal issues.
Aspects of pharmacology, including pharmacodynamics, the mode of action, and basic metabolism will be introduced alongside the examination of various classes of drugs in detail.
The practical determination of drugs and alcohol in biological specimens will be demonstrated through laboratory sessions using presumptive tests and spectroscopic techniques.
Forensic Anthropology: Decomposition and Skeletal Analysis In this module you will learn about the processes that a body goes through after death, and how your knowledge of these postmortem changes can be applied to casework to aid with search and recovery, time of death estimates and victim identification.
You will develop your knowledge of skeletal and muscular anatomy, learning how variation between individuals can be used to build a biological profile of the victim, as well as gaining experience in the analysis and interpretation of skeletal trauma and pathologies.
Counterfeits, Fakes and Forgeries In this module you will delve into the topic of counterfeits, fakes and forgeries and how forensic science can detect and prevent these crimes.
You will learn the current issues surrounding topics such as document security, heritage security, counterfeit medicine and food fraud.
You will investigate how chemical and analytical analysis can be used to detect these forgeries and will develop practical and reporting skills needed for these investigations.
You will develop critical thinking skills needed to investigate these complex cases.
Focusing mainly on medical genetics, you will you’ll learn how a person's genetic make-up can affect their health and how to estimate genetic risk and explore some of the applications of molecular genetics in the study of, diagnosis of and treatment of genetic diseases.
You will learn about diseases associated with imbalanced nutrient intake, the effects of alcohol metabolism, and the impact of nutrition on development from pregnancy through ageing.
Topics in Forensic Biology This module will allow you to build skills in collecting and interpreting forensic biological data.
This will involve developing your abilities in working with soft tissue, DNA analysis, teeth and entomology.
This will involve learning in the lab to grow your practical skills in both collecting and analysing forensic biological evidence.
Assessment is similarly aimed at assessing your abilities in a practical sense through forensic reports.
This module aims to expand your career prospects in the forensic biology field, and is ideal if you have an academic interest in biology and/or aspirations to work within forensic biology in the future.
Crime Scene to Court This module builds on your forensic examination skills from all Level 4 and 5 core modules.
You will continue to develop your ability to professionally examine and report evidence, building on skills that will be vital for work in a professional context.
You will attend a simulated crime scene as a crime scene examiner; investigate the evidence as a forensic scientist and finally report your findings as an expert witness in our simulated courtroom.
Forensic Toxicology: Ingestion to Detection Building upon the Drugs of Abuse module in second year, here you will examine the work of a forensic toxicologist.
In addition to learning about the subject’s legal aspects, the role of the analyst will be explored from sampling to the determination of toxins and poisons, with the use of toxicological cases and scenarios as authentic applications of the content.
Forensic Biology Research Project This module is an opportunity for you to carry out a substantial piece of meaningful research in forensic biology.
You will work alongside staff to undertake an authentic research project, which could include lab- or field-based projects, systematic reviews, pedagogic or desk-based research work.
Through engagement with this module, you will be introduced to the approaches needed to perform scientific research and develop key skills that are routinely utilised by the forensic biology research community.
Marks and Traces Examination This module further develops your knowledge and practical experience of marks and trace examination that will prepare you for the forensic laboratory practitioner workplace.
Working through current SOPs and guidelines will provide valuable employability skills.
An emphasis will be made on the documentation of forensic physical trace evidence that will be usable in court.
In between year two and three of your studies, you will have the opportunity to spend time gaining practical experience with a chemistry or forensic science-focused company or organisation.
This exciting opportunity enables you to understand education from different cultural perspectives from different cultural perspectives and to establish international networks.
Joining a society related to chemistry is a great opportunity to continue to develop your skills away from your studies.
In 2021 we were awarded the prestigious title of Global Sustainability Institution of the Year (International Green Gown Awards, 2021)
Upon graduation, you’ll possess a versatile set of transferable skills ideal for roles across the science, health, and forensic sectors.
Whether you pursue a career as a forensic scene investigator, work in research, or enter health-related fields, the programme’s focus on advanced problem-solving, data interpretation, analytical, and communication skills will open doors to numerous science-based careers.
You may also choose to deepen your expertise through postgraduate study.
Careers that a biology and forensic science graduate might pursue include:
"My experience on the forensic science course has been brilliant due to the commitment of the lecturers and lab staff in providing me with the necessary tools to pursue a career in forensic science.
I particularly enjoy the practical lab sessions where we get hands on experience with techniques used in the field such as fingerprint enhancement and identification, DNA, blood spatter, and chemical analysis using the newly added equipment and lab spaces contained within the CSL building."
Max, Forensic Science
To ensure you receive a high-quality learning experience, teaching will be delivered through a blend of in-situ and digital approaches.
You will be supported by an academic mentor who will help to guide you throughout your studies and enable you to think independently about your career aspirations.
The wide variety of assessment methods used on this Forensic Biology BSc at Keele reflects the broad range of knowledge and skills that are developed as you progress through the degree programme.
In order to teach forensic science to the highest of standards, we utilise the latest laboratory space and equipment.
You will benefit from transformational teaching in a space designed to encourage and enable collaborative and interdisciplinary working.
Our Central Science Laboratories house multiple analytical suites that include industry standard equipment used in the analysis of forensic evidence.
Equipment includes: Video Spectral Comparators, comparison microscope, AFIS, micro spectrophotometer, Raman spectrometer, NMR spectrometers, ICP-OES, GCs, GC-MS, UV Vis spectrometers, fluorimeters and FT-IR spectrometers.
Keele's purpose-built crime scene house (equipped with CCTV, vehicles and blood pattern analysis room) enables you to gain hands on experience in recovering evidence from a variety of realistic criminal settings.
It also helps to provide context to your learning and gives you experience in a typical environment encountered by a forensic scientist.
New commercial scenarios , including a pub and post office, will provide you with the opportunity to gain experience in other crime scenes as 50% occur in non-domestic environments.
Simulated crime scenes will provide you with the skills to critically assess the issues around the acquisition of forensic evidence at a crime scene with particular attention to control, continuity, contamination, quality assurance and record-keeping.
The David Attenborough Laboratories have significantly expanded the School of Life Sciences’ teaching and research areas, and provide two additional state-of-the-art teaching laboratories with space for 120 students between them and two additional research laboratories.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Forensic Science degree.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Forensic Biology with Foundation Year (UCAS code FC15) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/forensicchemistry:
Apply your passion for chemistry to the complex world of forensic analysis and investigation.
From core chemistry principles to hands-on crime scene techniques, our Forensic Chemistry BSc brings together essential themes and applied skills from both subjects.
You'll develop practical experience by working in state-of-the-art chemistry laboratories and authentic crime scene simulation settings, allowing you to gain professional abilities in gathering, processing and evaluating forensic evidence.
With these practical and professional skills, you'll be prepared for an exciting career in forensic chemistry.
Hear from our students and staff – who share their personal experiences of what it's like to study Chemistry at Keele
Forensic Chemistry covers a breadth of topics and enables you to build practical, analytical, problem-solving and research skills, preparing you for exciting career opportunities.
Advancements in chemistry are driving modern forensic evidence analysis.
In this programme you’ll develop skills vital for today’s chemists and deepen your understanding of chemistry’s core principles, from atomic bonding to techniques for measuring and observing chemical reactions.
You’ll explore the techniques used for the recovery and analysis in crime scene investigation (CSI) and discover how chemical analysis of evidence forms the backbone of forensic science.
There's a focus on how modern analytical techniques can detect the compounds in forensic materials and how concepts from physical and inorganic chemistry can explain what we observe in chemical reactions.
You’ll enhance your CSI skills and knowledge in areas such as drug-related crime, pharmacology, forensic imaging, and blood spatter analysis, and you’ll gain confidence in communicating forensic findings to diverse audiences.
You'll use professional equipment and techniques in well-equipped chemistry labs and modern forensic science facilities.
Our dedicated crime scene simulation areas include indoor and outdoor scenarios including vehicle and fire examinations and our Crime Scene House.
Optional modules allow you tailor your studies to specific interests, enhancing your understanding of topics such as sustainable chemistry and forensic toxicology.
There are opportunities to boost your employability including an additional certification in expert witness testimony, undertake a work placement year or complete an optional flexible work placement module.
Forensic Analysis: Evidence under Investigation Chemical analysis of evidence is the foundation of forensic science, and this module will begin your training in this key discipline.
You will apply chemical concepts to spectroscopic characterisation techniques, which will give you the knowledge required to succeed in forensic chemical analysis modules throughout your degree.
CSI: Crime Scene Investigation Here you will be introduced to the basic principles of crime scene investigation.
You will develop and practice key skills in crime scene investigation and will understand the different types of crime scenes encountered in the field.
You will begin to learn the basics of evidence handling and processing as well as crime scene documentation and accreditation standards for a working as a professional forensic scientist.
You will experience mock crime scenes and dedicated workshops to develop these key skills.
Practical and Professional Chemistry Skills 2 The practical and professional skills you developed at level 4 will be broadened and enhanced in this module.
You will study new, more advanced lab skills required for the synthesis of molecules.
Chemical Analysis and Detection In this module you will build on your forensic chemistry knowledge, learning about and gaining experience with a range of modern analytical techniques important in the detection of compounds in forensic materials.
The techniques covered, such as chromatography and mass spectrometry, are fundamental in toxicological investigations.
You will develop essential skills through working as an individual and as a group in the laboratory and assessments to prepare you for level 6, and to develop your confidence working in the laboratory.
Drugs of Abuse Building on knowledge gained in level 4, you will learn about the role of a forensic analyst in the investigation of drugs-related crime.
You will gain understanding of the systematic abuse of drugs and alcohol and the relevant legal issues.
Aspects of pharmacology, including pharmacodynamics, mode of action, and basic metabolism will be introduced alongside examination of various classes of drugs.
The practical determination of drugs and alcohol in biological specimens will be demonstrated through presumptive tests and spectroscopic techniques.
Crime Scenes: Blood, Marks and Prints You will further develop your CSI skills and learn the scientific basis behind the enhancement of different evidence types found at a crime scene.
You will learn the principles behind blood dynamics and spatter analysis, forensic imaging techniques, as well as the chemical and physical enhancement of forensic marks, prints and impressions, developing these skills through practical laboratory work and simulations.
You will develop scientific writing skills and be assessed on your practical skills to prepare you for level 6.
You will investigate how chemical and analytical analysis can be used to detect these forgeries, and will develop the practical and reporting skills alongside the critical thinking skills needed to investigate these complex cases.
Flexible Work Placement In a competitive job marked, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
You will be supported by various activities to secure a role and can source your won placement or apply to university-sourced roles.
Kinetics, Catalysis and Mechanism As well as advanced chemical kinetics, this module will give you a complete, balanced understanding of transition metal catalysis both from an inorganic mechanistic standpoint and as a tool in advanced organic synthesis.
Forensic Chemistry Literature Review In this module you will select a subject in an area of forensic chemistry, and undertake a comprehensive review of the primary chemical literature to plan, research and produce a written literature review, and share your findings in a conference style poster.
You will use appropriate research databases and digital repositories to fully immerse yourself in your chosen subject, and develop your critical analysis skills to ask and answer novel questions at the forefront of your area of interest.
Crime Scene to Court This module builds on your forensic examination skills from all level 4 and 5 core modules.
You will attend a simulated crime scene as a crime scene examiner, investigate the evidence as a forensic scientist, and finally report your findings as an expert witness in our simulated courtroom.
Forensic Toxicology: Ingestion to Detection Building upon the Drugs of Abuse module in level 5, here you will examine the work of a forensic toxicologist.
Explosives, Arson and Evidence In this module you build on your forensic chemistry knowledge from level 4 and 5, and apply these skills to the investigation of explosives and arson.
This is combined with an introduction to the key skill of communication your scientific findings in a court context.
You will develop the ability to express your scientific findings and their interpretation to a variety of audiences, which will prepare you for giving evidence in court.
Inorganic, Physical and Quantum Chemistry This module builds upon important theories and concepts in inorganic and physical chemistry introduced at levels 4 and 5, and applies these to explore new phenomena at the forefront of modern understanding in these fields.
In this module, you will use computational chemistry software to preform quantum chemical calculations and put theory into practice by locating and analysing real data from the scientific literature to solve problems relating to reactions dynamics and electronic spectroscopy of coordination compounds.
Graduate from this programme and you’ll possess a multifaceted set of transferable skills perfect for roles across the chemistry and forensic science sectors.
Whether you pursue a career as a chemist, forensic scene investigator or work in research, or enter health-related fields, the programme’s focus on advanced problem-solving, data interpretation, analytical, and communication skills will open doors to numerous science-based careers.
Careers that a Forensic Chemistry graduate could pursue include:
The department has a dedicated careers tutors for chemistry and forensic science who organise subject specific careers sessions.
These include workshops and mock interviews with industry relevant companies and talks from returning graduates on how they have used their Keele degrees in their careers to date.
In Chemistry, many of our teaching staff are Fellows or Senior Fellows of the Higher Education Academy, the professional body for teachers in Higher Education.
To ensure you receive a high-quality learning experience on our Forensic Chemistry BSc we deliver teaching through live, in-person, interactive sessions, supported by online learning resources on Keele’s Learning Environment.
You will be supported by an academic mentor, who will guide you throughout your studies and enable you to think independently about your career aspirations.
Methods may include:
The wide variety of assessment methods used on this programme reflects the broad range of knowledge and skills that are developed as you progress through the Forensic Chemistry BSc.
Practical classes will take place in Keele's state-of-the-art Central Science Laboratories and our custom built crime scene facilities .
Forensic science academic staff have expertise and interests across the forensic sciences as well in chemistry and earth sciences.
Most are active researchers and many have a distinguished track record in publication, generation of grant income, industrial collaboration and as research journal reviewers.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Forensic Chemistry with Foundation Year (UCAS code F1F5) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/forensicpsychology:
Start your journey to train in forensic psychology.
Study the psychology of crime, investigation and punishment on our BPS-accredited programme.
Build an understanding of the mind, brain and behaviour and uncover how people think, communicate and act when committing crimes.
You will build a foundational understanding of core psychological topics, alongside practical skills to prepare you for a wide variety of careers.
Are you curious about why people commit crimes, how crimes are investigated and the consequence of punishment?
On this programme, delve into the study of the mind, brain and behaviour across various forensic contexts to understand how people think, feel and act within crime investigation, victim support and offender rehabilitation.
Our BPS-accredited programme* covers the principle topics of cognition, individual differences and social development.
You will gain practical skills in both quantitative and qualitative research, ensuring a thorough understanding of diverse psychological methodologies.
As you progress through your degree you will be able to further explore areas of personal interests, enabling you to dig deeper and tailor your degree to your career interests through module selection.
Distress and Mental Health Unfortunately, we all experience distress at times, and our mental health can suffer.
What insights can psychology offer?
This module will introduce different ways we can think about mental health, as well as how we might use psychological approaches to improve mental health and wellbeing, and what challenges mental health research and practice are facing in order to move the field forward.
Science Communication What use is psychological science if people don't trust or benefit from its findings?
The relatively new field of science communication recognises the importance of HOW communication is designed and structured in order to facilitate maximum public engagement.
This module is organised into themed weeks, such as: Finding your voice week (practicing), Dragon’s Den week (pitching), Movie week (long format) and It’s all about you week (employability).
You will learn techniques for designing science communications, use these techniques to produce fascinating and compelling psychological science communications, and understand your communication skills strengths while identifying areas for further development.
Next Steps in Becoming a Psychology Researcher Building on ‘First Steps in Becoming a Psychology Researcher’, students will be introduced to more advanced topics in both qualitative and quantitative research methods.
Content will be delivered via in-person teaching and asynchronous active learning and is complemented by practical labs where students can practice their skills.
This module provides you with an introductory overview of forensic psychology, covering the causes of crime and victimisation, investigation of crime, punishment of crime, and life after crime, as well as more specialist coverage and discussion of topics, such as criminal justice theory, forensic evidence, false confessions, and alternative dispute resolution.
You will then apply your knowledge to and learning to analyse and understand current events, protests, demonstrations, and larger social movements and provide recommendations to decision makers.
Please note: You cannot take both Flexible Work Placement (Level 5) and Flexible Work Placement (Level 6)
Forensic Psychology and the Criminal Justice System Are you curious to know more about how human factors influence and interact with the criminal justice process?
This module offers a comprehensive exploration of forensic psychology, delving into every aspect of the criminal justice system deepening your insight into crimes and criminal investigations.
You’ll examine factors affecting witness memory, the accuracy of identification, jury decision-making, and working with vulnerable witnesses and offenders.
Additionally, you’ll explore offender assessment, treatment, and rehabilitation.
Health, Illness and Behaviour Change Aims to cover aspects of health, disease, and disease prevention from a Health Psych perspective.
Indicative content includes: Psychology of health, health cognitions, illness experience in the context of socioecological settings, critical approaches, illustrated through acute and long-term health conditions, models of behaviour, critical approaches to understanding health behaviour in the context of different acute and long term health conditions and contexts, public health promotion/prevention, health literacy, how to design, develop, adapt and evaluate health behaviour change interventions.
Morality in Action: Justice, Society, and Climate Change This module explores the fundamental questions of morality and justice, including how we decide what is right and wrong, how we assign blame and responsibility, and the factors that affect trust and cooperation.
It delves into the psychological mechanisms underlying justice and the application of these concepts in society.
Additionally, this module goes on to examine these concepts and the human involvement in real-world problems with a specific focus on climate change, addressing both the problem and potential solutions.
Cognitive Psychology This module will develop your ability to evaluate and test cognitive psychological models.
You gain a solid understanding of cognitive models across a variety of subdisciplines within cognitive psychology and be able to evaluate the capacity of models to explain human thinking and behaviour.
You will also explore the development of cognition to more deeply understand the origins of key cognitive processes introduced in the module.
In this module, you will broaden and deepen your thinking about the origins of cognitive domains and methods used to study cognition.
Gender and Sexualities You will participate in a series of interactive classes and online activities which examine the theories and methods used to examine gender and sexuality from a psychological perspective.
Indicative content may include, for example, inequalities associated with particular identities, barriers for different gender identities and sexualities, stereotypes, specific gender and sexuality community issues and intersectionality.
You'll be encouraged and supported to engage in up to date debates and insights, and critically evaluate psychological research and theory in gender and sexuality.
Psychology in Education Psychology in Education is designed to develop your understanding of psychological research, theory and practice in education.
Discussion of current issues where psychology can be applied will encourage you to think about key people in education, issues around diversity and wellbeing in addition to thinking about learning.
You will learn to apply your psychological knowledge to propose interventions to enhance educational experiences or consider how challenges within educational settings can be solved and how the effectiveness of interventions can be measured.
Neurodiversity in Society This module focuses on neurodiversity in society: how do individuals differ from each other, and what effects could these differences have?
Indicative topics include discussing diversity in cognitive processing styles, social preferences, behaviour, and brain structure and function, with reference to illustrative examples, including the autism spectrum, dyslexia, sensory processing, gender diversity, etc.
You will consider how neurodiversity is represented in the media and potentially misunderstood in society.
Wellbeing & Mental Health Practice In this module, you will be introduced to advanced psychological approaches to predicting and protecting wellbeing and mental health.
In this module, you will reflect on different wellbeing and mental health interventions and apply them to your own day to day living and the impact these have on your quality of life.
This will inform the assessment where you reflect on the different interventions and explore one intervention in depth.
Please note: You cannot take both Flexible Work Placement (Level 5) and Flexible Work Placement (Level 6).
You also cannot take both Flexible Work Placement (Level 6) and Professional Experience in Education.
Prepare for rewarding career and make a difference in the real-world.
With a degree in Forensic Psychology, you will become equipped with a range of skills that can be applied to various roles and industries.
You will acquire skills in oral and written communication, data analysis, team working, problem-solving, and in research methodology.
Whether you wish to work in victim support, criminal investigation or pursue further study, this programme will provide a foundation of knowledge and skills to embark on an exciting career.
Career options may include:
Our Forensic Psychology BSc is delivered through various teaching methods to suit a range of learning styles.
You will be taught by passionate and skilled researchers, providing valuable hands-on experience in research design, critical review and analysis.
You will engage in independent study, with use of academic journals and textbooks, whilst also building team working skills alongside your peers.
This programme includes a range of assessment types to develop your academic subject knowledge and skills as well as preparing you for employment with transferable skills.
In addition, we have a Keele Augmented, Virtual, and Extended Reality Network (KAVERN), and various members of the school are engaged in interdisciplinary research, including the Keele Policing Academic Collaboration (KPAC) , and projects with colleagues in Health, Social Sciences and Humanities disciplines.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology course.
For example, the Advancing Psychology module builds on your knowledge and understanding of core psychological concepts and explores how these can be used in an applied context.
You will develop subject-specific and broad-based skills that will be invaluable in your academic career and beyond.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology with Foundation Year (UCAS code C8B2) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/forensicscience:
Develop your passion for forensics and start your career as a forensic scientist at Keele.
From gathering evidential traces at a crime scene and analysing DNA, to presenting admissible forensic evidence in court, our accredited programme will provide you with the analytical skills and techniques needed for your career in Forensic Science.
Our contemporary programme has been meticulously designed to provide practical and hands-on experience to set you up for your career in Forensics.
From day one, you’ll immerse yourself in forensic chemistry, anthropology, digital forensics, crime scene investigation and more, using our state-of-the-art facilities such as our outdoor taphonomy facility.
You will be trained by experts in the field of forensics using the latest skills, techniques and theories which are used in the industry today.
You will leave Keele with the skills you'll need for a variety of exciting careers in forensics.
Opportunities are woven through the course structure which allow you to specialise on a pathway in forensic biology, forensic chemistry, crime scene investigation or digital forensics to enhance your employability, what ever your chosen career path may be.
What sets this programme apart is its emphasis on real-world application and hands on training in all aspects of forensics.
This programme ensures you graduate not just with knowledge, but with the confidence and practical skills to excel in your career.
You will gain hands-on experience with professional equipment and techniques in well-equipped teaching laboratories and modern forensic science facilities.
Our dedicated crime scene simulation areas cover indoor and outdoor scenarios including vehicle and fire examinations and our Crime Scene House .
Our unique 600-acre campus offers a fantastic environment to apply your theoretical knowledge to real-life scenarios you may encounter within forensic investigation.
Additionally, you’ll experience using outdoor equipment such as metal detectors, UAV drones, and near-surface geophysical equipment, soil augers and also preparing samples ready for analysis.
Boost your employability with opportunities to gain additional certifications in digital forensics and expert witness testimony, offered by leading external trainers.
With opportunities for work or education placements, you'll be fully prepared for a career in the field of forensic science.
This programme is accredited by the Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences.
A professionally accredited forensic science degree ensures programme content remains relevant to the latest developments in the sector and is recognition that the programme meets the standards set by the chartered society.
CSI: Crime Scene Investigation In this module you will be introduced to the basic principles of crime scene investigation.
The Forensic Science Professional Toolkit This module will provide you with an introduction to the principles of scientific writing, research skills and the tools required to collect, analyse, interpret, and present evidence.
You will be introduced to the basic concepts in Criminal Law as necessary for forensic practitioners.
You will also be introduced to a range of forensic science skills, laboratory techniques and methods used in crime scene investigation.
These are essential for maintaining the integrity of exhibits whilst operating in a quality management system and understanding of global accreditation standards.
Programming for Forensic Scientists In this module you will learn the basics of computer programming through the teaching and use of fundamental python programming concepts that will allow you to apply these coding skills to a forensic context.
You will then demonstrate how these employability programming skills can be used to solve a series of numerical problems faced by Forensic Scientists.
Science and Society In this module you will learn about the connections between people and research and the importance of ethics, good scientific practice, and collaboration.
Together we will explore multiple different areas of science and where good practice has led to advancements in society.
Through being exposed to multiple scientific fields you will be able to develop your critical thinking, learn to reflect on and challenge assumptions within science, and therefore thrive in your future research projects in later years of study.
Chemical Analysis and Detection In this module you will build on your Forensic Chemistry knowledge and learn about and gain experience with a range of modern analytical techniques and their importance in the detection of compounds in forensic materials.
The techniques covered, such as chromatography and mass spectrometry, are fundamental in all toxicological investigations.
You will develop essential skills through working as an individual and as a group in the lab and lab-based assessments to prepare you for Level 6, and to develop confidence to work in a forensic lab.
Digital Forensics: Crime and Technology In this module you will be develop the topic of Digital Forensics, which is becoming increasingly important now that digital evidence is frequently a subject of criminal investigations.
You will learn the principles of a digital forensic investigation, how evidence is collected, the tools used to analyse the data, focusing on different areas, such as operating systems, computer and mobile devices, the internet, and the law.
You will be asked to complete a written assessment and a group presentation.
Flexible Work Placement and Professional Training In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
Explosives, Arson and Evidence In this module you build on your forensic chemistry knowledge from Level 4 and 5 and apply these skills to the investigation of explosives and arson.
This is combined with an introduction to the key skill of communicating your scientific findings in a court context.
Forensic Science Research Project This module is an opportunity for you to carry out a substantial piece of meaningful research.
Through engagement with this module, you will be introduced to the approaches needed to perform scientific research and develop key skills that are routinely utilised by the forensic science research community.
Forensic Chemical Analysis: Instrumentation and Evaluation Designed to enhance your forensic chemical analysis knowledge and skills, this module builds on what you have learned at Levels 4 and 5.
Through this module, you will increase the range and depth of theoretical and practical experience of state-of-the-art analytical techniques currently used in academia and industry.
The authentic assessment provides you the opportunity of choosing an area to focus on, mirroring the type of problem solving an analyst may be faced with on a daily basis.
"I found it beneficial to use a range of analytical systems such as Chromatography, NMR and Mass spectrometry, as knowledge of such systems is often of interest to employers.
My experience in using these systems has helped me to secure employment in a research laboratory.
Rebecca, Forensic and Analytical Investigation with Integrated Master's
In between years two and three of your studies you can choose to spend time studying abroad or opt to gain experience in industry with our Work Placement Year.
These exciting opportunities enable you to either understand your field from different cultural perspectives and establish international networks or apply your knowledge and practical skills in a workplace environment.
BBC in three A Levels including C in Chemistry or Biology.
Contextual Offer: CCC in three A levels including C in Chemistry or Biology
DMM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science, Forensic and Criminal Investigation.
Contextual Offer: MMM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science
Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and C in Chemistry or Biology A Level, or Distinction and Merit in Applied Science BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and C in any A Level.
Merit in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels including C in Chemistry or Biology or Merit in Applied Science BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in any two A Levels.
554 in three Higher Levels including 4 in Chemistry or Biology, or 29 points including 4 in Higher Level Chemistry or Biology.
Contextual Offer: 543 in three Higher Levels including 4 in Chemistry or Biology, or 27 points including 4 in Higher Level Chemistry or Biology.
112 UCAS points in an Access to HE Diploma with Chemitsry or Biology related content, including Distinction in at least 15 Level 3 credits.
BCCCC in five Highers including Chemistry or Biology Higher, or CD in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers including Chemistry or Biology Higher or Advanced Higher, or CCD in three Advanced Highers including Chemistry or Biology Advanced Higher.
H3, H4, H4, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate including H4 in Biology, Chemistry, or Physics and Chemistry (combined).
70% in the Gaokao including 70% in Chemistry or Biology.
Average of 65% from four subjects including 70% in Chemistry or Biology in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 70% from four subjects including 75% in Chemistry or Biology in any other Standard XII.
2.4 overall average in the Abitur including 12 in Chemistry or Biology.
12 in the French Baccalaureate including 13 in Chemistry / Physics or Biology, or 12 in the International Option Baccalaureate including 12 in Chemistry / Physics or Biology.
You will also need: 10 in Maths in the Baccalaureate, plus an English language qualification (see below)
443 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE including 4 in Chemistry or Biology.
Overall average of 7 in the Título de Bachillerato including 8 in Chemistry or Biology.
75% in the Esame di Stato including 8 in Chemistry, Biology or Natural Science.
17.5 / 83% in the Apolytirion including 18 in Chemistry or Biology.
Overall average of 15 in a Secondary Certificate including 16 in Chemistry or Biology.
60% / BCCCC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma including 70% in Chemistry or Biology.
443 from three Advanced Placement subjects including 4 in Chemistry or Biology.
BBC in three Advanced Levels including C in Chemistry or Biology.
BBC in three subjects in the STPM including C in Chemistry or Biology.
BBC in three H2 Levels including B in Chemistry or Biology.
70% overall with 7 in Chemistry or Biology (4 period).
BBC in three Principal level subjects in the Advanced Certificate of Education including C in Chemistry or Biology
National Senior Certificate: 66655 in five subjects including 6 in Physical Science or Life Science.
BBC in three Advanced Level subjects including C in Chemistry or Biology.
From forensic scene investigator to working in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries, the advanced problem-solving, data interpretation, analytical and communication skills you will acquire on this programme will open up a wide variety of science-related careers.
Joining the Chartered Society of Forensic Scientists (CSFS) may help with keeping up to date with developments in the sector and making valuable contacts.
Please note you may need to take further postgraduate study to enter some of the professions listed below.
Throughout the programme you will have the opportunity to learn from a number of guest lecturers from the profession who contribute either a single or short series of lectures, workshops or practical classes in a range of forensic science topics.
This will enable you to gain valuable insight into today's industry and network with potential employers, colleagues and mentors.
Throughout the extensive laboratory and other practical work in this programme, many types of assessment are utilised to achieve the learning outcomes.
Our academic staff have expertise and interests across the forensic sciences as well in chemistry and earth sciences.
Find out more about research in the School of Chemical and Physical Sciences.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Forensic Science with Foundation Year (UCAS code F410) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/forensicsciencewithcriminology:
From gathering evidential traces at a crime scene and analysing DNA to exploring policing and why people commit offences.
Develop the analytical skills and train in the methods and techniques to enter a wide variety of rewarding careers with Forensic Science with Criminology at Keele.
From day one, you’ll immerse yourself in forensic chemistry, crime scene investigation and understanding crime, criminal justice and why people undertake crime.
The course has two distinct themes – through criminology you will delve into the motivations behind those who commit crime and gain hands on experience in forensics training on how science can be applied to solve and understand criminal activities.
Our contemporary programme will set you up with the skills and experience for a wide variety of exciting careers.
What sets this programme apart is its emphasis on real-world application and hands-on training in all aspects of forensics.
You will gain practical experience with professional equipment and techniques in well-equipped teaching laboratories and modern forensic science facilities.
Additionally, you’ll use outdoor equipment such as metal detectors, UAV drones, and near-surface geophysical equipment, soil augers and sample preparation and analysis.
With opportunities for work or education placements, you'll be fully prepared for your career.
This programme is accredited by the Chartered Society of Forensic Science.
Murder, Death & Destruction This module introduces you to the ways in which criminologists and criminal justice professionals attempt to theorise, contextualise and respond to the most serious forms of criminal and harmful behaviour in society (including murder, other forms of homicide, ‘public’ and ‘hidden’ forms of violence and abuse, state violence, and environmental crimes).
You will complete a case-study assessment where you will gain experience of interpreting, evaluating, and This module introduces cross-border crime and the impacts of globalisation and technological innovation on crime and criminal justice.
presenting DNA evidence.
Crime Scenes: Blood, Marks & Prints In this module you will further develop your CSI skills and learn the scientific basis behind the enhancement of different types of evidence found at a crime scene.
Crime and Justice in a Global Context This module provides a comprehensive introduction to, and looks in detail at, how criminology has tried to understand the effects on crime and criminal justice of globalisation and other processes of social change associated with the coming of late modernity.
The focus will be on issues and problems related to terrorism, state crimes, war crimes, and crimes against humanity.
Natural Sciences Work Placement In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
Policing and the Police This module aims to go behind the headlines and to answer some basic questions.
What do we mean by policing?
How does it relate to experiences and feelings of security?
Who does policing and who are the police?
How do the people and institutions responsible for policing relate to each other?
What do the people we think of as the police actually do?
And how is all of this changing as societies become more diverse, the threats to security more global in their origins and ways of responding to them more varied?
The main focus of the module is on policing in England and Wales but in answering these questions you will draw on an international literature written by scholars and researchers from many other jurisdictions including the US, Canada, Australia and South Africa.
Contemporary Challenges and Issues in Criminal Justice This module examines current and emerging challenges and issues in criminal justice policy, process and practice.
You will examine case studies of specific contemporary examples of issues requiring a criminal justice response to prevent, deter or reduce problematic impacts and explore the ways in which you can contextualise, measure and respond to these challenges and issues, and consider the ways in which these challenges and issues may evolve in the future.
Working for Justice This module is designed for you if considering a career in Criminal Justice.
It is a criminology module which builds on criminological knowledge acquired from previous study of the discipline.
It provides you with an overview of careers in Criminal Justice and related fields.
It supports you with conducting job searches in the Criminal Justice sector by enabling you to produce appropriate written vocational work (such as identification of skill sets, matching skill sets and experiences to job specifications, writing CVs and covering letters).
Rethinking 'Participation' in Crime control, Punishment and Criminology This module will help you to think systematically about the many forms of ‘participation’ (with in-depth discussions of case studies of the Global North and the Global South), and to critically assess attempts at theorising them.
The module will also encourage you to critically think about participation as criminologists, with opportunities for reflection on their future as practitioners – through contemporary discussions on the public role of criminology, the relationship between expertise and common sense, and the needs to decolonise our curriculum and professional practices.
State Crimes & Crimes Against Humanity State Crimes and ‘Crimes against Humanity’ have drawn the attention of criminologists only recently.
This module provides you with in-depth information on these ‘new’ topics in criminology, placing a focus on the historical and current injustices faced by the Global South and Black, Asian and minoritised Ethnic (BAME) groups.
The focus is on explanations of state crimes and crimes against humanity, and on regulatory models and perspectives in this field of study.
The module analyses in depth topics briefly explored earlier in the level five module on ‘Crime and Justice in a Global Context’, seeking to identify the colonial systems, structures and relationships often underpinning mass atrocities.
Popular Culture and Crime This module examines our apparent interest in crime, criminals and deviance and attempts to locate this interest in its broader social and psycho-social context.
As a significant element of this, the module looks at our rapidly changing and increasingly unpredictable age.
It will locate this in Modernity - its emergence, its characteristics and how it is changing, and considers how (and why) crime, criminals and representations of crime in popular culture have formed a key component of how we make sense of the world around us in Modernity.
It also examines the extent to which popular cultural representations of crime, and the popular cultural practices of some sections of society, have themselves been linked to crime and criminality.
Late modernity has seen the rise of law and order as an electoral issue and an increasing perception that our society is crime prone and dangerous.
It has also seen the proliferation and  (re)emergence of significant interest in larger than life threats to the order of our everyday lives - from environmental catastrophes; alien invasions; vampires, zombies, wizards and other supernatural threats; to the cunning and organised serial killer who lives among us.
There has been a significant increase in the number of films and television programming devoted to crime related issues and themes, increased interest in police procedure, forensic science, criminal psychology and related areas, and rapidly increasing demand for criminology as an undergraduate subject.
This module considers what our apparent preoccupation with crime and criminality can tell us about ourselves, our fears and anxieties (and how we try to manage them) and about the nature of identity formation and maintenance in late modernity.
Migration, Crime and (In)Security Migration continues to be one of the most important and contested public policy issues in the UK.
A growing body of scholarship has explored the increasing criminalisation and securitisation of migration in western societies, whereby expanding groups of ‘others’ are constructed as ‘threats’.
These ‘threats’ include those to: personal and national security due to crime and terrorism; public health through the spreading of disease (seen recently with Covid-19); the economy and public/social services; and, community cohesion and ‘national identity’.
Although migrants are vulnerable in legal and socio-economic status, they are nevertheless often framed as posing particular existential and ontological challenges to citizens, and are thereby considered ‘dangerous’.
We will consider these themes in this module and apply broader criminological literature to real life case study examples.
Hatred, Justice and the State What is ‘hate speech’ and when, if at all, should governments prohibit it?
Should a crime be treated differently if it is motivated by racism, homophobia or another form of prejudice?
Over recent years, hate crime has become a prominent and highly contentious point of debate that raises complex questions about freedom, laws and their limits, and policing practices.
This module will introduce you to these debates and look at how states respond to prejudice.
The module will draw on political, sociological and criminological theory to introduce you to how hate crimes are policed in the UK and elsewhere, and ask why certain acts and prejudices are classed as ‘hate crimes’ while others are not.
It will also introduce you to sociological study of prejudices such as racism, antisemitism/Islamophobia, anti-Traveller prejudice and homophobia.
Through doing this, the module will explore how states have, at different times and places, both protected people against prejudice and promoted prejudice through laws, policies and policing practices.
"One of the big advantages was the extensive time spent in the laboratory getting hands on experience with a range of analytical instrumentation, which related to the theory topics being taught in lectures.
It was very helpful to be able to put lecture material into practice and this enabled me to learn the information much more thoroughly.
I was impressed by the amount of laboratory time we were given and the variety of instruments available."
Carlie, Forensic Science and Criminology
BBC in three A Levels including C in one science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
Contextual Offer: CCC in three A levels including including C in one science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
DMM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science, Forensic and Criminal Investigation, Health and Social Care, Information Technology, Sport, Sport and Exercise Science.
Contextual Offer: MMM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science, Forensic and Criminal Investigation, Health and Social Care, Information Technology, Sport, Sport and Exercise Science.
Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and C in one Science A level from the Keele Defined Sciences List, or Merit and Merit in Applied Science, Forensic and Criminal Investigation, Health and Social Care, Information Technology, Sport, Sport and Exercise Science BTEC National Diploma/ Diploma and A in any A level
Distinction in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and CC in two A Levels including C in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or Merit in Applied Science, Forensic and Criminal Investigation, Health and Social Care, Information Technology, Sport, Sport and Exercise Science BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in any two A Levels.
Merit in any of the following T Levels: Health, Healthcare Science, Science.
554 in three Higher Levels including 4 in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or 29 points including 4 in one Higher Level Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List
Contextual Offer: 444 in three Higher Levels including 4 in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List, or 27 points including 4 in one Higher Level Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List
112 UCAS points in a Computing, Engineering, Health, Nursing, Medicine, Science, or Sports Access to HE Diploma including Distinction in at least 15 Level 3 credits.
BCCCC in five Highers including one Higher Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or CD in three Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers including one Higher or Advanced Higher Science subject from the from the Keele Defined Sciences List or CCD in three Advanced Highers including one Advanced Higher Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List
H3, H4, H4, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate including H4 in one subject from the Science or Applied Science Groups.
70% in the Gaokao including 70% in Maths, Physics, Biology or Chemistry.
Average of 65% from four subjects including 70% in Maths, Physics, Biology or Chemistry in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 70% from four subjects including 75% in Maths, Physics, Biology or Chemistry in any other Standard XII.
2.4 overall average in the Abitur including 12 in Geography, Psychology, Maths, Physics, Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Technology, Nutritional Science or Sports.
12 in the French Baccalaureate / International Option Baccalaureate including 13 in Chemistry / Physics, Maths, Science, Sport, Engineering Sciences, Life and Earth Sciences or Information Technology, or 12 in the Baccalauréat Français International including 12 in Chemistry / Physics, Maths, Science, Sport, Engineering Sciences, Life and Earth Sciences or Information Technology.
443 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE including 4 in Maths, Physics, Biology, Chemistry, Geography, Design and Applied Technology, ICT or Physical Education.
Overall average of 7 in the Título de Bachillerato including 8 in Chemistry, Maths, Biology, Physics, Geology, Geography, Earth Sciences and Environmental Sciences, Psychology, Industrial Technology or ICT.
75% in the Esame di Stato including 8 in Maths, Physics, Natural Science, Geography, Physical Education, or ICT.
17.5 / 83% in the Apolytirion including 18 in Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Design and Technology, Information Technology, Geography, Maths, Physical Education or Physics.
Overall average of 15 in a Secondary Certificate including 16 in Chemistry, Maths, Biology, Physics, Geology, Geography, Computer Applications, Psychology, Physical Education.
60% / BCCCC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma including 70% Advanced Functions, Biology, Calculus and Vectors, Chemistry, Computer Science, Maths of Data Management or Physics.
4443 from three Advanced Placement subjects including 4 in Chemistry, Calculus (either), Physics (any), Biology, Computer Science (either), Environmental Science, Psychology or Statistics.
BBC in three Advanced Levels including C in Combined Maths, Chemistry, Physics, ICT, Biology or Agricultural Science.
BBC in three Principal Level subjects in the STPM including C in Maths, ICT, Physics, Biology, Chemistry, Geography, or Sports Science.
BBC in three H2 Levels including C in Chemistry, Biology, Physics, Computing, Maths, Further Maths or Geography.
70% overall with 7 in Chemistry,  Maths (3 or 5 period), Physical Education, Biology (2 or 4 period), Geography (2 or 4 period), or Physics.
You will need: 6 in European Baccalaureate Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with BBC including C in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
BBC in three Principal Level subjects in the Advanced Certificate of Education including C in Chemistry, Maths, Physics, Biology, or Geography.
BBC in three Advanced Level subjects including C in Additional Maths, Agriculture, Animal Science, Biology, Building Technology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Crop Science, Food Technology and Design, Geography, Horticulture, Mechanical Maths, Metal Technology and Design, Physics, Pure Mathematics, Sport Science and Technology, Statistics, or Technical Graphics and Design.
You will also benefit from the support of an assigned academic mentor and the dedicated Faculty Student Experience and Support team .
The advanced problem-solving, critical thinking, data interpretation, analytical and communication skills you will acquire on this programme will open up a wide variety of career paths.
You may wish to pursue a career in a science-related role such as a forensic scientist or in fields such as crime reduction, offender rehabilitation or community safety.
Please note, you may need to take further postgraduate study to enter some of the professions listed below.
Careers that are related to your degree include:
In forensic science we offer a personalised learning experience in an environment where you can feel part of a community.
In criminology you will be taught by research active staff who adopt diverse teaching methods and different modes of learning and assessments.
You will be taught through a range of core modules that provide a foundation of knowledge in criminology as well as optional modules that encourage you to think critically and apply your learning further.
These optional modules allow you to tailor your degree programme based on your interests and build confidence in your research abilities.
This will demonstrate your analytical approach to the subject area and how you present your opinions and findings, with consideration of other perspectives.
During the programme you will be supported by an academic mentor who will help to guide you throughout your studies and enable you to think independently about your career aspirations.
Practical classes will take place in Keele's state-of-the-art Central Science Laboratories and our custom-built crime scene facilities .
New commercial scenarios, including a pub and post office, will provide you with the opportunity to gain experience in other crime scenes as 50% occur in non-domestic environments.
You will be taught by academic staff who have expertise and interests across the forensic sciences as well in chemistry and earth sciences.
Most are active researchers in the forensic, analytical and chemical sciences and many have a distinguished track record in publication, the generation of grant income, industrial collaboration and as research journal reviewers.
Research specialisms in forensics include:
Research in criminology at Keele focuses on advancement in the fields of crime, punishment and criminal justice, grounded in sociological, theoretical, public policy and systematic empirical approaches.
Research specialisms in the school include:
Find out more about research in the school of Social, Political and Global Studies.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Forensic Science and Criminology degree.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Forensic Science and Criminology with Foundation Year (UCAS code F4L7) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .
"I found the forensics principles laboratories particularly useful as I was able to learn how to collect and interpret forensic evidence.
I really enjoyed using Keele's Crime Scene House as this gave me a good opportunity to experience how crime scenes are processed."

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/gamedesign:
Transform your passion for gaming into something enduring.
Our Game Design BA will nurture your creativity, strengthen your technical know-how, and develop your understanding of the video games sector.
Apply your talent across game art, audio, narrative design and storytelling through a combination of core modules in game design, with optional ones from computer science and sound design.
Explore the imaginative world of computer game design and gain a holistic overview of this thriving industry on Keele's Game Design BA.
You will develop a portfolio of professional work and gain specialist expertise to give you a range of skills and experiences upon graduation.
The course is designed for those who are interested in exploring the theoretical and practical aspects of games design, including 3D modelling, animation, and creative storytelling.
It provides an opportunity for you to develop the collaborative, and technical skills to produce exciting new computer games.
It will introduce you to key principles of game design, from creating characters and virtual worlds, scripting and programming, to designing the sounds and graphics that make for entertaining and engaging games.
You will learn from academic and industry experts, and you can choose to undertake work placements that give you the opportunity to apply the skills you have gained on the course to professional contexts.
You will also study the games industry, learning about relevant commercial, cultural, and regulatory frameworks.
In year one you will explore game design theory and history, and develop your understanding of the principles and practices of crafting games.
You will examine the different elements that come together to shape a great gaming experience and acquire foundational programming skills, with the option to pursue more advanced programming for games in later years.
You will start to generate your own ideas for games, learn about choice-based storytelling techniques and recognise the importance of narrative in game creation.
Your second year develops your theoretical understanding, and advances your creative and collaborative skills in games visuals and art, sound design, levelling, and world-building.
You will discover the pipelines and processes used in prototyping games and gain further hands-on experience of creating 2D and 3D assets.
Specialist skills such as filtering and spectral domain techniques will give you the tools for creative projects such as foley effects and computer game soundtracks.
Progression into your final year will see you focus on applying many of the skills you have learnt in years one and two through working as part of a team to create an industry-standard game product.
In this year, we turn to thinking about how you could use the skills you have acquired, to provide you with a solid understanding of industry techniques that you can utilise in the conception, design, and testing of your game ideas.
You will understand how games are monetised and marketed, how to work with users and audiences to finesse products, and develop transferable professional skills that will prepare you for success upon graduation.
Throughout the course, alongside your core grounding in Game Design, you can take optional modules in subjects including Computer Science, Sound Design, and Modern Languages, meaning you can follow your own interests and make yourself stand out.
You can also undertake a work placement in the second and/or third year, as well as choose to do a work placement or international study year between years two and three.
Studying abroad for one semester is also an option.
Our multinational and professional academic staff have a range of specialisms in creative practice and critical theory, and all our research-active staff have international and world-class reputations.
It can provide a valuable insight into what working in a specific area of business is like, and gives you the chance to familiarise yourself with the professional working environment plus develop professional networks.
It may be that for some programmes, students will not have the option to request a placement period to be added to their programme before they arrive in the UK and would therefore need to apply for a new visa.
There is no guarantee that a placement will be provided and students who have a visa are subject to a number of restrictions on the type of work, including placements, that they can undertake.
During your time studying on the Game Design BA at Keele you will have access to a wide range of support.
You will be allocated an Academic Mentor at the start of year one, who you will meet on a regular basis.
They will review your progress on the programme and act as a first point of contact for other issues such as pastoral support.
Academics who will be teaching you on this programme can also provide guidance about specific modules.
Our Student Experience and Support Team, part of the University's Student Services Department work closely with teams across the University so you can easily access any help that you may need.
You will also have access to advice from support from:
Introduction to Game Design Immerse yourself in the world of game design from the basics of board games to the latest digital developments.
This module covers the essentials of game engines and the software crucial to game design, blending theoretical knowledge with practical application, enhancing your critical thinking and practical skills.
You'll delve into game physics, AI, level design, player behaviour and cognition, and game mechanics.
The sessions will culminate in a final project, showcasing your ability to create engaging and innovative games.
Crafting Games and Worldmaking This module will introduce you to the craft of game making, using the latest tools and techniques.
You'll learn how to design levels, 2D map making, grey-boxing, and other industry-standard techniques.
These skills will enable you to create original and engaging levels for a variety of game situations.
You’ll also explore interactive storytelling in games, multimedia projects, reality games, theme parks, and immersive enactments.
Dive into the art of gameplay and discover what makes a game captivating!
Sound for Moving Image This module will introduce you to the world of sound effects for visual media, revealing the process of audio-visual synchronization across various contexts, including video games, films, and advertisements.
With a hands-on, practical learning approach, you will be guided step-by-step in crafting unique sounds to complement visual spaces, events, and themes in moving image contexts
Introduction to Programming This module introduces the fundamental concepts underlying computer programming, together with techniques for applying these using Python.
The module has a strong practical element.
Examples will come from various areas of Computer Science and Data Science.
You will gain skills of producing, compiling, and debugging simple programs in Python.
These skills will be refined in later modules with applications in various areas of Computer Science.
Level 4 Module Rules: Game Design SH students must take all compulsory modules.
To reach the 120 credits needed to complete Level 4, students can take an additional optional module, take a part in Global Challenge Pathways or take a language module.
Game Modelling and Animation This module will develop your 2D and 3D modelling skills and animation.
You'll learn to add materials, shaders, lighting, and master animation to create realistic game environments.
You will explore various digital tools and workflows, from conception to rendering.
Further, you'll examine the design and development of models for animation, simulation, architectural modelling, motion capture basics, rendering, and compositing.
You will work with Unity and Unreal, learning game asset development processes.
Additionally, you'll delve into character art for games.
Game Environment, Level Design and Immersive Media This module focuses on combining room and world design, game mechanics, and pacing to craft levels that players will love.
You'll dive into environment workflows, engine-based lighting strategies, shaders, materials, and asset importing to create a natural flow, guiding players instinctively through your levels.
You'll also learn how the latest hardware technologies, such as virtual and augmented reality, gesture capturing, and sensors, enhance interaction and gaming experiences, and develop tools for players to solve puzzles or complete challenges.
Collaborative Game Prototyping In this module you will develop your game prototyping skills and teamwork, preparing you for the Creative Game Design Project at Level 6.
You'll create game prototypes using industry-standard tools, learning essential skills for functional and playable prototypes while effectively communicating game mechanics.
In small teams, you'll focus on production elements like game world orientation, camera angles, character movement, and menu systems.
Additionally, you'll develop skills in presenting and clearly communicating your game prototypes
Professional Experience for Game Design (Year 2) This module offers you the chance to contribute to the world outside Keele either through completing a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of projects for different clients) or working as a team to deliver a successful gaming event.
Pathways with Game Design: Developing Your Profile Broadening your knowledge of the variety of career pathways open to you enables you to identify, analyse, and showcase your degree skills and experiences effectively.
Through completing and reflecting on problem-based tasks relating to different sectors, such as telling the story of a business, or writing a funding proposal to support a gaming festival, you will build and refine your creative and collaborative skills and learn how to articulate them in ways that will be attractive to employers.
Computer Game Development This module equips students with the skills required to implement modern text-based or 2D computer games by using an appropriate computer programming language.
The process of creating a computer game will be broken down into subsystems, such as audio, graphics, user interaction, parallelism, networking, and AI.
Students will be taught modern principles used in computer game design and implementation used in the real world.
They will demonstrate their knowledge through the creation of two simple games during the module.
Level 5 Module Rules: Game Design SH students must take all compulsory modules and either ‘Professional Experience for Game Design (Year 2)’ or ‘Pathways with Game Design: Developing Your Profile’.
To reach the 120 credits needed to complete Level 5, students can take an additional optional module, take a part in Global Challenge Pathways or take a language module.
Creative Game Design Project This module lets you apply your skills to create an industry-standard game design product.
Working in a small team, you'll use our game studios and labs to bring your project to life.
You'll have the freedom to shape your game design project, negotiating its nature with your module leader.
You will create a brief outlining your project's goals and end with a reflective commentary on your techniques and methodologies.
You will showcase your talents and collaborate to create something impressive.
User Experience and Interactive Design In this module, you'll explore the relationship between computers and users, focusing on enhancing player experience through usability.
You will produce a player-centred game design using appropriate testing techniques and stay updated on UX practices.
You will also investigate how visual and audio communication, user actions, strategic design, and the illusion of motion contribute to interactive technologies.
You will apply UX and interactive design (IxD) principles to game design, refining your skills to create player-focused, immersive gaming experiences.
Game Enterprise, Marketing and Monetisation In this module, you'll gain a deep understanding of corporate practices within both large enterprises and small business game companies.
It's a journey that broadens your perspective on the entire game industry, from crafting exceptional games to building successful video game businesses.
You'll dig into monetisation and marketing strategies, including in-game advertising, purchases, and subscriptions.
Additionally, you will acquire advanced knowledge in diversifying revenue streams and implementing a balanced player acquisition mix.
Professional Experience for Game Design (Year 3) In your final year we offer you another opportunity to complete a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of clients), or work as part of a team to deliver a successful gaming event.
Employing Game Design: Putting Your Subject into Practice Now you are preparing for life after graduation, this module enables you to put your degree skills into practice and work with employer-clients on a series of real-life projects.
Enhancing the creative and collaborative skills you developed on ‘Pathways with Game design, ‘Employing Game Design’ will train you to work effectively with clients from a variety of settings, including businesses, media, and educational institutions, and will give you the opportunity to present your work to your chosen employer-client.
Programming for Virtual Worlds This module teaches students the skills to create their very own simple 3d game, incorporating many ideas seen on other modules of their degree.
Students will be introduced to game creation with a modern graphics engine, and they will be introduced to cutting-edge topics used in the computer games industry.
Level 6 Module Rules: Game Design SH students must take all 30-credit compulsory modules and either ‘Professional Experience for Game Design (Year 3)’ or ‘Employing Game Design: Putting Your Subject into Practice’.
To reach the 120 credits needed to complete Level 6, students can take an additional optional module, take a part in Global Challenge Pathways or take a language module.
Facilities in our media building include specialist editing suites which are open for you to apply and challenge your practical and theoretical learning.
You will also have access to the photographic studio, screening room featuring a small cinema and our Apple Mac labs.
The computing suite, named after its sponsor Overclockers UK which provided 24 high-spec gaming PCs, may be used by you during lectures, and available exclusively to Keele Esports Society members in the evenings as a training facility.
The computer specifications are:
This is our singer user studio which is great for you to develop your audio visual work, recording and surround mixing.
Here you will be able to access our large format inline analogue console with out quality outboard and patch bay.
The recording studio live room has Disklavier piano, drum kit, bass/guitar rigs and a range of top synthesisers and microphones.
Computer science modules will be taught in our lecture theatres, teaching rooms and computer labs which include networked PCs using Windows and GNU/Linus operating systems and supported software.
The UK video games industry is the one of the largest in the world, vitally important economically and culturally.
Games are among the UK’s most valuable and fastest-growing forms of entertainment media.
This course will equip you with the creative and technical skills to prepare you for a range of careers, whether that is in the gaming sector, the wider creative industries, or beyond.
You will graduate with a portfolio of creative work with which you can showcase your distinctive skills and experiences to prospective employers and investors.
As well as the subject-specific capabilities, you will hone transferable skills including collaboration, problem solving, critical thinking, and communicating complex material to a range of audiences.
The experiential and work-based learning embedded in the programme – as well as our dedicated Careers and Employability Service – will support you to develop your professionalism.
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods, which may depend on the module subject or level.
All teaching is research-led and we encourage social learning in sessions which might include:
Assessing your progress on the course is undertaken through different methods of assessment that will recognise the skills and knowledge you will have developed on the programme.
These methods may include:
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) Game Design with Foundation Year (W292) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/geographyhuman:
Are you curious about the human world and the different ways we inhabit our planet?
Explore the dynamics of human behaviour, social inequalities, and global challenges in our Geography (Human) BSc programme.
Our contemporary curriculum offers hands-on experience that is essential for your career progression, featuring engaging projects in our laboratories, immersive fieldwork, and valuable industry placements.
By the time you graduate you’ll have a robust portfolio of skills, opening doors to exciting careers such as geospatial data analyst, international development worker, or town planner.
Develop your understanding of human geography and explore the fascinating relationship between people, place and the environment on our Geography (Human) BSc.
Study key topics such as globalisation, sustainable development and social and spatial justice.
Acquire robust research skills, and develop the essential practical skills required by future employers.
Our programme has been designed to provide you with a solid grounding in human geography during year one, laying the foundation for advanced study in years two and three.
Studying human geography will develop your understanding of human societies, their culture and how they interact with the environment.
You will cover key topics including how people and communities organise space and place, understand the main geographical issues at local, regional and global scales, evaluate key environmental, ecological, and sustainability issues society faces, develop knowledge around sustainable development principles, learn about how humans impact on natural systems, and engage with contemporary research to broaden your expertise.
A major part of the curriculum is the practical application of geography.
You will gain professional skills using digital, statistical and laboratory-based methods for collecting and analysing geographical data in our state-of-the-art Central Science Labs .
Through different field courses in the local area, across the UK and optional international activities, you’ll gain hands-on experience in applying these techniques, and develop key technical skills using specialist software such as Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and remote sensing.
Plus, Keele’s 600-acre campus serves as a ‘living laboratory’, offering opportunities to study geographical features, ecosystems, and sustainability initiatives right on our doorstep, further preparing you to succeed in your future career.
Fieldwork opportunities are integrated into our programme and immerse you in real-world situations.
They allow you to apply both theoretical knowledge and practical skills while providing essential hands-on experience and developing and refining the skills required for a career in the industry.
Activities include day field courses where you can practice key research and fieldwork skills, with trips to places such as the Trentham Estate to investigate issues surrounding land use and tourism, or exploring ‘contested landscapes’ of the Lake District.
You’ll also have the option to undertake an international field trip to further enhance your skills, our current location is the French Alps.
We will evaluate some of the main environmental, ecological, and sustainability problems that society faces and how can we address them,  and develop reflective practice skills to support learning.
Human and Physical Geographies for a Changing World This module explores the heart of Geography, connecting Human and Physical topics to help you achieve a detailed understanding of our increasingly complex world.
Geography is an integrative subject, and we combine the study of landscape, climate change, and natural hazards with topics such as social exclusion, modernization, identity politics and (counter-) urbanisation.
Practices of conservation practices have emerged to safeguard the parts of the natural world we particularly value.
However, But our ideas about nature are often multiple and contradictory; and discussions about our duties to nature often disguise deeper claims about economic benefits and social equity.
This module engages with interdisciplinary ideas about nature focusing with focus on approaches to conservation approaches in policy and practice.
Lake District Field Course The Lake District course provides you with hands-on experience in one of the UK's most iconic landscapes.
This module involves a weeklong residential, intensive field study focusing on the region's unique physical geography, ecology, culture and built environment.
GIS and Remote Sensing Geographical Information Systems and remote sensing are essential tools and techniques for spatial data analysis and visualization.
Space and Society Studying space and society explores the conceptual frameworks and ideas that shape our understanding of human activities and spatial relationships.
In this module you will engage with foundational texts and contemporary research to enhance your understanding of key theories and the value of theory in making sense of the social world.
Emphasis is placed on critical thinking and the application of theory to real-world geographic issues.
These include identity politics, the regulation of space and mobility and social exclusion.
Making Better Worlds In making better worlds you will interrogate the theories and practices aimed at creating a more equitable and sustainable world.
Key topics include environmental sustainability, social justice and civil rights.
You will explore historical and contemporary movements for change, the role of technology in societal improvement, the benefits of volunteering and the impact of protests and grassroots initiatives.
Through critical discussions of case studies, you will develop practical skills and visionary thinking necessary for fostering positive global transformation.
Social Design Social Design is an interdisciplinary module exploring the interplay between societal structures, human behaviour, and crime, this module equips you with the knowledge and skills to critically analyse, design, and implement interventions that foster safer and more inclusive communities.
Independent Research Dissertation For the capstone research dissertation you will conduct independent research on a topic of your own choice within your field of study.
Completing the dissertation allows you to demonstrate your expertise, contribute to subject knowledge, and prepare for professional careers or post-graduate study
International Geographical Field Course This international field course gives you the opportunity to put your learning into practice in an international setting.
Sustainability in the Global South This module provides you with an in-depth, critical understanding of key debates on global sustainability.
You will explore poverty, climate change adaptation, development aid, decolonisation, gendered vulnerabilities, and marginalised or Indigenous knowledges.
You will learn how capitalism, race, power, and the legacies of colonialism and empire shape today’s economies, societies and cultures.
And you will assess ‘what works’ in enhancing agency among people from the Global South to meet the Sustainable Development Goals.
Social and Spatial Justice Learn to identify and address injustices in various geographic contexts, through case studies and critical discussions.
Case studies will include health inequalities, migration and mobility, and spatial and social justice in rural communities.
A common theme across all case studies is the impact of anthropogenic climate change and deep-rooted inequalities for social and spatial justice.
Emphasis is placed on developing your analytical skills to propose solutions for promoting fairer and more sustainable societies.
Inspirational Landscapes Landscapes inspire us in many ways.
Described by Geographical Magazine as one of the UK’s most interesting and unique modules, Inspirational Landscapes is about how we each look differently at the world around us to create our own personal geographies.
Connecting landscape to human creativity, the module lets you “do geography” to an enthusiasm or hobby of your own.
You choose your assessment topic based on something you love, be that music, mountaineering, cinema or online gaming...
Whatever inspires you!
Blue Economy: Sustainable futures with an Ocean Focus Growing interest in ocean and coastal development needs collaboration because marine spaces and ecosystems are interconnected.
Sustainable Futures Consultancy, Flexible Work Placement (level 6) and  Professional Experience in Education are barred combinations.
Keele is located in an area full of fascinating human and physical geography where you can study the interaction of people and the natural environment.
In a rural setting, we are well placed for excursions into the fluvial countryside of Staffordshire, Shropshire, Cheshire, the Coast of North Wales and the Lake District.
Situated on the drainage divide between the Irish Sea and the North Sea, we are in an area of glacial deposits left behind by the last British Ice Sheet.
Evidence of glaciers, glacial lakes and meltwater floods is still clear in our local landscape.
Plus, we are closely situated to the historic industrial area of the North Staffordshire Potteries, and the Apedale heritage area, which combines some of England’s oldest industrial history with some of its most current environmental initiatives.
Employers seek to recruit individuals with high-level knowledge and skills in geography who also understand the workplace.
In between years two and three of your degree, you can choose to spend a semester or year studying abroad.
"Studying geography gave me a wide range of knowledge and skills.
From the benefits to businesses to green their operations, employment opportunities in the field of sustainability and the implications of economic developments on the natural environment - sustainability modules are embedded throughout our programme.
Joining a society related to geography is a great opportunity to continue to develop your skills away from your studies.
A degree in geography equips you with the tools to tackle the big challenges facing society in the 21st century.
As a geographer, you'll develop a wide range of transferable and subject-specific skills including research design, collection and analysis of spatial data, Geographical Information Systems (GIS), professional writing, coding, and proficiency in statistical techniques.
These skills are highly valued by employers and are relevant to a broad range of careers.
They also provide ideal training for postgraduate study and research.
Our personalised learning environment ensures that you will feel like part of a community here at Keele.
You will be taught by world-leading researchers in their fields, allowing you to learn from expert geographers.
Class sizes are smaller compared to other institutions, and you will find that the staff are friendly, accessible, and supportive.
Without traditional exams, you will be assessed through various methods that reflect the breadth of skills and knowledge you will acquire in this programme.
Many of your assessments will directly reflect skills that you might later use in employment, and in some modules, you will be able to choose the style of your assessment.
Assessment methods range from essays, literature reviews, dissertations, reflective diaries and field notebooks, to laboratory reports, podcasts, placements, class tests, posters, presentations, research proposals and other projects.
During your studies you will learn about and have the opportunity to use our fleet of drones while working on research projects.
In addition to the CSL resources, the school has additional dedicated space with facilities that students can access to complete their own project work, including facilities for water, sediment and ice analysis.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Geography degree.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) Geography with Foundation Year (UCAS code F703) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/geographyhumanandphysical:
Humans share a unique and complex relationship with nature.
Explore this fascinating dynamic with our Geography (Human and Physical) BSc and gain a deep understanding of Earth’s landscapes and environments while discovering how human societies connect with the natural world.
Engaging in fieldwork, laboratory exercises, and industry work placements will equip you with essential hands-on experience, enabling you to pursue a diverse career in the geography sector such as environmental consultant, science teacher, geospatial data analyst, or logistics manager.
Society faces significant challenges concerning our natural world.
Studying human and physical geography, you will learn a wide range of topics and develop professional knowledge and skills that employers highly value, opening doors to different career opportunities and empowering you to make meaningful contributions to a more sustainable world.
Our programme has been designed to provide you with a solid grounding in human and physical geography during year one, laying the foundation for advanced study in years two and three.
Human geography explores the cultural, economic and social dynamics that shape human interactions with our environment from globilisation to spatial inequalities.
Physical geography examines natural processes and features such as climate change, landforms and ecosystems.
You’ll study diverse topics, providing you with critical skills in spatial analysis, data interpretation and problem-solving.
These include climate change, geomorphology, and the ethical challenges in managing Earth’s resources.
You’ll also examine the rights of indigenous and marginalised communities, explore sustainable use of global water resources, analyse human impact on the environment and engage with contemporary geography research.
You will gain professional skills using digital, statistical and laboratory-based methods for collecting and analysing geographical data in our state-of-the-art Central Science Labs.
Students will also develop report writing skills from case study workshops
However, our ideas about nature are often multiple and contradictory; and discussions about our duties to nature often disguise deeper claims about economic benefits and social equity.
Geographical Information Science and Remote Sensing Geographical Information Systems and remote sensing are essential tools and techniques for spatial data analysis and visualization.
In this module you will  learn to collect, manage, and interpret data from satellite imagery and aerial photography.
Earth’s Changing landscape Glaciers, volcanoes, coastal erosion, floods...
Geoethics and environmental justice In this module you will investigate the ethical dimensions of geosciences and their impact on environmental justice.
Guided by an academic advisor, you will establish research objectives, undertake fieldwork or data collection, and analyze your findings.
Blue Economy: Sustainable Futures with an Ocean Focus Growing interest in ocean and coastal development needs collaboration because marine spaces and ecosystems are interconnected.
Class sizes are smaller compared to other institutions, and you will find that the staff are friendly, accessible, and supportive
Keele's weather station provides valuable data locally and nationally.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the Geography (Human and Physical) degree.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Geography (Human and Physical) with Foundation Year (UCAS code: FL88) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/geographyphysical:
Explore Earth’s diverse landscapes on our Geography (Physical) BSc.
From climate systems and change, to glaciers, floods, rising sea levels and volcanoes, you will study the planet’s processes and systems and tackle real-world problems.
Through hands-on fieldwork, laboratory classes, and work placement opportunities, you’ll develop the practical skills needed for a wide range of careers in geography including cartographer, environmental consultant, or systems developer.
How can understanding geography address some of our planet's major concerns?
Discover how our Geography (Physical) BSc enhances your knowledge of the natural world by focusing on the Earth’s physical processes, systems, and landscapes, while also improving your research skills and developing the essential practical skills that employers seek in professional geographers.
Our programme has been designed to provide you with a solid grounding in physical geography during year one, laying the foundation for advanced study in years two and three.
The curriculum covers a broad range of topics including climate change, geomorphology, hydrology and environmental impact assessment.
You’ll explore how natural landscapes are formed and altered over time by investigating interactions between the atmosphere, lithosphere, hydrosphere and biosphere.
From glacial and coastal environments to the lakes and ecosystems upon which we rely, you will explore how we can manage and protect natural resources including water and energy.
We will evaluate some of the main environmental, ecological, and sustainability problems that society faces and how can we address them, and develop reflective practice skills to support learning.
Sustainable Futures Consultancy, Flexible Work Placement (level 6) and  Professional Experience in Education are barred combinations
Featuring 80 new polarising microscopes and 20 new low powered microscopes, the CSL allows us to innovate and enhance the teaching experience and supports a highly tailored approach to practical learning.
Our foundation year allows you to develop your critical thinking, academic reading, writing, and communication study skills along with subject-specific knowledge and skills which will be invaluable in your academic studies and beyond.
This foundation year is a two-semester programme that provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Geography degree.
For example, the Advancing Geography, Geology and the Environment module takes the knowledge built-in 'Foundations of Geography, Geology and the Environment' module and applies it to a variety of human interactions, such as exploitation of the Earth’s resources, rural and urban development, monitoring and management of natural hazards, and environmental change.
Course content has been developed in collaboration with degree teaching teams so that by the time you begin Year 1, you will be ready to excel at your studies, as the majority of our foundation year students do.
You can find out more about our foundation year, including information on learning, teaching and assessment methods and further opportunities available to you by visiting our homepage .
The entry grades outlined in this section indicate the likely offer or range of offers that would be made to candidates along with any subject-specific requirements.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Geography with foundation year (UCAS code F800) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/geographywithbusinessmanagement:
Whether you're passionate about creating positive change or fascinated by how the world works, Geography with Business Management at Keele examines the dynamic relationship between global economies and environments.
From industry placements to immersive fieldwork, you will gain practical insights into the application of geographical knowledge in diverse business contexts to pursue careers in environmental consulting, sustainable business development, and more.
Our Geography with Business Management degree integrates the principles of human and physical geography with core business concepts, offering you a multidisciplinary perspective on the interconnectedness of the global economy and the environment.
Human geography explores the cultural, economic and social dynamics that shape human interactions with our environment from globalisation to spatial inequalities.
The first year offers a comprehensive introductory programme designed to build a foundation for advanced knowledge, understanding, and skills for geographers, geologists and environmental scientists.
Your studies will seamlessly blend physical elements like landscapes, climate change, and natural hazards with human aspects including social exclusion, modernisation, identity politics, and urban development patterns.
Alongside these geographical components, you'll explore fundamental business concepts and sustainability practices.
To strengthen your practical skills, you'll engage in hands-on fieldwork experiences—conducting cartographic surveying on campus and participating in four, one-day field courses in Staffordshire.
In the second year, you will delve into key theoretical issues in more depth, gain practical hands-on experience with human geographical research techniques, and apply these skills during a residential field course.
You will also develop your understanding of business processes and organisational performance.
During your final year, you'll embark on an independent research project, crafting a significant dissertation on a topic of your choice.
This capstone project will empower you to set research goals, conduct fieldwork, gather data, and critically analyse your results—showcasing your expertise, and preparing you for professional work or further academic study.
Alongside your research project, you'll develop strategic business thinking by examining key challenges facing organisations within your preferred industry sector.
You will also have the flexibility to personalise your studies by choosing from a variety of optional modules.
Activities include day field courses where you can practice key research and fieldwork skills, with trips to places such as Dovedale in the Peak District.
You will also have the opportunity to take a project-based field trip to further enhance your skills.
Locations for this field trip have included the French Alps, Northern Spain and Iceland.
You will learn about the structure of various business organizations and begin to understand the dynamics of the business world.
The module allows you to think about the implications of different aspects of business functioning in an industry of your choice.
The module allows you to think how people, processes and performance operate in an industry of your choice.
Making Better Worlds In this module your will interrogate the theories and practices aimed at creating a more equitable and sustainable world.
Dissertation For the capstone Dissertation project you will conduct independent research on a topic of your own choice within your field of study.
Completing the dissertation allows you to demonstrate your expertise, contribute to subject knowledge, and prepare for professional careers or postgraduate study.
Strategic Business Insights: Innovating and Competing This advanced module focuses on strategic thinking and decision-making within the business environment.
The module allows you to focus on strategic challenges facing organisations in an industry of your choice.
Keele Business School is at the heart of the Keele University Science & Innovation Park, one of the leading developments of its kind in the UK.
Joining a society related to business or geography is a great opportunity to continue to develop your skills away from your studies.
Geography with Business Management at Keele connects geographical understanding with business expertise - preparing you to excel as a leader, make informed decisions, and drive meaningful change in today's dynamic global environment.
Showing some of the work I had done at Keele, especially my dissertation, played a key role in getting a job with a company that I am really interested in.
The degree made sure I had a lot of transferable skills including report writing, analytical skills and crucial time management, as well as knowing how to write an effective CV and job application in the first place.
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Geography and Business Management BSc, tailored to the module theme and level.
These methods may include interactive lectures, field courses, practical classes, project work, seminars, group presentations and workshops, directed reading and independent study, a research dissertation, individual and small-group consultancy projects and engaging in web-based learning via Keele’s virtual learning environment (KLE).
Assessment methods range from essays, literature reviews, dissertations, reflective diaries and field notebooks, to podcasts, placements, class tests, posters, presentations, research proposals and other projects.
Our Central Sciences Laboratory facility enables us to rethink the way our science subjects are taught with transformational teaching in a space designed to encourage and enable collaborative and interdisciplinary working.
Our combined honours Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Business Management and Geography degree.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Geography with Business Management with Foundation Year (UCAS code: LN73) through UCAS at www.ucas.com.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/geology:
Are you fascinated by science and keen to understand how our planet works?
How did the Earth form?
How does our planet function and support life?
What can we do to protect its future?
Discover the answers, develop your own solutions, and explore Earth’s amazing journey with our innovative Geology BSc.
Gain the practical, hands-on skills you’ll need as a highly sought-after geologist through fieldwork, laboratory projects, and industry work placement options, enabling you to thrive in a career such as geological engineer, geochemist, or geotechnician.
Your journey towards making a global impact starts here.
Earth, our complex and fascinating planet, is facing serious environmental challenges, creating high demand for geologists who understand issues like carbon neutral energy sources and sustainable methods of resource extraction.
Our Geology degree will develop your geology knowledge and skills, empowering you to address these matters, and secure a promising future with excellent career prospects.
Never studied Geology before?
We've designed this programme to provide you with a solid grounding in the subject during year one, laying the foundation for advanced study in years two and three.
Geology explores Earth’s origins, the evolution of life, and the exploration, extraction, and management of its natural resources.
As an interdisciplinary subject, it draws on geography, environmental science, chemistry, biology, and physics.
You will develop an understanding of Earth’s and other planets' structures and identify the physical, chemical, and biological processes occurring deep beneath our feet.
We place a strong emphasis on developing practical skills, equipping you with the methods and techniques needed for future employment.
You will gain hands-on experience using equipment, samples, and digital resources in our state-of-the-art Central Science Labs while gathering, analysing, and interpreting your own research data through residential and one-day field courses.
There are study abroad and work placement options, and Keele’s campus serves as a ‘living laboratory’ with 600 acres of natural environment for fieldwork.
Fieldwork opportunities in our programmes immerse you in real-world situations, allowing you to apply both theoretical knowledge and practical skills while gaining essential hands-on experience.
Past students have participated in field courses across the UK in Pembrokeshire, the Peak District, Snowdonia, and Mull in Western Scotland, as well as international locations like Almeria in Spain and southern Italy.
Activities may range from designing and interpreting near-surface geophysical surveys, mapping and classifying geological structures, studying various rock types and their formations, and utilising Geographical Information Systems (GIS) and remote sensing techniques to visualise and analyse geoscience data.
This programme is accredited by the Geological Society of London.
Accreditation means our course provides you with the opportunity to gain the core skills necessary to continue to a career as a professional geologist.
It also ensures programme content remains relevant to the latest developments in the sector.
Academic, Fieldwork and Professional Skills This module will introduce you to the essential skills required of Geographers, Geologists and Environmental Scientists.
To introduce these skills to you we will explore our ‘living lab’ campus and take you on a series of four, one-day field courses in Staffordshire and Shropshire.
The module will help you develop your own academic and professional practice, providing you with the foundations for not only completing your degree successfully, but helping you think about future study or employment.
Earth Structure In this module you will learn about geological structures, materials and processes ranging in scale from smaller than individual atoms to larger than planets.
Lectures introduce the Earth as a planet, the geology of the Earth's Moon, the terrestrial planets and the moons of the gas giant planets in our solar system.
They also introduce geological processes such as plate tectonics and how these processes relate to geological structures.
Practical workshops and a local field course place emphasis on the development of essential geological skills, including the writing of geological technical reports and the accurate description and classification of geological structures, as well as their recognition and recording on geological maps.
Minerals and Rocks Rocks and minerals record the Earth’s history.
The detailed study of them allows us to not only reconstruct this history, but also interpret what may happen to our planet in the future.
This module develops your understanding of description, classification and interpretation of solid Earth materials by examining these in hand specimen and up close using a petrological microscope.
An emphasis is placed on the development of  accurate description of minerals as well as igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic rocks, including their proportions and inter-relationships, and the recognition and petrographic and textural description of rocks.
Earth and Life Through Time In this module, you'll explore the basics of geological time and learn about the history of life and evolution, the changing climate, and shifting tectonic plates.
You'll become familiar with the terminology, classification, and interpretation of major fossil groups, and understand how fossils help us date rocks and determine their formation environments.
A residential field course will teach you how to collect and document geological information in the field, essential geoscience skills you'll develop throughout your degree.
Geoscience Data Interpretation, Analysis and Visualisation You will learn a variety of digital techniques for the acquisition, interpretation, analysis and visualisation of geological and geophysical data, including the use of Geographical Information Systems (GIS) to integrate spatial geological data as well as digital techniques and specialist software applications for the acquisition and interpretation of field data.
You will also learn how to use remote sensing techniques to enhance satellite images for geological interpretation.
The module also introduces Python programming for geoscientists.
The Earth System You will learn about the Earth’s major systems, including the solid earth (geosphere), biosphere, hydrosphere and atmosphere, and how they integrate in terms of physical, geochemical and environmental processes.
You will also appreciate some of the anthropogenic causes of global environmental change in the context of the sustainable future of planet Earth.
You will gain useful experience of a range of employability skills within a geoscience context.
You will examine regional case studies, engage with local sustainability initiatives and learn about these activities build on Staffordshire's rich geology, geography and history.
Geological Field Skills This module combines field skills with structural geology, geophysics, GIS, surveying, and lab-based data analysis.
You will learn to plan field projects, including logistics, health and safety, and data review, using tools like Google Earth and satellite data.
Emphasising fieldwork, and including a residential field course, the module teaches core field skills and modern digital lab methods such as GIS and 3D modelling.
This prepares students for independent research and meets the needs of employers and funders in geology.
Igneous and Metamorphic Petrology This module provides you the chance to apply geochemistry and experimental systems to understand igneous rock suites and their global formation processes.
Learn isotopic techniques for identifying magma sources and age dating.
Study metamorphic rocks in detail, focusing on how initial composition, fluid migration, and temperature and pressure variations influence their mineral assemblages.
Palaeoclimatology and Quaternary Studies You will study Quaternary deposits and how they can be interpreted to understand the processes that caused their formation, as well as understanding their use as indicators of palaeoclimatic and palaeoenvironmental conditions.
You will also learn about the occurrence, evidence for and causes of climate change over geological time.
A field excursion will provide understanding of how surface processes have affected landscape development during the Quaternary as well as covering a variety of field techniques for identifying and mapping superficial deposits.
Reconstructing Past Sedimentary Environments How do we reconstruct ancient sedimentary environments using rocks and their modern equivalents?
You'll learn sedimentological and stratigraphical methods, facies analysis, and techniques for studying sedimentology and stratigraphy.
The module covers various sedimentary environments and their rock record relationships.
Skills gained include sedimentary logging, rock succession interpretation, report writing, teamwork, problem-solving.
The module includes local fieldwork.
Geochemistry This module will provide a broad introduction to the principles, applications and analytical techniques used in geochemistry.
You will learn through theoretical and practical examples of the use of geochemistry in the geological sciences through problem-based practicals.
You will use geochemical equipment in our geochemistry lab, providing you with experience of techniques relevant to academia and industry.
Earths Changing Landscape Glaciers, volcanoes, coastal erosion, floods...
Geoscience: Independent Field Project This module enhances skills from across the programme, guiding students through an independent field-based geological mapping investigation.
Covering project formulation, research design, data collection, analysis, interpretation, and report production, it includes several weeks of independent geological fieldwork during the summer before the final year.
Completing this module will equip you with important subject-specific and general skills essential for geoscience careers or academic research, providing comprehensive hands-on experience and practical expertise in the field.
Volcanic and Magmatic Processes Experience volcanic and magmatic processes first hand with this exciting module, featuring a field course that has previously been to renowned volcanology sites like Southern Italy, Santorini, Greece and Germany.
Investigate igneous and volcaniclastic rocks, physical volcanology, petrology, geochemistry, volcanic hazards, and risks.
Depending on the location, explore volcano tectonics, archaeology, global environmental change, and economic geology.
Prepare with practical workshops before embarking on an immersive field course, gaining invaluable hands-on experience essential for a career in geoscience.
Advanced Geological Field Techniques This module will provide you with the opportunity to study igneous and metamorphic rocks in the field.
In addition, consideration of petrological processes and emphasis on aspects of structural geology will provide you with an understanding of magma emplacement, orogen construction and terrane accretion in the context of the crustal evolution of a major geological terrain un the UK.
You will further develop geological fieldwork skills, as well as employability skills, that are essential for a career as a professional geoscientist.
Applied GIS This module with provide you with the broader context of GIS applications to address a range of real-world societal and environmental issues within human and physical geography, geology and environmental sciences.
You will not only gain essential skills in acquiring, analysing, and displaying spatial data but also explore how GIS can be integrated with environmental impact assessment and be used to support decision-making.
Engineering and Applied Geology This module explores key concepts in geotechnical engineering, including the physical and engineering properties of soil and rock.
It covers geotechnical and geo-environmental sub-surface hazards, focusing on both anthropogenic and natural subsidence.
The study of hydrogeology is integrated, emphasizing groundwater flow and its effects on stability.
Practical skills in site investigation, slope stability assessment, and ground engineering are developed using our campus as a site for investigation.
Structures, sub-surface processes and programming In this module you will learn how geological basins and reservoirs, and their related geological resources, form.
Geological reservoirs are a vital source of water, minerals and geothermal energy.
This module covers a range of large-scale geological processes including advanced sedimentology, stratigraphy, geodynamics, structures, fluid flow and geophysics.
You will develop modelling and programming skills and gain vital experience needed in many geoscience career paths.
Extractive resources and Critical Minerals In this module, you'll explore ore geology and geological resources, focusing on the geological processes that form these resources and the methods for their exploration, extraction and management.
You'll also examine energy resources, including fossil fuels and renewables like wind, solar, geothermal, and hydropower.
Gain insights into the environmental and societal impacts of resource extraction, and understand the challenges and opportunities for sustainable and responsible extraction of natural resources.
A work placement year between years two and three of your degree is a fantastic way to gain industry experience, helping you stand out in the competitive job market.
Employers seek to recruit individuals with high-level knowledge and skills in geology who also understand the workplace.
Placements provide insight into working in a specific area of the industry, allowing you to familiarise yourself with the professional environment, develop your networks, and apply the theory you’ve been learning.
This exciting opportunity will enable you to understand your field from different cultural perspectives and to establish international networks.
In 2021 we were awarded the prestigious title of Global Sustainability Institution of the Year (International Green Gown Awards).
Our geology courses are strongly aligned to the role of geoscience in the UN's Sustainable Development Goals.
Geoscientists play a crucial role in tackling global challenges and supporting the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) and the Paris Agreement.
Geology graduates are in high demand for their sub-surface knowledge and geoscientific skills, essential for addressing these goals and climate agreements.
Upon graduating, you will possess a strong set of transferable skills applicable to various sectors, including energy, environmental, engineering, education, and consultancy.
To become a professional geologist, you will need to gain professional experience after earning your degree and then apply for Chartered Geologist (CGeol) status.
Your accredited degree can give you a head start by reducing the required years of experience for chartered status.
Studying geology at degree level can lead to a job as a:
On our Geology BSc, we use diverse teaching and learning methods tailored to each module's subject matter and level.
These are delivered in a supportive manner, fostering your independence as you develop as a geologist.
Teaching methods may include lectures, workshops, practical classes, field courses, individual progress meetings, directed reading, group presentations and discussions, independent study, project work, and engaging with web-based learning through Keele's virtual learning environment (KLE) and other digital platforms.
Without traditional exams, you will be assessed through various methods that reflect the breadth of skills and knowledge you will acquire in this program.
These methods may include technical reports that demonstrate your research and presentation skills and your ability to communicate ideas clearly and concisely in formats used in the geological industry.
You will produce structured proformas and full laboratory reports based on your work in the geological laboratory, showcasing your practical and analytical skills.
Class tests will be conducted in the geological laboratory or via the Keele Learning Environment (KLE), and your understanding of geological features found in the field will be assessed through items such as your field notebook, field sketches, geological logs, and maps.
Oral and poster presentations and reports will assess your subject knowledge and your ability to work as part of a team.
Literature syntheses will test your ability to analyse other scholars’ work and create a portfolio of different pieces of work demonstrating your subject knowledge.
Additionally, you will have the opportunity to explore an area of particular interest through a focused research project in your dissertation.
Other facilities include:
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Geology degree.
FYO-00362
Foundations in Scientific Practice
FYO-00386
Foundations in Ecosystems and Biodiversity
FYO-00195
Advancing Geography, Geology and the Environment
FYO-00364
Advancing Scientific Practice
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Geology with Foundation Year (UCAS code F603) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/geologyappliedgeophysics:
Are you curious about how the planet works?
Do you have a passion for science?
Our Geology (Applied Geophysics) BSc will provide you with a contemporary education in geology, with a specialist focus on applied geophysics techniques.
You’ll develop practical skills and experience through fieldwork and laboratory assignments and benefit from industry work placement opportunities to boost your employability.
Geology graduates are highly employable and can embark on careers such as geochemists, geophysicists and seismologists.
Harness your enthusiasm for science and learn the skills to tackle some of society's biggest environmental challenges.
Keele’s Geology (Applied Geophysics) BSc programme develops your fundamental geology knowledge and skills while allowing you to gain in-depth expertise in applied geophysics techniques and their practical applications.
This prepares you for a dynamic career as a geologist, a profession that is in high demand.
Your geology studies will include exploring the Earth’s origins, the evolution of life, and the exploration, extraction, and management of its natural resources.
You will develop an understanding of Earth’s and other planets' structures and explore the physical, chemical, and biological processes occurring deep beneath our feet.
The Applied Geophysics elements of the programme will focus on areas such as developing skills in geophysical research, examining the use of geophysics in geotechnics, ground engineering, geoforensics and environmental monitoring.
From our lake system and extensive woodlands to the mining and industrial heritage of the local area, we offer opportunities to study in an authentic environment while practicing sustainability preparing you to thrive in your future career.
Emphasising fieldwork, and including a residential field course, the module teaches core field skills and modern digital lab methods such as GIS and 3D modeling.
Near-Surface Geophysics The fundamental principles, applications and issues of near-surface site problems and their potential geophysical field solutions will be developed.
Field-based practical classes will develop an understanding of near-surface geophysical exploration techniques, with associated laboratory elements of data processing and interpretation that will aid your understanding of practical solutions.
Geophysical tendering of commercial jobs will also be introduced.
Frontiers in Applied Geophysics You will explore “cutting-edge” research literature on applied geophysics, critically evaluating these articles in terms of their strengths, weaknesses and significance for both the discipline and society.
By the end of the module, you will have further developed your research skills, have acquired in-depth knowledge of applied geophysics topics at the forefront of the discipline, have acquired the necessary skills to design and produce a web site to a professional standard and have further developed your scientific communication skills.
You will not only gain essential skills in acquiring, analyzing, and displaying spatial data but also explore how GIS can be integrated with environmental impact assessment and be used to support decision-making.
This means the content within our modules aims to educate to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all.
In 2021, Keele were awarded the prestigious title of Global Sustainability Institution of the Year (International Green Gown Awards).
Studying our Geology (Applied Geophysics) BSc could lead to careers as a:
On our Geology (Applied Geophysics) BSc, we use diverse teaching and learning methods tailored to each module's subject matter and level.
Keele's weather station provides valuable data locally, nationally and for teaching and research in the School.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Geology (Applied Geophysics) degree.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Geology with Foundation Year (UCAS code F603) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/geologyenvironmentalgeoscience:
Do you love science and have an inquisitive mind about how our planet works?
Gain a strong foundation in geology with an emphasis on environmental geoscience on our contemporary Geology (Environmental Geoscience) BSc.
You will acquire specialist hands-on experience through field and laboratory work, as well as industry work placement opportunities.
Geology is a profession in great demand, and upon graduation, you will have the potential to enjoy successful careers ranging from environmental geochemist and geological engineer to hydrologist and exploration geologist.
Our world is facing a huge environmental threat, and we need solutions to counter the rapid impact of humans on the planet.
Gain the skills needed to meet this challenge on our Geology (Environmental Geoscience) BSc.
You will acquire a broad understanding of geology and gain a comprehensive insight into human interactions with the Earth’s environment.
We've designed this programme to provide you with a solid grounding in the subject during your year one, laying the foundation for advanced study in years two and three.
Your geology studies will include exploring Earth’s origins, the evolution of life, and the exploration, extraction, and management of its natural resources.
This environmental geoscience pathway will deepen your scientific understanding of key topics, including how humans affect our planet and biosphere: from climate change to biodiversity loss, the sustainable use of resources, and the practical skills needed for robust sample collection and processing.
From our lake system and extensive woodlands to the mining and industrial heritage of the local area, we offer opportunities to study geology in an authentic environment while practicing sustainability, preparing you to thrive in your future career.
Human Impacts on the Environment, Scientific Perspectives Humans impact processes, conditions and components of our planet and biosphere on global, regional and local scales.
Scientific understanding is key to manage these for better environmental and human well-being.
We cover issues from climate change and circular economy futures to concerns including pollution, biodiversity loss, and ocean health.
Students produce an essay outlining the context of human impacts and then evaluate in a literature review the scientific debates and consensus for strategies to manage key examples.
Environmental Analytical Methods Environmental investigations and monitoring activities require robust sample collection and processing procedures plus accurate laboratory analytical techniques.
This module provides hands-on practical experience and theoretical understanding of experimental design, sampling strategies, sample processing and preservation, use of analytical instruments to characterise environmental media (e.g.
Frontiers in Environmental Geosciences You will explore "cutting-edge" research literature on environmental geoscience, critically evaluating these articles in terms of their strengths, weaknesses and significance for both the discipline and society.
By the end of the module, you will have further developed your research skills, have acquired in-depth knowledge of environmental geoscience topics at the forefront of the discipline, have acquired the necessary skills to design and produce a web site to a professional standard and have further developed your scientific communication skills.
This exciting opportunity enable you to understand your field from different cultural perspectives and to establish international networks.
Studying our Geology (Environmental Geoscience) BSc could lead to careers as a:
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Geology (Environmental Geoscience) degree.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/geologyvolcanology:
Volcanology – the study of one of the Earth's most dynamic processes.
From climate change to natural hazards, our Geology (Volcanology) BSc allows you to explore and understand the Earth’s fascinating history.
Our modern programme focuses on developing your practical skills through fieldwork and laboratory scenarios, as well as enhancing your employability by offering the opportunity to spend a year working in industry.
These essential skills will prepare you for highly valued careers in geology, including volcanologist, seismologist, or geological surveyor.
Delve into the inner workings of volcanoes and gain the geological skills to address some of our planet’s major environmental issues.
Our Geology (Volcanology) degree will build your comprehensive geology knowledge and skills and provide an in-depth study of volcanic processes and their effects on society.
When you study geology you will explore Earth’s origins, the evolution of life, and the exploration, extraction, and management of its natural resources.
Our volcanology pathway allows you to study specialist field techniques, equipment and software to understand different volcanic phenomena.
You will explore everything from magma generation deep within the Earth, to the diverse types of volcanic eruptions and the effects of volcanoes on society, ranging from natural hazards to climate change.
Volcanoes and the Environment Volcanoes and the Environment provides you with a systematic and comprehensive understanding of volcanoes and volcanic phenomena, and how volcanism shapes and affects the environment.
During interactive lectures and practical classes, you will acquire and deploy subject-specific skills and modern methods in volcanology to interpret and critically evaluate volcanological data and solve volcanological problems.
Flexible Work Placement (Level 5)
Frontiers in Volcanology You will explore "cutting-edge" research literature on volcanology, critically evaluating these articles in terms of their strengths, weaknesses and significance for both the discipline and society.
By the end of the module, you will have further developed your research skills, have acquired in-depth knowledge of volcanology topics at the forefront of the discipline, have acquired the necessary skills to design and produce a web site to a professional standard and have further developed your scientific communication skills.
Volcanic and Magmatic Processes Experience volcanic and magmatic processes firsthand with this exciting module, featuring a field course that has previously been to renowned volcanology sites like Southern Italy, Santorini, Greece and Germany.
Flexible Work Placement (Level 6)
Professional Experience in Education
Studying our Geology (Volcanology) BSc could lead to careers as a:
On our Geology (Volcanology) BSc, we use diverse teaching and learning methods tailored to each module's subject matter and level.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Geology (Volcanology) degree.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/geologyandphysicalgeography:
Discover the rapidly evolving science at the heart of global environmental change on our Geology and Physical Geography BSc.
You'll explore innovative approaches to understanding the physical and natural world and develop hands-on experience through fieldwork, laboratory activities and industry work placements.
Geology professionals are highly sought after and our programme equips you with the skills to excel in careers including climatologist, exploration geologist, and nature conservation officer.
Are you curious about the world around you and eager to explore different approaches to studying our planet?
As we consume more of Earth’s resources, society needs individuals with geology and physical geography skills to achieve a decarbonised future and more sustainable resource extraction.
Our Geology and Physical Geography BSc offers a balanced programme that incorporates elements from geophysics, meteorology, geomorphology, and environmental science.
Never studied Geology or Physical Geography before?
We've designed this programme to provide you with a solid grounding in both subjects in year one, laying the foundation for advanced study in years two and three.
When you study geology you will explore Earth’s origins, the evolution of life, and the management of natural resources.
This interdisciplinary field combines environmental science, chemistry, biology, and physics, enabling you to understand the structures of Earth and other planets and identify the physical, chemical, and biological processes occurring deep beneath our feet.
Physical geography is vital for understanding pressing issues like population growth, climate change and economic inequality.
You’ll study the processes that shape Earth’s surface, their impact on human lives, and the interactions between climate and landscape.
Accredited status means our course provides you with the opportunity to gain the core skills necessary to continue to a career as a professional geologist.
It also ensures programme content remains relevant to the latest developments in the sector.
Earth System You will learn about the Earth’s major systems, including the solid earth (geosphere), biosphere, hydrosphere and atmosphere, and how they integrate in terms of physical, geochemical and environmental processes.
A residential field course will teach you how to collect and document geological information in the field, essential geoscience skill you'll develop throughout your degree.
Emphasising fieldwork, the module teaches core field skills and modern digital lab methods such as GIS and 3D modelling.
In this module you will learn to collect, manage, and interpret data from satellite imagery and aerial photography.
Reconstructing past environments How do we reconstruct ancient sedimentary environments using rocks and their modern equivalents?
Palaeoclimatology and Quaternary Studies The study of Quaternary deposits and how they can be interpreted allows you to understand the processes that caused their formation, as well as understanding them as indicators of palaeoenvironmental conditions.
The module will also cover the occurrence, evidence for and possible causes of climate change over geological time.
A field excursion will be included to provide an understanding of how surface processes have affected landscape development during the Quaternary and to cover a variety of field techniques for identifying and mapping superficial deposits.
Students may choose to study either Flexible Work Placement (Level 5) OR the Global Challenge Pathway (or neither of them)
Independent Research Dissertation For the capstone research dissertation you will conduct independent research on a topic of your own choice within your field of study.
Structures, Sub-surface Processes In this module you will learn how geological basins and reservoirs, and their related geological resources, form.
Flexible work placement (level 6) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
Professional experience in Education This module gives students interested in pursuing teaching or training as a career the opportunity to gain experience in the world of teaching in schools and colleges.
Students may choose to study ONE (or none) of the following modules: Flexible Work Placement (level 6); Professional Experience in Education; Global Challenge Pathway.
The options you choose should result in 60 credits being studied in SEM 1 and 60 in SEM 2 – in certain circumstances you may wish to take more credits in one semester than the other – please talk to your Academic Mentor if you are considering doing this.
Geology and physical geography graduates are likely to be in high demand.
Our modern society requires increasing amounts of energy, raw materials and other resources of which the vast majority are discovered by geoscientists.
You will graduate with a strong set of transferable skills suited to a range of different sectors including energy, environmental, engineering, education, and consultancy.
To become a professional geologist, you will need to gather professional experience after gaining your degree to then apply for Chartered Geologist (CGeol) status.
Your accredited degree may give you a head-start by reducing the number of years' experience you will need for chartered status.
Studying geology and physical geography at degree level can lead to a variety of jobs.
On our Geology and Physical Geography BSc, we use diverse teaching and learning methods tailored to each module's subject matter and level.
These are delivered in a supportive manner, fostering your independence as you develop as a geoscientist.
These methods may include technical reports that demonstrate your research and presentation skills and your ability to communicate ideas clearly and concisely in formats used in the geoscience industry.
Class tests will be conducted in the geological laboratory or via the Keele Learning Environment (KLE), and your understanding of geological and geographical features found in the field will be assessed through items such as your field notebook, field sketches, geological logs, and maps.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Geology and Physical Geography degree.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Geology and Physical Geography with Foundation Year (UCAS code FF69) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/health-and-social-care:
Are you passionate about driving meaningful change in society and supporting its most vulnerable members?
Do you aspire to develop the skills to lead and work effectively across diverse health and social care settings?
Our Health and Social Care BSc equips you with the knowledge, professionalism and expertise, and practical experience to make a real difference.
You'll be prepared to support service users, collaborate with families, and create positive societal impact, while building a rewarding career that transforms lives.
Discover the core elements of UK and global health and social care, examining the contemporary issues shaping wellbeing and delivery of care.
You’ll develop valuable sector specific skills, preparing you to become a highly employable health and social care professional.
Potential career pathways include non-clinical roles in the NHS, positions in local authorities and youth work, roles in criminal justice advocacy, children’s residential care, and in the private, voluntary, and independent social care sectors.
You will analyse essential health and social care theory and concepts, considering how different political and cultural environments affect equality, diversity and inclusion.
Additional themes include mental health, communicable and non-communicable disease, inequalities, the diverse social factors that can affect health, and the legal and ethical principles that support health and social care practice.
You’ll examine the influence of data and information on the health and social care sector and how evolving digital health innovations and policies are contributing to the health and wellbeing of others.
Your professional and academic skills will be developed through debates and problem-based tasks, while reflective practice activities will encourage you to explore your career aspirations and personal strengths.
Work-based learning opportunities on the programme include a practice-based module and the option to complete a placement year.
These experiences allow you to gain vital professional skills while building leadership and communication expertise.
You'll be equipped to effectively support individuals with their health and wellbeing, understanding the diverse contexts in which they live.
Developing independent learning skills for Health and Social Care This module will help you to transition to university scholarship and provide you with the academic skills required for success on your health and social care programme.
It introduces you to employability and professional skills required for a health and social care degree, through arrange of action focused activities.
You will learn vital academic and professional skills, that will allow you to thrive in the 1st year of your undergraduate studies and throughout your degree and future career.
Introduction to Health and Social Care in Context Health and social care is a complex environment and this first module will introduce you to concepts of health and social care from local, national and global perspectives.
You will investigate current health and social care structures, the impact of health and social care and healthcare inequalities.
You will explore political influences and the social determinants of health suggesting how health and social care outcomes can be improved.
Introduction to Law, Policy and Safeguarding in Health and Social Care Protection of the public is an essential requirement of health and social care.
Your ability to protect and professional advocate for people in health and social care settings is paramount.
This module is key in developing your understanding of relevant laws, policies and responsibilities with regard to your own role in safeguarding those in your care.
It will help you to develop confidence, as you learn to effectively communicate with professionals across the health and social care sector.
Life Course Development in Practice This module will introduce you to biological, psychological and sociological understandings of human development and behaviour, in a national and global context.
You will explore early neurological development and the impact of adverse childhood experiences.
This module introduces you to the theories and methods of promoting personal, social and emotional wellbeing.
During the module you will complete the Oliver McGowan mandatory training.
The module provides you with an opportunity to develop digital and presentation skills and to reflect on your own life experience.
This module will introduce different ways we can think about mental health as well as how we might use psychological approaches to improve mental health and wellbeing, and what challenges mental health research and practice are facing in order to move the field forward.
Lifestyle and Risk Factor Modification This module focuses on the primary theme of modifying/changing behaviour through application of models and principles of behaviour change and the scientific principles based on theory.
You will be taught to recognise the signs of non-adherence and how to select the most appropriate behaviour change model/principles to suit particular population groups (inactive, obese, elderly).
Enabling Health and Wellbeing Increasingly, health and social care practitioners have roles in preventing ill health and promoting concepts of wellness.
This module supports you to identify health and social care needs and develop an understanding of the role of health and social care professionals in supporting individuals, families and communities to improve their health and wellbeing.
It will also support your development if skills to communicate public health messages that are person centred, anti-discriminatory, culturally competent and inclusive.
Working with Others in Health and Social Care This module has a placement centred focus and is directed towards enhancing relevant skills for health and social care, either via an internship or as part of an existing role in health and social care.
You will enhance skills that you have previously developed, consistent with the care certificate in health and social care through simulated scenario’s and during your internship/existing role.
Keele’s careers and employability team will assist you in securing a placement opportunity.
Quality Improvement in Health and Social Care Understanding factors that influence health and social care outcome from a national and global perspective are essential to the delivery of high-quality health and social care.
This module will help you to understand quality improvement frameworks, the influence of literature, policy and data that will enhance health and social care outcomes.
You will explore the role of stakeholders and in particular the role of service users in influencing health and social care outcomes.
Family Community and Personal Life How do we express love, friendship, and community in increasingly diverse social and cultural contexts?
Leadership and Management in Health and Social Care Organisations Working in health and social care is complex, due to the multi-agency nature of the sector.
This module will help you develop your concept of yourself as a leader and critically reflect on the leadership skills required for health and social care.
It will encourage you to think about the challenges leaders face both nationally and globally and the theories that support you to manage change in a diverse, ethical and sustainable way.
The Role of Digital Technologies within Public Health Digital technologies play and increasing role in health and social care and digital applications can assist people in managing their own health and wellbeing.
This module will help you appraise digital technologies nationally and globally and influence of health informatics on communication in health and social care settings, communities and populations.
Influencing Policy and Practice in Health and Social Care (Independent work/experience-based project) This more focuses on supporting you to develop an independent work/experienced based project that contributes to your current or future health and social care working environment.
It offers scope and flexibility for you to a topic area of interest in health and social care practice and to make evidence informed suggestions to improve health and social care under the guidance of your academic supervisor.
Social and Spatial Justice This module draws primarily from qualitative research from disciplines such as Geographies of Health and Wellbeing, Sociology of Health and Illness and other health related disciplines, to encourage you to explore, critically consider and build new research avenues for improving human health in environmentally and socially sustainable ways.
By taking this module, you will have the opportunity to explore your own interests, with guidance from the module leader.
Assessment will be geared towards developing an understanding of how the relationship between health and the environment is researched, analysed and interpreted.
Assessments will support you to think critically about how societies can improve in these areas.
These skills are valued by employers in the civil service; third sector and research.
Offers are subject to Occupational Health clearances and an Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance.
The University follows the DBS Code of Practice in these issues and can provide a copy of the Code on request.
Students with disabilities are entitled to have reasonable adjustments considered in relation to their practice learning.
However, while reasonable adjustments may be made to the way that a student meets a competency or standard, the competency or standard itself cannot be adjusted.
Therefore a decision will need to be made before a student starts a course, and at relevant points within the programme, as to whether they will be able to meet all the competencies of the course, taking into account what reasonable adjustments can be made if for example they have a disability.
You will receive comprehensive support at every stage of this Health and Social Care BSc.
An academic mentor will be assigned to you at the beginning of the programme who is there to review and advise on your academic progress and who acts as a first point of contact for referring you to the wealth of student support services available at Keele.
A Student Experience and Support Team is based within our faculty with a member of the team dedicated to the School of Nursing and Midwifery.
As part of Student Services, they work closely with various teams across Keele so you can easily access the help you need.
Our Health and Social Care BSc equips you with valuable transferable skills to pursue diverse career pathways as a highly employable graduate.
You could work in sectors such as:
Jobs that a graduate of this programme could progress to include:
You will also be well-positioned to engage in further academic studies or apply for national schemes like the NHS Leadership Programme and the UK Government's Fast Stream for the Civil Service.
Postgraduate study opportunities with professional registration include nursing, occupational therapy, physiotherapy or other postgraduate taught subjects.
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods on this programme depending on the subject matter and module level including:
Assessment methods vary on the programme and these reflect the different skills you will have developed during your time studying on the programme.
You will be based in the School of Nursing and Midwifery and have access to our clinical skills laboratories and access to our state of the art simulation facilities in the Darwin building on campus.
Upon meeting the progression criteria and successfully completing our  Foundation Year, you will automatically progress into your Keele undergraduate degree with the confidence that you have the skills, and knowledge needed to successfully complete your course.
This Foundation Year is a is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Social Work.
For example, in the Academic and Professional Development for Health module you will begin to develop an awareness of professional standards that you will be working to in your degree and professional career.
You will gain a greater appreciation of historical and contemporary approaches to health and social care within the UK, considering key health issues and challenges facing health and science services.
We will develop your understanding of  the concept of social inclusion, the factors that lead to exclusion and the impact this may have on individuals, families and communities.
At the same time, you will develop academic and professional standards, attributes, knowledge, skills and values, both as a current learner and future healthcare worker.
UCAS Applications
You should apply for Health and Social Care with Foundation Year
UCAS code: L552
If you are already have your qualifications, are not expecting any further results and only wish to apply to Keele, please contact the Admissions Office directly.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/history:
If you're curious about how the past influences our modern world, want to develop your critical thinking skills, and explore your passion for history in a close-knit community, Keele is the perfect place to start your journey to become a historian.
Our History BA builds a global perspective of how the past has shaped the present through political, social, cultural and economic influences, as well as providing practical experience in industry through placement opportunities.
Become equipped with key skills in analytical thinking, problem solving and effective communication, applicable to a range of careers across policy, education, journalism and beyond.
Embark on an exciting and interactive journey through our History degree at Keele.
You will explore how understandings of the past continue to shape the present, and learn how to apply History to address urgent issues facing the world today.
On this programme, you will delve into influential themes such as gender, religion, revolution and war and how these have affected societies across different time periods and places, from medieval times through to the present day.
The programme is carefully constructed over three years to develop your skills and support you to become the best historian you can be.
In your first year, you will be introduced to chronology; in your second year, you will build on this chronological knowledge to explore themes; in your third year you will apply the knowledge and methods refined over the last two years to specialist case studies and produce your own exciting independent History project.
This will allow you to specialise in an area of your choice, utilising your analytical skills, passion for historical research, and creativity to showcase your individuality and critical thinking.
Throughout your degree, you will have the opportunity to apply your learning to real-world scenarios, whilst also demonstrating your expertise through projects and placements, engaging with industry experts.
With several placement opportunities available, preparation for employability is at the core of our programme.
These placements allow you to work with peers and professionals to deepen your knowledge, gain new skills and refine your creativity.
With industry links, you will benefit from working with clients and employers across various sectors.
At Keele, you can tailor your degree programme based on your future aspirations with the opportunity to take a placement year, study abroad with a partner university, developing global perspectives or learn a foreign language and build your cultural awareness.
This provides a head start in your employment journey, enabling you to develop skills in problem solving, critical analysis and effective communication.
"My time-management and organisational skills were greatly enhanced, I learnt how to work to deadlines and produce attractive, professional quality products.
I would highly recommend any other student considering a placement, both as a confidence booster, as a means of gaining valuable, relevant work experience and transferable skills, together with a real insight into the area of work you may be considering in the future."
Aidan, History
Applied History: Working with the Past (option 1) During this module you will make a personal contribution to the world beyond the University, developing and sharing your research, powers of analysis, and communication skills.
OR Professional Experience with History (Year 2) (option 2) This module offers you the chance to contribute to the world outside the university through completing a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of projects for different clients), or working as a team to deliver a successful festival or event.
Students must take either Applied History: Working with the Past or Professional Experience with History (Year 2)
Final Year History Project Through this final-year independent research project you will showcase the skills that you have developed over the course of your degree, and consolidate the type of Historian you have become.
Through group workshops and individual supervisions you will work closely with a member of the Keele History team to produce either a 10,000-word History dissertation, a digital, public-facing project, or a critical edition.
All routes require you to use advanced skills in historical research, scholarly debate, and primary source analysis.
Applied History: Looking to the future (option 1) This module prepares you for life as a History graduate, as you engage with industry experts from a range of professions.
You will reflect on your Keele journey and consolidate skills acquired in previous Applied History modules, and you will present a poster responding to an industry brief at an end-of-term showcase festival.
OR Professional Experience with History (Year 3) (option 2) In your final year we offer you another opportunity to complete a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of clients), or work as part of a team to deliver a successful festival or event.
Students must take either Applied History: Working with the Past or Professional Experience with History (Year 3)
Students must take either Applied History: Looking to the Future or Professional Experience with History (Year 3).
"My favourite thing about Keele is the amount of opportunities available to students.
I haven’t just come away with a degree, I’ve come away with life experiences that have taught me about myself and others, and these experiences have prepared me for my future career.
I partook in activities and societies and teams that interested me, but there is so much to choose from at Keele."
Katie, History
Opportunities to enhance your employability are at the heart of our History programme and you will have the chance to engage with work placements as part of your degree through modules or an additional work placement year (optional).
Our placement year option between years two and three of your degree programme, provides preparation for employment after university, through hands-on experience.
My role at Elements working with Spotify is great as I get to work alongside the business as a trusted consultant.
I advise and aid the business in building effective teams that truly address their needs and inspire meaningful change.
If I could give any advice to students starting out in their university experience it would be to be open to all opportunities in your first year and do everything.
Charlotte Smith, History with American Studies
History at Keele will prepare you for a wide range of careers that allow you to apply your academic and practical learnings to the workplace, clearly articulating your ideas and suggestions.
Our programme enables you to communicate confidently, problem-solve, work as a team and independently, to demonstrate your creativity and expertise across relevant roles and responsibilities.
Teaching on our History BA is delivered through diverse methods to equip you with the necessary skills to assist you throughout your studies and beyond graduation.
Our programme teaching styles include lectures, group seminars, workshops, online and practical learning which provide the opportunity to apply your knowledge outside of the classroom.
The variety of assessment methods on this programme complement the teaching delivered to allow you to challenge and demonstrate the knowledge and skills you have gained throughout your degree and to communicate information effectively and creatively.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) History degree.
Students apply for BA (Hons) History with Foundation Year ( UCAS code: VV10) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/historyandeducation:
History and Education BA at Keele explores how the past continues to shape the present.
You’ll learn how to apply historical insights to address some of the urgent education issues facing today’s world.
The programme combines academic study in both subjects with hands-on experience in diverse learning environments, from classrooms to community work.
Field trips, guest speakers, school placements, and experiential learning will help you build your portfolio, preparing you for a successful career in education, a broader range of public-facing roles, or further study.
History and Education BA at Keele explores historical chronology and the landscape of schooling and education in the modern world.
You will explore issues including diversity and inclusion, and how government policies often contribute to the disenfranchisement of groups in education.
Analyse how the education system works, and themes such as changes in social mobility and inequality over time.
You will examine these aspects through exposure to a range of exciting ideas and theories from disciplines like sociology, psychology, and philosophy.
In your final year, you will apply the knowledge and skills gained over the course of your degree to specialist case studies and an independent project.
You will explore major global challenges, such as A.I.
and climate change, and examine how history and education can help address them.
This degree equips you with critical and practical skills for a range of careers, including teaching, policy, and public-sector roles, as well as further study.
Wherever your path leads, you will be prepared to make a meaningful impact on society.
Through module selection, you can tailor your degree to your future aspirations and even study abroad at a partner university.
You will develop skills in academic reading, learn to communicate to varied audiences, and begin to explore pre-modern primary source material, which will prepare you for later years of your degree
Students must take ONE of the following professional development modules: 'Applied History: What’s Past is Present' or 'Becoming a Social Scientist'.
Through seminar discussions, you will evaluate debates about whether the treatment of minority groups were independent phenomena or whether Medieval Europe became a ‘persecuting society.
Work Placement for Social Sciences This module introduces you to possible careers for social scientists and links to the work you are doing in your subject core and option modules asking the question ‘how can we mobilise academic study into the real world?’ You will also be encouraged to prepare for placement work that you may pursue and reflecting on your social media footprint; developing your personal/professional brand and digital networking platforms.
Students must take ONE of the following professional development modules: 'Applied History: Working with the Past', 'Professional Experience with History (Year 2)', 'Social Science at Work' or 'Social Sciences Work Placement'.
Either route will require you to use advanced skills in historical research, scholarly debate, and primary source analysis
Education Independent Research Project This module gives students the chance to devise and carry out their own small-scale (8000 word) research project.
Through exploring turbulence and both short-term and far-reaching change, you will develop and consolidate your skills in using primary sources, the evaluation of conflicting arguments, as well as the ability to explain ideas to others
You spend four weeks at one of our partner universities taught by Keele staff, shaping your own research project with their support
Social Sciences Work Placement This module is designed to give you the opportunity to contribute to the world beyond  the university.
These issues include the rise of A.I., the increasing need for ‘technological literacy’, the impact of mass migration, and climate change
Students must choose one of the project/dissertation options.
Students must take at least one of the following professional development modules: 'Applied History: Looking to the Future', 'Professional Experience with History (Year 3)', 'Engaged Social Science' or 'Social Sciences Work Placement'.
Whilst many of our students go into teaching, this degree will have prepared you, if you wish, for a broader range of public-facing careers or further study.
The Keele University Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) History and Education degree.
UK students will need to apply for BA (Hons) Education with Foundation Year (UCAS code X3L3) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/humananatomy:
The human body is a masterpiece of biological engineering.
Discover the complexities of human anatomy and develop an in-depth understanding of its structure and functions on Keele’s Human Anatomy BSc.
The programme provides superior insights into clinical applied anatomy, equipping you with essential skills and knowledge for careers in healthcare, education or research.
As an anatomy department with direct, on-site access to an anatomy and surgical training centre, you will benefit from world-class teaching laboratories and hands-on practical experience, including cadaveric dissection.
Are you ready to explore the fascinating world of human anatomy?
Our Human Anatomy degree will prepare you to become a skilled anatomist who has the expertise to succeed in diverse career opportunities in clinical, laboratory, educational or surgical device roles.
You will build a strong foundation in practical experience and theoretical knowledge, enabling you to advance to specialised topics as you progress on the programme.
You’ll have the opportunity to study anatomy in a centre of anatomical excellence with access to Keele’s Anatomy and Surgical Training Centre (KASTC), giving you amazing insights into clinically applied anatomy and the opportunity to learn from highly experienced anatomy academics.
To ensure you have extensive skills and a thorough understanding of human anatomy you will study the human body’s intricate systems and examine anatomical structures and their functions.
You’ll evaluate the history of anatomy and how it has evolved, and investigate how the study of anatomy is built on rigorous scientific techniques.
Gain hands-on experience with human cadavers in practical classes on each year of the programme, enhancing your anatomical knowledge at both the cellular and whole-body levels while developing essential dissection skills.
You’ll investigate the intricacies of microanatomy while gaining hands-on experience in techniques such as specimen preparation.
Study the human nervous system to understand its control by the brain, analyse how humans see, smell, hear, and taste, and examine the key embryological processes that drive human development.
We’ll support your growth as an effective anatomy educator with modules exploring best practices, teaching you how to prepare and deliver teaching sessions for diverse audiences and encouraging innovative thinking to create unique resources for anatomy education.
Your final year research project will refine your research and critical analysis skills, integrating the practical and theoretical knowledge you’ve learnt on the programme.
Academic staff teaching on this programme include nationally renowned anatomy educators who are actively involved in anatomical societies, regularly speak at conferences, and contribute significantly to the broader higher education environment.
Additionally, internationally acclaimed clinical and research experts deliver an extensive range of anatomical and clinical teaching at our state-of-the-art Anatomy and Surgical Training Centre.
Introduction to Anatomical Techniques A diverse range of learning activities will develop students' knowledge of practical research skills and explore how measuring techniques relate to current anatomical research.
Concepts such as embalming and preservation techniques will familiarise students with Keele’s anatomy facilities and resources.
The module provides vital opportunities for discussion around the ethics of donation and use of human material across educational, research and industrial settings.
This module is designed to introduce students to scientific communication skills, formulating their own justification for decision-making.
History of Anatomy This module will serve as a framework for students to explore how different cultures have approached the acquisition of anatomical knowledge.
Students will learn how advancements in this field have considerable influence over modern terminology, scientific practice and legal governance across the world.
Small group facilitator-led tutorials will give students the opportunity to discuss equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) in anatomical sciences and consider present-day actions that could shape the future of contemporary medicine.
Core Anatomy: Introduction to Systems This module will introduce students to appropriate anatomical terminology and to the structure and key functions of the following anatomical systems: cardiovascular, respiratory, lymphatic, nervous, digestive, integumentary, endocrine, urinary, genital, skeletal and muscular systems.
Throughout this module students will learn to recognise and describe various organs and tissues associated with each system, and will integrate anatomy and physiology to explain the dynamic interrelationships between body systems.
Introduction to Functional Microanatomy Laboratory-based practical sessions with light microscopes will develop students' knowledge of the basic concepts and techniques used in histology, including tissue preparation and staining.
During the module, students will examine various cells and tissues found in the body and explore their composition and functions.
This module encourages students to bridge their knowledge of gross (both living and cadaveric) human anatomy with the study of physiology and pathology.
Neuroanatomy A diverse range of practical learning environments will allow students to integrate their understanding of body systems, encountered in ANA-10007, by studying the nervous system at a cellular and macroscopic level.
Elements of critical thinking and appraisal of scientific literature will be introduced to underpin the regional anatomy and clinical concepts that will be explored further in later years of the programme.
Regional Dissection: Trunk and Lower Limb This module will develop students’ understanding of the human body through regional cadaveric dissection.
It will enhance their ability to recognise anatomical structures and integrate the anatomical and physiological principles associated with the lower limb, thoracic, abdominal, and pelvic regions.
This module offers a hands-on approach to learning anatomy, fostering students’ practical dissection and teamwork skills.
It will provide students with an in-depth knowledge of the trunk and lower limb that builds upon their prior learning of systemic anatomy.
Fundamentals of Human Development This module will provide students with a fundamental understanding of human development and how it underpins the study of anatomy.
It will establish student’s ability to recognise early anatomical structures and integrate anatomical and biological principles to explain the developmental processes from fertilisation to birth.
This foundational knowledge will allow students to explore the impacts that disruption to these processes can have on body systems.
Regional Dissection: Head, neck and Upper Limb This module will develop students’ understanding of the human body through regional cadaveric dissection.
It will enhance their ability to recognise anatomical structures and integrate the anatomical and physiological principles associated with the upper limb, head and neck regions.
This module offers a hands-on approach to learning anatomy and will provide students with an in-depth knowledge of body regions while continuing to develop their dissection and teamwork skills further following ANA-20003.
Anatomy Education: Skills Required for Educational Practice This module offers a unique opportunity for students to explore innovative approaches to anatomy teaching in higher education and establish their knowledge of educational pedagogy through a diverse range of teaching and learning activities.
Opportunities to design and deliver teaching sessions for undergraduate science students will equip learners with skills that will be transferable to a wide range of future academic and scientific roles.
Anatomy Education: Implementing Pedagogy The module emphasises the importance of reflective and evidence-based practice for the development of innovative teaching strategies, comprehensive assessment tools, and effective feedback mechanisms.
Unique opportunities for self- and peer-assessment and feedback will ensure students are prepared to adapt to future educational challenges.
This module will serve to develop students' communication, reflection and critical thinking skills, preparing them for a career in the anatomical sciences and its related fields.
Resource Development in Higher Education This module is designed to equip students with the skills and knowledge necessary to create effective and innovative educational resources tailored for anatomy education.
Students will learn to design and produce resources that are accurate, engaging, and pedagogically sound.
Students will also develop their ability to align resources with curriculum goals, assess their effectiveness, and adapt them to diverse learning needs.
This will prepare students to utilise cutting-edge tools to design and evaluate immersive and interactive learning materials.
Advanced Anatomy: Special Senses and Practical Applications This module introduces students to the complex special sensory systems (vision, hearing, taste, smell and balance) and integrates functional anatomy, neuroanatomy, physiology and pathology.
Students will explore the effects of common pathologies of the special senses, enhancing their application of anatomy to practical scenarios.
This module will also provide students with opportunities to consolidate their understanding of other body systems and improve their practical skills, particularly with regards to dissection.
Human Anatomy Final Project This module will allow students to integrate all aspects of their knowledge and understanding from the earlier years of the programme within the framework of a significant research project.
Students will be involved in the design, planning, implementation and writing of a research idea of their choosing.
Aligning with their experiences up to this point, students will have the opportunity to select a research area from a range of choices, including dissection-focused anatomical research, laboratory-based activity and teaching innovation.
For students who require a test, this course requires a result from Group E.
You’ll benefit from dedicated support throughout every stage of the Human Anatomy BSc.
Assigned to you at the beginning of the programme, your academic mentor is there to review and advise you on your academic progress and acts as a first point of contact for signposting you to Keele's extensive student support services.
Various workshops focusing on themes such as reflective writing, appropriate use of AI, scientific writing and practical dissection skills, formative assessment opportunities and structured peer-to-peer learning will also support your advancement on the programme.
A Student Experience and Support Team is based within our faculty with a member of the team dedicated to the School of Medicine.
The Human Anatomy BSc equips you with essential skills to join the next generation of anatomists and clinicians.
This programme can open doors to career opportunities in anatomy, healthcare, and biomedical fields, with your employability further boosted by the option to graduate with an Associate Fellowship Award from the Higher Education Academy (pending validation).
Careers a graduate of this programme could progress to include:
This programme uses various teaching and learning methods depending on the subject matter and module level including:
We use a range of methods to assess your progress on the Human Anatomy BSc, that reflect the knowledge and skills you will have developed.
These range from:
We are the only UK anatomy department with direct on-site access to the Keele Anatomy and Surgical Training Centre.
This modern clinical training centre has world-leading facilities with significant links with clinical collaborators.
Find out more about our anatomy facilities , wet laboratory and multi use laboratory .
This Foundation year is a is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Adult Nursing.
At the same time, we will advance your knowledge of human biology and chemistry, giving you a solid grasp of body systems, science and lab work.
You can find out more about our Foundation Year, Including Information on learning, teaching and assessment methods and further opportunities available to you by visiting our homepage .
Candidates who progress from this Foundation Year onto Year 1 of the degree course will be required to undertake a Disclosure and Barring Service check (Enhanced plus Barring Lists) and health check.
English Language Requirements for International/EU Applicants
In addition to meeting the Level 3 requirements, candidates whose first language is not English will need IELTS with an overall score of 7.0, including at least 6.5 in the writing section and at least 7.0 in the reading, listening and speaking sections, or GCSE English Language at 4 (C) or above.
UCAS applications Visit UCAS for applications.
You should apply for Human Anatomy with a Foundation Year.
(UCAS code B111)
Direct entry students If you already have your qualifications, are not expecting any further results and only wish to apply to Keele, please contact the Admissions Office directly.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/internationalbusinessmanagement:
Step into the multifaceted world of international business and unlock your potential to be at the forefront of the global business environment.
Develop your skillset and explore the key areas of the subject on our International Business Management BA, so you can graduate with the business acumen to succeed.
Our International Business Management degree programme provides you with the tools to master the fundamentals of the global business environment, focusing on the international aspects of the business world, and paving the way for a diverse range of careers.
It provides an excellent education in international business, opportunities to develop practical real-world skills, and chances to broaden your international experience by studying abroad or learning a new language.
You will study marketing, human resource management, leadership, strategy and business operations to achieve a broad understanding of organisations and their functions.
To strengthen your international business knowledge, you’ll explore topics such as international economics, politics, and society, global business strategies, cross-cultural communication, international trade, market entry strategies, and data driven decision-making in global markets.
Managing in an international context This module provides a comprehensive understanding of the complexities of managing in a globalised world.
It offers a sophisticated introduction to theoretical perspectives on management in the context of globalisation and considers international business cultures with reference to theories and typologies of organisational and national culture.
Contemporary Global Topics In this module you will look at the contemporary challenges and opportunities faced by companies that operate across international borders including Sustainability & Globalisation, Global Entrepreneurship, Global Talent Mobility, Emerging Markets, and Geopolitical Risk.
"The lectures in Keele Business School are conducted in an engaging, constructive and thought-evoking way and students encouraged to challenge the norms and to think critically.
Module leaders and lecturers are very well-prepared, organised, knowledgeable and passionate about their craft.
Sandy, International Business
The International Business Management BA at Keele facilitates progression into diverse careers, including roles in multinational corporations, international trade and finance, global marketing, and international development.
Additionally, you will acquire universal skills highly valued by employers, ranging from developing a creative mindset and improving critical thinking to refining your overall communication skills.
Combined with the confidence you will have built through our Professional and Academic Development program, you will be equipped with the skills for success.
Previous graduates have gone on to work at:
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this International Business Management BA, tailored to the module theme and level.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) International Business Management degree.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) International Business Management with Foundation Year (UCAS code N102) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/internationalrelations:
Are you intrigued by how world politics shapes our everyday lives?
The influence of power and global affairs?
International Relations at Keele covers world politics and the challenges associated with global order.
This may include topics such as human rights protection, climate change, war and peace, populism, diplomacy and foreign policy.
Our wide-reaching expertise and our broad approach to the discipline will teach you how to interpret global, social, political, and economic interactions.
Develop your skills and expertise and become a change maker for future generations.
A degree in International Relations from Keele prepares you for a career of your choice in politics, business and beyond.
Explore how global relationships impact everyday lives and how the international order is being challenged and redefined.
Studying International Relations at Keele explores the complexities of world politics, examining personal, local, and global aspects of power, order, conflict, violence, and justice.
Our aim is to develop your expertise as a critical thinker, with insights into contemporary challenges, preparing you to become a future change maker.
You'll study the politics and international relations of the West as well as the global majority world, investigating critical issues ranging from power and inequality, to race and decolonisation, environmental change, security and conflict, foreign policy, gender, activism, war and more.
Our curriculum is designed to be engaging and interactive, with opportunities to put theory into practice in real-world applications including crisis simulations, model United Nations, activist strategy development, funding proposals, and policy report writing.
You will also have opportunities to network with practitioners in the field, discuss your ideas, and develop your analytical, research, and practical skills ready for various careers.
We support your academic and professional growth, with year-long and team-taught modules catering to diverse learning styles, and varied assessments to build and enhance your expertise.
The course is built around three main themes: Understanding World Politics in Year 1, Making a Difference in World Politics in Year 2, and The Future of World Politics in Year 3.
You can also opt to broaden your horizons by studying abroad, learning a language, or undertaking a work placement year, enriching your learning and career prospects.
By the end of your degree, you’ll have a deep understanding of global politics and how it shapes our future.
You'll be equipped with the confidence, knowledge, and skills needed to make a significant impact in an ever-changing world.
Once I started studying, I realized that Keele is a wonderful place for an international student.
It had the feeling of one big family and the campus is simply gorgeous.
I enjoyed my time immensely and made many friends, who I am still in touch with.
The International Relations course at Keele is a very practical course.
The course gave me an excellent grounding and understanding of diplomacy, how international law works, and about the complex, multi-layered ties sovereign states have with each other.
Dr Farah Faizal, International Relations
Understanding contemporary world politics In a world of rapid change, how does world politics work, and how can we study it?
This module introduces you to the history of the contemporary world, and to the main approaches to understanding it.
You will explore the rise and fall of the Cold War, the growth of international organisations, and the birth of a twenty-first century new world order; and you will examine key approaches to the study of IR such as realism, liberalism and social constructivism.
Decolonising World Politics: Power and Inequality How can we understand power and inequality in the contemporary world?
The world we live in grew from Western dominance.
This module will introduce you to the main ways that power, inequality, and insecurity are reproduced, exploring contemporary debates about globalisation, security, capitalism and neo-liberalism.
It will examine how the West ignored questions of colonialism, imperialism, race, slavery and dispossession, and ask what happens to the study of world politics when these questions are raised.
Regional Studies in World Politics: International Relations of the Middle East, Africa, and East Asia The non-European world will define the future of world politics, and yet, in the West, its politics are poorly understood and often overlooked.
This module will introduce you to the politics and international relations of the regions of the world that are defining the future: China and East Asia, the Middle East, and Africa.
You will explore the internal and international power dynamics affecting these regions and learn how their politics are reshaping the contemporary world order.
The Global News Desk The global news media define daily political agendas around the world, but how much of it can we believe?
How is news made?
What is reported and what is left out?
In an era of social media and conspiracy theory, this module will engage you with major world politics news stories hitting the headlines and invite you to investigate the realities behind the stories, and critically to reflect on how the news is made and communicated.
Building a better world?
Is a better world possible?
This module explores the origins and functioning of major international organisations, international law, and non-state actors.
You will learn about the United Nations, NGOs like Amnesty International, key legal bodies like the International Criminal Court, and the development of Human Rights in world politics.
You will debate how these organisations work and the challenges they face, and put your learning into practice and develop your leadership skills by participating in a model UN simulation.
This module introduces you to the core social science of designing, implementing, and analysing social and global phenomena.
From quantitative surveys to qualitative interviews and ethnographic studies, you will explore methodological approaches to understanding society and develop practical researcher skills that prepare you to carry out original research.
Gender, Identity and Activism in World Politics How can we create change in global politics?
In this module, you will explore how feminist and LBGTQ+ campaigns challenged the masculine and heteronormative social and global order, and how this changed how we study world politics.
You will learn how gender and sexuality can be used to police societies, how activists worldwide contest tyrannies, and how identity can inspire change and hope but also create division.
You will devise an action strategy for change inspired by real-world scenarios.
Social Science at Work This module begins to introduce you to possible careers for social scientists and links to the work you are doing in your subject core and option modules asking the question ‘how can we mobilise academic study into the real world?’ You will also be encouraged to prepare for placement work that you may pursue and reflecting on your social media footprint; developing your personal/professional brand and digital networking platforms.
Foreign Policy How do states make foreign policy?
Why and how do politicians and diplomats negotiate and take complex decisions?
In this module, you will investigate the key concepts explaining the making of foreign policy in different, challenging real-world contexts.
You will learn how state decision-makers from different political traditions and regimes devise strategies and understand and pursue their interests, how domestic and foreign policies inter-relate, how states negotiate, why states make bad decisions, and how they could make better ones.
Work Placement This module is designed to give students in their second year the opportunity to contribute to the world beyond the university.
While on the placement, students will produce a portfolio that they can draw on in future applications and interviews, reflecting on and giving evidence of the activities/outputs completed at their chosen workplace.
Global futures: Environment, Security and Development What might global politics look like in the future?
This module explores the most pressing challenges reshaping contemporary world politics.
You will learn how environmental change and mass migration shape ideas of sovereignty, politics, and conflict; how security is changing in an era of AI and mass surveillance; how states and international society meet and manage problems of global development.
You will analyse the causes of and solutions to real-world problems and prepare a funding proposal based on development scenarios.
Dissertation in Politics and IR - ISP This module is your chance to complete independent research on a topic you are passionate about.
You will work with a supervisor to put your research skills into practice as you manage, research and write an independent research project.
You will be guided to identify a topic, formulate questions, conduct literature searches, apply appropriate methods, and analyse evidence.
Students can choose to write a library study or to conduct a fieldwork-based project that may involve working with an external partner.
Global Challenges: War, terrorism and global violence Why does politics turn to violence?
By addressing this fundamental problem in international relations, this module explores the challenges caused by war and terrorism.
You will learn why states try to prevent but also turn to war, why terrorist movements world-wide choose violence and how to counter this, and how key conflicts threaten regional stability and global order.
You will participate in a crisis simulation, developing leadership skills and learning how to predict, mitigate and manage challenges of political violence.
Genocide and Death in World Politics What is genocide, who perpetrates it, and how can it be prevented or brought to justice?
This module explores the politics of prejudice, hatred and indifference that underpin genocide and the international laws, truth and reconciliation, memorialisation, and art practices that attempt to bring genocide to justice and to prevent its recurrence.
You will learn from genocides including the Holocaust, in Rwanda and Bosnia, and participate in an innovative genocide-prevention workshop that addresses the root causes of mass violence.
Work Placement This module is designed to give students in their third year the opportunity to contribute to the world beyond the university.
On this course, you will have the opportunity to opt for a Work Placement Year in the School of Social Sciences between Year 2 and 3.
You will develop a new way of understanding the world and gain insight into various perspectives whilst learning in a different environment, enhancing your university experience.
This can be highly beneficial for your career prospects and through experiencing different cultures, you will not only grow as an individual, but you will also strengthen your knowledge and interests within society.
Alternatively, you may choose to study abroad for just a semester in your second year which will count towards your second year grades.
"During my time at Keele, I have studied International Relations, and I can truly say that the skills and experiences that the programme has offered, has developed me into a confident student, with vital knowledge of how the world works.
International Relations as a discipline, has encouraged me to immerse in debates and independent thinking about the relations between states, roles of international organisations, security, and the political environment.
This I believe has become crucial to better understanding the world which is an important skill to take into the working world.
Throughout the course, the lecturers are supportive and encouraging with no question about the lecture materials or assessments too big or too small."
Liv, International Relations and Politics
With a worldwide outlook, having a degree in International Relations will enhance your career prospects in range of different areas based on your subject expertise and understanding of global issues.
You will have gained key transferable skills alongside your subject knowledge, with the ability to work well with others as well as independently.
With the support of staff and academics, you will be equipped with strong, adaptable skills, ensuring you are ready for employment.
INSPIRING ALUMNI
The course was intellectually challenging and featured a wide range of subjects, all of great interest and very useful.
To applicants considering coming to Keele I would say: come and enjoy one of the friendliest and most challenging courses that will be of use to you for years to come.
Following my graduation from Keele, I went into journalism, joined the BBC and I am now Business Correspondent.
The course has influenced everything I have done since and is still a great asset.
Jonty Bloom, International Relations
Teaching on this programme will be delivered through lectures, tutorials, seminars and workshops.
You will be able to get involved with key discussions with academics and peers, developing your analytical and problem-solving skills and sharing ideas with others.
You will benefit from a range of interactive teaching sessions and practical learning such as crisis simulations that will allow you to build key skills in teamwork, evaluation and adaptability.
You will learn to analyse real-world scenarios, communicate well with others and consider the preparation and readiness for crisis resolution.
From this experience, you will learn how to make important decisions, respond efficiently and apply your theoretical knowledge to scenarios of political challenges.
The skills you will gain can be applied to a range of different careers, showing the versatility of your skill set and preparation for the workplace environment.
You will engage with independent study and web-based learning on the Keele Learning Environment (KLE) throughout the duration of your degree programme and in your final year, you will demonstrate your research skills in the form of a dissertation.
This will involve independently designing, conducting and writing a research project with supervision and support from a member of staff.
We use a broad range of assessment styles to reflect the knowledge and skills gained throughout the programme.
From essays, presentations, examinations and reports, each assessment method allows you to demonstrate your expertise on subject matter.
Having a diverse mix of assessments enables you to showcase your skills and evidence your knowledge through different tasks.
This includes analytical skills through reviews, critiques and reflective papers, as well as creative skills through visual mediums such as blogs, vlogs and posters.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) International Relations degree.
Students should  apply for BA (Hons) International Relations with Foundation Year (UCAS code: L2L3) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/law:
Join an internationally renowned civic Law School here at Keele.
Our Law LLB offers research-led legal education alongside a range of hands-on opportunities, including our Legal Advice Clinics, Community Legal Outreach scheme and mooting.
You will advance your knowledge, gain practical experience, and be able to tailor your degree towards your career aspirations, all within our supportive school based at the heart of Keele’s 600-acre campus.
Discover the dynamic world of law and its impact on everyday life with Keele University's Law LLB (Hons) programme.
Whether you aspire to a traditional legal career, or want to explore opportunities in other industries, our course is designed to align with your career goals.
Take a more theoretical approach to the study of law or opt for a more hands-on approach, immersing yourself in practical experiences through our Legal Advice Clinics or award-winning Community Legal Outreach scheme, where you will support local people who may not be able to easily access legal help.
Both paths will develop a diverse set of transferable skills, opening doors to careers in business, media, finance and beyond.
At Keele, you will build a solid foundation in the seven essential areas of legal knowledge: Contract Law, Tort Law, Public Law, Criminal Law, European Law, Land Law, and Equity & Trusts.
As you progress through your degree, you can tailor your studies to match your interests, whether in theory or practical applications, tackling contemporary issues like climate change and technological advancements.
Our civic Law School offers various practical learning opportunities that put future employability at the heart of your degree programme.
These opportunities enable you to work with real clients, practice your legal skills whilst supported by qualified solicitors, and offer free legal advice to help individuals carefully navigate the justice system.
Our CLOCK (Community Legal Outreach Collaboration Keele) scheme and Legal Advice Clinics offer valuable training, building your confidence, critical thinking skills and ability to communicate with various audiences.
At Keele, you can enhance your industry experience through a work placement year, gaining valuable insights into the workplace environment and building professional networks.
Alternatively, you may wish to take an international year to study at a partner university.
You will also have the opportunity to learn a language and become a multilingual graduate which can open up your career prospects on a global scale.
Legal Essentials This module introduces you to the English legal system and to the legal, academic, and personal skills needed to participate effectively as a Law student, through delivery of four streams of learning and teaching: Thinking Law; Making Law; Doing Law; and Being Law.
It develops your skills in finding and working with legal materials and making legal arguments, through individual and group work.
You will also reflect on your skills development journey, identifying future development needs and sources of support.
Obligations The Law of Obligations examines liability in both contract and tort law.
You will have the opportunity to learn how contracts are formed and when contracts do not go to plan!
You will also learn about the tort of negligence and available tortious remedies.
This module is the foundation for numerous legal specialities, including medical law, employment law and family law.
You will develop the skills to effectively analyse cases and statutes and apply your knowledge to real world scenarios.
Public Law This module critically introduces key principles of UK public law.
It explores foundational concepts of the UK’s constitution such as parliamentary sovereignty, the separation of powers, and the rule of law.
It analyses the relationship between the state and the individual, human rights, and the role of administrative law in controlling governmental power.
This module enables you to critically analyse the UK’s constitution and to use legal research and reasoning to solve constitutional and administrative law problems.
Critical Legal Studies This module offers you an introduction to some of the major classic and modern legal theories, including critical legal studies, socio-legal approaches, feminist legal studies, and critical race theory.
Through engaging critically with a range of different approaches to legal study, you will build on and further develop your academic legal skills, including group work and debating.
You will gain a strong theoretical grounding in the major academic legal traditions, providing an essential foundation for your future legal studies.
Lawyers in Society This module will introduce you to the different roles that lawyers play in society and reflect on the contemporary challenges facing the profession, from increasing diversity and globalisation to the growing influence of AI and legal technology.
You will also meet guest speakers from the profession and ask them questions.
This module will give you the opportunity to reflect on your own legal identity, career aspirations and skills development, and be able to critically analyse specific case studies.
Criminal Law This module introduces you to the role of criminal law in modern society and encourages you to appreciate criminal law within its theoretical, social, and political contexts.
You will learn to access, review and critically evaluate criminal law concepts through engaging with legal and academic materials.
You will build on and further develop your skills in analysing problems and in critically evaluating the law, including theoretical issues and current controversies.
Law of Real Property The module starts by considering the meaning of ‘property’ and the consequences of using property-based rules to regulate the use of land.
It then critically considers the legal and equitable rules relating to the creation, protection, transfer, and shared enjoyment of rights in land.
You explore the relationship between law and equity and between case law and statute.
Particular attention is given to developing practical skills, including reading and interpreting statute law and problem solving.
Law of the European Union This module introduces key institutions, methods, and principles of EU law, and looks at how power is defined, exercised, and distributed among EU institutions and Member States.
It explores different forms of regional integration and considers the EU’s evolution.
The significance of EU citizenship and the Internal Market are also introduced.
The module will enable you to acquire detailed knowledge of substantive legal principles underpinning EU law and to undertake independent legal research to analyse key issues in EU law.
Civil Litigation Skills Litigation is an adversarial type of law.
If parties to a dispute cannot agree, the matter will ultimately be decided by the courts.
In this module we explore the procedures in place to protect parties and ensure justice is not only done, but also seen to be done.
We do so through workshops, where we consider case studies to develop skills in interviewing, drafting, negotiations and advocacy.
Authentic assessment and experiential learning mean this is an interesting and exciting module.
Law, Society and Policy This module invites you to engage critically with the hidden barriers we may encounter when dealing with legal and social systems, and how the law can either cause or remedy them.
The module will introduce you to the relationship between law, society and policy; contextualise these issues through various theoretical approaches; link policy issues to academic research; identify policy concerns and consider possible solutions; and provide you with a sound theoretical footing on which to explore your own research project.
Law in the 21st Century This module explores the challenges that the 21st century (eg driverless cars, artificial intelligence, robotics, and climate change) poses to law, particularly to fundamental rights.
You will analyse the key legal frameworks and jurisprudential responses to these issues and will critically evaluate their successes.
You will thereby be better equipped to engage with the emerging legal issues of the future and will be invaluable to employers in the legal field, as well as other social and commercial fields.
Legal Professional Development (University Placement Module) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
International Law International Law is the study of the law that regulates the conduct of and relationships between states.
You will be guided through fundamental principles of international law including State Responsibility, Statehood & Recognition, international organisation, and the sources and nature of international legal rules.
You will then have an opportunity to explore how the law relates to High Politics in fields such as International Peace and Security, the protection of the Environment, Human Rights and Refugee protection.
Law of Trusts As one of the key foundations of legal knowledge, Equity & Trusts will ensure that you have the skills and confidence to engage in critical analysis, working with case law and problem-solving in this important area of law.
Dealing with testamentary and life-time trusts, private and charitable trusts, breach of trust and associated remedies, its scope is broad and its utility clear.
This module is essential should you wish to pursue a career in legal practice.
Project – 1 option MUST be picked from the 4 choices This module offers the choice of independent academic study or practical legal experience.
You can choose: Dissertation: research, in depth, an area of academic interest.
Law Reform: undertake detailed analysis of a case or statute and propose reform in that area of law.
Streetlaw: work with the local voluntary sector, with support from the Law School.
This includes the CLOCK community legal companion scheme.
Legal Advice Clinic: advise real clients under the supervision of our qualified solicitors.
Law of Criminal Evidence This module allows you to further develop your knowledge of legal rules as they are applied in the context of criminal trials in England and Wales.
It offers the opportunity to explore how trial courts manage statutory legal rules and exceptions, codes of practice, and case law.
You will gain a fuller appreciation of the appropriate exercise of judicial case management skills, and judicial discretion, in the efficient management of trials within the context of human rights, particularly the ECHR.
Law, Ethics and Healthcare This module explores the interrelationship of law, ethics, and policy in a contested and rapidly expanding area of law: healthcare practice, including mental health.
The module builds on your knowledge from previous modules and develops it by introducing you to the major ethico-legal frameworks, including important questions of autonomy and capacity.
You will critically analyse how the law seeks to govern doctor/patient relationships and debate the need for a balance between the demands of the individual and the state.
Corporate Law This module explores the central features of company law with focus on the doctrine of separate corporate personality, the changing nature of shares, the company constitution, the statutory duties of directors and shareholder protection.
Furthermore, the module addresses the company as a socio-economic actor through the study of corporate theory, and, finally, the module explores corporate law practice.
This module will enable you to appreciate, evaluate and apply the law, theory and practice of corporate regulation.
Commercial Law This module offers you an exciting opportunity to explore and understand commercial law issues.
It is an ideal choice for anyone aiming for a career in the English legal profession or a field of commerce.
We look at both practical legal doctrines and theoretical questions of English commercial law in the context of economic activity.
This module will equip you to appreciate, evaluate and apply complex statutory and judicial rules governing commercial activity.
Law, Equality and Human Rights This module reflects the significant and increasing importance of the Equality Act 2010 and the societal changes throughout the 20th and 21st centuries which require new ways of thinking about and applying the law.
It will approach this analysis through a blend of theoretical and practical enquiry and will consider the relationship between the law, Human Rights and a whole range of legally protected characteristics including, for example, Disability, Gender, Health and Immigration status.
Law and the Family This module examines contemporary families in all their diversity, including the welfare and care of children.
You will critically examine the law relating to families and family disputes in their social and political contexts.
You will analyse the concept of the 'legal child' and the construction of childhood by examining a range of changing social circumstances.
You will further develop your evaluative and written advocacy skills through assessing the existing law in these areas and making suggestions for reform.
"I learned and developed during my time on the law degree key skills such as legal research, problem solving and the ability to critically think and analyse which are all important for any future careers.
Being an undergraduate student at Keele I was able to learn from academics who were at the cutting-edge of their research and tutors who were genuinely interested in helping us as students to develop and challenge ourselves."
Shamin, Law
At Keele, we have dedicated Legal Advice Clinics offering optional training and supervision by experienced Solicitors to deliver legal services, from the start of the client enquiry through to resolution.
You will learn how to interview and advise clients, research the law using practitioner databases, and give practical legal advice.
You may be involved in drafting legal documents and court forms as well as advising clients in writing and in meetings.
We have three clinics at Keele: Divorce, Commercial and Small Claims.
You may work with underrepresented individuals, small business, and employers, gaining real life experience and helping clients with legal proceedings.
Having the opportunity to gain hands-on work experience supports your professional development and allows you to build key skills through practical learning.
You can record your experience on your HEAR (Higher Education Achievement Report) to showcase your volunteer work at university and use as your portfolio when you graduate.
Your work experience may also count towards Qualifying Work Experience should you wish to train as a solicitor.
Community Legal Outreach Collaboration Keele (CLOCK) , co-created a multi-agency collaboration with the Stoke Family Court, law firms, mediators, Citizens Advice, Domestic and Sexual Abuse survivor support services, to design the unique and innovative role of the Community Legal Companion to assist litigants in person through the court process.
The programmes enables you to build key interpersonal skills that are crucial to a career in law and beyond.
You will learn to collaborate with others, communicate effectively with various audiences and apply your skills to real-life cases which will support you in preparation for your career.
This 'Streetlaw' programme is an optional module in your final year, which allows you gain practical legal experience.
Training is delivered by court staff, solicitors, barristers, mediators and domestic abuse and sexual abuse support services to understand the complex needs of litigants in person, in a variety of civil legal issues, including:
Community Legal Companions signpost for legal aid and where not available, support within the remit of the McKenzie Friend principles to assist with a range of tasks.
Challenge your peers through optional mooting competitions and showcase your knowledge through practice.
You will apply your research, writing and presentation skills in the staged legal environment we have here at Keele as a traditional court room setup.
This experience will help you to build confidence when working independently as well as a team.
You will learn how to work effectively under pressure and how to meet deadlines but you will also develop and refine your public speaking skills and ability to convey robust arguments which is critical within the legal profession.
You may have the opportunity to get involved with national and international mooting competitions which you can document and use to support future job applications.
These events sometimes attract members of the bar and legal academics, providing a great networking opportunity.
Taking a placement year between 2nd and 3rd year is a valuable opportunity to make connections and build a network of professionals within your chosen field.
Your experience will help you with deciding on your career path and allow you to showcase your abilities in the workplace.
We have a dedicated placements support team who will support you to find an appropriate placement and help you prepare for it.
You will evidence your experience with a project submission and on successful completion of all modules across the year, you will graduate with an enhanced degree title.
Given the international demand and necessity for legal professionals, this opportunity can be highly beneficial in demonstrating your awareness of the international legal context but also your ability to immerse yourself into a different culture.
Upon successful completion of a series of elective language modules, you may have the opportunity to gain an enhanced degree title .
This is also a fantastic opportunity for your personal development where you can practice your reading, writing and oral skills and build key characteristics such as time management, adaptability, and motivation.
ABB in three A Levels.
Contextual offer: BBC.
Distinction and Distinction in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and C in one A Level, or Distinction and Merit in BTEC Diploma and A in one A Level.
Distinction in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels, or Merit in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and AA in two A Levels.
Distinction in any T Level.
655 in three Higher Levels or 32 points.
Contextual Offer: 554 in three Higher Levels or 29 points.
128 UCAS points in any Access to HE Diploma including Distinction in at least 30 Level 3 credits and Merit in at least 15 Level 3 credits.
BBBBC in five Highers, or BC in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers, or BCC in three Advanced Highers.
H3, H3, H3, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate.
75% in the Gaokao.
Average of 75% from four subjects in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 80% from four subjects in any other Standard XII.
2.0 overall average in the Abitur.
14 in the French Baccalaureate/International Option Baccalaureate or 13 in the Baccalauréat Français International.
544 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE.
Overall average of 7.8 in the Título de Bachillerato.
85% in the Esame di Stato.
18.5 / 88% in the Apolytirion.
Overall average of 16 in a Secondary Certificate.
70% / BBBBC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma.
544 from three Advanced Placement subjects.
ABB in three Advanced Levels.
ABB in three Principal Level subjects in the STPM.
ABB in three H2 Levels.
75% overall.
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with ABB and grade B in EAP English Language module.
National Senior Certificate: 76666 in five subjects You will also need: an English language qualification (see below)
For students who require a test, this course requires a result from Group B.
Founded 10 years ago, CLOCK began as a research project, listening to 'Voices of Experience'; a group of women from a domestic violence refuge, who shared their fears and proposals for how to support women going to court alone following the significant withdrawal of legal aid under LASPO, the Legal Aid Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act, 2012.
CLOCK has been Highly Commended by the Attorney-General National Access to Justice Award, 2016, and the Green Gown Awards for 'Benefitting Society', 2019.
The Community Legal Companion role has been endorsed by the President of the Family Court and has been cascaded to 12 University Law Schools to operate in 8 court centres; Stoke, Brighton, Canterbury, Wolverhampton, Leicester, Oxford, Liverpool and York.
At 24-years-old, Victoria became one of the youngest qualified solicitors her firm had ever seen -

"I find myself doing something different every day at work, whether that be going to court, taking a witness statement or drafting correspondence to clients and medical experts.
I work on a whole variety of cases and building up relationships with medical experts is an important part of my job.
The skills I gained at Keele, including all the networking I did, have been useful as I grow in my career.
Keele played such a big role in getting me to where I am today and I’m so proud to be Keele alumni."
Victoria, Law graduate
"Studying Law at Keele meant that not only did I learn the black letter law but also, due to the hard work of the Law School, meant that upon graduating I knew fully what to expect from the current legal market.
I got involved with the Community Legal Outreach Collaboration programme which enabled me to give something back to the community whilst also strengthening my key employability skills.
I have found that the skills I developed here have been really useful to discuss in job interviews or on applications for training contracts."
Alice, Law
You will be assigned a dedicated academic mentor, and our Law School also has a dedicated member of staff in the Student Experience and Support team , who is available if you need any additional support, or someone to talk to, whether about your degree programme or life outside of your studies.
You will also be able to seek one-to-one support from our dedicated Learning Development Tutor in the School of Law, throughout the duration of your studies.
Joining a society related to law is a great opportunity to continue to develop your skills away from your studies.
As a Keele Law graduate, you will develop a range of theoretical and practical skills throughout the programme, enabling you to tailor your professional career.
Law has relevance to almost every type of organisation and your graduate attributes will be valued by employers across various industries.
During your studies, you will learn how to research, read and analyse case and statute law.
Answering the legal problem questions, used in many of our law modules, will help develop your problem solving skills and give you experience applying the law to real-world scenarios.
We offer a variety of additional opportunities for you to prepare for your career including Legal Advice Clinics, our CLOCK initiative and legal skills competitions.
These are valuable, practical experiences that will allow you to develop your skills in preparation for employment.
We also have links with partner organisations including Citizens Advice, the Crown Prosecution Service and law firms in Birmingham, Manchester and London that enable you to gain industry insights and learn from professionals working in the legal field.
Our Law community at Keele is supportive and inclusive, providing opportunities to network with academics, peers, alumni and employers.
Building links with local and national employers can help to support your journey within the legal field and beyond.
Law Fair : Scope your legal career and graduate opportunities.
Meet with employers and organisations to understand the graduate attributes required across the legal field, with guidance on applications and recruitment.
Legal Dining : A formal dining event where we aim to pair you with potential employers and inspirational alumni.
A great opportunity to network with professionals and an example of the type of events you may attend as a legal professional.
We’re proud to equip you with key professional skills that enable you to embark on your professional career in legal and non-legal roles such as:
"During my time at Keele, I have been given many opportunities to do more and get more involved.
For example, I have been involved in the Client Interviewing competition and been a member of the Law and Bar Society.
Keele gives you opportunities to help build a career.
My plans for the future are to go to the Bar and become a Barrister, and I can honestly say that the support at Keele has put me in good place to achieve this."
Katherine, Law
At the School of Law, we have a diverse and innovative approach to teaching.
You will be taught in traditional lectures, group tutorials, workshops, and seminars.
In your classes you will have the opportunity to ask questions, discuss how the law applies to contemporary issues and investigate legal scenarios to develop your critical analysis and problem-solving skills.
You will be taught by leading academics and legal practitioners, exploring foundational legal topics and perspectives.
This course will provide you with a suite of core skills that are transferable to a wide range of legal and non-legal careers.
On this programme, you will be assessed through various methods which strengthen your ability to communicate effectively, advance your writing skills and work as a team.
This includes, research essays and/or reports, group projects and web-based learning such as multiple choice questions.
Other assessments may include:
The Moot Court Room at Keele University is home to our mooting activities and a place for you to put the theory into practice and apply your knowledge.
This practical element enables you to prepare for your legal career by providing you with an environment similar to that within the legal profession.
This will contribute to the valuable experience it provides including developing your public speaking skills, working under pressure and collaborating with fellow aspiring legal professionals.
Mooting is also advantageous as it provides you with a refined skillset and demonstrable experience that is valued by legal professionals.
You will find that this practice provides an all round summary of the theory of law and its practical application.
We have a social space within the Law School which law students use for group work and meetings.
Our student societies also use the room for some of their activities.
Our legal advice clinic room provides a space for confidential group work on client files as well as facilities to enable online client meetings.
You will be taught in facilities across Keele campus and be able to work in central spaces such as the library and independent study spaces.
This will enable you to focus on independent assessments as well as encourage group learning.
You may also wish to use our dedicated law library for silent study.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the LLB (Hons) Law degree.
For example, the Foundations in Law module provides a foundational understanding of English (Common Law) legal methods and how to apply them to disputes and recent or contemporary issues in society.
Students will need to apply for LLB (Hons) Law with Foundation Year (UCAS code M1L3) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/lawwithbusiness:
Delivered by two highly renowned academic Schools, our Law with Business LLB investigates the law and develops your business acumen through an awareness of commercial environments and business management.
With research-led critical education and a wide range of hands-on learning opportunities, you will build the skills and expertise required for a successful career in law, business or related fields.
Whether you have a desire for a career in commercial law or wish to understand the business environments in which legal firms operate, our Law with Business LLB explores the principles of law that underpin business management.
You will investigate how law influences workplace operations and business practices, as well as developing an understanding of the seven foundations of legal knowledge.
These include: Contract Law, Tort Law, Public Law, Criminal Law, European Law, Land Law, and Equity & Trusts.
This course enables you to develop a keen appreciation of the relationship between law and business at a theoretical and practical level, whilst building essential skills for a career in law, business or related fields such as finance and human resources.
The core structure of this programme explores the principles of law and business, allowing you to tailor the programme to your interests and careers aspirations as you progress throughout the degree.
Whether you wish to investigate contemporary issues in law, study the practice of law in corporate business or take a placement module to engage with training in legal contexts.
Strategic Business Insights: Innovating and Competing This advanced module focuses on strategic thinking and decision-making within the business context.
Project – 1 option MUST be picked from the 3 choices This module offers the choice of independent academic study or practical legal experience.
This 'Streetlaw' programme is an optional compulsory module in your final year, which allows you gain practical legal experience.
As a Keele Law with Business graduate, you will attain an array of transferable theoretical and practical skills that are applicable to a range of careers.
Both disciplines have relevance to every type of organisation and your confidence, analytical thinking and problem-solving skills will enable you to hit the ground running.
Your graduate attributes are valued by employers and prepare you for the workplace environment, with key interpersonal and communication skills that enable you to work effectively with others, share ideas and put your expertise into practice.
Other sectors you may wish to explore include:
You will be taught by leading academics and legal practitioners, exploring foundational legal topics and perspectives, with your business modules taught by the staff of Keele Business School, where you will study alongside students taking non-law programmes.
This includes, research essays and/or reports, group projects, problem scenarios and web-based learning such as multiple choice questions.
The Moot Court Room at Keele University, is home to our mooting activities and a place for you to put the theory into practice and apply your knowledge.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the LLB (Hons) Law with Business degree.
Students will need to apply for LLB (Hons) Law with Business with Foundation Year (UCAS code M1L6) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/lawwithcriminology:
Are you looking for a degree that provides a firm foundation in law whilst also developing your understanding of criminal justice, prisons and probation?
Law with Criminology LLB at Keele is designed to equip you with a theoretical and practical understanding of crime and its contemporary issues, building key skills in investigation, problem-solving and critical analysis.
You will delve into hands-on learning, preparing you for a career in law or related fields.
Laws are rules that regulate a society, but are also the product of that society.
This course brings together two complimentary disciplines of Law and Criminology to provide a theoretical and practical understanding of crime, the influence of law, and contemporary issues in criminal justice.
Pioneers of undergraduate teaching of Criminology in the UK, Keele introduces you to criminological theories to build a clear understanding of crime and investigate contemporary ‘crime problems’ facing society.
You will develop crucial critical analysis skills, investigative qualities, and team working abilities, as well as a strong sense of social responsibility, whether you wish to pursue a career in criminal law or hope to drive social change.
As you progress through your degree, you can tailor your studies to match your interests, whether in theory or practical applications.
Policing the 21st Century The module will explore changes, challenges and opportunities in 21st century policing relating to topics such as decision making, public protection, response policing, roads policing, vulnerability and risk, domestic abuse, counter terrorism, community policing, policing and the digital and police investigation.
It explores the shift from the rhetoric of 'crime prevention' to 'community safety' in the aftermath of the Morgan Report (1991) and in the context of the 1998 Crime and Disorder Act and subsequent legislation focusing on community safety, anti-social behaviour and localised crime reduction initiatives.
Having a degree in Law with Criminology from Keele will equip you with various skills in communication, critical thinking and problem-solving which all prepare you for employment.
Law has relevance to almost every type of organisation and the theoretical and practical skillset that you will develop throughout the programme are diverse and applicable to a range of sectors including policing, probation and criminal law.
Whether you wish to pursue a role in the field of law or criminal investigation, you will be able to apply the knowledge and skills you have learned throughout your degree.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the LLB (Hons) Law with Criminology course.
Students will need to apply for LLB (Hons) Law with Criminology with Foundation Year (UCAS code M1L4) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/lawwithpolitics:
Law with Politics at Keele delves deep into legal essentials and enables you to make sense of society in an ever-changing political world.
You will build a foundation of legal education and explore the concepts of power, democracy and governance.
With advanced skills in communication, analytical thinking and problem-solving, as well as an array of research and practical skills and exciting hands-on opportunities, you will be ready to embark on a career across various sectors including law, government and public relations.
Whether you're interested in public law or have a desire to work in the administration of government, our Law with Politics programme is designed to equip you with a grounding in legal principles and an in-depth understanding of the theory and practice of politics and government in the United Kingdom and beyond.
You will build an understanding of the nature of politics, its relevance in contemporary society, challenges to democracy and issues such as polarisation, corruption and anti-politics, from a global perspective.
We will help you to prepare for a career in law and related sectors - the transferable skills you will gain on this programme apply to a variety of industries.
You will cover the seven essential areas of legal knowledge: Contract Law, Tort Law, Public Law, Criminal Law, European Law, Land Law, and Equity & Trusts.
As you progress through your degree, you can tailor your studies to match your interests, whether you would like to explore 'Global Democracy Under Threat', 'The Dark Side of Politics' or 'Building a Better Future' as a global and active citizen.
Making Sense of Politics How do we make sense of studying politics and the changing nature of politics?
This module addresses the contestable nature of politics and its relevance in contemporary society.
You will explore the concepts of power, democracy and terrorism, applying these concepts to contemporary issues to better understand the political world.
You will engage with external actors to reflect on how current national and/or world issues are framed from diverse perspectives and angles, working in small groups to develop your ideas.
Global Democracy Under Threat?
In the face of challenges from above, below and within, democracy around the world is under threat.
From challenges posed by populism and autocratic leadership, to increasing political mistrust and declining levels of participation set against a backdrop of the threat posed by AI and misinformation, global democracies face numerous different threats.
You will develop your data handling and analysis skills, exploring whether global democracy is resilient or in retreat and complete diverse assessments designed for an external audience.
Legal Professional Development (University Placement module) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
The Dark Side of Politics The global political landscape is increasingly dominated by self-interest, violence, corruption, distrust, alienation, deception, polarisation and institutional failure.
As citizens feel increasingly alienated from the political process, trust with political elites and satisfaction with democracy around the world, particularly in the face of technological advances such as AI, is in decline.
In this module, you will focus on the dark side of politics, exploring issues such as polarisation, corruption and anti-politics from a global perspective, developing your critical analytical skills.
Building a Better Future How do we build a better future?
And what is our role in leading and shaping the changes we want to see in the world?
This module empowers you to become global, active citizens, reflecting on how we can shape the future.
The module explores the importance of leadership in a changing world and how we can move towards a more just, sustainable future, as you take part in simulations to develop and reflect on your own leadership skills.
Please note: You must choose to take 'The Dark Side of Politics' or 'Building a Better Future'.
With a degree in Law with Politics, you can embark on an exciting career in law and beyond, with transferable skills in communication, problem-solving and analytical thinking.
You will be able to demonstrate your awareness of the relationship between law and politics and apply this to your career with academic expertise and professional skills.
You will have the opportunity to engage with practical learning, independent study and online resources to support your learning, as well as collaborating with others.
Using a wide variety of innovative learning and assessment methods, this programme embeds both research-led and practice-informed teaching, enabling you to build an understanding and analytical perspective of the study of politics.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the LLB (Hons) Law with Politics course.
Students will need to apply for LLB (Hons) Law with Politics with Foundation Year (UCAS code M1L5) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/lawwithprofessionallegalpractice:
Build a foundation of legal knowledge and advance your legal career with our Law with Professional Legal Practice LLB.
From client management, interviewing and research, you will develop the essential skills for a successful role in legal practice or related fields.
You will build a foundation of knowledge and experience which will help to prepare you for the Solicitors Qualifying Examination (SQE).
Whether you are interested in pursuing a traditional career in law or would like to explore a career in another industry, Law with Professional Legal Practice at Keele will help to tailor your programme of study to suit your career aspirations.
You will apply legal knowledge and skills to both the theory and practice of law, immersing yourself in practical experiences through opportunities including Legal Advice Clinics, our award-winning community legal outreach programme CLOCK, and mooting.
Our programme offers a wealth of practical experience that will enable you to develop the required attributes for an active career in law or other sectors such as business, finance and more.
You will study the seven Foundations of Legal Knowledge: Contract Law, Tort Law, Public Law, Criminal Law, European Law, Land Law, and Equity & Trust, as well as delving into topics such as wills, probate and residential conveyancing.
Our LLB Law with Professional Legal Practice course focuses on developing the skills necessary for legal practice.
Modules such as equity and trusts, residential conveyancing, and wills, probate, and drafting provide insights into the professional life of a lawyer.
This practical focus will help prepare you for the Solicitors Qualifying Examination (SQE), ensuring you are well-equipped for a successful career in law.
You will also reflect on their skills development journey, identifying future development needs and sources of support.
Criminal Law This module introduces you to the role of criminal law in modern society and encourages them to appreciate criminal law within its theoretical, social, and political contexts.
You will explore the relationship between law and equity and between case law and statute.
Wills, Probate and Drafting This module introduces you to an important area of private client practice and provides an opportunity to develop core skills in drafting and the use of precedents.
Using seminars, team-based activities, and drafting exercises, you engage with the key issues in drafting and validly executing a will; applying for a grant of representation; and distributing the estate, taking due account of potential liability for inheritance tax and possible claims against the estate from unhappy family and dependents of the deceased.
Residential Conveyancing This module provides you with a foundation in the legal practice of residential conveyancing.
This builds on the core Property module but takes you in a more practical direction and expects a higher level of analysis and greater accuracy in your legal advice.
You will develop skills in client interviewing, legal drafting, and research; and you will be able to recognise the key stages within a transaction and provide practical legal advice in client scenarios.
You will be enabled to appreciate, evaluate and apply the law, theory and practice of corporate regulation.
Law Reform: undertake a detailed analysis of a case or statute and propose law reform in that area.
Legal Advice Clinic: advise real clients under supervision from our qualified solicitors.
Law with Professional Legal Practice will equip you with the practical skills to help prepare you for employment and transition into the working environment following graduation.
Having developed various skills during your studies from writing, presenting and researching, you will be equipped with a hands-on approach towards your professional legal career.
Our Professional Legal Practice pathway provides insight into the legal skills and practice you will require on the route to qualify as a Solicitor via the Solicitors Qualification Examination.
It can support you to build a competitive edge in the employment market, having knowledge of the forms, procedures, professional conduct and/or client care issues that commonly arise in legal practice.
Law Fair: Scope your legal career and graduate opportunities.
Legal Dining: A formal dining event where we aim to pair you with potential employers and inspirational alumni.
This can be further practiced through hands-on experiences such as placements and online resources, enabling real-world insights and enhancing your independent learning.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the LLB (Hons) Law with Professional Legal Practice course .
Students will need to apply for LLB (Hons) Law with Professional Legal Practice with Foundation Year (UCAS code M102) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/marketing:
Start your journey to becoming a highly creative and skilled marketing professional, with the expertise to excel in a variety of sectors.
On our Marketing BA you will develop your understanding of essential marketing theories and techniques, and gain real-world experiences to enhance your career potential.
Effective marketing is at the heart of a business's success.
Without it, how would organisations compete in a crowded marketplace, build brand awareness, communicate with consumers or leverage the opportunities digital marketing creates?
Our marketing programme allows you to specialise in this dynamic field, exploring diverse marketing approaches, techniques, and strategies employed by different types of organisations.
Our comprehensive curriculum ensures that you can deliver impactful and positive marketing results in your professional journey upon graduation.
You’ll study marketing theory and its application, analyse contemporary marketing practices, examine world-famous companies and explore insights from seminal thinkers and practitioners.
As you progress in your marketing studies you will become proficient in creative, digital and analytical skills, the collection and use of data, and develop an excellent understanding of how the fluctuating business environment creates challenges for marketeers.
Professionally accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM), the leading professional body for marketers worldwide, our undergraduate degree has been developed alongside CIM’s learning outcomes to ensure that course content is aligned to industry requirements.
"Keele has given me opportunities, skills and experiences of a lifetime.
From studying abroad in Canada, to starting up my own business and being a student ambassador.
All of the experiences I have accumulated throughout my degree have contributed towards my current graduate role.
Keele provided me with more than just an education, but the people I met and the University as a whole, aided me to develop the transferable skills and knowledge to utilise after University."
Davina, Marketing and Business Management
Understanding the Contemporary Consumer The ‘Understanding the Contemporary Consumer’ module will develop your understanding of consumer behaviour and its central position within the discipline of marketing.
Through this module you will use contemporary theories and concepts to delve into the mind of the consumer to gain valuable insight into how and why people choose to consume different products and services.
You will be challenged to reflect on your own consumption behaviour to discover how consumer behaviour works in practice and informs marketing decisions.
Teams, people, and performance The ‘Teams, People, and Performance’ module focuses on enhancing practical skills for effective teamwork.
Services Marketing: Design, Delivery, and Developments The ‘Services Marketing: Design, Delivery, and Developments’ module equips you with the essential knowledge and practical skills to deal with today’s increasingly dynamic and service-based economy.
By studying this module, you will expand your knowledge of the traditional marketing mix to encompass additional dimensions of people, process, and physical evidence.
Using different service industry examples, you will explore how customer expectations, service design, failure recovery, and delivery shape the overall customer experience to apply to your own developing marketing skill set.
Marketing and Society:  Issues, Impact, and Implications The ‘Marketing and Society: Issues, Impact, and Implications’ module enables you to critically investigate the impact marketing practice can have on different organisations and stakeholders.
Strategic Marketing: Creating and Gaining Competitive Advantage The ‘Strategic Marketing: Creating and Gaining Competitive Advantage’ module immerses you in the vital aspects of Strategic Marketing to develop your professional marketing skills.
You will discover how to help organisational survival, growth, and competitive advantage, whilst mastering resource allocation, customer responsiveness, and adaptability.
As you navigate this dynamic landscape, you will engage practically with strategic marketing tools and processes to equip you with the essential skills and knowledge needed to make robust decisions that ensure organisational success.
"Having the opportunity of a placement means I can put my degree into practice in the world of employment and better understand my next steps after graduation.
Our Marketing BA programme will give you a broad range of subject-specific and highly transferable skills relevant to working in the modern marketing environment.
You can use the skills you’ve learned in different organisations, not just business enterprises, but health services, local and central government, charities and in educational institutions such as universities.
You’ll have a solid understanding of the core principles of marketing combined with your creative mindset, better critical thinking expertise, and enhanced communication skills.
This, together with our Professional and Academic Development Programme, will provide you with an excellent personal and professional portfolio to build a flourishing career as a marketing professional.
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Marketing BA, tailored to the module theme and level.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme that provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Marketing degree.
Students will need to apply for Marketing with Foundation Year (N501) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/mathematics:
Explore the beauty and power of mathematics in solving complex, real-world problems.
From analysing the data of medical trials to deciphering codes, our IMA-accredited programme explores essential mathematical principles, concepts, and applications, along with opportunities to explore areas that interest you most.
From dedicated professional and employability modules to spending time in industry, we’ll support you to develop the practical, logical reasoning and problem-solving skills required for a wide variety of careers.
Develop the key problem-solving, logical reasoning and practical skills that employers are looking for with Keele’s Mathematics programme, which offers in-depth coverage of the three core disciplines – pure mathematics, applied mathematics and statistics.
Pure mathematics focuses on mathematical proof, logical argument and abstraction, applied mathematics is concerned with methods and their application to modelling real-world problems, and statistics involves mathematical modelling of uncertainty and the analysis of data.
Throughout the programme you’ll apply your learning to real-world phenomena or experiences, providing context to your learning and strengthening your understanding.
You’ll also have the chance to align your studies to your passions by choosing from a variety of optional modules.
During your first year, you’ll build a strong foundation in mathematical thinking with modules in algebra, calculus, and differential equations, as well as developing your skills in data analysis using the statistical software R.
You’ll also begin to develop key employability skills by working in teams on group projects, solving problems and communicating your findings in visual ways.
In year two, you will strengthen your knowledge in pure and applied mathematics, probability and statistics, whilst expanding your skillset by learning the programming language Python.
Focusing on your employability skills, you will have the opportunity to spend time in industry with both full time and modular placement opportunities.
You will also build on your professional and transferable skills with extended problem work, report writing, effective communication of mathematical results, and collaboration with others.
In your final year you can undertake a substantial piece of research, applying theoretical knowledge and problem-solving skills to a technical, software, research or business problem.
From exploring financial mathematics and medical statistics, to undertaking a placement in a school or college, - you will also have the opportunity to personalise your studies to suit your career aspirations or interests.
Our specialised pathways enable you to focus in the areas of applied mathematics, pure mathematics, and mathematics with statistics.
As we recognise that your aspirations and interests in the field of mathematics may develop as you are exposed to the diverse themes throughout the programme, you can transfer between our programmes before year two of your studies, to give you the time and space to find your passion (so long as any compulsory modules of the new programme have been taken).
This course is accredited by the IMA.
This course will meet the educational requirements of the Chartered Mathematician designation, awarded by the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications, when it is followed by subsequent training and experience in employment to obtain equivalent competences to those specified by the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) for taught masters degrees.
Mathematical Methods This module aims to provide you with a self-contained and intensive summary of all the essential methods and techniques required at the start of an undergraduate programme in mathematics.
The topics covered include algebra, calculus, functions, trigonometry, and vectors and, as such, the module provides a useful refresher of these.
The module also ensures that all students cover the topics to the same depth and overcomes the differences in syllabi of various pre-University qualifications.
Mathematical Communication, Investigations and Problem Solving This module is designed specifically to help you develop mathematical communication and problem-solving skills.
In this module, you will be presented with unfamiliar and less structured problems that may be open to several different approaches.
This module will enhance your employability skills through teamwork on several group projects and focus on mathematical communication and presentation of your results.
It will also help you appreciate mathematics as a powerful method for describing and solving real-world problems.
You will also cover aspects of vector algebra with a particular emphasis of on three-dimensional vector algebra and geometry with a discussion on lines and planes, linear independence and bases.
Exploring Algebra and Analysis Algebra and analysis are two of the main branches of pure mathematics.
Linear algebra generalises vector and matrix algebra encountered at Level 4.
Mathematical analysis, dealing with the infinitely small and large, aims to provide rigorous theoretical foundations for calculus.
You will study abstract vector spaces, focussing on the role of bases in describing elements.
You will also cover rigorous proofs for calculus results.
Each topic will be introduced via guided investigations, followed by lectures to develop the formal theory.
In this module you will explore these techniques and styles of thinking.
The central concept is that of a group.
You will study some of the fundamental abstract results concerning groups.
You will also consider other algebraic structures, e.g., rings and fields, and discuss applications in combinatorics, geometry, and number theory.
Dynamics In this module you will focus on examples of successful application of mathematics in the modelling of various physical systems, within the context of Newtonian dynamics.
You will investigate projectiles and simple harmonic motion, and also more advanced laws of planetary motion, problems involving variable mass, such as, for example, rocket motion.
Real Analysis This module is aimed at equipping you with further core knowledge in analysis, building upon the material covered in MAT-20035 (Exploring Algebra and Analysis), providing a mathematically rigorous justification for methods in calculus.
The module is focused on infinite number series, limits of functions and their continuity, followed by differentiability and related problems for extremum of functions of one variable, as well as analysis of power and Taylor series.
Professional Experience: Flexible Work Placement (Level 5) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
You will study nonlinear differential equations, for which very few exact solutions are known, hence, introducing qualitative methods for describing various types of behaviour.
In particular, you will focus on geometrical representations of dynamics and systematic approximation techniques.
Group Theory Group theory provides a language for the abstract study of symmetry found in various areas of Mathematics.
Groups are mathematical objects defined by several rules and exhibiting a rich and fascinating amount of structure.
In this module you will study the ways in which groups can act upon other objects such as sets, vectors, shapes in the plane, platonic solids, and even other groups.
You will also explore the tools for comparing groups and for classifying groups of certain sizes.
Financial Mathematics Financial Mathematics' growing importance is shown by the 2008 financial crisis.
It controls various aspects of our daily life.
Over the years, the demands of the knowledge in financial mathematics have helped many graduates to gain positions in financial institutions successfully.
This module aims to provide you with a mathematical perspective on the valuation of financial instruments (futures, options, etc.) and their risk-management.
By the end of this module, you will have confidence solving various problems in stock modelling and derivatives pricing.
Structured Investigations in Mathematics [Semester 1] The module offers you an opportunity to study a specialist Mathematical topic under the supervision of a member of staff.
A wide range of topics may be available, such as advanced linear algebra, solid mechanics, information theory, numerical methods, and topics in the history of Mathematics.
In addition to the furthering their subject knowledge you will have the opportunity to develop skills in independent research, time management, communication, and producing a structured report using specialist Mathematical typesetting software (Latex).
Project (30 credits) This module is an opportunity for you to explore a particular topic/ problem in mathematics, being supervised by a member of staff.
The project will require engagement with appropriate mathematics literature.
For students on specialized pathways, your project will need to be within the area of specialisation.
The module will enable you to perform an in-depth study of a mathematical topic, develop your research skills and ability to communicate mathematical results to audiences using a variety of different communication methods .
Fluid Mechanics Fluid mechanics describes the mathematical theory of the flow of liquids and gasses, and thus underpins the dynamics of the atmosphere and oceans, hence weather and climate prediction, but also how an aeroplane flies, the forces acting on a wind-turbine, flow of blood around the body, and many other applications.
This course introduces you to the equations of fluid motion and techniques for solving these equations.
Waves The module will provide you with knowledge of mathematical techniques for modelling wave propagation, typically accompanied by physical interpretations.
The exposed mathematical theory is illustrated by the discussion of real-world applications including waves arising in musical instruments, such as violins, drums, and flutes.
After completing this module, you will be able to choose and perform appropriate statistical techniques, interpret the results of statistical analysis, and communicate them in a clear, concise and appropriate manner.
Mathematical Modelling In this module you will learn how real-world problems can be modelled mathematically.
You will use appropriate mathematical tools in the model construction and solution process, including linear/nonlinear ordinary differential equations, partial differential equations and relevant solution techniques, such as phase-plane analysis, separation of variables and method of characteristics.
Computational tools will involve programming in Python.
The modelling ideas will be developed through innovative case studies of real-world scenarios, with individual/group projects contributing to further development of professional skills.
Structured Investigations in Mathematics [Semester 2] The module offers you an opportunity to study a specialist Mathematical topic under the supervision of a member of staff.
Professional Experience: Flexible Work Placement (Level 6) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
"I have immensely enjoyed every aspect of my maths degree and Keele enhanced that experience in every way.
The maths department at Keele went above and beyond to support me during my studies and prepared me for professional life after university.
The variety of additional opportunities offered at Keele have also contributed towards making me a well-rounded individual with a range of diverse experiences."
Kaiynat, Mathematics with Integrated Master's
As a university and as a school, we are committed to equality, diversity and inclusion.
Our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) agenda is embedded throughout our programme, and The School of Computer Science and Mathematics are proud to hold a school-level Athena SWAN Bronze Award in recognition for activities in this area.
With the rising emphasis on technology and big data across industries, demand for mathematicians continues to grow.
Upon successfully completing the programme, you'll acquire the problem-solving, logical reasoning, and decision-making skills that are highly sought after by employers across various career fields including education, IT and computing, finance, consulting, medical statistics, data analysis, the civil service, teaching, research and engineering.
"One of the best things about the Mathematics course at Keele is the wide range of modules on offer, which allow you to tailor your degree to give you the appropriate skills for whatever you wish to do after your degree.
Doing a Mathematics degree also provides you with many transferrable skills such as learning to organise an argument in a structured way and explaining your ideas in an accessible way.
Hollie, Mathematics with Integrated Master's
We incorporate online resources to complement in-person sessions.
Using gapped notes as a learning tool, you'll benefit from real-time demonstrations of calculations and interactive problem-solving.
Teaching methods include traditional lectures, practical sessions in our state-of-the-art computer laboratories, tutorials, web-based learning and group projects.
During your studies you will have access to a suite of facilities .
These include; a dedicated mathematics workroom that houses study space, computers and white boards to facilitate independent and group study, seven computer labs (open 24/7), a high-performance cluster of computers (used for research and projects) and a Jupyterhub server (used to write Python code off-campus).
Keele is a research-led university which means your lecturers are actively conducting research at the forefront of their areas of expertise.
Our research specialisms span a wide remit and feed into modules in the latter years of your degree.
Research specialisms within the mathematics department include:
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Mathematics degree.
For example, the Foundations of Applied Mathematics (Mechanics and Statistics) module introduces you to the applications of mathematics to mechanic/physical situations as well as to statistical techniques used widely across the whole curriculum and in research.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Mathematics with Foundation Year (UCAS code G101) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/mathematicsappliedmathematics:
Dive into the real-world applications of mathematics with our IMA accredited ‘Mathematics  (Applied Mathematics)’ programme.
Combine a solid grounding in core mathematics concepts with a focus on developing your problem-solving and mathematical modelling skills to make an impact.
With dedicated professional development and employability modules, and the opportunity to spend time in industry, we’ll support you to develop the practical, technical and logical reasoning skills sought by employers.
Mathematics plays a vital role in shaping and enriching modern life.
It underlies the algorithms and calculations driving today’s technology, enables the analysis of vast datasets to identify trends, and influences fields ranging from healthcare to finance.
Our Mathematics (Applied Mathematics) degree integrates a thorough study of the three core disciplines—pure mathematics, applied mathematics, and statistics—with specialist final-year topics in applied mathematics.
The programme also prioritises the development of problem-solving, logical reasoning, practical, and employability skills that are highly valued by employers.
During your first year, you will build a strong foundation in mathematical thinking with modules in algebra, calculus, and differential equations, whilst developing your skills in data analysis using the statistical software R.
You will also begin to develop key employability skills by working in teams on group projects, solving problems and communicating your findings in visual ways.
Throughout the programme you’ll apply your learning to real-world theories or experiences, providing context to your learning and strengthening your understanding.
In your final year you will study several specialised modules related to applied mathematics including Fluid Mechanics, Waves and Mathematical Modelling.
You may also choose to work on a final year research project, applying theoretical knowledge and problem-solving skills to a technical, software, research or business problem.
Structured Investigations in Mathematics (SEM1) The module offers you an opportunity to study a specialist Mathematical topic under the supervision of a member of staff.
Project This module is an opportunity for you to explore a particular topic/ problem in mathematics, being supervised by a member of staff.
The module will enable you to perform an in-depth study of a mathematical topic, develop your research skills and ability to communicate mathematical results to audiences using a variety of different communication methods.
Structured Investigations in Mathematics (SEM2) The module offers you an opportunity to study a specialist Mathematical topic under the supervision of a member of staff.
We are committed to equality, diversity and inclusion.
Our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) agenda is embedded throughout our curriculum, and we are proud to hold a School-level Athena SWAN Bronze Award in recognition for our activities in this area.
Upon successfully completing the programme, you'll acquire the problem-solving, analytical thinking, practical, technical and research skills that are highly sought after by employers across various career fields including education, finance, consulting, medical statistics, data analysis, the civil service, and engineering.
Jobs that a graduate of this course could pursue include:
During your studies you will have access to a suite of facilities.
Keele is a research-led university which means your academics are actively conducting research at the forefront of their areas of expertise.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Mathematics (Applied Mathematics) degree.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/mathematicspuremathematics:
Explore the foundations of mathematics with our IMA accredited ‘Mathematics (Pure Mathematics)’ programme, where logic and creativity combine.
Develop a strong foundation in core mathematical concepts while focusing on abstract thinking and logical reasoning - primarily centred on algebraic structures.
With opportunities for industry experience, dedicated professional development and employability modules, you'll graduate equipped with the practical, technical, and analytical skills that employers value.
Mathematics is essential in shaping and improving modern life.
It underpins the algorithms and calculations that drive contemporary technology, enables the analysis of extensive datasets to reveal trends, and supports a wide range of fields from healthcare to finance.
Our Mathematics (Pure Mathematics) degree integrates a thorough study of the three core disciplines—pure mathematics, applied mathematics, and statistics—with specialist final-year topics in pure mathematics.
In your final year you will study specialised modules related to pure mathematics including Group Theory, Number Theory and Cryptography.
Focusing on algebraic structures, beginning with their fundamental properties and continuing to more advanced applications, you will develop your abstract thinking and logical argument.
You may also choose to work on a final year project, applying theoretical knowledge and problem-solving skills to a technical, software, research or business problem.
Keele is a research-led university which means academics are actively conducting research at the forefront of their areas of expertise.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Mathematics (Pure Mathematics) degree.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/mathematicswithstatistics:
For those who want to understand and shape the world through numbers, our IMA-accredited Mathematics (with Statistics) programme combines a solid grounding in the fundamental aspects of both fields, with training in statistical software to explore advanced applications in Medical Statistics and Financial Mathematics.
With opportunities to spend time in industry and employability focused modules, you'll graduate with the practical, problem solving and analytical skills valued within a variety of sectors.
Mathematics lies at the heart of numerous advancements in technology, science, and engineering, enabling us to understand and drive innovations that shape the future—from artificial intelligence to climate science.
Statistics provides valuable insights into various situations, helping us to make informed decisions.
From businesses learning about their customers, making predications and improving their products to pharmaceutical companies using statistical experiments to develop new treatments, the applications for statistics are endless.
Our Mathematics (with Statistics) programme at Keele offers comprehensive coverage of the three core disciplines—pure mathematics, applied mathematics, and statistics—while placing strong emphasis on developing the key problem-solving, logical reasoning, practical and employability skills employers seek.
In your final year you will study specialised modules related to statistics including partial differential equations, financial maths and medical statistics.
This module opens employment opportunities to develop career as medical statistician in the academia, research organisations, and pharmaceutical industry
Upon successfully completing the programme, you'll acquire the advanced the problem-solving, analytical thinking, practical, technical and research skills that are highly sought after by employers across various career fields including education, finance, consulting, medical statistics, data analysis, the civil service, and engineering.
Careers that a graduate of this course could pursue, include:
Please note some of the careers above may require further study.
These include;
You will also have the opportunity to gain out of hours entry to the building that houses the School's computer laboratories (subject to the request, approval and collection of a key fob).
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Mathematics (with Statistics) degree.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/mathematicswithintegratedmasters:
Ignite your passion for the beauty and practicality of mathematics, whilst building a distinctive expertise to help you stand out from the crowd.
From mathematical concepts to specialist topics in group theory, hydrodynamic stability theory, and perturbation methods, you’ll deepen your learning, gaining the advanced practical, technical, research and employability skills to pursue PhD study or gain a competitive edge in the graduate employment market.
Mathematics with Integrated Master’s at Keele offers a broad coverage of the key disciplines; pure mathematics, applied mathematics, and statistics.
During your first year, you will build a strong foundation in mathematical thinking, exploring sets, functions and proofs, calculus, mathematical methods, algebra and differential equations.
To deepen your learning, you will apply your knowledge to analyse real data sets, using the statistical software R.
You will also start to develop key employability skills by working in teams on group projects, solving problems and communicating your findings in visual ways.
Throughout the programme you’ll apply your knowledge to real-world theories or experiences, providing context to your learning and strengthening your understanding.
Focusing on your employability skills, you will have the opportunity to spend time in industry with both full time and modular placement opportunities or spend time studying abroad.
Year three allows you to unleash your creativity and undertake a substantial piece of research, applying theoretical knowledge and problem-solving skills to a technical, software, research or business problem.
You will also have the widest choice in personalising your studies with exciting optional modules including Financial Mathematics, Waves, Medical Statistics and Cryptography.
In your final year of study, you will develop advanced research skills by undertaking an extensive master’s level research project.
Throughout this time, you will work in depth on a problem over an extended period, writing reports - journal style, whilst presenting and communicating your mathematical results to an academic audience by a poster and seminar talk.
To deepen your learning in areas you are passionate about, you will choose from a variety of optional modules including Hydrodynamic Stability Theory, Continuum Mechanics, Perturbation Methods, Field and Galois Theory and Topics in Group Theory.
Masters Project This module gives you the opportunity to substantially develop research skills required for researching mathematics., such as working in depth on a problem over an extended period, writing reports aiming closer at journal style, presenting and communicating mathematical results with a certain degree of originality to academic audience (poster and seminar talk).
You will produce a dissertation at the end of the module.
This module will provide employability skills targeted at future academic work but also relevant for graduate employment.
Hydrodynamic Stability Theory Flows of liquids and gasses can become turbulent.
Understanding this complicated, chaotic motion is widely regarded as the outstanding problem of classical mechanics.
Turbulence can be initiated by instabilities of simple steady flows.
You will be introduced to analytical techniques for predicting a flow's stability properties.
These methods can predict the approximate size of dominant flow structures in the early stages of the transition to turbulence, and underpin methods for predicting aerodynamic drag, and mixing in the atmosphere and oceans.
Continuum Mechanics If you have heard about the wave equation or heat equation and have ever wondered how they were derived, then Continuum Mechanics will be of interest to you.
This module introduces the basic principles that should be followed when formulating the equations governing the static or dynamic behaviour of any continuum whether it is a fluid and solid.
You will derive the governing equations for linear elastic materials and Newtonian fluids as special cases and solve  typical boundary value problems.
Perturbation Methods This module introduces you to the asymptotic techniques, which are of vital importance in mathematical models arising from the real-world problems.
These 'raw' problems very rarely resemble simple models which can be solved exactly.
Fortunately, very often 'raw' problems involve a small parameter, or there is a method for determining an approximate solution which is sufficiently accurate.
The module will present an overview of the main analytical perturbation techniques leading to finding approximate solutions of various mathematical problems.
Field and Galois Theory Galois theory is named for the 19th century French mathematician Evariste Galois, who studied symmetries in the roots of polynomial equations.
This approach can be used to obtain analogues of the quadratic formula for polynomials of degree 3 or 4, and to prove that it is impossible to find such a formula for degree 5 or higher.
In this module you will study these ideas from a modern perspective, employing tools from abstract algebra such as groups, rings, and fields.
Topics in Group Theory Building upon the group theoretical concepts explored in earlier modules, in this module you will focus on techniques for classifying finite groups.
Powerful theorems are proved that allow a group to be decomposed into smaller, more manageable pieces.
Conversely, methods will be presented for constructing new groups from existing ones.
The full range of ways in which this can be done is not fully understood; the module includes some open questions and current research topics.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the MMath Mathematics with Integrated Master's Mathematics course.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/mediaandcommunications:
Media plays a pivotal role in shaping our society, our worldview, and our sense of self.
The BA Media and Communications programme at Keele will equip you with the essential tools to critically understand, analyse, and research the media, while empowering you to harness its potential for creative communication and impactful storytelling, preparing you for a successful career in the creative industries and many related fields.
The Media and Communications degree at Keele seamlessly blends theoretical and practical elements, enabling you to explore and appreciate the vital role media plays in our rapidly changing world while simultaneously developing your creative abilities and professional portfolio.
The degree equips you with valuable graduate skills across three interconnected areas: critical analysis, creative production, and professional practice.
Throughout the course, you’ll master the use of various visual media, film, audio, and digital formats to craft compelling narratives, communicate important ideas, and confidently express your creative voice.
You’ll explore everything from storytelling and filmmaking to audience research and the intersection of media with contemporary issues like climate change and politics.
With access to dedicated teaching spaces and professional filmmaking equipment, you’ll gain valuable hands-on experience.
This practical training will enable you to refine your skills and build an impressive portfolio of work.
The programme offers flexibility, allowing you to tailor your degree with a range of optional core modules.
These options enable you to broaden your understanding of various career pathways and engage directly with the world beyond Keele—whether through work placements, client-based projects, or collaborative efforts to deliver successful festivals and events.
This thoughtfully designed curriculum achieves the perfect balance between theoretical knowledge and practical application, providing opportunities for you to gain invaluable industry experience through placements.
Media and Communications at Keele will not only prepare you for a successful career in the media industry but also equip you with the skills and knowledge to excel in a wide range of related fields.
Popular Music and Digital Platforms This module introduces key theoretical and practical aspects of popular music, exploring its socio-cultural context, functions, performers, markets, and scenes.
OPTIONAL CORE: Documentary Film Building on the practical skills and critical filmmaking knowledge acquired in first year, this module introduces you to the exciting specialist field of documentary filmmaking.
OPTIONAL CORE: The Mediated Self How do we draw on media texts, practices, and technologies to understand, construct, and represent who we are?
Students MUST pick one of the following optional core modules: Documentary Film OR Researching audiences and users.
Students MUST pick one of the following optional core professional development modules: Professional Experience for Media (Year 2) OR Pathways with Media: Developing Your Profile.
OPTIONAL CORE: Extended Media Project This is your chance to create a major media project, such as a narrative, documentary, or short film; a photographic project; or a multimedia display.
OPTIONAL CORE: Media Dissertation The dissertation gives you the opportunity to produce a substantial piece of independent and original research.
OPTIONAL CORE (professional development): Professional Experience for Media (Year 3) In your final year we offer you another opportunity to complete a work placement, a project for a client (or a series of clients), or work as part of a team to deliver a successful festival or event.
OPTIONAL CORE (professional development): Employing Media: Putting Your Subject into Practice Now you are preparing for life after graduation, this module enables you to put your degree skills into practice and work with employer-clients on a series of real-life projects.
Enhancing the creative and collaborative skills you developed at Level 5, Employing Media will train you to work effectively with clients from a variety of settings, such as charities, publishers, museums, or even the construction sector, and gives you the opportunity to present your work to your chosen employer-client.
Students MUST pick one of the following optional core modules: ISP Extended Media Project OR ISP Media Dissertation.
Students MUST pick one of the following optional core professional development modules: Professional Experience for Media (Year 3) OR Employing Media: Putting Your Subject into Practice.
"I choose the placement module to perfect my communication abilities, expand my perspective on life beyond university, and gain a sense of real-world work experience.
A few contacts and emails later, I was able to secure a placement position with University Hospital of North Midlands as a communications assistant with the communications team.
My role included conducting an audit of their current communications channels used by their team and this included benchmarking against other NHS trusts.
During this placement, I learned a lot about the communications industry, which helped me land a volunteer position as a communications officer with another organisation."
Elizabeth, Media and Communications
Having a degree in Media and Communications provides a broad insight into various elements of the world we live in.
You will have experience in theory and practical aspects of this industry which will be applicable to a number of different sectors.
Media students have secured various roles in video production and other content creation for both local businesses, charities and national companies.
These include Stoke Football Club, BBC Radio Stoke, NHS and Astrazeneca.
"I worked with the Global Student Recruitment and Admissions (GSRA) team at Keele, focusing on improving how the university presents placements and careers through digital content.
My tasks ranged from analysing the messaging on top universities’ placement webpages to developing TikTok storyboards.
The highlight of my placement was creating, developing, and directing a TikTok video titled ‘A Guide to Careers and Placements’.
The video aligned with the university’s brand and delivered both creative and strategic value.
This placement allowed me to connect academic knowledge, like audience analysis and storytelling alongside practical tasks.
I developed confidence in content creation, communication, and using tools like Adobe Premiere Pro.
It was rewarding to see my work contribute to something real and impactful.
Alisha, Media and Communications
Media and Communications provides an array of diverse teaching styles to promote the understanding of the subject area.
You will be taught through lectures and seminars where you will have the opportunity to participate in discussions and group work with your peers.
This is a useful method to share ideas and practice with others, to gain confidence in presenting your opinions and applying your knowledge.
You will also take part in practical workshops where you will have a hands-on approach to creating content through practical methods such as film and image production.
These sessions will encourage you to get involved and build the personal and professional skills which will inform your ability to work both independently and collaboratively.
This is a great way to familiarise yourself with the facilities available and practice using equipment.
Throughout the duration of the course, you will engage with different assessment methods to challenge the skills and knowledge you have developed.
You will also have access to filmmaking equipment, providing the opportunity to gain hands-on experience to practice your skills and create a portfolio of work.
Explore our specialised facilities open for you to implement and challenge your practical skills alongside your theoretical learning.
You will have access to our photographic studio, screening room and Apple Macintosh labs.
This will help to develop your editing skills further using Adobe Creative Suite and enhance your employability prospects having used specialist equipment as well as Nikon and Canon cameras.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Media and Communications degree.
Students should apply for BA (Hons) Media and Communications with Foundation Year ( UCAS code: P9V0) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/mediawithbusinessmanagement:
Our Media with Business Management BA equips you with the skills to critically analyse, research, and understand the media while harnessing its power for creative communication and storytelling.
You will also gain an understanding of the modern business landscape, including international economics, politics, and societal issues, preparing you for a successful career in the media industry.
In today’s fast-paced digital world, storytelling is everything—and with our Media with Business Management BA, you will master the art of crafting compelling narratives across film, audio, and digital platforms.
Whether you want to captivate audiences, communicate powerful ideas, or express your unique creative voice, this programme gives you the tools to make an impact.
In addition to creating content, you will become a critical analyst of various forms of media, informed by the latest industry developments.
You will also gain essential business skills, from data analysis to mastering digital tools for smart decision-making, giving you a competitive edge in industry.
With a strong focus on sustainability, ethical business practices, and leadership, you'll become equipped to drive innovation and shape future responsibly through promoting social justice and challenging misrepresentation in media.
This forward-thinking curriculum covers everything from the foundations of business and social media content creation, the fundamentals of media production and researching audiences, ensuring you're fully prepared for a successful career in a variety of industries.
At Keele, we blend hands-on creative practice with in-depth business insights, allowing you to explore the vital role media plays in shaping our world - all while building your creative portfolio and professional expertise.
You'll have the opportunity to gain real-world experience through projects and placements, applying your learning to real-world scenarios and kick-starting your career.
With flexible module choices, you can tailor your degree to your career aspirations—and even study abroad at one of our partner universities.
Exploring Business Foundations: Principles and Practices This module introduces students to the essential concepts and practices in business, including basic economics, management principles, and the roles of marketing and finance.
Students will learn about the structure of various business organizations and begin to understand the dynamics of the business world.
The module allows students to think about the implications of different aspects of business functioning in an industry of their choice.
Students will explore case studies and participate in simulations to see management theories in action.
The module allows students to think how people, processes and performance operate in an industry of their choice.
Students will examine how businesses can formulate strategies to maintain competitive advantage, adapt to changing markets, and innovate.
The module allows students to focus on strategic challenges facing organisations in an industry of their choice.
With the guidance of an expert supervisor, you will devise a research topic that engages with the issues that most interest you in Media and Communications.
Enhancing the creative and collaborative skills you developed at level 5, Employing Media will trains you to work effectively with clients from a variety of settings, such as charities, publishers, museums, or even the construction sector, and will gives you the opportunity to present your work to your chosen employer-client.
Currently, academic staff in media are active researchers in areas such as social media, race and representation, and environmental communication.
Some members of staff also have professional experience in visual art production, curating, media design, and video editing, production and direction.
You will have have the opportunity to take placement modules during your degree to gain valuable real-world experience.
In addition to the Study Abroad options of spending a semester or a year at one of Keele’s international partner universities, students can choose a unique 4-week study abroad optional module taking place in the summer before either Year 2 or Year 3: The American South: US Summer School.
"I would recommend Media at Keele to anyone because the course covers all bases of future employment, so rather than giving you one specific ability, they keep your opportunities varied"
Dan, Media
By the time you graduate from our Media with Business Management course you will have developed a strong portfolio of skills so you are well equipped for a wide variety of career opportunities.
All teaching is research-led and social learning is encouraged in sessions.
The Keele Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Media with Business Management degree.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) Business Management with Foundation Year ( UCAS code: N7L3) through UCAS at www.ucas.com.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/medicine:
Medicine at Keele delivers an innovative curriculum underpinned by the three core themes identified by the General Medical Council: Professional Values and Behaviours, Professional Skills, and Professional Knowledge (GMC, 2018).
Ranked 5th in England (Guardian University League Table, 2025).
Studying Medicine MBChB at Keele you will develop the necessary knowledge and clinical skills to become a doctor who practises with competence and compassion.
Medicine at Keele adopts a modern, spiral, highly integrated curriculum that combines a range of learning strategies, including early clinical experience, integrated curriculum and clinical skills teaching, practical activities (including dissection), small-group self-directed learning, lectures and seminars.
Additionally, inter-professional learning with other health students, including nursing, midwifery, paramedic science, physiotherapy and radiography, is fostered throughout the programme.
We are committed to listening to, responding to and supporting our students to become well-rounded, competent clinicians.
Through forums such as our Medical Student Council, we recognise the value of our students' contribution to development and progression of our curriculum and the student experience.
To ensure you graduate as a confident and competent clinician, you will study a range of topics including:
Our spiral curriculum means you will re-visit core topics, building on your knowledge as you progress through the medicine degree.
In Year 1, you will cover a range of units including: health and disease, the body's defence systems, emergencies, life-course, brain and mind, pregnancy, and lifestyle.
Year 2 sees you re-visit many aspects of biomedical, behavioural and social science, with an increasing emphasis on complexity and pathology.
You will learn through integrated units such as: mechanisms of disease, inputs and outputs, movement and trauma, circulation, breath of life and integrated systems.
Years 3 and 4 enable you to build on the foundations of clinical knowledge and skills through immersion in clinical placements, while continuing to develop and apply biomedical, behavioural and social science knowledge.
Within year 3 you will cover topics such as: medicine, surgery, elderly care, mental health and paediatrics, and complete a general practice clinical placement.
You will revisit many of these topics in Year 4 but will also cover women's health, neurology and musculoskeletal systems.
The final year of the MBChB prepares you for professional practice as a foundation year 1 doctor.
You will undertake extensive student assistantships including: out of hours evening and weekend working, general practice, acute and critical care (including emergency medicine, intensive care and anaesthesia), medicine and surgery.
Scholarship activities and student selected components (SSCs) complement our MBChB course.
These offer you opportunities to learn about how medical knowledge develops through research, and to focus on particular areas of interest in medical science, clinical medicine or public health in greater depth.
You will select a component in several years of study which has clear objectives and will be assessed accordingly.
For example in Year 1, you will produce a library-based mini-review of an academic topic under the supervision of a member of the teaching and/or research staff.
You will have extensive experience of clinical placements in both primary and secondary care settings and in the non-NHS community sector ("third sector").
Clinical placements will take place across Staffordshire, Shropshire and other adjoining counties.
We are committed to providing you with opportunities to build your awareness of the health and wellbeing of a variety of demographics to strengthen your appreciation of the wider determinants of health, such as socio-economic, cultural and environmental conditions.
Beginning in Year 1, you will be encouraged to think of community and social dimensions of illness and health throughout your academic studies and placements.
You will have placements with community services and general practices in Years 1 and 2, and over 20% of teaching in Years 3, 4 and 5 takes place in general practice.
Examples of other community services we use are schools, workplaces, residential homes and drop-in centres, to name but a few: all places that contribute to the health and care of people.
Hospital placements will take place in multiple centres, providing opportunities to engage with major medical and surgical specialities that are delivered in different locations.
Further opportunities for exploration of special interests are available through intercalation.
Options for intercalation to pursue an additional qualification include studying at bachelor’s level after the second year or master’s level after the fourth year.
Intercalation is a year out of your undergraduate medical studies to study a subject area in greater depth before returning to complete the medical course.
An intercalated degree provides you with an opportunity to gain an additional qualification in a medicine-related subject that interests you, acquire a better understanding of basic biomedical sciences, medical humanities or research methodologies, publish scientific papers and present at conferences.
Students who are given permission to intercalate may do so either at Keele or at other universities.
"The holistic nature of the Keele curriculum prepared me very well for life as a junior doctor, but also provided me with a great foundation in clinical research.
Research can often be overlooked in the training of medics, given the importance of developing clinical skills required for hospital work.
However, creating doctors that understand and can contribute to research is pivotal in the advancement of medical science.
Keele allowed me to learn clinical and research skills symbiotically, which has had a tremendous impact on my pursuit of becoming a clinical scientist.
Fatemah, Medicine, Clinical Research Fellow
"Keele prepared me perfectly for life as a junior doctor.
From day one we were encouraged to think critically as clinicians evaluating situations and responding accordingly.
At Keele there is a strong emphasis on communication and the doctor-patient relationship, which is a key skill to develop as a trainee doctor and has helped me tremendously throughout my career.
The early exposure to clinical medicine at Keele made the transition to doctor seamless.
I was exposed to a wide range of specialities and was equipped with the mentorship and guidance to be in an excellent position to enter a highly competitive training job in cardiothoracic surgery at the first opportunity.""
Nabil, Medicine, Cardiothoracic Surgery Registrar
Credits
Year 1 (Level 4)
Med- 10008
120
0
Year 2 (Level 5)
Med- 20001
Year 3 (Level 6)
Med- 30001
Year 4 (Level 6)
Med- 30002
Year 5 (Level 6)
Med- 30003
Throughout the course, you will gain experience in a variety of healthcare settings within different kinds of centres in several different hospital trusts.
Our partner trusts are University Hospitals of North Midlands NHS Trust (Royal Stoke University Hospital and County Hospital, Stafford), Midlands Partnership University NHS Foundation Trust (Bradwell Community Hospital and Haywood Community Hospital in Stoke-on-Trent, St George’s Hospital in Stafford and the Redwoods Centre in Shrewsbury), North Staffordshire Combined Healthcare NHS Trust (Harplands Hospital in Stoke-on-Trent) and Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital NHS Trust (Royal Shrewsbury Hospital and Princess Royal Hospital, Telford).
You will also undertake placements in general practice throughout the programme.
It is important that students experience the full variety of settings within which patient care takes place, and you will therefore be expected to spend time in different locations within certain years of the course.
These settings include a very large teaching hospital and tertiary referral centre (Royal Stoke), busy district general hospitals (County, Royal Shrewsbury and Princess Royal), specialist psychiatric centres (St George’s, Harplands and Redwoods) and small community hospitals (Bradwell and Haywood), as well as general practice.
Patient care is delivered across this range of hospitals, and medical students need to spend time in several of them to engage with delivery of a wide variety of services.
This will involve travel between sites within some parts of the MBChB programme.
Currently, years 4 and 5 of the programme are each spent at distinct bases: one year in Staffordshire and the other in Shropshire.
Training is not confined to a single hospital within each county.
You will also have the opportunity to engage with a voluntary/third-sector organisation providing patient support outside the NHS.
"I felt Keele prepared me well for life after graduation and really helped me to fit the knowledge, communication, and clinical skills required together and build on this each year.
I found the balance of going through necessary placements but also allowing for some student selected components, including the final year elective, meant I was able to gain the knowledge needed but also explore areas of interest to help me later select a speciality (and gave me something to talk about later on at specialty interviews).
Keele has smaller numbers of students than many other universities in each year group which meant it was often easier to connect with tutors and I didn’t feel lost in the crowd."
Karen, Medicine, Locum Consultant Psychiatrist
Students must be 18 years old by 1 October.
£46,700
Graduates of our undergraduate medical degree have gone on to pursue careers spanning a diverse range of specialities, from forensic pathologist to psychiatrist, GP to cardiothoracic surgeon.
Our integrated curriculum and emphasis on the application of your learning means you are well-equipped to explore a career within a speciality aligned to your aspirations.
The General Medical Council (GMC) approves your university’s degree as a primary medical qualification (PMQ).
This is important because, provided there are no concerns about your fitness to practise, a PMQ entitles you to provisional registration with the GMC for a licence to practise medicine in the UK.
For more details visit the UK Foundation Programme website .
In order to practise medicine in the UK you will be required to pass the Medical Licensing Assessment (MLA).
The MLA is in two parts: the Applied Knowledge Test (AKT), which you will sit as your final knowledge exam in the Keele MBChB programme, and the Clinical & Professional Skills Assessment (CPSA), which you will sit as your final skills assessment.
Successfully completing the degree will therefore mean you have also completed the MLA.
You will also sit a national Prescribing Safety Assessment (PSA) in year 5.
Provisionally registered doctors can only practise in approved Foundation Year 1 posts, obtained through the national application process during the final year of the course.
Successful completion of the programme is normally achieved within 12 months and awards a Certificate of Experience.
You can then apply for full registration with the General Medical Council.
You need this and a licence to practise unsupervised medical practice in the UK for both NHS and private practice.
Medical students at UK medical schools who are from outside the UK and Ireland and do not have right of residence must check how the latest information on visa requirements affects their postgraduate training period.
Within the MBChB programme you will have opportunities to learn about the variety of medical speciality pathways and how to enhance your CV for your preferred speciality, as well as to experience particular specialities within SSCs.
You will receive support with UK Foundation Programme applications and will build up a portfolio throughout the course to support subsequent medical job applications.
"I particularly found PBL and case-based learning (CBL) sessions useful in helping develop my problem-solving, team work, and leadership skills.
Keele also helped me to confidently use evidence-based research to do self-directed learning, which I still regularly use when keeping my medical knowledge and skills up-to-date.
The introduction of hospital placements early on in the degree was also very beneficial in getting me familiar with the everyday running of the ward/emergency department.
This helped me during my early days of working as a foundation doctor because I did not find the transition so daunting."
Debbie, Medicine, GP and Product Designer
We aim to make learning enjoyable through small class sizes, small group learning and early clinical experience, and will support you to develop into highly competent and self-aware medical professionals.
In your programme you will sometimes be expected to role play and engage in simulated clinical scenarios with other students, such as the practice and observation of practical skills in physical contact with other students.
For some specific practices, this may necessitate modification of dress - e.g., to shorts and t-shirt.
These activities will be conducted in a professional, safe,  respectful and culturally sensitive way, under the supervision of academic staff, according to a defined protocol .
We offer students varied learning opportunities including:
Years 1 and 2 of the Keele MBChB curriculum make use of small-group self-directed learning in which students work together in tutorial groups on questions related to written clinical cases or clinically relevant scenarios.
This involves independent study by individual students to acquire relevant theoretical and practical learning that is then shared among the group while discussing the case or scenario.
Other scheduled teaching activities will contribute to the learning needed for the case/scenario discussions.
From year 3 onwards, this approach develops into case-based and case-illustrated learning, where the written scenarios are augmented using discussions of patients encountered by students in their clinical placements.
The small-group learning is supported by a variety of methods which include plenary lectures, seminars, laboratory practical classes, and a wide variety of placement experiences in primary and secondary care.
Placements begin in year 1 and you will learn the skills needed to get the best out of placement opportunities prior to their occurrence.
The emphasis throughout the course is firmly on student-led, self-directed and collaborative learning.
We utilise a range of assessment modes appropriate to assess each of the intended learning objectives of the programme.
In every year all domains will be summatively assessed using appropriate assessment methods.
Anatomy encompasses all levels of structural organisation: topographical, neuroanatomical, histological, cellular and developmental.
Keele anatomy services provide anatomical teaching and resources for health and science education, both at Keele and across the North West of England.
Undergraduate medical students will undertake regular learning sessions in the dissecting room and other parts of the anatomy suite.
In Years 1 and 2 these will link closely with the body systems being studied in weekly PBL cases.
Anatomy sessions will also continue as part of regular visits to the Keele campus in Year 3.
Located on the Royal Stoke University Hospital site, the Clinical Education Centre (CEC) is a purpose-built resource that houses state-of-the art teaching facilities, used to enhance and support the student learning experience.
With clinical skills laboratories, simulation facilities and library, the centre provides the space and resources required for you to develop both your academic and clinical skills.
This is where students undertake classroom-based learning in Year 3 and in either Year 4 or Year 5, depending on base site allocation.
Located within the CEC, the health library is a joint NHS and higher education library service that supports healthcare staff and students.
With access to a vast array of resources, including medical journals and databases, the health library provides the resources and environment for you to study away from the classroom.
Students who are based in Shropshire for Year 4 or 5 will use clinical skills laboratories and library facilities in the Learning Centre at the Royal Shrewsbury Hospital, as well as a dedicated simulation suite.
We are now offering an exciting gateway route into medicine for students from some under-represented groups.
This course offers standard medical training with the addition of a foundation year (a total of six years).
For more information about the medicine MBChB with Health Foundation Year course, including entry requirements and progression, please visit the Medicine with Health Foundation Year page.
The medicine MBChB with Health Foundation Year course will provide you with the requisite science knowledge, enhance your study skills and give you an introduction to the employability skills required by health professionals.
The foundation year is a well established and successful programme that offers progression onto the full range of health degrees at Keele.
The foundation year for medicine is a gateway route into medicine for students from some under-represented groups.
Students entering the foundation year will undertake a range of modules to bring your academic level up to an equivalent standard to that of direct entrants to year 1 of the MBChB programme.
Progression requirements are currently 40% (45 credits) in all semester 1 modules and 70% (75 credits) in semester 2.
Students who gain entry to the health foundation year for medicine after interview, and complete the foundation year successfully, will automatically progress to Year 1 of the regular MBChB programme as long as they meet all occupational health and fitness-to-practise requirements.
Progression to the MBChB programme from any of the other Keele foundation years is not possible.
Please note that alongside the academic entry requirements, applicants must also meet essential criteria indicating that they belong to particular under-represented groups.
These criteria are specified on the Medicine with Health Foundation Year page.
All requests to consider extenuating circumstances should be sent to medicine@keele.ac.uk at the time of application submission and no later than 31 October 2024.
Please note that if you wish extenuating circumstances to be considered, you must notify us in this way.
We won't act on details of extenuating circumstances in the UCAS personal statement.
We will take account of extenuating circumstances mentioned in the relevant section of the UCAS reference but we may need to request additional information and this should be done as early as possible in the cycle, so you should alert us to any need for extenuating circumstances to be considered by e-mailing before the 31 October deadline.
We cannot take supplementary requests for consideration by your school/college, etc., into account unless you have submitted a request by the deadline.
Medicine MBChB with Health Foundation Year UCAS course code: A104

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/microbiologyandimmunology:
Embark on a fascinating journey into microbial life and human immunology on our Microbiology and Immunology BSc.
From gaining core grounding in biology, biochemistry and physiology of viruses and microorganisms to acquiring advanced laboratory techniques in our state-of-the-art laboratories, you will gain the analytical thinking, research, and problem-solving skills to pursue a variety of careers in medical research, healthcare, biotechnology, and public health.
Our employability-focused BSc will immerse you in the fundamental concepts of microbiology and immunology, offering a comprehensive exploration of contemporary biological sciences.
Through an in-depth and dynamic programme, you'll delve into cutting-edge research areas, gaining profound insights into molecular biology, intricate biological mechanisms, and the complex relationships between hosts and pathogens.
During the programme you will gain a solid grounding in biology, biochemistry and physiology of viruses and microorganisms including bacteria, fungi, and parasites, together with the role of the immune system in defending the body against infection from pathogens.
Our overarching aim is to equip you with the multidisciplinary skills and knowledge employed by scientists in these fields.
In microbiology there is a particular emphasis on host-pathogen interactions, the diseases these can cause, the development of novel diagnostic and therapeutic approaches, as well as their wider application in biotechnology and their critical roles in global ecosystems, including interactions within key plant and animal hosts.
Immunology explores the enormous diversity of the human immune system, and how such knowledge is essential in the development of new biotechnological approaches to disease treatment and prevention, such as vaccines.
The core laboratory programme delivered in our state-of-the-art David Attenborough and Central Science Laboratories will enable you to develop hands-on practical skills within modern research techniques.
You will also receive research training in experimental design, practical techniques, and data analysis.
Your studies will culminate in the opportunity to undertake a final year research project (laboratory or computer based) under expert guidance of our teaching and research staff.
You will also present the outcomes of your final year research project at our Undergraduate Student Research Conference in the context of a realistic research conference experience.
To enhance you employability there are options to undertake a work placement year , or study abroad for a semester or an international year of study.
Accreditation for this programme will be sought through the Royal Society of Biology (RSB).
Molecules of Life We will explore to fundamental concepts in our understanding of the structure and function of biological molecules, from the three-dimensional structure of proteins and the activity of enzymes to the progress and organisation of major metabolic pathways, which you will build on across the course.
Microbes: the immune system and the environment Microbes interact with all life forms, with their impact on human health affecting communities worldwide.
Here you will explore how our immune system protects us against infection, and the role microbes play in the diversity of ecosystems.
You will begin to contextualise content delivered within other modules, and how it applies to microbes.
Case-based learning tutorials support understanding of core concepts, as you work through real-life cases in microbiology and immunology, building knowledge and communication skills.
Through an innovative group-based activity you will produce a short video animation drawing on a select module topic, aimed at a 18-year-old, developing key skills in teamwork and leadership, and in communicating to different audiences.
Microbes, Viruses, Parasites Microbes, viruses and parasites present genuine risk to human populations.
Defence and Disease This module focuses on how the immune system works under physiological and pathological conditions, including infectious disease, vaccination, cancer, rheumatoid arthritis, cardiovascular diseases, and autoimmune and inflammatory pathologies, assessing current and proposed treatment strategies.
Active group discussions using case studies and real-world scenarios support core module content, whilst laboratory report assessment, enables development of independent, enquiry-based approaches, developing skills in experimental design within a mini-project.
This culminates in a thrilling and authentic student conference that gives you an opportunity to celebrate and share your achievements with your peers.
Case Studies in Microbiology and Immunology Here you will study current trends in disease themes in the field of microbiology and immunology, and how microorganisms can be used as an alternative tool in multiple fields e.g.
biocontrols of environmental pests or microbiome manipulation.
A case study aligns to each theme, with investigation of current clinical interventions and how experimental approaches inform improvements to future therapeutic interventions.
You will develop your communication skills by curating a themed edition of a journal, selecting latest advances in your chosen field.
Structural Immunology Advances in biotechnology, biology, and biomedicine, and their impact on the quality of life, the economy, medicine, and health care depend on the application of structural biology to provide detailed three-dimensional structural information at the atomic level of proteins, enzymes, viruses, and their targets.
We will explore how this information can be used to provide insights into how we resist, fight, and recover from infection and disease, providing unique opportunities to design new diagnostic and therapeutic agents and strategies.
Tropical Field Course Our tropical biology field course in Malaysia, is an optional module with additional costs, taking place in the summer between years two and three.
During your studies you will have the opportunity to spend a year or semester studying abroad.
If you're unsure which area of microbiology and immunology you want to focus on, work experience can provide insight into what work is like in a specific field.
From a year working in industry and paid internships to summer secondment research placements in the UK or overseas, our programme offers many opportunities to gain familiarisation with the professional working environment, develop professional contacts and apply the skills and theories you have learnt.
Staff in the School of Life Sciences include world-leading researchers, clinical practitioners and experts in learning and teaching.
As part of their training, all staff complete post-graduate courses on learning and teaching.
Some take this to Masters level and beyond, choosing to specialise in pedagogic research to ensure that our programmes are taught to the very highest standards.
You will also have access to specialist advice and support through our Academic Mentors, Disability Inclusion Tutors, Student Experience and Support Officers, and a range of central services including Counselling and Mental Health, Careers and Employability, and Student Finance.
Many students with Microbiology and Immunology degrees seek careers in scientific industries including:
Key transferrable skills you can develop include:
(Please note further study may be required for the roles listed above).
You will carry out practical laboratory work in both The David Attenborough Laboratories and Keele's state-of-the-ar t Central Science Laboratory (CSL) building - which is part of the biggest single investment in learning and teaching in the University’s history.
Laboratory practicals take place in one of our state-of-the-art science labs.
These give you first-hand experience in a range of scientific techniques and have been designed to ensure you develop both independent and team-based skills.
Digital learning resources are designed to support in person teaching, ensuring that all core content is recorded.
Our aim is to offer a more inclusive learning environment that gives you more flexibility to decide how, when, and where to study.
This can include lecture capture recordings of live sessions or support for flipped classroom learning.
Campus-based interactive lectures are delivered by experts in the field, including external guest speakers.
Interactive lectures focus on active learning and aim to provide opportunities for you to discuss key content and consolidate your learning.
Campus-based tutorials and workshops are often designed to support those areas that we know can be difficult, such as statistics.
Tutorials and workshops are often delivered in small groups designed to promote social learning, develop a sense of community, and to give you an opportunity to apply your knowledge and deepen your understanding of core issues through discussion with other students and your tutors.
Case-based learning (CBL) tutorials takes place in small groups.
You will discuss patient cases that help you to contextualise much of the taught content across the programme, highlighting how that applies to patient pathways, and helping you to develop key skills such as leadership, communication and evidence-based problem solving.
Live, online tutorials, workshops and drop-in sessions are often used to host plenary sessions.
These sessions are optional, added value and may cover topics common to all students such as: note taking and meet your alumni in your first year, IT and data analysis in year two and writing retreats and career readiness in year three.
Independent study is based on directed reading from text books, research papers and research reviews to support your learning of the core material and deepen your understanding of the subject.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Microbiology and Immunology degree.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Microbiology and Immunology with Foundation Year (UCAS code C502) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/microbiologyandimmunologywithintegratedmasters:
Position yourself at the forefront of scientific innovation with our four-year Microbiology and Immunology with Integrated Master's.
From the intricate world of microscopic life and human immune responses to the complex interplays that result in disease or remission, you will gain the cutting-edge laboratory techniques, advanced problem-solving, research and communication and skills to pursue a research career, work in industry or the wider bioscience sector.
Our integrated master's programme combines a robust foundation in microbiology and immunology, with an expansive exploration of contemporary biological sciences.
Throughout the programme you'll delve into cutting-edge research areas, gaining profound insights into molecular biology, intricate biological mechanisms, and complex host-pathogen interactions.
The curriculum comprehensively covers the biology, biochemistry, and physiology of microorganisms—including viruses, bacteria, fungi, and parasites—while examining the immune system's critical role in defending against pathogenic infections.
Our approach emphasises understanding intricate interactions between microorganisms and their hosts, investigating disease mechanisms, and developing innovative diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.
Microbiology focuses on host-pathogen dynamics, exploring their broader implications in biotechnology and global ecosystems.
Immunology unveils the remarkable complexity of the human immune system, demonstrating how this knowledge drives breakthrough treatments, vaccine development, and targeted molecular therapies for conditions like cancer and autoimmune disorders.
Through intensive research training, you'll develop advanced experimental design, practical techniques, and data analysis skills.
In our state-of-the-art laboratories, you will gain hands-on experience with modern research methodologies, culminating in a comprehensive third year research project, guided by academic expertise.
Year four is strategically designed to enhance your employability and subject-specific knowledge.
You'll gain sophisticated problem-solving and communication skills, critically evaluate scientific literature, and conduct authentic research.
You will also have the opportunity to demonstrate a range of professional skills such as leadership, innovation, communication and the ability to work safely and ethically.
Additional opportunities include an optional work placement and international study, further enriching your academic journey.
Cell Signalling Cell to cell communication is fundamental for multi-cellular organisms as cells are required to communicate with each other and their environment to respond appropriately to different stimuli.
Active group discussions using case studies and real-world scenarios support core module content, whilst laboratory report assessment enable development of independent, enquiry-based approaches, developing skills in experimental design within a mini-project.
We explore a range of communication methods to present and disseminate findings to inform and enthuse both scientific and lay audiences.
Human Parasitology Here we will explore the theoretical and practical aspects of parasitic diseases of humans, considering such topics as the life cycle of select parasites between vector and host, the pathogenesis of parasitic infection and their diagnosis and treatment.
Literature Review and Grant Proposal In this module you will further develop skills in the evaluation of scientific literature and experimental design.
In addition to producing a comprehensive literature review, you will also formulate research questions/hypotheses and design appropriate research strategies to address these in the form of a mini grant proposal and lay summary.
Advanced Research Topics in Microbiology and Immunology This module will develop your skills in the acquisition and critical analysis of primary scientific literature relevant to a range of research methodologies in microbiology and immunology.
Following research-level seminar presentations by staff and invited speakers, you will critically evaluate select research publications and develop a deeper understanding of appropriate experimental design, data analysis, presentation and evaluation, and the application of a wide range of advanced techniques in the fields of microbiology and immunology.
MSci Extended Research Project Within this module you will develop higher-level research skills in a selected area of the Biosciences.
Work closely with an academic supervisor to formulate a research project and designing and conducting appropriate investigations to address this.
Developing further skills in experimental design and critical analysis of scientific data, communicated in the format of a research article produced to a specific journal format, and accompanied by a cover letter addressing research article merits and justification for publication, and an oral presentation or A1 poster.
You will also have access to specialist advice and support through our Academic Mentors, Disability Inclusion Tutors, Student Experience and Support Officers , and a range of central services including Counselling and Mental Health, Careers and Employability, and Student Finance.
On successful completion of the programme, you'll be equipped with the advanced analytical, communication, and research skills to pursue diverse career pathways in the biosciences and healthcare.
Your expertise will position you for advanced academic research, exploring ground breaking scientific discoveries, or for dynamic roles in industry — from pharmaceutical innovation to healthcare policy and regulation.
Whether pursuing a doctoral degree, developing commercial biotechnological applications, or contributing to public health strategies, you'll have the professional capabilities to make significant scientific contributions.
Diversity, flexibility, and inclusivity is at the heart of our education strategy which is developed through close The delivery of our programme will include the following types of activities: Laboratory practicals take place in one of our state-of-the-art science labs.
These sessions are optional, added value and may cover topics common to all students such as: note taking and meet your alumni at Level 4; IT and data analysis at Level 5 and writing retreats and career readiness at Level 6.
MSci study will further develop your research skills in the critical evaluation of scientific literature.
An extended research project will give you the opportunity to design and conduct an in-depth research project in an area of Microbiology and/or Immunology, including formulating a complete research strategy and producing a grant proposal.
Research skills in these areas will also be developed in a series of research seminars and journal club-style presentations/discussion in an Advanced Research Techniques module.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Microbiology and Immunology integrated masters.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Microbiology and Immunology Integrated Masters with Foundation Year (UCAS code C503) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/midwifery:
Qualify as a confident and compassionate midwife.
Gain the clinical skills and knowledge to provide holistic, safe, and effective care for women, newborn infants, and their families on our Midwifery BSc.
Explore the fundamentals of midwifery and develop your understanding of the whole maternity journey for mothers and infants.
Gain clinical skills to support childbearing women, newborn infants and families through pre-pregnancy, pregnancy, birth, postpartum and the early weeks of life.
You will study the importance of communication in care provision and in building professional relationships.
Your training will ensure you can anticipate, prevent, and respond with confidence to the additional needs and complications that can arise during pregnancy.
Your practice will be underpinned by evidence to ensure that you are delivering high-quality and safe care to women and infants at every stage of their journey.
As a midwife you will respect women's individual circumstances and advocate their wishes where appropriate.
You will support mothers to confidently use their voice throughout their pregnancy, delivery and beyond, but also enable them to provide nurturing care to their infant.
Your Midwifery degree will combine theory and clinical practice and you will be taught by highly qualified, registered midwives.
We have a multidisciplinary approach to teaching so you will work alongside students from medicine, physiotherapy, nursing, pharmacy, and social work enabling you to benefit from inter-professional education required within the clinical setting.
You will improve your midwifery techniques, so you are ready for practical placements using simulation with mannequins and patient simulators in our Clinical Skills Lab.
50% of your time will be spent on placements and we have excellent relationships with our placement partners.
Improving your practical abilities in a healthcare environment will increase your knowledge so you can have a successful future as a midwife.
You will have the opportunity to experience a range of settings within a 60 mile radius of Keele.
There will be guidance on your placement from midwives who are practice assessors and practice supervisors.
There is also a community placement which will be within a 50 mile radius of the hospital base and there are placement opportunities at the the Women’s Centre at Stafford Hospital.
Your hospital placements will be at the Royal Stoke Hospital which includes a level 3 neonatal unit and a birth centre, Birmingham Women's Hospital or Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital.
Plus, there are antenatal and postnatal wards, delivery suite, early pregnancy unit, antenatal clinics, maternity assessment unit and transitional care for babies who may need a little more nursing support.
We offer a vibrant and supportive environment for students that facilitates your development as a competent and assured midwife.
Your academic mentor will provide guidance with any issues you may have and give support with some of your assessments during the three year course.
Clinical supervisors and assessors will give you guidance during clinical practice.
They will check your competencies for specific areas of the course via the Midwifery Ongoing Record of Achievement (MORA), known are PARE.
Different areas will be assessed during the programme and there are also requirements of practice episodes which relate to the specific numbers of cases you must complete.
A Student Experience and Support team is based within our Faculty with a member of the team dedicated to our School.
Part of student services they work closely with teams across Keele to you can easily access the support you need.
There is peer support and additional help is available from the School's Disability Inclusion Tutor who provides an additional layer of support for all students, particularly for those who have special learning needs.
You will have access to a mixture of advice and support services at Keele which include;
Student midwives are eligible to receive an annual grant of at least £5,000 to help cover their living costs.
Additional financial grants are also available for eligible students - more information and full eligibility criteria can be found here.
excluding specialist institutions and further education colleges)
Midwifery is approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and has been designed to meet the seven NMC platforms which underpin pre-registration nursing education.
The course is taught by lecturers who are expert clinicians, and qualified teachers in different specialisms.
Their research feeds into our teaching.
On successful completion of this course, you can apply for NMC nursing registration.
Biological processes in midwifery ​ In this module you will focus on the anatomical and physiological adaptations occurring throughout pregnancy of each body system ​.
Introduction to maternal, fetal and neonatal care & wellbeing ​ This module concentrates on the current models of care and principles of care provision in the perinatal period and explores the role of the midwife in identifying the woman’s physical, psychological, spiritual and social needs and the provision of woman centred care.
​​ The role of the midwife in the 21st century You will focus on the evolving role of the midwife within the current context of society including an overview of specific vulnerable groups in society and discusses the increased medicalisation of childbirth.
Clinical Midwifery Practice 1 In this module you will focus on normal midwifery care​.
This will include experience in community settings, antenatal and postnatal wards, maternity assessment and low risk intrapartum placements​.
You will also have case-loading experience.
Fetal complexities in pregnancy In this module you will develop your knowledge and evidence base regarding conditions affecting fetal development and the newborn infant.
This knowledge will enable you to recognise complications, respond promptly using best practice, and provide holistic care for the sick and vulnerable neonate​.
Maternal complexities in pregnancy This will build upon your knowledge of pregnancy and childbirth grounded within normality and introduce associated pathophysiology of maternal conditions affecting the childbirth continuum​.
Developing leadership in health promotion This module will enhance your appreciation of the contribution of midwifery practice and maternity care to the foundations of public health.
This module integrates knowledge about the public health dimensions of midwifery and neonatal care with insight into the pathophysiology of conditions complicating pregnancy and the evidence base for providing best care.​
Clinical Midwifery Practice 2 You will develop to be able to participate in care for women and newborn with additional care needs and complications​.
You will experience giving care in a high risk intrapartum placement, obstetric theatre, outpatient clinics, antenatal and postnatal wards, early pregnancy unit, neonatal intensive care​ and ANC.
You will also continue with case-loading experiences and undertake a minimum one week elective placement experience​, which can be in a local, national or international maternity setting.
Developing Effective Practice In this module  you will critically evaluate the organisation of the maternity service.
Drawing on your experiences of working within the maternity service, you will explore different ways of organising care using quality improvement and change management processes, evaluating the impact on women, newborn infants, partners and families.
You will develop an innovative proposal for maternity service enhancement which reflects the local, national and international evidence base and recognises the importance of sustainable health care.
Professional Leadership​ This module allows you to explore your personal professional practice and growth as you prepare for qualification and practice.
It will facilitate you to critically reflect on your ability to work in partnership with others as a leader, team member and as an accountable and autonomous practitioner.
The module will also foster an exploration of how you personally manage and sustain health during the challenging periods of professional practice and how you support the health and wellbeing of others.​
​Clinical Midwifery Practice 3​ ​You'll explore providing holistic care to all women and meet all the proficiencies required and fulfil the examinations for the Neonatal and Infant Physical Examination (NIPE)​.
The experiences will run across antenatal and postnatal wards, high risk and low risk intrapartum settings and community settings.
You will continue to experience case-loading experience.
ABB in three A Levels including B in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List .
Contextual Offer: BBB in three A Levels including B in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
DDM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science, or Health and Social Care.
Contextual Offer: BTEC Extended Diploma not included.
Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in one Science A Level from the Keele Defined Sciences List ; or Distinction and Merit in Applied Science, or Health and Social Care BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and A in any A Level.
Distinction in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels including B in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or Distinction in Applied Human Biology, Applied Science, or Health and Social Care BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels.
655 in three Higher Levels including 5 in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List at Higher Level, or 32 points including 5 in one Higher Level Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List .
Contextual Offer: 555 in three Higher Levels including 5 in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List at Higher Level, or 31 points including 5 in one Higher Level Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
BBBBC in five Highers including one Higher Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or BC in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers including one Higher or Advanced Higher Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or BCC in three Advanced Highers including one Advanced Higher Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List .
H3, H3, H3, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate including H4 in one subject from the Science or Applied Science Groups.
75% in the Gaokao including 70% in Maths, Physics, Biology, or Chemistry.
Average of 75% from four subjects including 70% in Maths, Physics, Chemistry or Biology in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 80% from four subjects including 75% in Maths, Physics, Chemistry or Biology in any other Standard XII.
2.0 overall average in the Abitur including 12 in Geography, Psychology, Maths, Physics, Biology, Computer Science, Technology, Nutritional Science or Sports.
14 in the French Baccalaureate / International Option Baccalaureate including 14 in Chemistry / Physics, Maths, Science, Sport, Engineering Sciences, Life and Earth Sciences or Information Technology, or 13 in the Baccalauréat Français International including 13 in Chemistry / Physics, Maths, Science, Sport, Engineering Sciences, Life and Earth Sciences or Information Technology.
544 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE including 4 in Maths, Physics, Biology, Chemistry, Geography, Design and Applied Technology, ICT or Physical Education.
Overall average of 7.8 in the Título de Bachillerato including 8 in Chemistry, Maths, Biology, Physics, Geology, Geography, Earth Sciences and Environmental Sciences, Psychology, Industrial Technology or ICT.
85% in the Esame di Stato including 8 in Chemistry, Maths, Natural Science, Geography, Physical Education, or ICT.
18.5 / 88% in the Apolytirion including 18 in Chemistry, Biology, Computer Science, Design and Technology, Information Technology, Geography, Maths, Physical Education or Physics.
Overall average of 16 in a Secondary Certificate including 16 in Chemistry, Maths, Biology, Physics, Geology, Geography, Computer Applications, Psychology, Physical Education.
70% / BBBBC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma including 70% in Advanced Functions, Biology, Calculus and Vectors, Chemistry, Computer Science, Maths of Data Management or Physics.
544 from three Advanced Placement subjects including 4 in Chemistry, Calculus (either), Physics (any), Biology, Computer Science (either), Environmental Science, Psychology or Statistics.
ABB in three Advanced Levels including B in Combined Maths, Chemistry, Physics, ICT, Biology, Physics or Agricultural Science.
ABB in three Principal Level subjects in the STPM including B in Maths, ICT, Physics, Biology, Chemistry, Geography, or Sports Science.
ABB in three H2 levels including B in Chemistry, Biology, Physics, Computing, Maths, Further Maths or Geography.
75% overall with 7 in Chemistry, Maths (3 or 5 period), Physical Education, Biology (2 or 4 period), Geography (2 or 4 period), or Physics.
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with ABB including B in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
Grade A in EAP English Language module.
ABB in three Principal Level subjects in the Advanced Certificate of Education including B in Chemistry, Maths, Physics, Biology, or Geography.
National Senior Certificate: 76666 in five subjects including in two of Maths, Maths Literacy, Technical Maths, Agricultural Sciences, Agricultural Technology Civil Technology, Computer Applications Technology, Geography, Information Technology, Life Sciences, Mechanical Technology, or Physical Science You will also need: 4 in NSC Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
ABB in three Advanced Level subjects including B in Additional Maths, Agriculture, Animal Science, Biology, Building Technology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Crop Science, Food Technology and Design, Geography, Horticulture, Mechanical Maths, Metal Technology and Design, Physics, Pure Mathematics, Sport Science and Technology, Statistics, or Technical Graphics and Design.
Please note in addition to our academic entry requirements, to be accepted onto a Nursing or Midwifery programme at Keele you must also fulfil a range of additional requirements.
Details of these additional requirements and expectations can be found here in your Nursing and Midwifery Checklist.
Requests to defer entry to a later academic year will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Due to the high demand for this programme, we cannot guarantee that all deferral requests will be approved.
In addition to our typical qualifications for entry, we will also consider the following:
In all cases, you will also need a 4 / C in GCSE Maths or Level 2 Functional Skills Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
We will also consider applicants with previous degrees, HNDs, Foundation Degrees, and other health related higher education qualifications.
Health Checks and DBS Clearance
Additional guidance
Application Process
Application is via UCAS.
The UCAS application is scored.
Shortlisted candidates will be invited to interview.
This can be either in person or remotely as appropriate.
Please note: All conditions must be met by 31 August 2024.
Shortlisting criteria are used against the personal statement and reference for every candidate who meets the initial screening requirements.
As well as reaching the required academic standards, the candidate’s personal statement should demonstrate a clear understanding of the NHS and work of a midwife.
The UCAS form must be completed fully and accurately.
Applications will be assessed only on the information provided in the UCAS application.
We will not accept any additional supporting material (e.g.
CVs, work portfolios, letters of recommendation) unless we have specifically requested it from the individual applicant.
All shortlisted candidates will be invited to an interview, no applicant will be offered a place without undergoing our selection process.
All candidates for pre-registration Nursing and Midwifery programmes are required to meet or exceed NMC requirements, including literacy, numeracy (via GCSE qualifications or equivalent as stated above) and digital literacy skills (via engaging with the website, UCAS portal and DBS system).
The selection process comprises of a values-based interview normally conducted either remotely online or face to face.
Selection activities have been developed in line with current NHS, Department of Health and University recommendations for a values-based approach to recruitment.
Clinical practice staff, users of service & carers, academic staff and current students participate in the selection process.
All staff/students involved in interviewing are equipped to make the required judgements and have undertaken training to support the selection process.
Applicants are informed of the outcome of the selection process via UCAS Track.
Successful applicants subsequently receive additional information from the University.
All offers are subject to satisfactory Enhanced DBS checks, occupational health clearance, satisfactory reference(s) and meeting the required entrance criteria.
Eligible Midwifery BSc (Hons) students can apply for funding support via the NHS Learning Support Fund, which includes a £5,000 training grant and certain travel and accommodation costs for placements.
More information, including eligibility criteria, can be found on the NHS Learning Support Fund website.
Clinical simulation helps our students to develop their experience, confidence and skills.
We have two simulation spaces on campus for students to practice their skills, in addition to the facilities at the Clinical Education Centre, and two simulation families of eight mannequins.
Midwives are in high demand and currently 100% of Keele midwifery graduates hold offers of employment on completion of the course.
We have several Trusts actively seeking to come in to talk to our students in anticipation of job applications and offers.
Providing care to women and infants during your placements will enable you to develop the knowledge and aptitude required for a career within modern midwifery.
T‌his course has achieved Stage 1 accreditation from the Baby Friendly Initiative.
Midwifery is a highly skilled discipline.
We utilise a variety of methods that recognise the range of subject matter and the skills needed by newly-qualified midwives as they prepare to enter the profession.
Teaching takes place at Keele and within clinical placement settings that blend theoretical and practice-based learning.
For clinical skills sessions you will be expected to wear your uniform in line with the policy.
You will be taught by a variety of methods including;
In addition to our academic requirements, to be accepted onto a nursing or midwifery programme you must also fulfil a range of additional requirements and expectations to ensure you can practice safely and complete the programme effectively.
DBS Check
An enhanced DBS clearance prior to starting your course is required so that the public are protected, and their safety can be assured.
You'll need to provide additional documents to support your DBS application which may include a current passport, valid driving licence, birth certificate and utility bill.
Shifts
Programmes are demanding but rewarding.
You are expected to work a variety of shift patterns including early, late and night shifts to enable you to participate in care over a 24 hour period.
Shift work provides you with excellent experience and builds your skillset.
Travelling to placements
You are expected to fulfil your placement requirements which may require you to travel.
Organisation is therefore key to ensure you are able to complete a range of placements.
Occupational Health
Occupational Health Clearance is required to assess medical fitness to engage in pre-registration nursing and midwifery programmes.
Placement circuits are fixed
Placements during your course are fixed to ensure you get the range of experiences required to become a nurse or midwife.
Personal care
You will care for a diverse group of people and will deliver personal care to patients with different gender identities.
Vaccines
You must have the required vaccinations so that you protect yourself and those whom you are caring for.
Uniform
Uniform must be worn smartly, as you represent Keele University and also the nursing and midwifery professions.
Hours
Programmes are full time and can be demanding.
You can expect your time to be split into 50% theory and 50% practice.
This foundation year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Midwifery.
You can find out more about our foundation year, Including Information on learning, teaching and assessment methods and further opportunities available to you by visiting our homepage .
Candidates who progress from the Health foundation year on to year 1 of the degree course will be required to undertake a Disclosure and Barring Service check (Enhanced plus Barring Lists) and health check.
In addition to meeting the Level 3 requirements, candidates whose first language is not English will need IELTS with an overall score of 7.0, including at least 6.5 in the writing, reading, listening and speaking sections, or GCSE English Language at 4 (C) or above.
You should apply for Midwifery with foundation year
UCAS code: B721

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/modernhistoryandinternationalrelations:
Keele's Modern History and International Relations BA delves into events from our past and investigates how these shape the role of politics in the world today.
From international organisations, to historical events, you will discover the key influences across the globe that impact individuals on a local, national and global scale.
Learn to question, debate and think with an analytical mind to build a better future.
With core skills in communication, analysis and research, you will develop as a leader and changemaker, ready for a wide range of careers in policy, business and civil service.
Keele's Modern History and International Relations degree brings together personal, local, regional and global aspects of power, order, conflict, and justice.
From defining historical events through time, to understanding contemporary world politics and how political systems operate, you will examine key approaches to the study of international relations.
The blend of both subjects enables you to learn how to apply history to address urgent issues facing the world today and consider the influential factors in building a better world through international organisations and law.
In a global framework, you will explore economic, political, social and cultural approaches to History and grapple with a wide range of themes including race, environmental change, gender, security and global development.
You will delve into world politics and uncover the past and its key influences in shaping societies today, developing advanced skills in critical thinking and effective communication through debate and public speaking.
Our programme allows you to participate in real-world opportunities such as a crisis simulation, model United Nations and activist strategies for change.
This hands-on approach enables you to build key skills in research and problem-solving, with consideration of real issues facing individuals.
This will be valuable to your career and help you to prepare for the workplace environment and tasks.
You’ll also have the opportunity to study abroad with a partner university, to learn a modern language , or to gain a recognised TESOL qualification , through our Global Challenges Pathway.
This will help you to develop global perspectives and build your awareness and experience of other cultures and practices.
Understanding Contemporary World Politics In a world of rapid change, how does world politics work, and how can we study it?
Building a Better World?
Part I Is a better world possible?
You will debate how these organisations work and the challenges they face, and put your learning into practice and develop your leadership skills by participating in class-based simulations.
Part II This module simulates the real conditions of decision-making at the United Nations.
By recreating the conditions under which diplomats interact, it will compel you to apply your academic knowledge and understanding of diplomacy and international organisations to real world problems.
It fosters essential skills required to be successful in the fields of high politics and will improve your capacity to undertake research, to act decisively and creatively in a crisis, to negotiate, compromise and work constructively within a team to solve a problem.
Designed to deepen your interest and comprehension of global issues and the international politics that surround them, this module will heighten your ability to speak in public, to debate, to think critically and to demonstrate leadership.
Work Placement for Social Sciences This module is designed to give students in their second year the opportunity to contribute to the world beyond the university.
Students can only take one professional development module.
Dissertation in Politics and International Relations - ISP This module is your chance to complete independent research on a topic you are passionate about.
Global Futures: Environment, Security and Development What might global politics look like in the future?
Global Challenges: War, Terrorism and Global Violence Why does politics turn to violence?
Social Sciences Work Placement This module is designed to give students in their third year the opportunity to contribute to the world beyond the university.
You may choose to do both if you wish.
Students must take ONE of the following professional development modules: 'Applied History: Looking to the Future', 'Professional Experience with History (Year 3)', 'Engaged Social Science' or 'Social Sciences Work Placement'.
Opportunities to enhance your employability are at the heart of our Modern History and International Relations programme and you will have the chance to engage with work placements as part of your degree through modules or an additional work placement year (optional).
A degree in Modern History and International Relations will provide insights into various factors that have shaped society in the past and present.
Your knowledge and critical analysis will equip you to become a forward thinker with a curious mind about the future.
This approach to learning and professional expertise will help to enhance your career prospects with a proactive role in shaping your own career and interests.
Benefit from a diverse mix of teaching methods, enabling you to build experience across a range of activities, developing the confidence and skills ready for the workplace environment.
Teaching is delivered via:
With an array of assessment styles, you will be able to demonstrate your subject knowledge and skills gained throughout the programme.
The Keele Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Modern History and International Relations degree.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) History with Foundation Year ( UCAS code: VV10) through UCAS at www.ucas.com.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/modernhistoryandpolitics:
From historical events to political affairs, uncover the past and examine the key influences shaping today's society on Keele's Modern History and Politics BA.
Learn how to apply history to address urgent issues facing politics and discover the complex challenges and contemporary issues in an ever-changing political world.
Become equipped for an exciting career in the public or private sector, with advanced skills in problem-solving, analytical thinking and effective communication.
Examine urgent issues facing politics and the influence of history in today's society through our Modern History and Politics degree at Keele.
The integration of both subjects enables you to link academic theory to practices of government policy and political behaviour to make sense of people, ideas, and how these have affected societies through time.
Learn to apply historical events to understand the power of global democracy, investigating the past and how this continues to shape society.
You will be introduced to chronology and theory, debating 'defining moments' in the last 1000 years and how these have shaped the lives we live today.
Our BA programme enables you to make sense of politics through exploring concepts of power and democracy and applying these themes to contemporary issues to better understand the political world.
In a global framework, you will explore economic, political, social and cultural approaches to History and grapple with a wide range of challenges including processes of political change, how decisions are made and how political systems operate in practice.
In doing so, you will consider how we can build a better future.
You will develop your understanding of key historical themes and issues and how they have affected individuals through time, whilst critically analysing the interplay between government and society.
With a foundation across history and politics, you will be able to apply your knowledge to specialist case studies and produce a 'Final Year History Project' or a 'Dissertation in Political and International Relations, or both.
Your academic studies will be complemented and enhanced through optional modules that allow you to explore professional development opportunities, gaining experience across both subjects in preparation for employment.
A total of just 23 UK universities including Keele have been granted the right to offer the unique and highly regarded Parliamentary Studies module from the academic year 2024/25, with Keele academics and officials from both Houses of Parliament co-delivering the module.
Parliamentary Studies will be an optional module choice for final year undergraduate students on select SPGS courses.
Read more about the Parliamentary Studies module
This module addresses the contestable nature of politics and its relevance in contemporary society.
You will explore the concepts of power, democracy and terrorism, applying these concepts to contemporary issues to better understand the political world.
You will engage with external actors to reflect on how current national and/or world issues are framed from diverse perspectives and angles, working in small groups to develop your ideas.
British Politics: Welfare, Economy and Society How did we get to the state we're in?
This module focuses on the domestic and international dimensions of British politics, presenting an overview of the key debates that have shaped post-WW2 British politics.
You will develop an understanding of key events and the importance of ideas such as welfare, decline, immigration, governability and populism.
You will enhance your critical reading and analytical skills, developing a better understanding of how the past can help us make sense of the present.
Exploring Political Inequalities How can we better understand the unequal world around us?
This module explores the concept of (in)equality through the lens of political thought, focusing on economics, religion, gender and race.
You will be introduced to classic texts and thinkers, developing an understanding of the foundations of political thought.
You will critically reflect on your own perspectives relating to economic, religious, gender and racial inequalities through real-world political examples, exploring how these inequalities can be overcome and developing manifestos for change.
Please note: You must take one of the following professional development modules: 'Applied History: What’s Past is Present' or 'Becoming a Social Scientist'.
Global Democracy under Threat?
From challenges posed by populism and autocratic leadership to increasing political mistrust and declining levels of participation set against a backdrop of the threat posed by AI and misinformation, global democracies face numerous different threats.
Elections, Voters and Public Opinion This module introduces you to practical political research, through the study of elections, voting and public opinion.
You will explore voting behaviour and examine why people vote the way they do.
You will also work with elementary numerical political data and learn how to produce and interpret basic descriptive statistics, such as frequencies and cross-tabulations.
This module provides you with a wide range of data analysis and report-writing skills necessary for success in a range of private and public-sector careers.
Public Policy and How To Make It This module provides a grounding in policy analysis in both political and practical terms, equipping you to problem-solve in a range of environments.
You will explore the nature of the policy process and the forces that drive it, including many of the main public policy theories.
You will learn to evaluate policy and develop skills in policy formulation before delivering a policy recommendation for external audiences.
You will engage with external stakeholders, working together to explore solutions to policy problems.
Environmental Politics and Policy This module introduces some of the key historical, theoretical and practical dimensions of environmental politics and policy.
You will explore the political nature, and historical context, of environmental problems and controversies and the roles that countries, political institutions and social groups play in effecting environmental policy change.
You will develop the skills you need to become as effective changemaker in society, developing the argumentation and communication skills necessary to analyse contemporary environmental problems critically, and thus respond to them effectively.
Social Science at Work This module introduces you to possible careers for social scientists and links to the work you are doing in your subject core and option modules asking the question ‘how can we mobilise academic study into the real world?’ You will also be encouraged to prepare for placement work that you may pursue, alongside reflecting on your social media footprint; developing your personal/professional brand and digital networking platforms.
Please note: You must take one of the following professional development modules: 'Applied History: Working with the Past', 'Professional Experience with History (Year 2)', 'Social Science at Work' or 'Social Sciences Work Placement'.
Dissertation in Politics and International Relations This module provides guidance in researching and writing a dissertation.
You will develop your ability to work independently and enhance your research skills, including identifying a suitable research topic; developing appropriate research questions; identifying, assessing and analysing relevant literature and evidence; reflecting on the ethical implications of conducting research and structuring and writing up your work clearly and effectively.
You can choose to conduct a desk-based project or undertake a fieldwork-based project that may involve working with an external partner.
The Dark Side of Politics The global political landscape is increasingly dominated by self-interest, violence, corruption, distrust, alienation, deception, polarisation and institutional failure.
As citizens feel increasingly alienated from the political process, trust with political elites and satisfaction with democracy around the world, particularly in the face of technological advances such as AI, is in decline.
In this module, you will focus on the dark side of politics, exploring issues such as polarisation, corruption and anti-politics from a global perspective, developing your critical analytical skills.
This module empowers you to become global, active citizens, reflecting on how we can shape the future.
The module explores the importance of leadership in a changing world and how we can move towards a more just, sustainable future, as you take part in simulations to develop and reflect on your own leadership skills.
Parliamentary Studies This module provides an in-depth knowledge of how the UK Parliament works in both theory and practice.
Taught in conjunction with staff from the Westminster Parliament, the module examines Parliament’s increasing prominence as a policy-making actor in the twenty-first century, particularly in the context of Brexit.
The module gives you the tools to critically evaluate the role of Parliament in shaping policy and politics.
You will engage with Parliamentary practitioners, visit Parliament and complete assessments set by Parliamentary staff.
While on the placement, you will produce a portfolio that they can draw on in future applications and interviews, reflecting on and giving evidence of the activities/outputs completed at their chosen workplace.
Please note: You must choose at least one of the project/dissertation options – ‘Dissertation in Politics and International Relations’ and/or ‘Final Year History Project’.
You can choose to do both if you wish.
You must take one of the following professional development modules: 'Applied History: Looking to the Future', 'Professional Experience with History (Year 3)', 'Engaged Social Science' or 'Social Sciences Work Placement'.
Intrigued by how the UK Parliament operates?
In your third year, you can apply to take our Parliamentary Studies module, delivered through a partnership between the Houses of Parliament and Keele Politics.
The module provides a detailed knowledge of how Parliament works in both theory and practice.
Keele is one of only 23 universities delivering the course and has done so successfully since 2019.
Keele provides academic and theoretical content, and Parliament provides practical teaching about the work, processes and business of Parliament.
You will visit Parliament and develop a wide range of analytical skills, examining the role of Parliament as a policy maker and completing assessments set by Parliamentary staff.
Opportunities to enhance your employability are at the heart of our Modern History and Politics programme and you will have the chance to engage with work placements as part of your degree through modules or an additional work placement year (optional).
Graduating with a degree in Modern History and Politics will equip you with a vast range of skills applicable to various careers in government and policy, journalism, media and business.
You'll attain advanced skills to communicate effectively, think critically and present ideas appropriately to a wide range of audiences.
Benefit from a diverse mix of teaching methods, enabling you to build experience across a range of activities, developing skills in communication, critical thinking and problem solving.
You will learn to work with peers to collaborate efficiently and present ideas effectively, as well as growing confidence in your own abilities and subject knowledge.
With a wide variety of assessment methods, you will be able to demonstrate your expertise and skills gained throughout the programme.
You will also engage with reviews, critiques, reports, case studies and reflective diaries to practise your analytical skills, applying your knowledge to draw out themes and trends.
The Keele Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Modern History and Politics degree.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) History with Foundation Year ( UCAS code: VV10) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/forensicsciencewithintegratedmasters:
Accelerate your career in forensic science with our 4 year integrated master's.
From gathering evidential traces at a crime scene and analysing DNA to understanding forensic strategy and how joint investigations are managed.
Our accredited programme will provide you with the skills and techniques needed for an advanced career in Forensic Science.
Our contemporary programme has been designed to provide you practical and hands-on experience to set you up for a career in Forensics.
You will gain experience with professional equipment and techniques in well-equipped teaching laboratories and modern forensic science facilities.
Our dedicated crime scene simulation areas cover indoor and outdoor scenarios including vehicle and fire examinations, our Crime Scene House and more.
In your first three years you will train on the entire forensic process, from evidence collection, analysis, interpretation to court reporting.
In your final year you will gain the professional and expert skills needed to become an effective researcher within an academic or commercial environment.
You will study a specific research topic in depth and undertake experimental work to investigate fundamental aspects of that topic or to develop and evaluate new methods of investigation or analysis.
Opportunities are woven through the course structure which allow you to specialise on a pathway in forensic biology, forensic chemistry, crime scene investigation or digital forensics to enhance your employability, whatever your chosen career path may be.
This programme ensures you graduate not just with knowledge, but with the confidence and practical skills to excel in your career in forensics.
Gaining a professionally accredited forensic science degree ensures programme content remains relevant to the latest developments in the sector and is recognition that the degree meets the standards set by the chartered society.
Major Scene Investigation: From Crime to Trial Throughout this module you will gain professional, expert experience, skills and knowledge, whilst strengthening skills learnt through previous modules that are transferrable for use in professional forensic practice.
Focussing on Forensic Strategy and how joint investigations are managed - you will investigate major crime scenes, report to Senior Investigating Officers and undertake practical work.
Ultimately, making you a credible ‘Expert Witness’ to present your evidence in court.
Forensic Research Skills This module aims to build on your research skills developed from your Level 6 research project.
You will enhance your ability to design and manage a research project.
You will use self-reflection on your research skills to enhance your scientific writing skills and will further develop the ability to professionally present the findings of scientific research.
These fundamental skills will help you succeed in carrying out your research project under guidance from your supervisor.
MSci Forensic Research Project The independent project module is the culmination of your MSci degree and gives you the opportunity to study a specific research topic in depth, to undertake experimental work to investigate fundamental aspects of that topic, or develop and evaluate new methods of investigation or analysis.
Your work will be supervised by an assigned member of staff over the course of a year.
You will research and plan the project before conducting experimental work, data analysis and reporting of results.
Your results will be reported orally at a student conference at Keele and a final written report submitted.
Forensic Anthropology: Complex Scenes, Recovery and Analysis In this module you will build on your existing knowledge of forensic anthropology and taphonomy, practicing more specialist techniques and developing your critical analysis skills.
You will spend time working out in the field, practicing the methods used to locate and recover skeletal remains, as well as in the laboratory where you will gain experience in microscopy, virtual anthropology, photography and soil sampling.
The module will encourage you to apply environmental evidence, such as botany, diatoms, and entomology to casework, and you gain confidence in differentiating between human and animal bone.
Contemporary Topics: Expert Perspectives in Forensic Science You will explore the current cutting-edge research topics on forensic sciences, critically evaluating these topics in terms of their strengths, weaknesses and significance for both the discipline and society.
By the end of the module you will have further developed your research skills, have acquired in depth knowledge of forensic science topics at the forefront of the discipline, will have acquired the necessary skills to design and produced scientific communication.
Forensic Analysis: From Academia to Industry As you start your final year, thoughts turn to what you are going to do after university.
This module is designed to aid the transition from the academic laboratory to one in industry.
This module will build on the analytical skills that you have developed throughout the course and teach you some of the key concepts that are important in an industrial laboratory.
This will give you an insight to being an analytical scientist in industry which will be invaluable for interviews and your future career.
This module will be more hands on than lecture based, and the assessments are centred on activities that are carried out in industry.
Advanced Environmental & Wildlife Forensics Through this module, you will have the opportunity to apply your forensic expertise to environmental and wildlife crime, exploring topics ranging from industrial contamination of land to the illegal trade of exotic animal products.
We will equip you with the advanced skills to investigate environmental crime scenes, interrogate a range of natural and artificial evidence types, and to combine different types of data to protect the environment and wildlife in the U.K.
Digital Forensics: Advanced Applications and Examinations This module will provide leading knowledge and understanding of Digital Forensics at the forefront of the discipline.
Using AXIOM, software used within industry, you will work through a number of tasks to gain the critical skills vital for working within a digital forensics unit.
You will be asked to complete written assessments, take external examination to become a certified examiner within the software and present a court report on examination of digital evidence.
Advanced Topics in Forensic Biology This module will allow you to build advanced skills in collecting and interpreting forensic biological data.
This will involve expanding your abilities in working with soft tissue, DNA analysis, teeth and entomology.
This will involve learning in the lab to grow practical skills in both collecting and analysing forensic biological evidence.
Assessment is aimed at assessing your abilities in a practical sense through forensic reports.
This module aims to provide career prospects in forensic biology at the forefront of the discipline, and is ideal if you have an academic interest in biology and/or aspirations to work within forensic biology in the future.
Marks & Traces: Advanced Examination This module provides advanced knowledge and practical experience of marks and trace examination that will prepare you for the forensic laboratory practitioner workplace.
Working through current SOPs and guidelines at the forefront of the discipline will provide valuable employability skills.
An emphasis will be made on the documentation of advanced forensic physical trace evidence that will be usable in court.
"Opportunities to collect and interpret fingerprint evidence from Keele's Crime Scene House, along with experience of completing projects and experiments independently and within a team, have allowed me to be successful in gaining a role as a Fingerprint Technician for the London Metropolitan police."
"Straight out of my Master's course I landed my dream job as a Crime Scene Investigator.
The wide range of assessments in each module provided me with invaluable transferable skills, mainly improving my confidence and helping with public speaking.
I have used these skills in job interviews and assessment days and they have enabled me to be successful in my job."
Megan, Forensic and Analytical Investigation with Integrated Master's
You will graduate with advanced skills in problem-solving, data interpretation, communication and research to enable you to stand out from the crowd in a highly competitive field.
Please note you may need to take further study such as a PhD to enter some of the professions listed below.
Practical classes will take place in Keele's state-of-the-art Central Science Laboratories and our custom-built crime scene facilities.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the Forensic and Analytical Investigation with Integrated Master's course .
Students will need to apply for Forensic Science with Integrated Masters with Foundation Year (UCAS code F413) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/musicproductionandsounddesign:
Launch your career in the music industry with Music Production and Sound Design at Keele.
Blending theoretical learning with hands on experience using industry standard equipment, you will graduate with the required skills to pursue a successful career across a wide range of music and creative fields .
From the outset, this programme prepares you to excel in the dynamic world of music production, sound design, and audio engineering.
You’ll graduate with a substantial portfolio of music and audio work, created using cutting-edge technology, industry software and hardware, setting you apart as a well-prepared professional in the music industry.
The curriculum emphasises the development of your technical abilities, creative practices, artistic imagination, production skills, and academic understanding.
You will cover everything from studio engineering, to sampling and sound synthesis, and becoming a cultural citizen.
You’ll delve into critical and cultural theories, appreciate the societal context of sound, music, and technology, and gain first-hand industry experience through innovative placement modules and professional engagement activities with our external partners.
These modules enable you to broaden your understanding of various career pathways or to actively engage with the world beyond Keele — whether through a work placement, client-based projects, or collaborative efforts to deliver successful festivals or events.
This thoughtfully designed curriculum strikes a perfect balance between theoretical and practical learning.
Music Production and Sound Design at Keele will ensure you are well-prepared for career paths in music production, sound recording, audio engineering, audio-visual production, and broadcasting.
You will learn about industry best practices and genre-specific workflows, develop the critical listening skills needed to achieve identified production aesthetics and explore your own creative workflow.
Sound Synthesis in Music Production Sound Synthesis in Music Production offers a fun and engaging way to explore synthesis techniques (additive, AM/FM, granular, chorus, AI-based concatenative) and supports the development of your creative sound generation abilities.
Students at Level 5 must choose to do EITHER ‘Professional Experience for Music Production (Year 2)’ OR ‘Pathways with Music Production: Developing Your Profile’.
Students at Level 6 must choose to do EITHER 'Professional Experience for Music Production (Year 3)’ OR ‘Employing Music Production: Putting Your Subject into Practice’.
Through this course you will become a creative individual with the ability to critically evaluate, synthesise and produce content effectively.
Candidates who do not meet the minimum requirements but can demonstrate their music and/or music technology skills and knowledge will also be considered.
They may be invited for an interview and/or required to submit or provide a link to an online streaming platform showing an audio/video of their work, which can also include recorded performance.
As a Music Production and Sound Design graduate you will be ideally placed for employment, or further training within the creative industries, including sound recording, music production, game audio, audio streaming, and broadcasting.
You will develop the skills and experience for a future in the public arts, teaching, postgraduate studies, and academia or as an independent musician/artist.
Keele graduates have gone on to successful careers in a range of industries and organisations including:
"The team helped me find work experience within a local recording studio as an assistant recording engineer, helping the engineer to fulfil his recording tasks at a greater speed; it was a symbiotic relationship as we learnt from each other.
I loved my time at the studio; I made some contacts within the industry and have started to get my name out there whilst building upon my portfolio for potential employers and clients to see.
The time there also boosted my academic capabilities; learning knowledge from those outside of the degree can be influential to how you see and approach assessments and topics on your course."
Ciaran, Music Production and Sound Design
Through workshops, tutorials and various assessments, you will develop technical skills, creative practice, artistic imagination and production, and academic knowledge by working creatively with audio software, hardware, and digital audio in studio and production set ups.
You will be taught by research active staff to gain knowledge of current trends and topics as well as supported by tutors who will help to guide you through your studies.
You will study a mix of core and optional modules, exploring a diverse range of contexts of music and sounds which will inform your knowledge and skills, preparing you for a career of your choice.
Throughout the course, there will be opportunities to work individually and collaboratively with peers to share ideas and expertise.
You will build confidence using equipment and communicate well with others, exchanging your knowledge through collaborative projects.
You will be assessed through various methods such as:
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Music Production and Sound Design degree.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) Music Production and Sound Design with Foundation Year (UCAS code J933) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/musicproductionwithbusinessmanagement:
Our Music Production with Business Management BA is a dynamic, interdisciplinary programme that equips you with the skills to navigate both the music and business worlds.
You’ll gain hands-on experience through placement opportunities and practical projects, allowing you to produce original music and sound while also understanding the workings of commercial organisations.
This programme will prepares you for exciting careers in two thriving global industries.
Music Production with Business Management BA at Keele offers a unique blend of creativity and strategy, equipping you with specialist skills to pursue careers across two dynamic fields.
This programme provides a scientifically informed understanding of managing various types of organisations, from conventional businesses to alternative models, while also developing your academic and practical expertise in music production and sound design.
You’ll develop industry-relevant skills in music production, sound design, screen music, audio-visuals, and music software.
You will also delve into the qualitative study of organisations - their operations, strategies, and employee dynamics, while also providing foundational knowledge in business management.
This well-rounded approach ensures that you are fully prepared for careers in the dynamic music industry, including sound recording, audio engineering, audio-visual production, and broadcasting.
At Keele, you'll have the opportunity to gain hands-on experience through projects and placements, applying your learning to real-world scenarios and kick-starting your career.
In your final year, you can undertake a year-long, professionally focused project, build a substantial creative and academic portfolio, or conduct in-depth research in one or more areas of music production.
With flexible module choices, you can tailor your degree to your career aspirations and even study abroad at one of our partner universities.
Our Apple MacBook Loan Scheme ensures that all music production students have equal access to high quality resources to support learning.
As a music production student, you will be provided with an Apple MacBook for the full duration of your degree, at no cost to yourself*.
Please note: You must choose ONE of the following professional development options: 'Professional Experience for Music Production (Year 2)' or 'Pathways with Music Production: Developing Your Profile'.
Please note: You must choose ONE of the following modules: ‘Professional Experience for Music Production (Year 3)’ or ‘Employing Music Production: Putting Your Subject into Practice'.
You can take either ‘Music and Social Movements’ or ‘Advanced Audio Tools’, but not both.
Music production is taught by staff in the School of Humanities with international experience and research in a range of specialisms, helping you to gain experience in practical skills through sound recording, audio design and digital sampling as well as programming, mixing and mastering.
Staff in Keele Business School are active researchers in core areas such as accounting, finance, economics, human resource management, marketing and management.
As a music production with business management graduate, you will be ideally placed for various career opportunities, or further training within a wide range of industries.
Your unique combination of skills will be transferable across disciplines.
Related industries include:
Assessment Methods:
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Music Production with Business Management degree.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/neuroscience:
Combine skills in science and research to explore the fascinating complexity of the human brain, from memory and learning to health and disease.
Our programme is designed to equip you with the multidisciplinary skills, knowledge and understanding of genetics, human physiology and the nervous system, ready to embark on an advanced career in science, research and beyond.
You will immerse into the theoretical foundation of neuroscience, whilst developing practical laboratory skills, enabling you to explore and apply your learning to the real-world.
Accredited by the Royal Society of Biology*, our Neuroscience BSc at Keele introduces you to the anatomy and function of the nervous system, investigating complex interactions that enable motor control, sensory perception and stability.
You will study cell and molecular biology, biochemistry, genetics, and human physiology to examine the brain, from how it senses and moves through the environment, to degeneration in health and in disease.
Explore physiological systems including the digestive, cardiovascular and endocrine systems and how they are controlled by the brain.
With insights into key concepts in neuroscience, you'll examine how the brain develops, the mechanisms underlying learning and memory, how drugs affect the nervous system, and how electrical activity in the brain works to control human functions.
You will investigate this further through the exploration of behaviour and how sensory systems work.
We will help you to understand technological advances which may repair and regenerate the brain after damage.
Throughout the programme, you will develop a range of practical laboratory skills that can be applied to design and carry out experiments to understand more about the brain and nervous system, involving research design, practical techniques and data analysis to put your learning into practice.
This will involve learning in our state-of-the-art David Attenborough and Central Science Laboratories , as well as the opportunity to gain practical experience of human neural anatomy in Keele Medical School's Anatomy Suite.
Your theoretical knowledge and practical skills combined will allow you to apply your learning to a wide range of careers in science and biological sciences.
At Keele, you can embark on an exciting journey to enhance your career prospects through studying abroad and building your cultural awareness, or completing a work placement year for industry experience.
You can tailor your degree programme to excel in areas of your choice and develop your personal and professional skills in preparation for employment.
*Subject to passing your final year project and laboratory modules in Year 1 and Year 2.
This course is accredited by the Royal Society of Biology* for the purpose of meeting in part the academic and experience requirement for the Membership and Chartered Biologist (CBiol).
Within this module, you will explore key research techniques (e.g.
electrophysiology, histology, biological models) and analytical methodology (e.g.
advanced software, artificial intelligence) used in Neuroscience research.
This will help you design a research project with appropriate methods, statistically analyse data, present data and draw appropriate conclusions.
Subsequently, it will prepare you for your final year experimental project and help you develop key scientific skills that are highly sought after by employers.
Practical and Professional Skills in Bioscience Here, you will develop a range of core practical laboratory skills, applying theoretical concepts from across your programme and deepening your understanding of the subject through hypothesis-driven practical investigation.
Functional Neuroanatomy Understanding the functional anatomy of the human nervous system is essential for grasping neurophysiology and pathology.
This module will explore the nervous system’s anatomy, blood supply, and cerebrospinal fluid movement.
You will examine the morphology and organization of key neurological structures, including the thalamus, cerebellum, basal ganglia, cerebral cortex, limbic system, brainstem nuclei and major sensory and motor projections.
Transferable skills will be developed through the development of an outreach video exploring functional neuroanatomy of a student selected neural structure.
Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience The study of cellular and molecular aspects of nerve cells are vital for understanding how molecules, intracellular pathways and brain cells together form complex brain networks within the nervous system.
The module will look at the variety of brain cells and their cellular features, which are intrinsically linked to function.
Meanwhile, we will consider molecular neurobiological pathways and parallel methodologies such as gene and protein “omics”.
How cellular and molecular aspects culminate in numerous brain-based disorders will also be covered.
Neuroimaging and Cognitive Neuroscience One of science’s biggest unanswered questions regards how complex cognition, behaviour, and consciousness arise from the structure and activity of the brain.
Current Research Topics in Neuroscience Neuroscience is one of the fastest growing research areas, with new concepts and ideas emerging constantly.
Models in Neuroscience Research The use of models in Neuroscience research ranges from in vivo (e.g.
animal models) to in vitro (e.g.
cells in culture) to in silico (e.g.
predictions based on machine learning) and is essential to understand the nervous system.
In this module, you will learn how several model systems are used to probe neurobiological questions, their advantages/limitations and associated ethical considerations.
This will allow you to identify appropriate model systems for various experiments and critically evaluate research articles that use them.
Omics Technologies You will be introduced to a range of cutting-edge omics approaches used extensively across the life sciences.
Special Senses How we sense our environment informs our lived experience of the world.
In this module, you will learn the neuroscience which underpins special senses i.e., vision, hearing, balance, smell, and taste.
In particular, you will be able to explain how the initial stimulus is converted into electrical signals in the periphery, how these are transmitted to the brain, how these are processed and perceived consciously.
We will also examine how these processes are affected in common diseases and disorders.
During your studies, you will have the opportunity to opt for a Work Placement Year in the School of Life Sciences between Year 2 and Year 3, or to take a Work Placement Module.
This valuable character-building experience will help you to prepare for the workplace by spending time in industry, developing personal and professional skills.
You will reflect on the knowledge you have gained throughout the programme and how this can be applied in the real-world.
This experience will help to prepare you for employment and strengthen your prospects for life after university.
All contributors to our Neuroscience course are practicing academics, including researchers in neuroscience and academics from across the School themes of research.
This means you will benefit from studying modules that have been informed by the diverse research topics and active work they are undertaking in their field of expertise.
A careers tutor and member of Keele’s Student Experience and Support team will also be dedicated to the School of Life Sciences if you need any additional support, or someone to talk to, whether about your degree programme or life outside of your studies.
Graduating with a degree in neuroscience will equip you with the knowledge and skills applicable to a wide-range of neuroscience and biological sciences careers.
You will build key skills in data analysis, critical thinking, problem-solving, research and laboratory techniques.
These will prepare you for various roles in:
With further training, you could go on to become a clinical psychologist, psychiatrist, doctor, pharmacologist or systems analyst.
You could also enter a variety of non-scientific fields such as teaching or science journalism.
We offer a diverse mix of teaching methods to enable you to build advanced skills with theoretical knowledge and practical learning.
Throughout the programme, you will cover core topics in neuroscience, preparing you to specialise in an area of your choice for your final year research project (laboratory or computer based), supervised by teaching staff in the School of Life Sciences.
You will also have the opportunity to present the outcomes of your final year research project at our Undergraduate Student Research Conference in the context of a realistic research conference experience.
Our teaching methods include:
Our assessments encourage you to demonstrate your knowledge and expertise gained throughout the programme.
With a range of assessment styles, you'll be able to develop skills that meet academic, professional and employment attributes, ready to embark on a career of your interest.
These experience will help you to prepare for the workplace environment and enhance your skillset further.
Our Central Science Laboratories (CSL) and David Attenborough Laboratories house computational teaching facilities and multiple analytical suites that include industry apparatus routinely employed in Neuroscience labs worldwide.
This includes use of:
The CSL laboratory will also make a significant contribution to the Global Health Initiative at Keele, and will be home to researchers working on neurological disorders including Parkinson’s disease, spinal injury, oncology, viral infections and carbohydrate biochemistry.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Neuroscience degree.
For example, the Foundations of Life Sciences module looks at basic cell biology in terms of structure and function and goes on to examine how cells obtain their energy for example, by photosynthesis, and raw materials, for example via the nitrogen cycle.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Neuroscience with Foundation Year (UCAS code B143) through UCAS at www.ucas.com.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/neurosciencewithai:
Immerse yourself in the dynamic fields of neuroscience and AI, where human cognition merges with computational breakthroughs.
Learning from our research-active experts in state-of-the-art laboratories, you'll explore the intricate complexities of brain function and how artificial intelligence and machine learning can revolutionise the diagnosis and treatment of neurological disorders.
On successful completion of the programme, you'll graduate with the research, data analysis, and computational methodologies to drive advances in research, biotechnology, and clinical diagnostics.
Neuroscience and AI are deeply interconnected, forming a symbiotic relationship that drives innovation in both fields.
AI draws inspiration from the structure and function of the human brain, leading to the development of artificial neural networks and deep learning algorithms that mimic cognitive processes.
Conversely, neuroscience benefits from AI's powerful data analysis capabilities, enabling researchers to process vast amounts of complex brain data, identify subtle patterns, and gain deeper insights into neural mechanisms.
On our Neuroscience with Artificial Intelligence BSc, you'll learn the key principles of neuroscience (e.g.
neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, neuropharmacology, neuropathology, and behaviour),  and develop the highly sought after AI-related digital skills to help unlock previously hidden trends in the complex datasets found in the field of neuroscience.
In your first year, you'll build a strong foundation in nervous system anatomy and function, human physiology, and anatomy, alongside essential computer science topics like programming, computer systems, and algorithm analysis — the cornerstones of artificial intelligence.
Throughout the programme you'll benefit from practical and professional employability modules, including research training in experimental design, scientific programming, and career-focused sessions, equipping you with the skills and connections for a successful career.
In your second year, you'll deepen your understanding of neuroscience research techniques, analytical methods, and the functional anatomy of the human nervous system, enabling you to design research projects and explore neurophysiology and pathology.
Simultaneously, you'll advance your knowledge of artificial intelligence and data science, focusing on techniques like machine learning and computational intelligence.
You can also enhance your employability by choosing to spend time in industry with year-long or flexible placements or spend a year studying abroad.
In your final year, you'll undertake a self-directed research project, guided by our expert neuroscience staff.
Whether laboratory-based or computational, your project allows you to plan, execute, and present your findings at our student conference, providing a unique platform to showcase your expertise and prepare for future opportunities.
Through group-based activities you will produce content on select module topics, developing key skills in teamwork and leadership, and in communicating to different audiences Practical and Academic Skills in Bioscience Here, you will develop a range of core practical laboratory skills, applying theoretical concepts from across your programme and deepening your understanding of the subject through hypothesis-driven practical investigation.
Aspirational career talks from invited speakers, including former graduates, and further employability skills workshops will support you in reflecting on your key skills development and career-planning Introduction to Programming This module will introduce you to the fundamental concepts underlying computer programming and computational thinking.
You will learn to apply processes and methods to extract essential information from raw data using Artificial Intelligence techniques, allowing it to be analysed to discover meaning from the data and allowing it to inform decision-making.
Importantly, the module will allow students to explore in greater depth, selected research-led topics at the forefront of current thinking in the rapidly evolving CI field.
Students that successfully complete this module can potentially pursue further research in industry or in education (e.g.
We will also examine how these processes are affected in common diseases and disorders
Flexible Work Placement (Level 6) This module gives students interested in pursuing teaching or training as a career the opportunity to gain experience in the world of teaching in schools and colleges.
Professional Experience in Education In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
During your studies, you will have the opportunity to undertake a Work Placement Year between Year two and three, or to take a Work Placement Module.
This valuable experience will help you to prepare for the workplace by spending time in industry, developing personal and professional skills.
These are shorter industrial placements that usually take place over the summer in between year two and three of your studies, and usually last between two-eight weeks.
More information can be found at: https://www.opwall.com
the Wellcome Trust that provide bursaries for students to gain laboratory experience in the summer vacation between level 5 and 6.
Staff in Life Sciences have hosted these bursaries in the past and students who are interested can approach staff, who will have to submit an application on the students' behalf to the funding bodies (usually in January or February).
Other learning opportunities students vary from year to year but include the opportunity to hear from, and talk to, a range of guest speakers and presenters including researchers from around the world.
Some of these activities are timetabled as part of taught modules, others are organised separately as part of a school-wide seminar programme but are widely advertised and undergraduate students are always welcome to attend.
All contributors to our Neuroscience with Artificial Intelligence course are practicing academics, including researchers in neuroscience , AI , and academics from across the School themes of research.
Graduating with a degree in Neuroscience with Artificial Intelligence will equip you with the knowledge and skills applicable to a wide-range of neuroscience and biological sciences careers.
Academia - Looking at the cutting edge of new discoveries in neuroscience.
Clinical sciences - Interpreting medical data based on biological science techniques.
Biotechnology - Exploring its commercial application in industry.
With further training, you could go on to become a clinical psychologist, doctor , pharmacologist or big data analyst using tools and techniques from Artificial Intelligence.
Throughout the programme, you will cover core topics in neuroscience and computer science, preparing you to specialise in an area of your choice for your final year research project (laboratory or computer based), supervised by teaching staff in the School of Life Sciences.
These experiences will help you to prepare for the workplace environment and enhance your skillset further.
Our Central Science Laboratories (CSL) house computational teaching facilities and multiple analytical suites that include industry apparatus routinely employed in Neuroscience labs worldwide.
The Keele Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Neuroscience with Artificial Intelligence degree.
In addition, the Advancing Life Sciences module looks at biological structures at different levels of organisation and how they can be influenced by internal and external sources.
You will see how threats can be identified, managed or eliminated, both in theory and in hands-on practicals.
All of the modules you take will prove useful in your degree and professional career.
Keele University reserves the right to vary offer conditions depending upon a candidate's application.
Applicants will need to apply for BSc Neuroscience with Artificial Intelligence with Foundation Year ( UCAS code: BG42) through UCAS at www.ucas.com.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/neurosciencewithpsychology:
Are you intrigued by how the human brain works and why people think, act and behave the way they do?
Study the mind, brain and behaviour through core theoretical and practical learning to understand people and how human functions operate daily.
Our Royal Society of Biology accredited programme* investigates neuroanatomy and neurophysiology in depth, whilst exploring the psychology of human social interaction, cognition and development.
You will graduate with the knowledge and skills to pursue a successful career in neuroscience, psychology or biological sciences.
Neuroscience with Psychology BSc at Keele investigates two fascinating disciplines to study the mind, brain and behaviour.
Our Royal Society of Biology accredited programme* is designed to provide you with a foundation of knowledge across leading areas including neuroanatomy, neurophysiology and cognitive neuroscience.
You will be introduced to the study of cells and molecular biology and human physiology to examine the brain, from how it senses and moves through the environment, to the mechanisms underlying learning and memory.
You will become equipped with a grounding in the key concepts of neuroscience with transferable skills that will help to prepare you for a career of your choice.
Learn to understand people through theories and topics including biological, social and developmental psychology, enabling you to understand human behaviour.
You will explore how electrical and chemical activity in the brain works to control these human functions at a cellular and molecular level.
Discover how drugs can affect these finely tuned systems and go on to explore how we may be able to regenerate and repair the brain after damage.
Throughout the programme, you will develop a range of practical laboratory skills that can be applied to design and carry out experiments to understand more about the brain and nervous system.
These involve research design, practical techniques and data analysis to put your learning into practice.
Engage with our state-of-the-art David Attenborough and Central Science Laboratories where you can gain hands-on experience and learn how to use industry standard equipment.
Your theoretical knowledge and practical skills combined will allow you apply your learning to a wide range of careers.
Embark on an exciting career of your choice with advanced skills that can be applied to various industries and sectors.
With a degree in Neuroscience with Psychology, you will learn hands-on and analytical thinking skills, research communication, data management and the ability to think creatively.
You will become an efficient problem-solver with the skills to work effectively as part of a team, and independently which will support you in your roles and responsibilities in the workplace environment.
On successful completion of this programme, you may wish to pursue a career in the following areas:
Throughout the programme, you will cover core topics in neuroscience, preparing you to specialise in an area of your choice for your final year research project (laboratory or computer based), supervised by teaching staff in the School of Life Sciences .
In the School of Psychology, you will have access to laboratories that house advanced equipment for research involving adults and children.
Our foundation year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Neuroscience with Psychology degree.
Meanwhile, the Advancing Psychology module builds on your knowledge and understanding of core psychological concepts and explores how these can be used in an applied context.
Applicants will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Neuroscience with Psychology with Foundation Year (UCAS code B1C9) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/adultnursing:
Passionate about wanting to make a difference to people’s lives?
Looking for a rewarding career that offers diverse opportunities?
Your future in adult nursing starts here.
On our Nursing (Adult) BSc you'll gain essential nursing knowledge and authentic clinical practice experience in our fantastic clinical simulation facilities and placement settings, enabling you to qualify as a competent and confident adult nurse.
Hear from our students and staff – who share their personal experiences of what it's like to study nursing at Keele.
Our programme places the patient at the centre of care delivery.
You will grow into a nurse who can assess and manage the changing and complex needs of individuals, at what could be one of the most challenging times in their lives.
Adult nurses care for individuals with diverse healthcare needs.
From empowering patients with long-term conditions to working in a fast-paced clinical setting to support patients with acute illness, nurses can have a critical influence on patient outcomes.
Our curriculum is designed to provide you with the theoretical knowledge required to be able to practice confidently and competently.
It also gives you the opportunity to develop and refine your clinical skills in a safe and controlled setting before going onto clinical placement.
Your first year will concentrate on meeting people’s care needs.
Years two and three will develop your capabilities to evaluate, provide and manage the care needs of individuals and groups of people.
We believe a multidisciplinary approach to teaching is the key to developing tomorrow’s global health care workforce.
You will benefit from inter-professional education by learning alongside other aspiring healthcare professionals such as medical students and pharmacy students.
This exposure allows you to appreciate the role that each healthcare professional plays in every patient's journey - a critical factor for success within the clinical setting.
Gain evidence-based practice experience that supports the ethos of dignity, care, and compassion for patients.
Learning is enhanced by our excellent facilities including an anatomy suite, Clinical Education Centre and high fidelity simulation facilities.
We have strong partnerships with placement providers including NHS trusts, and the private and voluntary sectors.
An important part of becoming a nurse is gaining real experience in diverse environments.
Field placements provide a range of experiences to expand your professional values and nursing skills linking the theory you have learnt in the lectures with practice.
This enhances your employability, increases your confidence, and fully develops your nursing expertise.
50% of your time is spent on clinical practice in in different health care settings.
Placements take place within a 50 mile radius of Keele across NHS trusts and the independent health and social care sector.
You will be supported in practice by clinical supervisors, assessed by a practice assessor, and reviewed by an academic assessor.
This ensures you practice safely, and allows you to learn from clinicians who have a wealth of experience in their field.
You may have an opportunity to study abroad through elective placements with organisations like Work the World.
There is a strong system of support for you every step of the way of your course.
You will be allocated an academic mentor at the beginning of the course.
You will have the support of the Faculty Student Experience and Support team who offer advice, guidance and one to one support to students within the School of Nursing and Midwifery.
Extra assistance is available from the School's Disability Inclusion Tutor who provides an additional layer of support for all students, particularly for those who have additional learning needs.
You will have access to a range of advice and support services at Keele which include;
Student nurses are eligible to receive an annual grant of at least £5,000 to help cover their living costs.
Adult Nursing is approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and has been designed to meet the seven NMC platforms which underpin pre-registration nursing education.
Clinical Nursing Practice 1 In this module you can expect to learn and demonstrate safe, compassionate, evidence-based nursing practice in line with The Code (NMC, 2018).
You will develop clinical skills such as basic life support, moving and handling, measuring and recording vital signs and medicines management in simulated practice and clinical practice settings that relate to your chosen field of nursing.
You will be prepared to demonstrate person-centred nursing practice, providing supportive management of the service user’s condition and when offering health promotion.
Person-centred Nursing Care In this module you will explore various frameworks that support person- centred care which will involve ethics, the law, politics and professional guidance/standards.
You can expect to apply theory to practice in order to demonstrate safe and effective communication with people at all stages of life, with a range of health challenges.
You will learn to demonstrate self-awareness, respect, care, compassion and non-discriminatory behaviour.
Fundamentals of Nursing Practice In this module you can expect to learn the principles of assessing, planning, implementing and evaluating care.
You will gain anatomical and physiological knowledge and relate this to commonly encountered cognitive, mental, physical and behavioural health conditions.
To effectively plan care, you will continue to develop your communication skills with colleagues, service users and service providers and will learn to prioritise care based on people’s needs.
Clinical Nursing Practice 2 In this module you will develop clinical skills such as A-E assessment, pain assessment and management, wound care and end of life care in simulated placement learning and clinical practice settings that relate to your chosen field of nursing.
You will be encouraged to reflect on your personal and professional development throughout the module.
The Role of the Nurse in Promoting Health and Wellness You will explore the human life journey from conception to death recognising that public health is the cornerstone to all nursing practice.
You will develop an understanding of public health, health protection and health promotion and their significance to your developing nursing practice.
You will raise your awareness and understanding of the wider determinants of health, health inequalities including social influences and health behaviours.
You will also focus on the importance of early years and the impact upon the life course.
Clinical Nursing Practice 3 You will start to develop enhanced clinical skills such as venepuncture, chest auscultation, insertion, management and removal of oral/nasal/gastric tubes, recording ECGs and medicines management in simulated practice learning and clinical practice settings.
You will be prepared to demonstrate professional values, skills, and knowledge for a person with complex needs, or for a small group of people, within your field of nursing.
Evidence-based Nursing Practice This module will equip you with the knowledge and understanding to enable you to outline the hierarchy of evidence and further provide you with the opportunity to explore research methods.
You will learn to appraise the relevant evidence through the application of critical appraisal tools exploring areas such as internal validity, rigour and ethical concepts.
This will enable you to recognise the importance and act as an evidence-based practitioner to inform quality nursing practice.
Pharmacology and Concepts of Safety and Quality of Care in Nursing You will apply knowledge and understanding of the principles of pharmacology and pharmacotherapeutics across the lifespan.
You will be able to recognise potential adverse drug reactions and drug interactions especially through polypharmacy.
You will demonstrate safe medicines management including how prescriptions are generated, the role of generic and off licensed prescribing and the professional and legal consequences of generating prescriptions relating to your field of nursing.
Clinical Nursing Practice 4 In this module you will continue to develop enhanced clinical skills such as advanced airway management and the management of invasive medical lines in simulated practice learning and clinical practice settings that relate to your chosen field of nursing.
You will be encouraged to reflect on your own personal and professional leadership qualities with a focus on team roles and working as part of a multi-disciplinary team throughout the module.
Nursing Dissertation In this module you will develop your critical appraisal skills in independent study, and you are expected to write a dissertation that evaluates the quality and effectiveness of nursing care within your chosen field of nursing.
You will be supported to conduct an inquiry into an aspect of nursing practice by undertaking a comprehensive literature review, that will include the skill of synthesising this information into recommendations of how nursing practice may be developed to continually improve patient care.
Leading, Managing and Shaping Future Nursing Care You will develop the knowledge and understanding to enable you to expand on your leadership, management and organisational working skills, and thus enable you to manage self, lead teams, and lead service improvement in nursing in contemporary healthcare settings.
You will explore concepts around leadership and team working theories along with management theories and resource allocation within the context of a health economy.
Clinical Nursing Practice 5 In this module you can expect to enhance your clinical nursing practice knowledge and skills including learning and practising clinical skills in a simulated environment with application to practice.
You will be able to demonstrate safe, effective, compassionate, evidence-based nursing practice in clinical settings in the third year of the programme in accordance with the NMC Code (2018).
This will be achieved through demonstration of appropriate nursing leadership, clinical judgement, and decision-making skills.
Clinical Judgement and Decision-making in Nursing This module will enable you to demonstrate critical thinking, decision-making and team-working skills to manage and provide continuity of person-centred care in partnership with people with healthcare needs, their families and carers.
You will engage in theories relating to clinical judgement and decision making and application through scenario-based learning and development, through the use of relevant assessment tools.
Clinical Nursing Practice 6 Throughout this module you will continue to consolidate and develop your clinical nursing practice, enhancing your knowledge and skills, which will include simulation.
You will be able to apply effective, knowledge, skills, and behaviours to lead a specific episode of person-centred care to meet the needs of a group of people with complex needs, including being a role model, understanding team roles and responsibilities, and service evaluation and improvement.
"To sum up the 3 years i'd say it's been the hardest 3 years of my life but totally worth it.
I'm extremely privileged to be a nurse."
Danielle, Adult Nursing
We consider all applications on their individual merits and take account of alternative qualifications and experience.
If you are interested in studying on our nursing programmes and don’t meet the entry requirements, but believe you would be a suitable candidate please do contact us via admissions@keele.ac.uk
Please note in addition to the above academic entry requirements, to be accepted onto a Nursing or Midwifery programme at Keele you must also fulfil a range of additional requirements.
Transfers into the second year of a programme from other UK nursing and midwifery programmes will be considered.
If an applicant wishes to apply for the full programme who has withdrawn from a previous course for personal reasons, we would be happy to consider an application.
Applicants must declare previous study in their application.
View our full admissions criteria and policy webpages.
As well as reaching the required academic standards, the candidate’s personal statement should demonstrate a clear understanding of the NHS and work of a nurse.
Eligible Nursing (Adult) BSc (Hons) students can apply for funding support via the NHS Learning Support Fund , which includes a £5,000 training grant, a parental support allowance and certain travel and accommodation costs for placements.
More information, including eligibility criteria, can be found on the NHS Learning Support Fund website .
You may also be eligible to receive Parents' Learning Allowance or a Childcare Grant .
Further details and eligibility criteria can be found in the Student Finance section on the gov.uk website.
Gaining experience in different hospital and community placements will help you develop the necessary skills, knowledge and attitudes for a career in modern adult nursing.
Enhancing your skills for the world of work including CV writing and interview techniques are embedded into the course.
On registration you will have opportunities to develop your career in a range of exciting areas such as leadership, advanced practice, teaching and research.
Click here to explore the different NHS careers.
"The support from my practice assessor and personal tutor has been outstanding.
The course is very structured, with placement and academic blocks to prepare you."
Richard, Adult Nursing
We use various learning and teaching methods in recognition of the varied nature of adult nursing.
Teaching is undertaken at Keele and clinical placement environments that integrate theoretical and practice-based training.
Clinical and simulated study is an essential and important of the programme.
Learning and teaching methods may include:
There is an interdisciplinary approach to teaching on some modules where all four-nursing fields, adult, children’s, learning disability, and mental health, learn together.
Practice training is organised using a ‘Hub and Spoke’ model so you have a base (hub) and a range of settings relating to the hub and to individual’s healthcare journeys (spokes).
A variety of strategies are used throughout the programme and self-directed study is encouraged to promote independent learning and the development of lifelong education skills.
Assessment will be undertaken using methods like continuous assessment of practice, written assessments, and appraisals of an ‘episode of care’ in clinical settings.
Other evaluation methods include practical exams, reflective accounts, examinations and dissertation.
You should apply for Adult Nursing with Foundation Year.
UCAS code: B742

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/childrensnursing:
Do you want to make a positive difference to the lives of children, young people and their families?
Would you like a career in a worthwhile profession that provides varied opportunities?
Start your journey to becoming a qualified children’s nurse on our Nursing (Children's BSc).
You’ll learn key nursing theory and get hands-on practical experience in our superb clinical facilities and placement opportunities so you can develop the skills and confidence to care for children and young people with different health challenges.
You will develop a diverse skill set enabling you to provide excellent nursing care and support to children, young people and their families.
Their care needs change as they grow and develop and as a children's nurse you will play an important role in managing their specific care requirements until they transition to adult health care services.
Our children's nursing curriculum is carefully designed to provide you with the theoretical knowledge required to be able to practice and communicate confidently and competently, whilst also giving you the opportunity to develop and refine your clinical skills in a safe environment before going onto clinical placement.
Fundamental to this programme is assisting you to nurture strong partnerships with a child or young person and their family which is driven by effective communication and respect.
You will develop the skills to enable children and young people to be meaningful participants in managing their own care.
The programme reflects the changing health care environment, where services are designed around the needs of children, young people, and their families, focusing on the whole child not just their illness.
You will develop into a children's nurse who is adaptable and able to respond to the current and future needs of patients.
Learning is enhanced by our excellent facilities including an anatomy suite and Health Library.
Innovative teaching methods including High Fidelity Simulation and skill-based development in our Clinical Skills Lab.
50% of your time is spent on clinical practice in different health care settings.
You will be supported in practice by clinical supervisors and assessed by a practice assessor, and reviewed by an academic assessor.
You may also choose to study abroad through elective placements with organisations like Work the World.
There is a strong system of student support for you every step of the way during your studies and clinical placements.
Each year you will be allocated an Academic Mentor, who will support you through your children's nursing degree.
You will also benefit from the support of the Faculty Student Experience and Support team who offer advice, guidance and one to one support to students within the School of Nursing and Midwifery.
Support is also available from the School's Disability Inclusion Tutor who provides an additional layer of support for all students, particularly for those who have special learning needs.
Children's Nursing is approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and has been designed to meet the seven NMC platforms which underpin pre-registration nursing education.
"Throughout my three years as a student nurse and nine as a qualified children’s nurse, I have received incredible support and encouragement from mentors, lecturers and colleagues.
Although male children’s nurses may be considered a rare breed, the numbers are gradually increasing in my experience.
I work with a number of other male children’s nurses who are a valued a respected part of the child health team.
They possess great experience and knowledge.
I would encourage any man interested in becoming a children’s nurse to go for it.
I believe they would be lucky enough to have the same experiences I have had in my career with patients, families and colleagues.
Nick, Children's Nursing
BBC in three A Levels
Contextual Offer: BCC in three A Levels
DMM in any BTEC Extended Diploma / National Extended Diploma
Contextual Offer: BTEC Extended Diploma not included
Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and C in one A Level, or
Merit and Merit in BTEC Diploma and A in one A Level
Distinction in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and CC in two A Levels, or
Merit in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels
554 in three Higher Levels or 29 points
Contextual Offer: 544 in three Higher Levels or 28 points
112 UCAS points in any Access to HE Diploma including Distinction in at least 15 Level 3 credits
BCCCC in five Highers, or CD in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers, or CCD in three Advanced Highers
H3, H4, H4, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate
70% in the Gaokao
Average of 65% from four subjects in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 70% from four subjects in any other Standard XII
2.4 overall average in the Abitur
443 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE
Overall average of 7 in the Título de Bachillerato
75% in the Esame di Stato
17.5 / 83% in the Apolytirion
Overall average of 15 in a Secondary Certificate
60% / BCCCC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma
443 from three Advanced Placement subjects
BBC in three Advanced Levels
BBC in three Principal level subjects in the STPM
BBC in three H2 Levels
70% overall
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with BBC and a A in EAP English Language module
BBC in three Principal level subjects in the Advanced Certificate of Education
National Senior Certificate: 66655 in five subjects.
BBC in three Advanced Level subjects
Please note in addition to the academic entry requirements above, to be accepted onto a Nursing or Midwifery programme at Keele you must also fulfil a range of additional requirements.
Eligible Nursing (Children's) BSc (Hons) students can apply for funding support via the NHS Learning Support Fund , which includes a £5,000 training grant, a parental support allowance and certain travel and accommodation costs for placements.
Children's nurses are in demand and there is a high graduate employability rate.
The experience you gain in hospital and community placements will help you develop the necessary skills, knowledge and attitudes you will need for a career in children’s nursing.
You can also explore other avenues and go on to work in leadership, academia or in a strategic role within a range of healthcare environments.
From careers guidance and CV advice, to careers fairs, alumni mentoring and networking events, along with helping you find part-time and graduate employment - the team will support you throughout your studies and beyond.
"Keele was always my first choice when applying to do my Children’s nurse training and I am so proud to have now qualified from Keele with a 1st Class Honours degree.
The Child Field team were beyond supportive throughout the 3 years, and I genuinely could not have done it without their guidance and support.
The course was well structured, and the placement opportunities far exceeded my expectations, giving me the best experiences in order for me to choose a career pathway having worked with such a vast number of teams in the area.
The course was hard work at times, but so worth it."
Jade, Children's Nursing
Different methods are used on this programme in recognition of the varied nature of child or young person's nursing.
Teaching is undertaken remotely and in university and clinical placement learning environments that integrate theoretical and practice-based learning.
Clinical and simulated practice is an essential and important aspect of the course.
Teaching and learning takes a blended approach via:
Teaching and learning takes both an interdisciplinary approach and a field specific approach, depending on the subject area being studied.
For example, sometimes you will learn with students from adult, mental health and learning disability fields and sometimes you will learn with students from your own field of practice.
Usually, practice training is organised using a ‘Hub and Spoke’ model so you have a base (hub) and a range of settings relating to the hub, and to a child's or young person's healthcare journey (spokes).
Self-directed study is encouraged to promote independent learning and the development of lifelong education skills.
We evaluate your practice using methods such as continuous assessment of practice proficiencies analysis of practice, written assessments and appraisals of an ‘Episode of Care' in practice settings.
Other methods include practical exams, reflective accounts, examinations and a dissertation.
Therefore a decision will need to be made before a student starts a course, and at relevant points within the programme, as to whether they will be able to meet all the competencies of the course, taking into account what reasonable adjustments can be made.
This Foundation Year is a is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Children's Nursing.
You should apply for Children's Nursing with Foundation Year.
UCAS code: B731

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/mentalhealthnursing:
Could you make a meaningful impact in the field of mental health nursing?
Would you like to unlock the door to a fulfilling career that offers multiple possibilities?
Modern society understands that our mental health is as important as our physical health; throughout our Nursing (Mental Health) BSc you will acquire the knowledge, skills and empathy to develop into a competent mental health nurse.
You will study essential nursing theory and gain practical experience in our excellent clinical simulation facilities and out on placement, so you can confidently work in partnership with service users, their families and the wider community.
Mental health nurses support and care for individuals experiencing mental ill health and play a crucial role in positively impacting and influencing outcomes.
Person- centred care is at the heart of our programme, which acknowledges that all people are individuals with physical, emotional, social, and cultural needs.
Severe and enduring mental illness can adversely affect someone’s physical health, so health promotion and education will be key aspects of your role as a mental health nurse.
Our mental health nursing programme aims to produce nurses who are self-aware, reflective and are a positive role model for the people in their care, displaying resilience and compassion.
You will apply your skills, identifying opportunities to educate and support people at every stage of their lives.
Underpinning this will be early intervention in children and young people’s mental health, recognising the impact of adverse childhood experiences on mental health across the lifespan.
It is also recognised that by 2025, over a million people in the UK will be diagnosed with dementia (Alzheimer’s’ Society 2019) and mental health nurses will be pivotal in prevention, early identification, assessment, and intervention for cognitive impairment.
As a future nurse you will require strong communication skills, facilitating positive therapeutic engagement with service users, their families, and other professionals as you manage complex care with service users in your care.
You will develop high level interpersonal and clinical skills that will enable you to work within an evidence-based framework delivering complex therapeutic interventions such as motivational interviewing and cognitive behaviour therapy.
You will gain the theoretical knowledge required to be able to practice confidently and competently, whilst also giving you the opportunity to develop and refine your clinical skills in a safe and controlled setting before going onto clinical placement.
We believe a multidisciplinary approach to teaching is the key to developing an effective global health care workforce.
You will benefit from inter-professional education by learning alongside other nursing students from different fields and aspiring healthcare professionals such as medical, physiotherapy and pharmacy students.
This exposure allows you to appreciate the role that each healthcare professional plays in a person’s journey - a critical factor for success within the clinical setting.
You will gain evidence-based practice experience that supports the ethos of dignity, care, and compassion for patients.
Your learning will be enhanced by our excellent facilities including an anatomy suite and health and campus libraries.
Mental health field placements provide a range of experiences to expand your professional values and nursing skills linking the theory you have learnt in the lectures with practice.
You will be supported in practice by clinical supervisors and assessed by a practice assessor and reviewed by an academic assessor.
This ensures you practice safely and allows you to learn from clinicians who have a wealth of experience in their field.
A team of experienced practice assessors and placement supervisors are there to support you when you are undertaking work placements.
You will have guidance from an academic mentor during your studies who is allocated to you at the start of the course.
You will also benefit from the support of the Faculty Student Experience and Student Experience Support Officers (SESO) who offer advice, guidance and one to one support to students within the School of Nursing and Midwifery.
There is peer support and additional help available from the School's Disability Inclusion Tutor who provides an additional layer of support for all students, particularly for those who have special learning needs.
You can also access plenty of student advice and support services at Keele including:
Mental Health Nursing is approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) and has been designed to meet the seven NMC platforms which underpin pre-registration nursing education.
"There is loads of support, the staff and all the students are lovely.
It is a great community to be in."
Libby, Mental Health Nurse
Details of these additional requirements and expectations can be found here in your Nursing and Midwifery checklist.
Eligible Nursing (Mental Health) BSc (Hons) students can apply for funding support via the NHS Learning Support Fund , which includes a £5,000 training grant, a parental support allowance and certain travel and accommodation costs for placements.
The experience you will gain in the different clinical placements helps you develop the necessary knowledge and attitudes for a career in modern mental health nursing.
"The support I have received and the community that is based here is second to none.
The skills I have learnt will allow me to go forward and have the best career that I could possibly have."
Harriet, Mental Health Nursing
Mental Health Nursing is a complex and often demanding nursing discipline, and we use different methods to ensure you have the right portfolio of expertise for a rewarding career.
Teaching is via
We have an interdisciplinary approach to teaching on some of our modules where all four areas of nursing – adult, children, learning disability, and mental health, all learn together.
Practice training is organised using a ‘Hub and Spoke’ model so you have a base (hub) and a range of settings relating to the hub and to individual’s healthcare journeys (spokes)
A variety of strategies are used on the programme and self-directed study is encouraged to promote independent learning and the development of lifelong learning.
We use assessment methods like continuous analysis of practice, written assessments and appraisals of an ‘episode of care’ in practice settings.
This Foundation Year is a is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the  BSc (Hons) Mental Health Nursing.
You can find out more about our Foundation Year, Including Information on learning, teaching and assessment methods and further opportunities available to you by visiting our homepage.
Candidates who progress from the Foundation Year onto year 1 of the degree course will be required to undertake a Disclosure and Barring Service check (Enhanced plus Barring Lists) and health check.
You should apply for BSc (Hons) Mental Health Nursing with Foundation Year
UCAS code: B763

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/occupationaltherapy:
Occupational Therapists help people of all ages to develop, recover, or maintain the skills they need for daily living and working.
Our accredited and approved Occupational Therapy BSc combines innovative teaching, hands-on practice-based experience, and cutting-edge facilities to prepare you for a dynamic role in this rapidly evolving profession.
Our supportive learning environment and focus on the contribution that meaningful occupation has to the physical and mental health and wellbeing of individuals will empower you to become a confident, compassionate occupational therapist ready to make a difference.
The Occupational Therapy programme is designed to give you the skills, knowledge, and professional identity needed to thrive in this rewarding and evolving field.
Occupational Therapy is all about helping people improve their health and wellbeing by participating in their meaningful occupations and activities of daily life.
This course focuses on how important these activities are for both physical and mental health, preparing you to make a real difference in the lives of individuals and communities.
Our curriculum is based on the latest research and reflects current practices in the UK and internationally, ensuring you’re ready for the demands of today’s job market.
You’ll benefit from a variety of hands-on learning experiences in different settings, including the NHS, private healthcare, and community organisations, so you’re well-prepared for your future career.
You’ll also have the chance to work alongside students from other health courses, helping you develop teamwork skills.
Our programme aims to support the development of a strong sense of professional identity, professionalism and core knowledge and skills.
By the time you graduate, you’ll be ready to make a positive impact both within the occupational therapy community and in the lives of the individuals, communities and populations in which you choose to work.
Our Occupational Therapy BSc is a ccredited by the Royal College of Occupational Therapists (RCOT), approved by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and the World Federation of Occupational Therapists (WFOT).
Health and Wellbeing This module introduces you to the concept of health and wellbeing with a focus on primary prevention and health promotion.
This reflects the shifting emphasis away from a medical disease model towards a health model based on personal responsibility and prevention of disease.
Anatomy, Psychology and Occupational Performance and Participation You will develop your knowledge and understanding of anatomy, physiology and psychology, and how these apply to activity analysis, occupational performance and participation.
Foundations of Human Occupation and the Occupational Therapy Process You will learn the history and evolution of the occupational therapy profession, including key concepts, philosophy, values and beliefs.
You will also develop an understanding of the dynamic relationship between occupation, health and wellbeing and the occupational therapy process.
Communication, Interpersonal Skills and Professional Practice This module focuses on the development of skills, knowledge and attributes such as professionalism, communication, skills of reflection and life long learning, that are essential for a health and social care professional.
Applying Occupational Therapy Theory to Occupational Performance and Participation You will explore typical pathologies encountered in practice and explore the impact of life changes and life choices on human occupation and participation.
The module also provides an introduction and application of contemporary occupational therapy models and occupational science.
Practice Based Learning A Building on prior programme content, this module allows you to further develop and apply your knowledge, skills, and behaviours through practical placement experience.
It is designed to prepare you for practice in diverse settings while also fostering transferable skills - such as multidisciplinary teamwork, leadership, and communication - that are valuable across various contexts and specialties.
Professional Reasoning and Influences on Practice You will develop your knowledge and skills in professional reasoning, and begin to evaluate factors which influence decision making in contemporary occupational therapy practice.
Assessments and Interventions in Occupational Therapy Practice Within this module you will gain practical experiences in occupational therapy assessment, intervention and outcome measurement.
You will also further develop your knowledge and ability when justifying your decision making in contemporary occupational therapy practice.
Evidence Based Occupational Therapy This module offers you the opportunity to develop and enhance your knowledge and skills in effectively using research and other forms of evidence to support and underpin your practice, as well as recognising the tools used to evaluate services.
Diversity in Occupational Therapy You will participate in, practically facilitate and justify a range of specialist and diverse occupation focussed interventions for example splinting, wheelchair provision and pressure care, group work, vocational rehabilitation.
Risk management, risk enablement and health and safety are key aspects of this module.
Research Proposal Under the guidance of a research supervisor, you will gain knowledge and skills in formulating research questions and designing ethically sound research proposals to address them.
You will also explore effective dissemination strategies to maximise the impact of your research.
Practice Based Learning B Building on prior programme content, this module allows you to further develop and apply your knowledge, skills, and behaviours through practical placement experience.
Research Project This module builds on the research proposal module, enabling you to implement the research proposal and produce a structured written report of your work.
The module aims to develop your ability to carry out subsequent research independently.
Professional Identify, Leadership and Transition to Occupational Therapy Practice Exploring the characteristics of effective leadership and evaluating service development and delivery, this module will support you to promote and prioritise the delivery of high quality care.
You will also focus on your professional occupational therapy identity and transition to occupational therapy practice.
Addressing the Health and Occupational Needs of Communities and Populations This module offers you the opportunity to consider the occupational and health needs of communities and populations on a global scale, whilst proposing equitable occupational therapy services to address them nationally or internationally.
You will consider public health, health promotion and prevention strategies for communities and populations and be introduced to the social constructs and cultures of communities and societies and their complexities.
Practice Based Learning C This module builds on your previous placement experiences and academic learning, allowing you to further develop and apply your knowledge, skills, and behaviours within occupational therapy practice.
It aims to prepare you for working in contemporary and diverse settings, while also strengthening your transferable skills, that are valuable across a range of contexts and specialties.
Practice Based Learning D Building on prior placements and content from the programme.
Through hands-on occupational therapy practice, it supports you in further developing and applying your knowledge, skills, and behaviours.
The module aims to equip you to work effectively in contemporary and diverse settings, while also enhancing transferable skills applicable across a wide range of environments and specialties.
The School requires students to become student members of the Royal College of Occupational Therapists (RCOT).
Student membership of the RCOT provides access to a range of resources and provides insurance for practice placements.
Further information can be found at Student Membership - RCOT.
For students who require a test, this course requires a result from Group C.
Eligible students can apply for funding support via the NHS Learning Support Fund , which includes a £5,000 training grant, a parental support allowance and certain travel and accommodation costs for placements.
You will be assigned an academic mentor who will guide you through your academic journey and practice-based learning experiences.
The programme also features a dedicated Student Experience and Support Officer (SESO) to assist with non-academic issues, ensuring you have access to the appropriate resources for health, welfare, and financial support.
Additionally, the School has a School Disability Inclusion Tutor to provide specialised support for students with disabilities, and practice educators and link tutors to guide you during placements.
Graduates of this programme are well-equipped to pursue careers in a wide range of occupational therapy settings across the spectrum of public, independent, private, third sector and health, wellbeing, social and integrative care systems.
The comprehensive education and practical experience gained during the course ensure you are prepared for the challenges and opportunities of contemporary occupational therapy practice.
With the course's strong emphasis on developing a professional identity and leadership skills, you will be ready to contribute to and advance the profession, both in the UK and internationally.
The programme employs a variety of teaching methods to cater to different learning styles and to ensure a comprehensive educational experience.
These methods include interactive lectures, small group workshops, tutorials, simulation and role play, and practice-based learning.
Assessments are diverse and designed to reflect real-world occupational therapy practice, including written assignments, examinations, presentations, and a research project.
You will have access to state-of-the-art facilities that enhance your learning experience.
These include a purpose-built Activities of Daily Living (ADL) suite, a multi-purpose workshop for practical activities, and shared simulation spaces such as ward areas, a sensory room, and a health house.
The Keele Virtual Learning Environment (KLE) provides a wealth of online resources, and the university’s library offers an extensive collection of materials relevant to occupational therapy.
Additionally, you will have opportunities to use the University's Anatomy Suite, enhancing your understanding of human anatomy in relation to occupational performance.
This Foundation year is a is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Occupational Therapy.
At the same time, we will advance your knowledge of human biology and psychology, giving you a solid grasp of body systems, science and lab work.
In addition to meeting the Level 3 requirements, candidates whose first language is not English will need IELTS with an overall score of 6.0, including at least 5.5 in all sections, or GCSE English Language at 4 (C) or above.
You should apply for Occupational Therapy with Foundation Year.
UCAS code: B921

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/paramedicsciencewithintegratedmasters:
Do you have the potential to become a resilient and caring paramedic?
Could you thrive working in fast-paced emergency, urgent, primary and community-based care?
We are at the forefront of paramedic science education in the UK, and as a paramedic student we will equip you with the hands-on practical experience and rigorous academic study so you can excel in providing care to people when they are at their most vulnerable.
Develop the resilience, attitude, and competencies required to work at the frontline of healthcare.
The role of contemporary paramedics is challenging and evolving, with an expectation that paramedics will deliver high-quality care in a variety of health and social care environments and organisations.
You will be based in the School of Medicine, which embraces a multidisciplinary approach to education.
Paramedic Science with Integrated Masters at Keele combines a bachelor’s degree with a fourth year of study at master’s level where you will undertake advanced level modules.
This additional year gives you the expertise for future career opportunities that could take you beyond working in the ambulance service, such as careers in leadership, management or research.
The course aligns to the four pillars of advanced paramedic practice – clinical, leadership, education and research.
Each pillar is associated with an array of future employment opportunities.
The course focuses on developing your lifesaving skills and clinical interventions in a range of locations.
50% of your time will be spent undertaking placements within the ambulance service and other settings, to develop your professional paramedic practice.
You are expected to engage with the full range of shifts to reflect the demands of the 24/7 service.
Year one explores the fundamental elements of paramedicine to enable you to gain the core competencies around patient assessment, drug administration, interventions, cardiac arrest management and life sciences such as anatomy and physiology.
You will also focus on how to protect your own health and wellbeing as paramedic.
In your second year you are introduced to evidence-based practice and will explore areas of medicine including pharmacology and pathophysiology.
Year three focuses on how research informs paramedic practice and concentrates on key areas such as the care of children, the elderly and pregnant women.
In the final year there are opportunities for enhanced practice to prepare you to work in a critical care environment and learn to diagnose and undertake minor injury assessment in a range of settings including emergency, urgent and primary care.
You will acquire specialist clinical skills, start to explore the role of prescribing in paramedic practice and expand your research, leadership and educator abilities in preparation for an exciting career as a paramedic practitioner.
Throughout the course you will build your confidence and competencies as a paramedic and you will be encouraged to reflect on your professional practice through dedicated hours of clinical simulation.
Learning to reflect and critique your practice helps to improve your decision making and clinical reasoning techniques.
A range of different clinical scenarios are presented with simulated patients in a controlled and supportive environment.
We also deliver multi-professional trauma days and major incident scenarios as part of the course and you will use specialist resources including; a fully equipped training ambulance, clinical skills lab, Keele's anatomy and surgical training centre and high-fidelity simulation in our health and crime houses.
Interprofessional education enables you to study with students from other health related subjects such as medicine, nursing, radiography, social work, and physiotherapy.
This allows you to learn with your current peer group in conditions that reflect your future employment environment.
Developing your multidisciplinary working and problem-solving capabilities are essential attributes of modern paramedics.
50% of your time during your studies will be spent completing high quality placements across the West Midlands region.
These are co-designed with our key stakeholder, the West Midlands Ambulance Service University NHS Foundation Trust.
Placement opportunities will provide you with the broadest range of experiences within acute, primary and community settings such as the ambulance service, emergency departments, hospitals, walk-in-centres, mental health, general practice, maternity, community, and critical care.
Year one placements are solely within the ambulance service, enabling you to become confident and familiar with the core working environment of a paramedic.
In years two and three you will continue undertaking placements within the ambulance service and within other clinical settings such as hospital wards, general practice, maternity, walk-in centres, community and critical care so you can learn in greater depth.
In your final year, in addition to the ambulance service will continue to benefit from placement opportunities in a range of areas with the addition of critical care.
Elective placements provide the opportunity to apply for placements in the UK or internationally.
Throughout each placement opportunity you will complete a Practice Assessment Document to map the achievement of clinical skills required to manage patients within the clinical setting in which you are working in.
Experienced paramedic lecturers and clinicians teach on this programme along with additional high quality staff who have a range of medical expertise.
Many of our staff are active in bioscience and health research, which informs our teaching and keeps the course relevant to the needs of the 21st century health system.
You will benefit from excellent student support throughout the duration of your Paramedic Science Integrated Masters programme.
An academic mentor is allocated to you at the start of the course, who will provide advice and guidance throughout the course.
Our Faculty Student Experience and Support team offer support and advice and give one-to-one support to students within the School of Medicine.
There is peer support, and additional help is available from the School's Disability Inclusion Tutor who provides an additional layer of support for all students, particularly for those who have special learning needs.
You can also access plenty of student advice and support services at Keele including;
Paramedic Science at Keele is approved by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and endorsed by the College of Paramedics.
Successful completion of the course provides you with the eligibility to register with the Health and Care Professions Council as a registered paramedic.
Public Health & Wellbeing for Paramedics The Public Health and Wellbeing for Paramedics module will provide you with an overview of key local and national public health challenges in emergency and urgent care and prepare you in developing both personal and professional resilience.
The theme of personal resilience and wellbeing is core to professional paramedic practice.
Therefore, this module will support you in devising personal coping strategies and introduce you to human factors and the de-briefing concept and reflection used in paramedic practice.
Fundamental Life Sciences for Paramedics The fundamental Life Sciences for Paramedics module provides you with an introduction to biological and psychological sciences and is the foundation of paramedic practice.
The Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences state-of-the-art facilities and expert academic and scientific staff will use a blended and problem-based learning approach including direct lectures, online learning, and using Keele's anatomy laboratories will provide you with an excellent, in-depth learning experience covering anatomical, physiological, and psychological scientific principles of the healthy human body.
Fundamentals of Paramedic Practice The Fundamentals of Paramedic Practice module will provide you with the knowledge, skills, and understanding to undertake the assessment and management of patients in paramedic practice settings.
An introduction to the range of equipment commonly used in paramedic practice and developing psychomotor skills will provide you with a range of clinical skills for providing timely and appropriate care to service users.
Introduction to Professional Practice for Paramedics The Introduction to Professional Practice for Paramedics module enables you to understand the importance and implications of professionalism and how these principles apply to paramedic practice.
You will gain knowledge of different communication strategies and their application.
The module will also prepare you to work in a diverse range of healthcare settings whilst also developing transferable skills such as communication skills, reflective practice and professionalism that can be applied in a variety of healthcare settings and specialities.
Applied Paramedic Practice & Simulation 1 The Applied Paramedic Practice and Simulation 1 module provides the opportunity for you to apply theory into practice.
You will develop clinical decision-making skills and formulate and deliver care management plans using clinical skills to provide care to service users.
You will begin to develop your knowledge and understanding of the paramedics' role and scope of practice within the ambulance service and simulation settings where you will experience the delivery of unscheduled emergency, and urgent care during your placement.
Introduction to Evidence-based Practice & Research The Introduction to Evidence-Based Practice and Research module will develop your knowledge and understanding of the research process and the role of evidence-based practice applicable to healthcare and paramedic practice.
The role of research in healthcare and health professions will be explored, including terminology, ethics, research methodologies, and the development of literature-searching skills, including the ability to critically appraise the evidence and develop your understanding of how practice guidelines are developed.
Pharmacology & Medicines Management for Paramedic Practice This module will enable you to gain a deeper understanding of physiology and how this aligns with the principles of clinical pharmacology and the concepts of safety and quality when caring for people.
You will learn about medicines legislation, principles of prescribing, accountability and the responsibility of an autonomous paramedic practitioner.
You will gain insight into the importance of quality improvement, risk assessment and patient safety linked to medication administration.
Applied Anatomy & Pathophysiology for Paramedics The Applied Anatomy and Pathophysiology for Paramedics module will develop the knowledge gained from studying the Fundamental Life Sciences for Paramedics by exploring in-depth human anatomy, physiology and pathophysiology.
Disease processes and pathological changes in response to illnesses and injuries encountered in paramedic practice will be explored.
State-of-the-art facilities and expert academic and scientific staff will use a blended and socially active learning approach to deliver an in-depth learning experience covering anatomical, physiological, and pathophysiological principles of the human body.
Principles of Paramedic Practice This module will enable you to further develop your knowledge, skills, and understanding of a range of assessment techniques and clinical skills/interventions within the scope of practice for a paramedic.
This includes adult advanced life support techniques and resuscitation techniques in our extensive simulation facilities.
An introduction to legislation surrounding confidentiality, data protection, and information governance accompanies the theoretical underpinnings for the module enabling you to have sound working knowledge of legal boundaries pertinent to caring for service users.
Applied Paramedic Practice & Simulation 2 The Applied Paramedic Practice and Simulation 2 module provides the opportunity for you to apply theory into practice.
You will continue to develop clinical decision-making skills and formulate and deliver care management plans using clinical skills to provide care to service users.
You will further develop your knowledge and understanding of the paramedics' role and scope of practice within a range of settings where you will experience the delivery of unscheduled emergency, and urgent care during your placement.
Behavioural Health for Paramedics The Behavioural Health for Paramedics module aims to develop comprehensive knowledge and a critical understanding of subject areas synonymous with behavioural health.
An in-depth and critical analysis of healthcare legislation, ethical principles and an in-depth exploration of professionalism, with a focus on mental health, multi-disciplinary and multiagency working will nurture you to evaluate contemporary paramedic practice in a complex field of healthcare.
Evidence-based Practice The Evidence-Based Practice module will afford you the underpinning theory to develop knowledge and a comprehensive understanding of research methodologies and the role of evidence-based practice applicable to healthcare and contemporary paramedic practice.
The process of change management and the notion of service improvement are also explored in addition to learning how to undertake systematic reviews of the literature and evidence base.
Older Persons and Frailty Paramedic practice continues to evolve to meet modern challenges in the UK health system.
The ageing population of the UK and the complexity of health and illness through an ever-increasing life expectancy require practitioners who are capable of delivering safe and effective care to a diverse range of elderly service users.
This module will explore normal and abnormal patterns of ageing and how physical or mental illness impacts the older person taking into account social and cultural aspects of care.
Enhanced Paramedic Practice The Enhanced Paramedic Practice module provides you with in-depth knowledge and a comprehensive, critical understanding of the scope of contemporary paramedic practice.
Clinical skills, simulation and multidisciplinary teamwork are central to the module.
You will learn alongside a range of other health professions from across the wider School and Faculty.
Using state-of-the-art simulation facilities across the University’s extensive campus you will learn how to manage a diverse range of patients including pregnant patients, children and elderly patient groups.
Applied Paramedic Practice & Simulation 3 The Applied Paramedic Practice and Simulation 3 module gives you the opportunity to apply theory into practice.
You will continue to develop clinical decision-making skills and formulate and deliver care management plans using clinical skills to provide care to service users within the scope of paramedic practice.
You will further develop your knowledge and understanding of the paramedics' role and scope of practice within a range of settings including simulation-based settings.
Clinical Leadership for Paramedics This module has been designed to develop your leadership knowledge, skills, qualities and behaviours and seeks to develop, nurture and enhance existing teamworking skills and clinical leadership requirements including the theories of incident command.
Leadership theories and models are appraised and applied to the clinician's work context, to improve their leadership potential and abilities to lead and deliver high-quality health care in their field of practice, with a clear focus on the service user experience.
Introduction to Critical Care Practice for Paramedics The Introduction to Critical Care Practice for Paramedics module will provide you with comprehensive and detailed knowledge, skills, and understanding to provide care to critically ill or injured service users alongside pre-hospital critical care practitioners and critical care teams.
Detailed pharmacology of drugs used in pre-hospital critical care management is explored in addition to advanced clinical interventions and comprehensive knowledge of critical care transport and retrieval.
Advancing Practice Project This module will provide structure for an advancing practice project for the final year of the MSci Paramedic Science programme.
This module is specifically structured to consider many factors affecting service delivery and service improvement.
You will be required to identify, plan, propose delivery and reflect upon a service improvement (advancement) project.
The module is grounded in professional practice and will offer you the opportunity to negotiate, design, consider theoretical implementation and evaluate the effectiveness of the improvement.
Primary, Urgent and Unscheduled Care for Paramedics The Primary, Urgent and Unscheduled Care develops students advanced and complex decision-making skills to prepare students in assessment diagnoses, and management of patients in the Primary, Urgent and Unscheduled Care setting and compliments the practice-based – Applied Paramedic Practice & Simulation 4 module.
The module is at the forefront of contemporary paramedic practice and has been designed in cognisance of key drivers for the paramedic profession in Primary, Urgent and Unscheduled Care.
Applied Paramedic Practice & Simulation 4 The Applied Paramedic Practice and Simulation 4 module provides the opportunity for you to apply theory into practice affirming your complex decision-making and clinical skills which are at the leading edge of paramedic practice.
You will re-enforce your knowledge and understanding of the paramedics' role and enhanced scope of practice within a range of diverse settings including simulation.
Students must be 18 years old when they commence the course, or by 1 October of the first Semester.
Health checks and DBS Clearance Offers are subject to Occupational Health clearances and an Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance.The University follows the DBS Code of Practice in these issues and can provide a copy of the Code on request.
Interview Shortlisted candidates will be invited to attend an interview.
For students who require a test, this course requires a result from Group D.
Eligible Paramedic Science MSci students can apply for funding support via the NHS Learning Support Fund, which includes a £5,000 training grant and certain travel and accommodation costs for placements.
The additional clinical knowledge and competencies gained on the Paramedic Science Integrated Masters include enhanced assessment skills, leadership qualities and robust evidence-based practice.
This supports rapid career development and can lead to exciting career opportunities in emergency, urgent and primary care.
Upon graduation you will be eligible to register with the Health and Care Professions Council as a registered Paramedic.
Our programme utilises a rotational model as detailed by the Health Education England Rotating Paramedic Programme (2018) , so you can engage with a wide range of practice to support improvement of patient experience and provide a range of career opportunities upon qualification.
The majority of graduates will work within a variety of settings within the NHS.
On successful completion of the programme, you will have studied to an advanced practice level, however, to develop your future career you may be required to undertake further study and continuing professional development.
You may also be required to develop experience in your area of practice to further enhance your opportunities.
Career prospects for you upon graduation from this programme may include:
*The clinician must typically have 3 years post qualification experience before being eligible to progress into advanced practice roles and to study Independent & Supplementary Prescribing for Allied Health Professionals (plus additional entry criteria).
*Extensive research experience will be required before being eligible for progression into higher roles.
*Postgraduate teaching qualifications and extensive experience will be required before being eligible for progression into higher roles.
From mock interviews, careers guidance and CV advice, to careers fairs, and networking events, along with helping you find part-time and graduate employment - the team will support you throughout your studies and beyond.
The School of Medicine is located in the David Weatherall building on Keele University's main campus.
This provides a state-of-the-art learning environment with two lecture theatres, various size classrooms, seminar rooms, and tutorial rooms.
We use different learning and teaching methods on the Paramedic Science Integrated Master’s depending on the subject matter and module level.
Teaching takes place in both the university and clinical environments.
Integrating the theory you have learnt on the course with learning from placement settings helps you consolidate your knowledge and apply it practically to your clinical practice.
Parts of the programme including paramedic practical skills are taught in small groups.
In practice settings you will work with designated practice educators and a range of healthcare professionals as well as being assisted by visiting tutors from the School.
Theoretical elements of this course are taught using:
If you do not meet the requirements for direct entry into our Paramedic Science Integrated Master's course, our Foundation Year can provide an alternative route into your degree.
This tab provides information relating to:
This Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the Paramedic Science Integrated Masters course.
You will also be introduced to concepts relating to organic, inorganic, physical and analytical chemistry.
You can find out more about our Foundation Year, including information on learning, teaching and assessment methods and further opportunities available to you by visiting Foundation Year webpages .
Academic Entry Requirements
Additional Requirements
CRIMINAL RECORDS DECLARATION (DBS/DISCLOSURE SCOTLAND)
Candidates who progress from this Foundation Year onto year 1 of the degree course will be required to undertake a Disclosure and Barring Service check (Enhanced plus Barring Lists) and health check.
INTERVIEW
An interview is required for entry onto the Paramedic Science with Integrated Master's with Foundation Year and will follow the same format as for the MSci Paramedic Science programme.
HEALTH CHECK A satisfactory health check will be required for successful candidates.
Students on the Foundation Year will have to achieve the follow grades to be eligible to join the MSci Paramedic Science programme:
You should apply for Paramedic Science with Integrated Master's with Foundation Year
UCAS code: B951
Direct Entry
If you are a UK or EU student, already have your qualifications, are not expecting any further results and only wish to apply to Keele, please contact the Admissions Office directly.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/pharmaceuticalscience:
Develop the scientific skills and business knowledge needed for a dynamic career in the pharmaceutical industry.
Explore the range of sciences that underpin pharmaceutical discovery and development, understand the global legal and regulatory requirements of the industry, and recognise the business potential of new drugs.
The pharmaceutical industry is a global one that offers many different career possibilities.
It strives to develop new drugs, the formulation of medicines and medical devices to advance healthcare provision.
Pharmaceutical Science at Keele was co-developed with experts from the pharmaceutical industry who work in areas including formulation development and regulatory affairs, and academic experts who have first hand experience of working in the field.
As a result of this, graduate skills are aligned to the industry demands.
Throughout the programme you will be encouraged to explore themes such as the pathway for the discovery and development of therapeutic drugs and the cost effectiveness of medications.
This incorporates product formulation, manufacturing, quality assurance, clinical trials design and implementation.
The aim is for you to understand how medicines gain approval to be marketed and, ultimately, how these medications are administered.
You will also explore how such pure and applied sciences fit into global business, legal and regulatory frameworks.
You will undertake laboratory experiments to develop the vital scientific skills required to work in the pharmaceutical industry.
We also provide you with additional practical opportunities that give you real world experience of some of the processes and documentation requirements that are currently found in the pharmaceutical industry to help enhance your employability.
Having the knowledge and understanding of how to undertake such tasks will give you the confidence to execute these tasks within the workplace.
Core modules introduce you to subject areas such as human anatomy and physiology to improve your understanding of the structure of the human body, organs and tissues, and how disease affects it.
You will explore the essential elements of chemistry and pharmacology and also develop your understanding of the principles of biochemistry, looking at the chemistry of life to understand the functioning of cells at molecular and cellular levels.
You can also tailor the course to your personal interests and career aspirations.
At the end of year two you can choose to spend time in industry with our work placement year.
Our academics who deliver this course are based predominately within the School for Allied Health Professions and Pharmacy and have expertise in the core aspects of the pharmaceutical sciences: pharmacology, physiology, medicinal and organic chemistry and formulation and drug delivery.
In addition, several members of the School's academic staff have previously worked in the pharmaceutical (and related) industry and can frame their academic work within the context of their previous roles.
"I would definitely recommend this course to anyone thinking about their next steps.
It diversifies from learning all of the required up-to-date science to learning languages and business development.
The skill set you acquire makes you more employable on a global level."
Ahmad, graduate
"This course has shaped my career with the invaluable support and professional guidance from lecturers at Keele and a range of external experts from the pharmaceutical industry who also lectured on this programme.
The degree mirrors the broad-based and applied knowledge required to succeed in the industry, and provides a strong fundamental core to where you want to develop your career, whilst you are able to understand the influence and impact from related areas of the industry."
Palina, Graduate
We provide a supportive learning environment for you during your pharmaceutical science degree.
You will be allocated an academic mentor from the School who will be your first point of contact for academic advice and guidance.
Based within our faculty is a Student Experience and Support team who have a member of the team dedicated to the School of Allied Health Professions and Pharmacy.
As part of Keele’s student services, they work closely with teams across Keele to ensure you can easily access the support you need.
There is peer support, and additional help is available from the School's Disability Liaison Officer who provides an additional layer of support for all students, particularly for those who have special learning needs.
The pharmaceutical industry offers a huge range of career opportunities.
The sector has become increasingly prominent due to the Covid-19 pandemic, particularly around the development of new vaccines and the repurposing of drugs for the treatment of Covid-19.
Highly skilled individuals with a comprehensive scientific knowledge base and relevant knowledge of the business aspects of the industry are in demand.
Upon graduation will have a significant knowledge and skills ideal for working in a number of diverse roles in pharmaceutics.
You will confidently apply these abilities, including strong laboratory techniques and problem solving skills, in a work environment.
Some of our graduates have gone on to work in globally recognised pharmaceutical companies.
You could go on to have a successful career in:
We utilise different teaching and learning methods depending on the subject area being studied including lectures, tutorials, workshops, and problem-solving sessions.
This include being taught via interactive and immersive 3D teaching in the Health Cinema.
Laboratory work includes group and individual exercises.
Integrated synoptic assessments will integrate the different science subjects with the business aspects of the programme so you can develop clinically relevant products for patients.
Research projects will give you the ability to work on a major piece of research on your own and collaboratively with students undertaking similar projects within the context of research groups within the School of Allied Health Professions and Pharmacy.
Many of our academics are active researchers which informs their teaching.
Find out more about the School's research here.
The main modes of assessment are;
This Foundation Year is a is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the  BSc (Hons) Pharmaceutical Science with Business degree.
For example, in the Foundations of Chemistry for Science module you will begin to develop laboratory skills and techniques, together with your ability to accurately report experiment results and manipulate, analyse and present scientific data which will provide you with a good grounding for Year One of your degree.
Using problem-based learning, you will learn how to apply some of the most commonly used mathematical techniques in applied health sciences, converting data to the information used to support decision making in healthcare settings.
To progress to Year 1, you will be required to achieve an average of 40% from the Semester 1 modules, plus a 55% average from the remaining 60 credits to give a total of 120 credits.
You should apply for BSc (Hons) Pharmaceutical Science with Foundation Year, UCAS code: B232.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/pharmacologywithintegratedmasters:
Advance your career in pharmacology by gaining master's level problem-solving, communication and research skills to drive innovation in drug discovery and development.
Combing a unique blend of cutting-edge theory and extensive practical experience, our four-year programme will be of particular interest to those who wish to continue in a research career, such as further study to PhD level, work in industry or the wider bioscience sector.
Our MSci programme is designed to enhance your employability and deepen your subject-specific expertise by exploring advanced research topics, such as experimental design, data analysis, presentation, evaluation, literature reviews, and grant proposals.
You will also develop advanced research skills by undertaking  an extended research project where you will formulate a research question and design and conduct investigations to address it.
At the start of the programme, you will gain a broad introduction to biological sciences including biochemistry, physiology, molecular cell biology and pharmacology.
You will also begin to develop key employability skills and laboratory practice through our dedicated suite of practical and professional development modules.
Building on this foundation, the programme explores the mechanisms of drug action for treating various conditions, including cardio-metabolic disorders and central nervous system diseases.
the concept of selective toxicity, its application in addressing microbial infections, cancer therapies, and the effects of drugs of abuse and poisons.
To prepare you for your research projects, you will begin to develop skills in experimental design and data analysis.
At the end of your second year, you will have the opportunity to enhance your employability by undertaking a work placement or studying abroad.
A range of optional modules will also allow you to tailor the programme to align with your personal interests and career aspirations.
In your third year you will investigate the full drug development pipeline, from candidate selection to clinical trials, while developing an awareness of experimental methodologies and ethical considerations.
You will also undertake a research project.
Your research project is an excellent opportunity to carry out a substantial piece of meaningful research, drawing together skills in experimental study design, critical interpretation of data, and professional competencies.
Your final year is strategically designed to provide you with advanced employability skills and subject-specific knowledge.
You'll gain sophisticated problem-solving and communication skills, critically evaluate scientific literature, and undertake an authentic extended research project.
Year one modules are compulsory to ensure that you are given a solid foundation to your degree programme regardless of your academic background.
This will prepare you for your second and third year of study.
In year two, 25% of the modules are optional and 50% in year three.
This allows you to focus on those areas of the programme that interest you most.
In year four all modules are compulsory, with the focus of this year of study being the extended research project and its wider context.
Introduction to Pharmacology We will introduce processes by which pharmaceuticals enter the market covering the stages involved from pre-clinical candidate selection and development, through to clinical trials.
Core principles in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics will be introduced and an understanding of the physiko-chemical properties of drug molecules highlighted.
The module will also consider specific examples of drugs/ligands and target binding interactions, including receptor pharmacology, supported with small group case-based learning tutorials.
Molecular Pharmacology This module examines the specialisation and interdependence of metabolism exploring key aspects of metabolic regulation, and issues surrounding its changes in inherited and acquired disease (including hypertension, metabolic disease, and cardiovascular disease).
You will learn how these conditions can be investigated experimentally and modified through relevant pharmacological approaches, deepening your understanding of pharmacological principles.
You will develop communication and teamwork skills through tutorials, workshops, and active group discussion sessions as well as the application of bioinformatic tools.
Toxicology In this module you will continue to develop your understanding of the delivery, potency and mode of action of select pharmacological agents, applied specifically to selective or targeted toxicity, e.g.
in the treatment of cancer, microbial and viral infection.
You will be introduced to the application of pharmacology in agricultural settings, e.g.
pesticides and their potential impact on human health and disease.
This module is supported by lab practicals and tutorials, where you will develop a more independent, enquiry-based approach.
Neuropharmacology We will investigate the effects of neurological medications including basic principles of neuropharmacology and molecular mechanisms, and put these in context with wider disciplines such as population health, health economics, and neuroanatomy.
You will evaluate advances made in neuropharmacology towards precision therapy and personalised medicine in recent years.
Mechanisms of Drug Action The module follows the pathway of a drug substance through the body, including key areas of pharmaceutics, pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics.
Lectures and problem classes will be complemented with topical case studies highlighting recent developments in the pharmaceutical industry.
This is followed by mini-symposia exploring a range of drug classes in which you will prepare and deliver an oral presentation looking in depth into the mechanism of action and pharmaceutical context of a drug molecule of your choice.
Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology This module will further explore the drug development pipeline with a focus on the translation of drugs from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials to clinical practice and associated ethical and regulatory frameworks, including patient demographics and personalised medicine.
You will also assess potential toxicity, poisoning, or adverse interactions of drugs derived from herbal products or traditional medicine.
You will further develop communication and analytical skills through the production of a case report.
Research Topics in Pharmacology You will develop higher-level skills in the analysis and evaluation of primary research articles in pharmacology, developing your analytical skills and wider understanding of the mechanisms of drug action, pharmacokinetics and ligand-target binding interactions.
You will also further develop communication skills in a number of formats, including how the outcomes of primary research can be communicated to specialist audiences as a research poster and to non-specialist audiences in popular science articles and infographics.
Tropical Biology Field Course This module allows you to explore the vibrant world of tropical ecology first-hand and join an exciting opportunity to explore first-hand the challenges facing tropical ecosystems and how humanity impacts them.
You will be supported via a range of activities to prepare for your placement and have the choice to source your own placement or apply to university sourced roles
Advanced Research Topics in Pharmacology This module will develop your skills in the acquisition and critical analysis of primary scientific literature relevant to a range of research methodologies in modern drug discovery and pharmacology.
This module includes research-level seminar presentations by staff and invited speakers, to develop a deeper understanding of appropriate experimental design, data analysis, presentation and evaluation, and the application of a wide range of molecular and biochemical techniques and evidence this in a journal club presentation and portfolio.
Taught across the Schools of Life Sciences, Chemical and Physical Sciences and Pharmacy and Bioengineering, our Pharmacology programme offers enhanced networking opportunities where you can establish links with academics and peers.
You may also carry out some of your practical laboratory work in Keele's state-of-the-art Central Science Laboratory (CSL) building - which is part of the biggest single investment in learning and teaching in the University’s history.
As well as developing core knowledge in the subject, supported with a comprehensive laboratory programme, you will also acquire enhanced communication and problem-solving skills in addition to a range of key transferable and employability skills related to the critical evaluation of scientific literature.
The MSci programme will also develop advanced skills in the practical study of pharmacology including quantitative analysis of ligand-receptor binding and use of in vitro models to study drug action.
This will be supported through the development of enhanced skills in the use of computational tools to support rational drug design and their wider application in basic and clinical pharmacology research and drug discovery.
After graduation you may choose to progress your research skills by completing further study at PhD level, gain graduate entry into a related area such as Medicine or pursue roles in industry or hospitals.
Career paths related to your degree include:
Your Student Voice helps us to shape what we do and we include students, local employers and professional bodies in our decision-making process.
Methods of teaching will include:
Case report, portfolios and literature reviews will enable you to provide evidence-based solutions to current scientific problems
Laboratory reports and experimental projects will test your ability to pose scientific hypotheses, design experiments, understand methodologies, present findings, analyse data and situate your work in the current literature
Scientific posters, patient information leaflets, wikis, blog and oral presentations will allow you to communicate effectively with a range of audiences
Your independent research project will give you an opportunity to demonstrate a range of professional skills such as leadership, innovation, time keeping, communication and the ability to work safely and ethically
Your extended research project will give you the opportunity to design and conduct an in-depth research project in an area of Pharmacology, including formulating a complete research strategy and producing a grant proposal
Group presentations or working together in the laboratory provides you with the opportunity to work effectively in a team
Online tests and end-of-semester, online, open-book examinations will enable you to solve problems in a time-limited fashion
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the MSci Pharmacology degree.
Students will need to apply for MSci Pharmacology with Foundation Year (UCAS code B214) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/pharmacology:
Are you fascinated by the intricate workings of medicines and their effects on human health?
Our Pharmacology BSc investigates some of the most exciting areas of current life sciences research.
From understanding how drugs work in the treatment of a wide range of conditions, to exploring emerging technologies in drug development, you will gain the analytical, problem solving, practical and employability skills to pursue careers in the pharmaceutical industry, biomedical research or graduate entry into medicine.
Pharmacology provides a unique opportunity to explore the science behind how drugs interact with the body, and in turn how the body modifies drugs and their role in treating diseases.
It’s a field that sits at the heart of pharmaceutical advancements, combining biology, chemistry, and physiology to improve healthcare and save lives.
Studying Pharmacology at Keele provides a diverse and comprehensive coverage of modern biological and chemical sciences with a focus on molecular pharmacology and drug discovery.
Building on this foundation, you will delve into the mechanisms of drug action for treating various conditions, including cardio-metabolic disorders and central nervous system diseases.
You will also gain foundations in drug discovery, and explore the concept of selective toxicity, its application in addressing microbial infections, cancer therapies, and the effects of drugs of abuse and poisons.
In your final year you will investigate the drug development pipeline, from drug candidate selection to clinical trials, while developing an awareness of experimental methodologies and ethical considerations.
The wider societal impact of pharmacology is also examined, including medicines management and agricultural applications, such as the action and health implications of pesticides.
Alongside developing subject-specific expertise, a comprehensive laboratory programme and transferable skills training will enhance your ability to critically evaluate scientific literature, communicate effectively in diverse formats, and work collaboratively in teams.
Additional opportunities, such as an applied life sciences work placement, studying abroad for a semester or year, and a range of optional modules, allow you to tailor the programme to align with your personal interests and career aspirations.
Clinical Pharmacology & Toxicology This module will further explore the drug development pipeline with a focus on the translation of drugs from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials to clinical practice and associated ethical and regulatory frameworks, including patient demographics and personalised medicine.
Medical Glycobiology In this module, you will investigate the structure, biosynthesis, and biochemistry of medically important carbohydrates and their clinical relevance, including novel carbohydrate-based therapeutics for select pathological conditions, which may include cancer, Alzheimer's, and malaria.
Professional Placement Year This module provides an opportunity to carry out a substantial piece of research whilst on a placement in a real research/industrial environment.
The topics are generally set by the academic and industry supervisors but they can be designed within limits to reflect your interests.
The placement will allow you to expand your technical and generic expertise and to apply that expertise to a research question.
Professional Experience in Education Teaching science is a rewarding career that allows you to make a real difference to the aspirations and opportunities of young people.
This module gives you an opportunity to gain real experience and insight into the world of teaching through short placements in a school or college.
You will develop skills highly valued by a range of employers including communication and interpersonal skills, and the ability to identify individual learner needs and develop engaging teaching materials.
Our secondments are shorter work-based placements that usually take place over the summer in between the second and third year, usually lasting between 2-8 weeks.
During practical workshops you will have support from a variety of academic staff.
A pharmacology degree can open up careers either in scientific areas like research, drug development or other fields such as patenting and teaching.
You may also be interested in a graduate scheme in research and development, as this can enable you to experience a range of roles, develop an understanding of the industry and gain further qualifications in areas such as clinical research management.
In addition to the subject specific knowledge and skills you will acquire on the course, you will also have the opportunity to develop a range of key transferable and employability skills including;
Typical roles you may find of interest include:
Please note some of the roles listed above require further study.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Pharmacology degree .
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Pharmacology with Foundation Year (UCAS code B213) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/pharmacy:
Our four-year evidence-based, patient-centred programme combines innovative learning experiences such as augmented reality with increased opportunities to practise your clinical skills.
On successful completion of the course you will have exciting career opportunities in primary care, secondary care, community pharmacies and many other areas of practice.
Pharmacy at Keele enables you to develop the values and attitudes required of a pharmacist.
Pharmacists play a key role in the different aspects of medicine design, development and delivery, ensuring the safe and appropriate supply and administration of medicines.
How medicines treat medical conditions and discovering how the body works are just some of the features of our Pharmacy programme.
Prescribing and clinical skills are a key component of the course alongside developing important communication skills so you can confidently engage with patients and work effectively as part of a multi-disciplinary team.
You will develop a solid foundation in areas such as biology and chemistry and build on these progressively throughout each academic year.
You will explore key themes such as pharmacology where you will learn how drugs work within the body, and you'll also cover pharmaceutics where you will focus on formulating drugs in ways that can be administered to a patient.
You will explore therapeutic areas which concentrate on medical conditions, how they are diagnosed and monitored and what treatments should be used to effectively manage them.
You will study the current legal framework for pharmacy and develop your ethical reasoning to enable you to act in the best interests of patients such as the emergency supply of medicines.
A successful pharmacist engages with patients skilfully through careful listening and provision of evidence based advice.
The role of the pharmacist is multi-faceted, you will need to confidently provide advice, deal with sensitive subject areas, signpost people to additional services and provide guidance on how patients should administer their medication.
You will also interact with carers, other service users and a wide range of healthcare professionals.
As a healthcare professional you will also seek to promote healthy lifestyles with individuals which may involve initiating challenging conversations about health issues in society like weight management or alcohol consumption.
We nurture you to develop those pivotal communication skills so you can manage these discussions in a confident, sensitive and effective manner.
You will be able to experience the role of a pharmacist in a wide range of settings over the four years of the MPharm.
This will include approximately 30 weeks of placements (higher than the sector average) in the community, primary care and hospital settings.
Placement learning will be integrated with your theoretical studies on campus to enable you to achieve all of your learning outcomes and make informed decisions about your future career aspirations.
Your placements will form an increasingly large component of your studies over the duration of your four years at Keele.
We provide you with a supportive educational environment and at the beginning of the programme, you will be allocated an academic mentor who will provide academic advice and guidance.
During your first and second year you are assigned a professional portfolio supervisor to encourage your professional development.
Your professional portfolio supervisor will be a registered healthcare professional in either pharmacy or medicine.
You will also benefit from peer support from a current student who is currently in year three or four.
Our Faculty Student Experience and Support team offer guidance and advice and gives one to one support to students within the School of Allied Health Professions and Pharmacy.
There is additional help available from the School's Disability Liaison Officer who provides an extra layer of assistance for all students, particularly for those who have additional support requirements.
You can also access plenty of student advice and support  services at Keele including;
We use a range of innovative methods and 21st century technology to give you the best opportunities to learn authentic pharmacist skills.
Our facilities include a 3D lecture theatre, virtual and augmented reality facilities, and a clinical skills suite to aid development of your hard and soft skills.
We use a range of innovative methods of teaching and 21st century technology to give you the best opportunities to learn authentic pharmacist skills, including our Keele Augmented Reality Environment (KARE).
This innovative tool will enable you to explore virtual patient cases, including the prescribing of medicines, in a safe environment.
Through KARE, you can practice pivotal communication skills and learn how to manage patient scenarios effectively.
It’s a valuable resource that bridges theory and practice, arming you with the clinical skills you will require during your career as a pharmacist..
In our Clinical Skills Suite, we have a mock dispensary and six consultation rooms enabling you to develop essential pharmacist competencies such as labelling and selecting medication correctly.
You will use the consultation rooms to facilitate expanding your expertise and increasing your confidence in communicating with patients.
Our state-of-the-art laboratories are equipped with industrial research grade analytical and laboratory equipment that you will use in some of your teaching.
MPharm Programme Stage 1 The Stage 1 programme provides an integrated and fully contextualised introduction to the Keele MPharm degree.
Based on a single 120-credit module that comprises of two cycles of learning, assessment and reflection, all topics progress logically and coherently with patient-oriented themes.
The principal aim is to develop knowledge and skills in a wide variety of disciplines by demonstrating the linkages between seemingly disparate topics in science and practice that underpin all subsequent learning.
Rather than packaging material into small, discrete modules, you will develop a deeper understanding of the topics covered: for example, examination of the structure and function of DNA and mRNA is preceded by studies in the basic chemistry which governs chemical bonding and molecular structure, and is followed by analyses of genetics and patient care.
Studies in metabolism are underpinned by the principles of structure and bonding, and are delivered alongside topics in bioenergetics and reaction kinetics.
Studies in pharmacy practice are supported throughout the programme by practical pharmacy skills classes and developing topics in the essential and pharmaceutical sciences.
In this way, the linkages between all strands of the programme are made clear and you will be equipped to study the later levels of the course.
Dedicated placement learning hours will further support and enrich your learning experience.
MPharm Programme Stage 2 In an identical manner to the Stage 1 programme, the Stage 2 programme is based on a single 120-credit module that comprises cycles of learning, assessment and reflection, and all topics progress logically and coherently with patient-oriented themes.
The principal aim of the module is to further develop your knowledge and skills in a wide variety of disciplines, by demonstrating the linkages between applied topics in science, therapeutics and practice that underpin all subsequent learning.
During the module you will develop a deeper understanding of the topics covered at Stage 1 and understand how they are applied in the pharmaceutical sciences and pharmacy practice.
Topics are sometimes highlighted with overt links to Stage 1; for example, aspects of physical chemistry and the analysis of small organic molecules is fundamental to an appreciation of the Pharmaceutical Science and Formulation theme.
Fundamental studies of metabolism lead to a deeper understanding of metabolic interrelationships and the metabolism of xenobiotics in the Pharmacology and Drug Action theme.
Therapeutic material with a patient focus will be introduced in order to further contextualise your learning in the physical, formulation and pharmacological sciences.
Dedicated placement learning hours will support and enrich your learning experience.
MPharm Programme Stage 3 Stage 3 of the MPharm programme has been consolidated into one single 120-credit unit, enabling a continuum of learning that is centred upon the development of key clinical and therapeutic skills.
Teaching of therapeutic areas will be fully integrated by inclusion of key pharmacological, chemical and pharmaceutical information related to the subject areas being studied.
By the end of Stage 3, MPharm, you should be prepared as fully as possible to undertake any summer vacation placements and interviews for foundation training placements.
MPharm Programme Stage 4 This module aims to further develop your core skills in relation to the practice and science of pharmacy in the context of clinical care of patients.
The module completes the implementation of the plan to create a modern, integrated and fully contextualised MPharm course, continuing a course structure that will be familiar to you progressing from previous years.
The structure, of one year-long fully integrated programme of study, allows material to be delivered in a coherent and logical order, and enables effective monitoring and feedback mechanisms.
You will also have the opportunity to gain the necessary theoretical background to becoming an independent pharmacist prescriber, and explore specialisms within pharmacy, including research and sector-specific practice.
On completion of this module, you will be fully prepared to enter your pre-registration training year.
"My journey at Keele has been an incredible experience, with the School being very supportive and attentive to myself and my peers on the MPharm course.
From lectures to clinical placements, it was easy to feel integrated and immersed into the different aspects of pharmacy, allowing me to develop my analytical and interpersonal skills, alongside acquiring a great deal of clinical knowledge.
Moving forward, I feel proficient in entering the pharmacy profession, knowing I will be able to impact patients’ lives beneficially through the knowledge and acumen the School have instilled in me."
Sanjit, Pharmacy
ABB in three A Levels including B in Biology or Chemistry.
Contextual Offer: BBB in three A Levels including B in Biology or Chemistry.
You will also need: 6 / B in GCSE Maths or Level 3 Functional Skills Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
DDM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science.
Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in Biology or Chemistry A Level, or Distinction and Merit in Applied Science BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and A in any A Level.
Distinction in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels including B in Biology or Chemistry, or Distinction in Applied Human Biology, Applied Science, Health and Social Care, Sport, or Sport and Exercise Science BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels.
655 in three Higher Levels including 5 in Biology or Chemistry, or 32 points including 5 in Higher Level Biology or Chemistry.
Contextual Offer: 555 in three Higher Levels including 5 in Biology or Chemistry, or 31 points including 5 in Higher Level Biology or Chemistry.
You will also need: 6 / B in GCSE Maths or Level 3 Functional Skills Maths, or 5 in IB Middle Years Maths, or 4 in IB Diploma Standard Level Maths (any), plus an English language qualification (see below).
128 UCAS points in an Access to HE Diploma with Biology or Chemistry related content, including Distinction in at least 30 Level 3 credits and Merit in at least 15 Level 3 credits.
6 / C in GCSE Maths or Level 3 Functional Skills Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
BBBBC in five Highers including Chemistry or Biology Higher, or BC in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers including Chemistry or Biology Higher or Advanced Higher, or BCC in three Advanced Highers including Chemistry or Biology Advanced Higher.
B in National 5 Maths, or C in Higher Maths (including as one of the Highers taken as part of your offer), or 6 / B in GCSE Maths or Level 3 Functional Skills Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
H3, H3, H3, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate including H4 in Biology, Chemistry, or Physics and Chemistry (combined).
O3 / H6 in Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
75% in the Gaokao including 70% in Biology or Chemistry.
65% in Senior Secondary School or Gaokao Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
Average of 75% from four subjects including 70% in Chemistry or Biology in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 80% from four subjects including 75% in Chemistry or Biology in any other Standard XII.
You will also need: 7 or C1 in Secondary School Examination Maths, or Pass in Standard XII Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
2.0 overall average in the Abitur including 12 in Biology or Chemistry.
11 in Maths in the Abitur, plus an English language qualification (see below).
14 in the French Baccalaureate / International Option Baccalaureate including 14 in Chemistry / Physics or Biology, or 13 in the Baccalauréat Français International including 13 in Chemistry / Physics or Biology.
11 in Maths in the Baccalaureate, plus an English language qualification (see below).
544 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE including 4 in Biology or Chemistry.
You will also need: 3 in HKDSE Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
Overall average of 7.8 in the Título de Bachillerato including 8 in Biology or Chemistry.
You will also need: 6 in Graduado en Educación Secundaria (GES) Maths or 6.5 in Título de Bachiller Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
85% in the Esame di Stato including 8 in Biology, Chemistry or Natural Science.
You will also need: 6 in Maths in the Diploma, plus an English language qualification (see below).
18.5 / 88% in the Apolytirion including 18 in Biology or Chemistry.
15 in Maths in the Apolytirion, plus an English language qualification (see below).
Overall average of 16 in a Secondary Certificate including 16 in Biology or Chemistry.
11 in Secondary Certificate Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
70% / BBBBC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma including 70% in Biology or Chemistry.
60% in Grade 11 Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
544 from three Advanced Placement subjects including 4 in Biology or Chemistry.
B in Grade 12 High School Diploma Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
ABB in three Advanced Levels including B in Biology or Chemistry.
You will also need: B in O-Level Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
ABB in three Principal Level subjects in the STPM including B in Biology or Chemistry.
You will also need: B in SPM Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
ABB in three H2 levels including B in Biology or Chemistry.
You will also need: B in O-level Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
75% overall with 7 in Chemistry or Biology (4 period).
You will also need: 6.5 in European Baccalaureate Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with ABB including B in Chemistry or Biology.
You will also need: 6 / B in GCSE Maths or international equivalent.
ABB in three Principal Level subjects in the Advanced Certificate of Education including B in Biology or Chemistry.
You will also need: 4 in UACE or UCE Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
National Senior Certificate: 76666 in five subjects including 6 in Life Science or Physical Science.
ABB in three Advanced Level subjects including B in Biology or Chemistry.
Health checks and DBS Clearance
Interview
Shortlisted candidates will be invited to attend an interview.
"I would 100% recommend Keele for anyone interested in pharmacy.
You'll get a very varied pharmacy course at Keele, much different to other universities.
You'll also get many new and exciting placements, not available to everyone (the tutors work really hard to organise these), and the teaching style or tutorials, lectures and group projects makes for a very fun and productive 4 years."
Daniya, Pharmacy
Upon graduation from this course you will be required to complete a statutory one year Foundation training year and the General Pharmaceutical Council’s registration assessment to be able to qualify to practice as a pharmacist.
From 2025 onwards, graduates will enter Foundation Year training which will result in registration as both a pharmacist and an independent prescriber.
You will graduate with a portfolio of skills that will enable you to work in a wide range of careers in the industry.
You could progress to careers as a;
A variety of teaching methods are used on the programme including large group teaching sessions, workshops, lectures, seminars, and and tutorials.
Practical classes support the improvement of your scientific, and professional skills.
Teaching is complemented by an extensive programme of one-to-one mentoring by healthcare professionals, clinical placements, and regular opportunities to interact with simulated and ‘real’ patients.
A wide variety of assessment methods are used during the course.
During each academic year you will experience a range of assessment types from formal examinations to laboratory practicals and coursework, and skills-based assignments.
You will also complete a professional development portfolio and there are competency based assessments to assess areas including how you counsel patients and checking your clinical abilities.
This Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the MPharm Pharmacy course.
A satisfactory Disclosure and Barring Service check (Enhanced plus Barring Lists) will be required for successful candidates.
A satisfactory health check will be required for successful candidates.
To progress to Year 1, students will be required to achieve 40% from the Semester 1 modules, plus a 65% average from the remaining 75 credits to give a total of 120 credits.
You will also be required to complete a declaration stating no change in your fitness to practice.
You should apply for MPharm (H) Pharmacy with Foundation Year, UCAS code: B231.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/philosophy:
From ethics to religion and the ultimate nature of reality, Philosophy BA at Keele offers a deep exploration of human life and its place within the world.
Embark on a journey as an aspiring philosopher, driven by a passion for understanding and analysing philosophical ideas from ancient India and Greece to the present day.
With a wealth of opportunities to enhance your career prospects, you'll develop into a well-rounded critical thinker, analyst, and communicator, ready to pursue a rewarding career across diverse industries.
On our Philosophy degree you will study a range of philosophical debates, answering big questions and evaluating reality.
Philosophy is concerned with the nature of the good human life (Ethics), the nature and rationality of religion (Philosophy of Religion), the ultimate nature of reality (Metaphysics) and the extent to which we can achieve knowledge (Epistemology).
You will be introduced to the ethical and practical concerns of philosophy as well as the traditional ideas from Indian, Chinese, Greek and African ancient wisdom.
You will cover a wide variety of historical, Western and Non-Western traditions as well as contemporary issues, from AI technologies to environmentalism.
As an aspiring philosopher, you will develop into a skilled analyst and critical thinker, well-prepared for debate and discussion, with a global perspective on diverse subjects.
This programme enhances your skills and independent thinking, enabling you to think logically and make reasoned judgments while demonstrating a range of perspectives.
You will have the opportunity to engage with the Royal Institute of Philosophy Lecture Series and the ‘Jean-Jacques Rousseau’ Annual Lecture and Conference to apply your learning.
At Keele, you can tailor your degree programme based on your future aspirations with the opportunity to take a placement year, entrepreneurship year, or study abroad with a partner university, or learn a foreign language .
As a Philosophy student you will also have the choice to complete a 'Work Placement for Social Sciences' optional module to gain real-world experience, working in industry to build professional experience and apply your knowledge in the workplace.
"My time as a philosophy student at Keele has been challenging, yet undoubtedly rewarding and thoroughly enjoyable.
Whether it be studying the Ancient Greeks, an investigation into the philosophy of mind, a discussion on moral responsibility or even a debate on the possibility of time travel, philosophy at Keele covers all areas of thought, providing a tailored, inclusive and engaging experience for each individual student."
Max, Philosophy
You'll delve into core metaphysical and epistemological issues, emphasizing independent thought and philosophical relevance.
What Does It Mean to Be Good?
You will be introduced to the ethical, practical concerns of philosophy, centering on the ancient question “how should we live?”.
Religious belief and doubt usually had a role in these reflections, so this module makes an excellent link from Religious Studies, which you may have engaged in prior to university.
Philosophy of the Enlightenment It is impossible to properly understand the rise of modern science and decline in the cultural influence of religion in Europe without understanding the rise of modern philosophy, and thus the great metaphysical and epistemological theories of Descartes, Spinoza, Leibniz, Locke, Berkeley, Hume and Kant.
Transferable skills are developed through close textual reading and analysis, and through assessed group presentations, which develop presentation and teamwork skills.
Knowing Minds Is the mind the brain?
Could a machine be conscious?
What is time?
What kinds of things exist and how?
What is possible?
Questions about the world and our place in it have been central to philosophical thought for thousands of years.
This course takes a contemporary look at debates around these issues, also exploring questions about knowledge, justification, meaning and communication to better understand how we find things out.
As well as writing essays and learning how to summarise philosophical arguments, you will also be encouraged to develop your own ideas and to practise presenting views visually by making a slide presentation.
Environmental Philosophy and Technology This module is about applying philosophy to pressing issues such as environmental degradation and technological progress, particularly Artificial Intelligence.
You'll evaluate leading philosophical perspectives on these topics, supported by site visits.
Building on skills developed previously, you will tackle a contemporary local challenge set by Stoke City Council, a local business, or a third sector organization.
Through vlogs and podcasts, you’ll engage with the community, understand local philosophical challenges, and devise philosophy-led solutions that are presented for external feedback.
Work Placement for Social Sciences This module gives you, as a student in the School of Social Sciences, the opportunity to contribute to the world beyond the University, in any workplace where the specialist knowledge, research, analytical, and communication skills developed as part of your Social Science degree can be used and can make a difference.
Dissertation in Philosophy The dissertation module allows you to undertake independent study on a philosophical subject of your choice.
"Studying philosophy at Keele University was a transformative experience I cherish as an alumnus.
The university provided an excellent environment that facilitated personal development, helping me to pursue postgraduate study.
The student experience at Keele is outstanding, with approachable and knowledgeable lecturers eager to help and engage in philosophical discussions."
Archie, Philosophy
Hear from guest speakers about their philosophical research and engage in thought-provoking discussions with peers and visitors from other universities.
You will have the opportunity to network with professionals and share your knowledge and opinions as well as experience debates on a larger scale to gain a wider insight into different theories and explanations of philosophy.
This experience builds your awareness of new research and allows you to demonstrate your critical thinking skills.
Every year, Keele Philosophy celebrates the prominent philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau who lived and worked not far from Keele for about a year, writing the first drafts of the Confessions.
For these events, we invite a significant philosopher to deliver a lecture, followed by a conference, where the work of the annual lecturer is discussed.
This provides the opportunity to participate in cutting-edge philosophy debates and discussions.
Our Philosophy programme at Keele embeds employability throughout, and offers the chance to engage with work placements through our 'Work Placement for Social Sciences' optional module.
You will have the opportunity to collaborate with professionals in industry by demonstrating your knowledge and expertise and learning new skills which will support your professional journey.
From analytical thinking, problem-solving, leadership and organisational skills, you will be well equipped for a range of careers.
Our 'Social Science at Work' and 'Becoming a Social Scientist' modules introduce you to possible careers for social scientists, and provide valuable experience in professional skills through real-world examples.
Develop your business idea into a live enterprise project with an entrepreneurship year at Keele.
This opportunity between year two and year three allows you to embark on an innovative business venture, demonstrate your entrepreneurial knowledge and evaluate the growth and success of a start-up.
Having this hands-on experience offers a range of professional skills, preparing you for employment after university.
The entrepreneurship year is available to UK and international students.
A degree in Philosophy will equip you with advanced skills that can be applied to various careers.
You will become a critical thinker, effective communicator and problem-solver which will prepare you for a variety of roles across different sectors.
Alternatively, you may wish to go on to further study at postgraduate level.
Popular career options include:
Philosophy at Keele is delivered by research-active staff, with expertise across a range of areas.
With the knowledge and skills gained throughout the programme, you will be assessed using a variety of methods that enable you to demonstrate your expertise to reflect your learnings throughout the degree.
Engaging with different assessments will help to prepare you for different tasks throughout your career, with skills in adaptability, time management and independent working as well as teamwork.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Philosophy degree.
For example, the Foundations of Humanities 1 module introduces you to the broad range of source material across the Humanities disciplines – from media to history – which enable us to analyse political, social or economic perspectives and attitudes to individuals, marginal groups and ‘mainstream’ society.
Students need to apply for BA (Hons) Philosophy with Foundation Year ( UCAS code: V5V0) through UCAS at www.ucas.com.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/philosophyandeducation:
The Philosophy and Education BA at Keele equips you with highly sought-after skills for the modern world, blending logical analysis, textual criticism, and independent thinking with a deep exploration of education.
Through lively debate and critical discussion, you will refine your ability to tackle complex ideas which can be applied to the context of teaching, learning, and the wider education system.
With a strong emphasis on collaboration and leadership, this programme prepares you for a career in teaching or working with young people, empowering you to make a real impact in the field of education and gives you transferable skills for a wide range of other careers.
Our Philosophy and Education BA will equip you with the intellectual tools for a wide range of careers working with learners, whether in schools, youth work, or education policy.
You’ll explore fundamental questions such as: What should young people learn in school, and why?
How should teaching and assessment be approached?
What impact do schools have on life chances?
and What are the biggest challenges facing education today?
With this thought-provoking degree, you’ll gain the skills and insight to create meaningful change in education.
The Philosophy component sharpens your critical thinking, encouraging independent thought and deep analysis.
You will engage with core philosophical debates about the nature of the world and our place in it, the meaning of life and the purpose of our existence, engaging with key thinkers from diverse philosophical traditions.
You will look at philosophy from around the world and tackle questions from different eras, from ancient to contemporary, including the ethics of business, technology and the environment, or the explanation of the conscious mind.
This course provides an excellent foundation to specialise in secondary teaching of Philosophy and Ethics or Religious Studies, while also exploring how education and philosophy can drive social change, addressing challenges like AI’s role in education and providing opportunities to connect with professionals in public and community sectors.
You will build a strong foundation in education and philosophy, exploring key concepts such as the purpose of education, the role of values in schools, and the evolving identities of educators.
By the end of your degree, you will have acquired a range of critical and practical skills, paving the way for a wide range of careers.
Transferable skills are developed through close textual reading and analysis, and through assessed group, which develop presentation and teamwork skills.
Philosophy Dissertation (EITHER) The dissertation module allows you to undertake independent study on a philosophical subject of your choice.
You will then present your thesis at the Philosophy Student Showcase in Semester 2, honing key skills in initiative, determination, and self-criticism
Independent Research Project (Education) (OR) his module gives students the chance to devise and carry out their own small-scale (8000 word) research project.
What is Education for?
Practical Philosophy n this module, you will explore the practical application of philosophy through philosophical counselling or other practical approaches to philosophy.
A degree in Philosophy and Education will develop your skills in communication and critical analysis.
You will graduate with a forward thinking approach towards your work and demonstrate your problem-solving skills in the workplace environment.
You will gain highly developed skills in critical thinking and negotiating, both of which are highly prized by employers.
Throughout this programme, you will learn to organise your time and workload, to present your views confidently and to work well with others.
This course will prepare you for employment in a broad range of careers with skills that are applicable for a variety of roles.
Interactive Lectures – Core teaching method across all years, developing active listening and note-taking skills.
Seminars – Small-group discussions (around 20 students) exploring lecture content, key readings, and student-led debates.
Workshops – Collaborative two-hour sessions (around 30 students) combining teaching and discussion.
Placements – Hands-on experience in a chosen setting, aiding career development.
Field Trips – Experiential learning opportunities to enhance understanding.
Independent Study – A key component at all levels, with increasing autonomy expected.
Supervision – One-to-one tutor support, including dissertation guidance in the final year.
Online Learning – Access to resources via the Keele Learning Environment (KLE) and Microsoft Teams for communication.
Essays – Develop research, argumentation, and referencing skills using library and other valid sources.
Oral Presentations – Assess subject knowledge, teamwork, and the ability to communicate ideas effectively to different audiences.
Reflective Diaries – Link personal experiences of education to learning theory, fostering self-awareness and reflexive practice.
Case Studies – Investigate local inequalities and propose practical solutions to real-world educational challenges.
Book Reviews – Summarise and critically evaluate scholarly work in relation to key educational theories.
Research Proposal – Design an independent research project, considering methodological and practical constraints.
Oral History Interviews – Engage with older generations to explore past educational experiences, developing interpersonal and analytical skills.
Creating Digital Resources – Produce blogs, vlogs, or other digital content to enhance accessibility and engage diverse communities.
Dissertation – Conduct independent research under supervision, applying theoretical and practical knowledge to a major project.
Upon meeting the progression criteria and successfully completing our Foundation Year, you will automatically progress into your Keele undergraduate degree with the confidence that you have the skills, and knowledge needed to successfully complete your course
The Keele Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Philosophy and Education degree.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/philosophyandpolitics:
Who are we?
Why is the world the way it is?
How can we change society for the better?
Explore life’s big questions from a global perspective with our Philosophy and Politics BA.
Analyse key philosophical concepts including ethics, religion, and the nature of reality, while developing a deep understanding of political systems, justice and the dynamics of power.
You'll gain essential critical thinking skills, core knowledge, and real-world experience through opportunities including placements and entrepreneurship, preparing you for exciting careers in government, law, diplomacy, and beyond.
Discuss some of the fundamental questions about life and society on our Philosophy and Politics degree.
The programme explores a range of key themes from a global perspective, deepening your understanding of our ever-changing world.
It will equip you with a broad range of skills including critical thinking, logical analysis and textual criticism, leadership and communication skills, ensuring you are ready to confidently begin your career.
Philosophy focuses on providing you with the tools for critical thinking and ethical reasoning and explores the fundamental questions about human existence, morality and knowledge.
Politics analyses difference political systems, governance, public policies and the dynamics of power and justice in contemporary society.
You’ll open your mind to philosophical questioning, be exposed to a diverse range of philosophers and acquire a logical toolbox of skills to improve your professional abilities and develop your skills as a social scientist.
Contemporary issues in politics are explored focusing on concepts of power, democracy and terrorism.
You’ll also investigate the contemporary threats facing global democracy such as misinformation, artificial intelligence and the rise of populism, and learn how to apply philosophical concepts to critical issues such as environmental degradation.
Studying these two disciplines together will provide you with the foundations to think about what is right and wrong and apply these principles to real-world contexts such as everyday problems and political and policy decisions.
Optional modules allow you to tailor your degree to align with specific interests in politics and philosophy and you will also have opportunities to engage in real-world projects and placements, gaining hands-on experience our experience and applying your learning in practice.
You will critically reflect on your own perspectives relating to economic, religious, gender and racial inequalities through real-world political examples, exploring how these inequalities can be overcome.
Nietzsche’s Death of God Few philosophers hold more fascination to the beginning student of philosophy than Friedrich Nietzsche, the prophetic and iconoclastic 19th-century philosopher who predicted a coming age of nihilism, which many think has now arrived; Nietzsche’s final lapse of sanity is often connected to his uncompromising path of thought.
You will be introduced to the ethical, practical concerns of philosophy, centring on the ancient question “how should we live?”.
Global Democracy under Threat: Resilience or Retreat?
Knowing Minds This module introduces key issues in contemporary Anglophone epistemology, metaphysics and philosophy of mind.
Largely focusing on issues within the naturalistic analytic philosophy of the last 30 years, when philosophers have worked alongside science to answer currently critical questions such as whether a machine can think, this module allows students to utilize the logical and analytic skills they have developed to understand today’s cutting-edge debates.
Public Policy and How To Make It To influence the policies that shape our lives, whether that's the failure of trains to turn up on time or deep inequalities in our society, you have to understand the system that makes them.
This module asks 'Why do some policies change while others stay the same?' and considers how might you start to think about influencing that process.
These are some of the big questions about politics and policy.
Social Sciences Placement This module gives you, as a student in the School of Social Sciences, the opportunity to contribute to the world beyond the University, in any workplace where the specialist knowledge, research, analytical, and communication skills developed as part of your Social Science degree can be used and can make a difference.
Philosophy Dissertation You may write a dissertation on any topic in Philosophy that is of interest to you, and we will organize supervision from the most appropriate member of academic staff within the School.
Completing a dissertation will enable you to develop key research skills, problem solving skills, critical thinking skills, information handling skills, and written communication skills.
It will also demonstrate that you have a clear ability to work independently and autonomously and to plan your activities and manage your time.
Dissertation in Politics and IR You may write a dissertation on any topic in Politics that is of interest to you, and we will organize supervision from the most appropriate member of academic staff within the School.
In your final year, you can apply to take our Parliamentary Studies module, delivered through a partnership between the Houses of Parliament and Keele Politics.
The module provides detailed insights into how Parliament works in both theory and practice.
Keele provides academic and theoretical content, whilst Parliament provides practical teaching about the work, processes and business of Parliament.
Upon successful selection, you will have the opportunity to visit Parliament and develop a wide range of analytical skills, benefiting from bespoke research-skills training from parliamentary staff, providing advice on how to write policy briefs and construct parliamentary questions.
You will also have the opportunity to opt for a Work Placement Year in the School of Social Sciences between Year 2 and 3.
At Keele there are a variety of opportunities for you to study abroad.
You can choose to take an International Year at one of our partner institutions.
Utilising this opportunity between Years 2 and 3 can help you to stand out from the crowd and broaden your horizons.
This can be highly beneficial for your career prospects and an opportunity to strengthen your knowledge and interests within society.
Joining a society related to politics is a great opportunity to continue to develop your skills away from your studies.
This is another excellent way of demonstrating your interest in the area and can be beneficial for your future career prospects, as well as being a great way to make friends and share interests with fellow students.
Discover languages at Keele, whether you are a complete beginner or already have a foundation of knowledge.
Keele's Language Centre offers a flexible and guided route to developing your skills, and the opportunity to learn a variety of modern languages, including British Sign Language, Mandarin Chinese, French and Spanish.
The broad range of skills and knowledge acquired on the Philosophy and Politics BA will have set you up to start your professional career in a range of industries and roles or prepare you for further study.
You could explore careers in sectors including:
We use diverse teaching and learning methods on this programme which include:
Our combined honours foundation year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Philosophy and Politics degree.
Meanwhile, the Foundations of Social Sciences 1 module introduces you to the ‘backbone’ of social sciences, the concept of social inclusion, the factors that lead to exclusion and the impact this may have on individuals, families and communities.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) Philosophy with Foundation Year (UCAS code: V5V0) through UCAS at www.ucas.com.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/philosophypoliticsandeconomics:
Tackle societal challenges, solve complex problems and offer new perspectives upon the most important issues of today.
Philosophy, Politics and Economics BA at Keele aims to develop your skills and knowledge of governance, ethical issues and business.
Build a global perspective on contemporary challenges such as the threat of climate change, democracy, new technologies such as AI and the future of work.
Enhance your critical thinking skills and evaluate choices and concepts through philosophical, political and economic analysis, in preparation for a career in business, government, law and beyond.
Learn to approach societal challenges from multiple perspectives, solve complex, multi-dimensional problems and build core knowledge and skills with a Philosophy, Politics and Economics degree at Keele.
Our programme encourages you to think critically, question established norms and develop a global perspective on pressing challenges such as AI, the future of work and digital-age democracy.
With a focus on governance, ethical issues and business, you will become equipped with advanced social science research skills, philosophical reasoning, logic and economic analysis to act as an agent for change in society.
With insights into politics, sustainability and global economy, you will learn to understand the world around us and form ideas and apply theories to analyse issues and practices.
You will benefit from teaching expertise across a broad range of areas, including ethical philosophy, political economy, comparative political analysis, and the analysis of economic phenomena.
You will also have the opportunity to engage with projects and placements to provide you with practical experience, applying your learning to real-world scenarios and kick starting your career, working with practitioners from a variety of sectors.
This includes the opportunity to complete one of the following compulsory options in your final year: 'Challenge Project for Philosophy, Politics and Economics', 'Dissertation in Politics and International Relations', 'Philosophy Dissertation' or a 'Dissertation in Economics'.
At Keele, you can tailor your degree programme based on your future aspirations with optional modules, and also have the opportunity to study abroad with a partner university, developing global perspectives or learning a foreign language and building cultural awareness.
You'll delve into core metaphysical and epistemological issues, emphasising independent thought and philosophical relevance.
Sustainability and the Global Economy In this module, you will learn about the links between social, economic, and environmental challenges with a problem-solving approach.
Building on skills developed previously, you will tackle a contemporary local challenge set by Stoke City Council, a local business, or a third sector organisation.
You will develop your data handling and analysis skills, exploring whether global democracy is resilient or in retreat, and complete diverse assessments designed for an external audience.
Contemporary Business Ethics and Debates The business world is full of ethical dilemmas.
Challenge Project for PPE In this innovative, multi-disciplinary module, you’ll work in a team to tackle a real-world challenge set in collaboration with an external partner.
Drawing on your knowledge of philosophy, politics, and economics, you’ll develop practical solutions to complex societal issues.
Through hands-on collaboration, you’ll gain valuable project management, teamwork, and problem-solving skills, enhancing your employability.
The experience culminates in an individual reflective piece, allowing you to critically assess the theoretical and practical implications of your project.
Dissertation in Politics and IR - ISP You may write a dissertation on any topic in Politics or International Relations that is of interest to you.
You will meet regularly with a supervisor throughout the year and they will provide you with guidance and advice at every stage of your project.
In addition, in Semester 1 you will attend 10 workshops in which you will obtain further guidance on how to successfully undertake and complete a Level 6 dissertation in Politics or International Relations.
Philosophy Dissertation - ISP This module will enable you carry out independent research on either a philosopher or a philosophical problem of your choice.
You will learn how to set your own title, devise your own research questions and how to write an extended research essay.
After a number of seminars on how to design and implement an extended research project, you will have regular meetings with your Dissertation Supervisor.
Dissertation (Economics) This module will enable you carry out independent research on an issue in economics.
You will engage with Parliamentary practitioners, visit Parliament, and complete assessments set by Parliamentary staff.
Digital Showcase You are empowered to demonstrate your digital skills through the creation of a comprehensive digital project.
Please note: You must take one, and only one of the following modules: 'Challenge Project for PPE', 'Dissertation in Politics and IR - ISP', 'Philosophy Dissertation - ISP', or 'Dissertation (Economics)'.
You will visit Parliament and develop a wide range of analytical skills, examining the role of Parliament as a policy maker and completing assessments set by parliamentary staff.
Our Philosophy, Politics and Economics degree at Keele offers the chance to engage with work placements as part of your degree programme to gain valuable experience in the workplace on real-world case studies.
You will collaborate with professionals in industry by demonstrating your knowledge and expertise and learning new skills which will support your professional journey.
Enhance your career prospects with an optional International Year at one of our partner institutions in between years two and three of your degree programme.
Showcase your innovative ideas and creativity and develop your business concept to excel further in your career.
If you would like to establish your own start-up or have been inspired by your studies to develop your own business, the entrepreneurship year is a great opportunity to delve into your creative aspirations and pursue your own project.
The Entrepreneurship Year is taken within Keele’s Smart Innovation Hub and is available as an additional year between Year 2 and 3 of your studies.
Please note, the Entrepreneurship Year is available to UK students only.
Parliamentary Studies will be an optional module choice for final year undergraduate students on select Social Sciences courses.
With a Philosophy, Politics and Economics degree from Keele, you will be equipped to embark on an advanced career across various sectors and industries.
Whether you wish to work in local government, civil service or financial organisations, you will be prepared with a range of skills and expertise that can be applied in business, education, law, technology, the charity sector, and more.
As an effective communicator, problem solver and analytical thinker, you will be able to extend your learning experience through further study and/or career prospects.
Teaching on this programme is delivered through various methods that allow you to engage with independent study and group work with peers.
From lectures, tutor-led seminars and problem-based tutorials, you will get involved with interactive activities that enable you to share knowledge, ideas and opinions as well as problem-solve, critically analyse and propose questions about core subject topics.
You will also work together in small groups through interactive workshops to reflect on your learning and develop skills further.
Our practical, computer laboratory-based classes enable you to acquire hands-on subject-related and generic skills associated with analytical data.
With a range of self-study opportunities, including the virtual Keele Learning Environment (KLE).
You can also complete an extended project in your final year, demonstrating your independent research skills, with support from academic staff.
The wide variety of assessment methods on this programme reflect the broad range of knowledge and skills that are developed as you progress through the degree.
You will build and demonstrate a range of skills to test the application of your subject knowledge.
This includes essays, individual/group presentations, reviews and critiques as well as portfolios.
Keele also uses creative assessment methods, including video blogs and podcasts for you to present your understanding and ideas to peers and academic staff in an innovative and engaging format.
You will also be assessed via:
A number of innovative companies are based in the Business School building, creating a business environment that blends practical innovation with academic research.
You will have the opportunity to work with such companies and develop your own entrepreneurial ideas if you opt to take the Entrepreneurship Year .
At Keele Business School we have a dedicated Bloomberg Lab that is set up like a trading room.
Bloomberg Professional Service, also known as the Terminal is software widely used in the financial industry and gives you access to economic, financial and business information.
We use Bloomberg in some of our teaching, and you can also use it in your own time to acquire information to use in your studies.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Philosophy, Politics and Economics degree.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) Philosophy, Politics and Economics with Foundation Year (UCAS code LV51) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/physics:
From learning core physics principles to solving problems such as 'How likely is an asteroid to hit the Earth?', Physics at Keele explores dynamic topics across the full breadth of the subject to quench your curiosity about the physical world.
With core professional, practical and employability skills embedded throughout the curriculum and opportunities to apply your learning to real-world physics challenges, you will graduate with a toolkit of skills to pursue a career across a wide-range of sectors.
Physics is a fundamental, curiosity-driven subject with a huge variety of applications, playing a pivotal role across many areas of science and industry.
From powering our world to advancing medicine and technology, physics is at the heart of innovation.
Our Physics programme at Keele is designed to provide you with a solid foundation in core physics concepts, graduate skills and attributes defined by the Institute of Physics (IoP) accreditation framework.
You will have opportunities for individual advanced project work, collaborative learning, work and educational placements, and to explore frontier topics guided by our world-leading researchers - from real-world applications to “blue-skies” astrophysics.
In your first year you will gain a solid grounding in the fundamentals of physics, including gravitation, relativity and matter, electricity, magnetism and waves.
Year two continues to build on your understanding of physics principles with exploration of optics, quantum mechanics and nuclear physics.
You will further your laboratory, mathematics, computing and career skills by working on individual experiments and team investigations, building your CV and gaining important new applied mathematical skills.
A specialist module in applied physics will explore new applications in breakthrough scientific areas and emerging industries, that may play a significant role in the 21st century.
In your final year, you will undertake a substantial piece of meaningful research on a topic which aligns with your interests and career goals.
The research project provides the opportunity for you to pursue a self-directed, independent investigation of an experimental, computational or theoretical nature.
With the guidance of a supervisor, you will plan, execute and report your results, including a presentation aimed at potential employers.
You will further deepen your expertise through advanced modules in electromagnetism, solid-state physics, and quantum mechanics, while also enhancing your teamwork and project management skills by working on a group report that tackles a real-world issue, aimed at policy-makers.
This programme has recently been refreshed, and the new structure is being reviewed by the IoP to ensure continued accreditation.
Designed to provide you with the specialist skills you will need as a physicist, our Physics programme has core practical, academic and professional employability modules embedded throughout the curriculum.
From hands-on practice in conducting physics experiments and learning computer programming, to dedicated career-focused sessions and innovative assessments, we will provide you with a strong foundation of key skills for your future career.
Physics and the Art of Measurement From smartphones to spacecraft, our modern world is full of sensors measuring, responding and optimising everything from industrial machines to scientific experiments.
In this module you will explore the physics behind various electrical, optical and mechanical instruments, learning how they are built and used, and gaining valuable practical skills through experimentation.
It will equip you with a fundamental understanding of the underlying principles, the characteristics and the applications of various devices, tools and techniques used in physics.
Optics and Thermodynamics The way light and matter interact happens on minute scales but results in macroscopic effects that can be described by global behavioural laws.
These fundamental concepts underpin a vast range of phenomena beyond the topics of this module, and have a variety of real-word applications, from engines and the weather to optical fibers and the most powerful telescopes.
Practical and Professional Skills for Physics You will build upon the practical laboratory skills developed at level 4, extending your abilities to plan, execute and communicate scientifically.
You will compile a comprehensive portfolio of the essential skills required by professional physicists by using more advanced recording, analysis and interpretation of measurements, and presentation of results.
You will work on individual experiments and team investigations to prepare you for level 6 research projects and to confidently and safely work in any physics laboratory.
You will use these to formulate solutions to a wide variety of problems in physics and astrophysics and to plan and execute a short project on a (astro)physical topic that interests you.
Applied Physics and Emerging Technologies You will investigate the underlying concepts of new physics applications in breakthrough scientific areas and emerging industries that may play a significant role in the 21st century.
Recent examples include renewable energy in the UK and beyond; the detection of gravitational waves; and the properties of 2D materials.
The topics covered are reviewed bi-annually and you will also do your own research into another contemporary topic, chosen by you, preparing teaching materials that would be suitable for your peers.
Flexible Work Placement Level 5 In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
This module allows you to gain hands-on experience, enhance your employability skills, and provide valuable insights into the professional world.
Physics Research Project and Professional Development The research project provides the opportunity for you to pursue a self-directed, independent investigation of an experimental, computational or theoretical nature.
You will exploit and expand upon the skills portfolio built up in Level 4 and 5 of your degree to establish yourself as a physicist with all the necessary investigative and professional attributes.
You will engage with the latest evidence for dark matter and dark energy and how, by observing distant supernovae and cosmic microwave background, we can infer the history and fate of our universe.
Advanced Topics Semester 1 Based on student preference, advanced topics are offered from a range of options such as (but not limited to) Particle Physics and Accelerators, Atmospheric Physics or Binary Stars and Exoplanets.
Advanced Topics Semester 2 Based on student preference, advanced topics are offered from a range of options such as (but not limited to) General Relativity, Black Holes and Gravitational Waves, Life in the Universe or Fluid Mechanics.
Flexible Work Placement Level 6 In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
Practical teaching will take place in Keele’s state-of-the-art Central Science Laboratories (CSL) , as well as existing laboratories in the Lennard Jones Building.
In between year two and three of your studies, you can spend time gaining practical experience with a physics-focused company or organisation.
All academic staff in Physics follow an open-door policy for students.
If they are available during working hours, you can seek help and guidance.
If staff members are busy, they will schedule a future meeting.
The department’s small size allows you to interact with staff in laboratories, problem classes, and tutorials.
Our Physics BSc will equip you with a diverse range of transferable skills including; advanced problem-solving, programming, communication and teamworking skills.
You will be equally qualified and prepared for postgraduate studies or for graduate level employment in a wide variety of industrial sectors.
To help you discover and gain knowledge about the diverse career opportunities within the field, we have a dedicated physics careers tutor based in the school.
"Studying Physics at Keele is a very enjoyable experience filled with opportunity and self-progression.
Support is there for every turn whenever it is needed.
Whenever I got so stuck on a problem or module that it seemed impossible, a lecturer has always been able to provide a clear, understandable explanation which has greatly helped me progress."
Sam, Physics
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Physics course.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Physics with Foundation Year (UCAS code F306) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/physicswithartificialintelligence:
Discover how physics and artificial intelligence are deeply interconnected on our Physics with Artificial Intelligence BSc.
Just as physicists develop mathematical models to describe and predict natural phenomena, AI uses similar computational techniques to learn from and interpret vast datasets.
This symbiotic relationship means that advances in one field often directly inform and accelerate progress in the other.
In your first two years of study, you will build a solid foundation in core physics concepts including gravitation, relativity and quantum physics, while strengthening your computational and problem-solving skills.
This will enable you to tackle complex problems that require a deep understanding of physical principles and advanced data analysis techniques.
Building on these skills, you will learn the latest methods and research directions in AI, including data science techniques, machine learning applications and computational intelligence.
You will then apply these skills and techniques to solve advanced physics problems.
Designed to provide you with the specialist skills you will need as a professional, modern physicist, you will benefit from a suite of practical and professional development modules embedded throughout our curriculum.
From scientific programming and writing to dedicated career-focused sessions, we will provide you with the knowledge, tools and connections to develop a strong foundation for your future career.
From year two you can enhance your employability by choosing to spend time in industry with year-long or flexible placements or spend a year studying abroad.
Your learning will be supported by workshops, and small group activities, with frequent opportunities to apply key concepts in laboratory classes and other practical sessions.
In your final year you will examine advanced level frontier topics including electromagnetism and machine learning applications, whilst having the opportunity to undertake an independent research project and choose from a variety of optional modules that align with your career goals.
Your research project provides an excellent opportunity for you to pursue a self-directed, independent investigation of an experimental, computational or theoretical nature.
Here you will learn the art of problem-solving, including mathematical and statistical modelling and the analyses of uncertainty and risk, applying these skills to scenarios focused on linear and rotational mechanics, gravitation and harmonic motion.
Regularly working in groups, you will gain valuable employability skills such as teamwork and communication, whilst learning from others and building peer networks.
Computer Systems and Fundamentals You will learn fundamental concepts of computer hardware and software, as the necessary foundation for later artificial intelligence modules.
Data Science Techniques Data Science is becoming an increasingly important topic, bordering Computer Science and Mathematics, and with applications in many areas of everyday life, including within physics and artificial intelligence.
You will gain an appreciation of how Artificial Intelligence is used in many real-world scenarios, both within the UK and internationally.
Machine Learning Applications In this module you will receive in-depth training in the use of machine learning tools and techniques, required for developing artificial intelligence systems, that can be used to analyse real world data and to deliver valuable insight that can be used to provide business services.
This module will help you to appreciate, debate, and apply these ideas, within the UK and globally.
This module allows you to gain hands-on experience, enhance your employability skills, and provide valuable insights into the professional world.
Throughout your placement you will be supported by an academic advisor and a placements and project manager.
You will receive personalised and comprehensive feedback, as well as formative opportunities on assessed work in various formats.
You will graduate with the analytical, problem-solving, mathematical modelling and computational skills that employers value in a variety of industries including finance, healthcare, engineering, material science, space science, and research.
Careers and fields related to this degree include:
You may also wish to pursue postgraduate studies.
Physics and Computer Science teaching staff pay particular attention to specifying clear assessment criteria and providing timely, regular and constructive feedback that helps to clarify things you did not understand and helps you to improve your performance.
The following list is representative of the variety of assessment methods used on your programme:
Computational teaching takes place in the CSL and the Colin Reeves Building, home to the School of Computer Science and Mathematics.
Further facilities include: seven computer labs, a high-performance cluster of computers (used for research and projects) and a Jupyterhub server (used to write Python code off-campus).
The Keele Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Physics with Artificial Intelligence degree.
For example, in the Advancing Programming module you will learn some advanced techniques appropriate to the programming language.
In addition, the Advancing Physics module introduces a whole new set of mathematical skills.
You will begin to look at more complex algebra and introduce calculus into your physics equations.
All of the modules you take will prove useful in your degree and professional career .
Applicants will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Physics with Artificial Intelligence with Foundation Year ( UCAS code F3G5) through UCAS www.ucas.com.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/physicswithastrophysics:
From quarks to quasars, our Physics with Astrophysics programme combines a strong foundation in core physics principles with the study of cutting-edge astrophysics topics.
With opportunities for advanced project work using astronomical data from world-class ground-based and satellite missions, as well as practical work at our on-campus observatory,  you'll graduate with the problem-solving, experimental, programming and teamworking skills highly sought after by employers across various industries.
Physics and Astrophysics are fundamental sciences.
Our quest to unravel how the universe works makes an enormous contribution to other scientific areas and a range of industries - from nuclear energy to data-mining, satellite telecommunications and medical diagnostics.
Featuring a solid foundational core of physics concepts and key expectations, as defined by the Institute of Physics (IoP) accreditation framework , our employability-focused programme invites you to extend and apply these to the arena of astrophysics, engaging with frontier material informed by the interests of our world-class research teams.
You will have opportunities for collaborative learning, work and educational placements and practical work at our on-campus observatory.
You will further your laboratory, mathematics, computing and career skills by working on individual experiments and team investigations, building your CV, and gaining important new applied mathematical skills.
In your final year, you will apply skills developed during your degree to an independent astrophysics research project.
You will exploit and expand upon the skills portfolio built up in your degree to establish yourself as an astrophysicist with all the necessary investigative and professional attributes.
You will further your knowledge through advanced modules in electromagnetism, solid-state physics, and cosmology, while enhancing your teamwork and project management skills by working on a group report that tackles a real-world issue, aimed at policy-makers.
From hands-on practice in conducting experiments and learning the basics of computer programming, to dedicated career-focused sessions and innovative assessments, we will provide you with a strong foundation of key skills for your future career.
Astronomy and Measuring the Universe Humanity is compelled to understand the Universe.
Practical and Professional Skills for Astrophysics You will build upon the practical laboratory skills developed at level 4, extending your abilities to plan, execute and communicate scientifically.
You will work on individual experiments and team investigations to prepare you for level 6 research projects.
You will exploit and expand upon the skills portfolio built up in Level 4 and 5 of your degree to establish yourself as a (astro)physicist with all the necessary investigative and professional attributes.
In between year two and three of your studies, you can spend time gaining practical experience with a physics or astrophysics-focused company or organisation.
Our Physics with Astrophysics BSc will equip you with a diverse range of transferable skills including; advanced problem-solving, numeracy, computation, communication and data analysis skills.
To help you discover and gain knowledge about the diverse career opportunities within the field, we have a dedicated physics and astrophysics careers tutor based in the school.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Physics with Astrophysics degree.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Physics with Astrophysics with Foundation Year (UCAS code F307) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/physicswithmathematics:
If you're intrigued by the universal principles of physics and the logical beauty of mathematics, our Physics with Mathematics programme explores their deep-rooted connection in understanding how the world works.
From acquiring sought after employability skills, to the possibility of spending time in industry, you will graduate with the analytical, critical thinking, programming and teamworking skills that are highly valued by employers in a broad range of sectors.
This programme will be put forward for accreditation by The Institute of Physics (IoP)
Physics and Mathematics are deeply connected subjects, and pivotal in gaining insight into how the world works.
Mathematics is the essential framework to describe physical phenomena precisely.
Equations and formulae allow relationships between different physical quantities to be expressed, and mathematical models predict the behaviour of systems under various conditions.
Physics helps us understand the fundamental laws that govern the universe, from the smallest particles to the largest galaxies.
Many technologies we rely on today are based on principles of physics.
Studying this combination helps develop strong analytical and critical thinking skills and can lead to a more profound comprehension of the subject and the mathematical theories that underpin it, as you will be taught by world-leading researchers in state-of-the-art facilities with plenty of opportunities to apply your learning through real-world scenarios.
In your first year of study, you will develop a solid foundation in core physics concepts exploring topics including gravity, relativity and matter, electricity, magnetism and waves.
Building your professional skillset, you will learn the basics of computer programming with python, gain hands on practice in conducting a variety of physical experiments, develop the art of scientific writing and reporting.
You will also strengthen your mathematics skills with dedicated modules in calculus and differential equations.
From year two you can also choose a work placement module and further personalise your learning by choosing from a variety of optional modules in topics such as radiation physics, probability and dynamics.
As your degree progresses, you will be exposed to more advanced concepts and techniques, such as nuclear and quantum physics, optics and thermodynamics.
There will be increased opportunities to apply your learning to real-world problems, whilst you build your professional and employability skills.
Between your second and final year, you can choose to take an International Year,  or spend time in industry with a year-long Work Placement.
In your final year you will tackle frontier topics in physics and mathematics and have the opportunity to develop your own research interests, guided by our world-leading researchers.
You will have opportunities for individual advanced project work which can be aligned to your own interests and career goals.
The physics optional modules allow you to delve deeper into quantum physics and other areas of cutting-edge physics.
The range of mathematics optional modules also gives you the choice to further develop advanced physical and mathematical skills in cross-over topics like fluid mechanics and wave propagation.
You will find out how the universe is put together, from the very big to the very small, exploring motions on scales from atoms and molecules to stars and planets, and encounter the boundaries of classical Newtonian physics with an introduction to quantum ideas and Einstein’s Special Relativity
This helps us investigate problems related to population dynamics, heat dissipation in objects, vibrations of engineering structures and wave propagation, among many others.
Within this module we will study a variety of methods for solving differential equations.
Complex Variable and Vector Calculus This module provides a first course in both vector calculus and complex variable.
We will begin with classical notions of probability associated with the analysis of games of chance using cards, dice, etc., then moving to treatment of probability of random events.
This will lead us to the definitions of statistical independence and conditional probability.
Then, we will focus on systematic study of discrete and continuous, univariate and bivariate, random variables, covering expectation, variance, covariance.
Dynamics This module demonstrates the successful application of mathematics in the modelling of various physical systems, within the context of Newtonian dynamics.
The topics investigated include not just projectiles and simple harmonic motion, but also more advanced laws of planetary motion, problems involving variable mass, such as, for example, rocket motion.
You will learn how Maxwell unified electricity and magnetism, how electromagnetic waves are generated, how we understand the (semi-)conduction and magnetic properties of solids at a microscopic level, and apply this knowledge to modern technology, solving divers problems spanning anything from lasers to superconductors or radio pulsars.
Flexible Work Placement (Level 6) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
In between year two and three of your studies, there is the opportunity to undertake a placement.
Throughout your placement you will be supported by an academic advisor and a Placements and Project Manager.
You can find out more here.
ABB in three A Levels including B in Maths
You will also need: 6/ B in GCSE Maths or Level 2 Functional Skills Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below)
DDM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Engineering
Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in Maths A Level
Distinction in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels including B in Maths
You will also need an English language qualification (see below)
Distinction in any of the following T Levels: Engineering and Manufacturing
655 in three Higher Levels including 5 in Maths (any), or 32 points including 5 in Maths (any)
128 UCAS points in an Access to HE Diploma with Maths related content, including Distinction in at least 30 Level 3 credits.
BBBBC in five Highers including Maths Higher, or CC in two Advanced Highers and BD/CC in two Highers including B in Maths Higher or C in Maths Advanced Higher, or CCC in three Advanced Highers including Maths Advanced Higher.
You will also need an English language qualification (see below).
H3, H3, H3, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate including H4 in Maths
75% in the Gaokao including 70% in Maths
Average of 75% from four subjects including 70% in Maths in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 80% from four subjects including 75% in Maths in any other Standard XII.
2.0 overall average in the Abitur including 12 in Maths
544 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE including 4 in Maths
Overall average of 7.8 in the Título de Bachillerato including 8 in Maths
85% in the Esame di Stato including 8 in Maths
18.5/ 88% in the Apolytirion including 18 in Maths
Overall average of 16 in a secondary certificate including 16 in Maths
70% / BBBBC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma including 70% in Advanced Functions and 70% in Calculus and Vectors
544 from three Advanced Placement subjects including Calculus (either)
ABB in three Advanced Levels including B in Combined Maths
ABB in three subjects in the STPM including B in Maths
ABB in three H2 Levels including B in Combined Maths
75% overall with 7 in Chemistry and a 7 in Maths (5 period) or Physics
Further facilities include: a dedicated mathematics workroom that houses study space, computers and white boards to facilitate independent and group study, seven computer labs, a high-performance cluster of computers (used for research and projects) and a Jupyterhub server (used to write Python code off-campus).
In the both the School of Chemical and Physical Sciences and School of Computer Science and Mathematics we embrace this approach and will actively aim to ensure that all our activities will be organised so that everyone is made to feel safe and welcome, and that diversity is encouraged.
Our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) agenda is embedded throughout our curriculum, and we are proud that this has been recognized at school level by the School of Chemical and Physical Sciences holding an Athena SWAN Silver Award and School of Computer Science and Mathematics holding an Athena SWAN Bronze Award.
You will graduate with problem-solving, computational and transferable skills that are in high demand across various sectors.
Your advanced mathematical skills will empower you to tackle complex data analysis and modeling challenges, preparing you for exciting careers in engineering, data science, finance, and research.
In the School of Chemical and Physical Sciences our academic staff are members of one of the School's research themes.
The Physics modules on this programme are delivered by both the astrophysics and physics staff, many of whom perform internationally renowned work.
For the astrophysics staff this is in the fields of exoplanets, stellar physics (both observational and theoretical), high energy extragalactic astrophysics, while the physics staff carry out computational and experimental research on the physics of materials.
In your final year of study, you will gain research experience by working on an individual student project under the supervision of a member of the academic staff.
Mathematics research specialisms span a wide remit.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme that provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Physics with Mathematics.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Mathematics with Foundation Year (UCAS code G101) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/physicswithrenewableenergy:
From nuclear physics to sustainable energy applications, our Physics with Renewable Energy programme combines a solid grounding in core physics concepts with exciting exploration of cutting-edge topics in renewable energy.
With core professional, practical and employability skills embedded throughout the curriculum and opportunities to solve real-world problems - using Keele’s own on-campus renewables and smart energy network - you will graduate with a toolkit of skills to enter a growing job market with diverse career options in industries such as solar, wind, hydroelectric, and bioenergy.
Physics is a fundamental science but with far-reaching applications to other areas and a range of industries such as those focused on power, nuclear, electronics, IT, data-mining, telecommunications and medical diagnostics.
As a physicist you could play a crucial role in designing and managing the global transition that must take place from a fossil-fuelled world to one powered by low-carbon and renewable energy.
Based on a solid foundational core of physics concepts and key expectations, as defined by the Institute of Physics (IoP) accreditation framework, you will apply these skills to the generation, transmission and storage of low-carbon power, engaging with frontier material informed by the interests of our world-class research teams.
An introductory module in climate change and renewable energy will explore how we calculate our "carbon footprints" and generate, store and distribute energy from renewable sources that do not contribute to climate change.
You will further your laboratory, mathematics, computing and career skills by working on individual experiments and team investigations, building your CV, and gaining important, new applied mathematical skills.
A core module in renewable energy investigates the physics behind wind, water, solar and geothermal power sources and the electricity distribution network, discovering the key factors influencing their design and effectiveness.
You will also deepen your knowledge by studying advanced modules in electromagnetism, solid state physics, and the materials needs for green technology, while enhancing your teamwork and project management skills by working on a group report that tackles a real-world issue, aimed at policy-makers
Designed to provide you with the specialist skills you will need as a physicist, our Physics with Renewable Energy programme has core practical, academic and professional employability modules embedded throughout the curriculum.
From hands-on practice in conducting physics experiments and learning the basics of computer programming, to dedicated career-focused sessions and innovative assessments, we will provide you with a strong foundation of key skills for your future career.
Introduction to Climate Change and Renewable Energy Humanity is currently facing an enormous threat from man-made climate change, driven primarily by the burning of fossil fuels in society's insatiable thirst for energy.
What is climate change and how do greenhouse gases affect Earth's complex and delicate biosphere?
How can we calculate our "carbon footprints" and generate, store and distribute energy from renewable sources that do not contribute to climate change?
The answers to all these questions await you in this module.
Renewable Energy: Generation, Storage and Transmission Key challenges for decarbonisation are not only generating clean energy but getting it to where it's needed and storing it.
You will investigate, through theory and practical work, the physics behind wind, water, solar and geothermal power sources and the electricity distribution network, discovering the key factors influencing their design and effectiveness.
You will grapple with the practical difficulties of incorporating renewable energy sources and research how novel storage methods and smart networks can harness and increase their value.
Renewable Energy Research Project and Professional Development The renewable energy research project provides the opportunity for you to pursue a self-directed, independent investigation of an experimental, computational or theoretical nature.
Flexible Work Placement Level 6 In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
At Keele we're truly sector-leading in environmental education, and have world-leading research in environmental sustainability.
Our on-site wind turbines and solar energy farm supply half of the campus power requirements.
Our commitment has meant that we have been placed among the Top 40 universities in the world for sustainability (UI Green Metric World Rankings, 2020), Global Sustainability Institution of the Year (International Green Gown Awards, 2021) and Clean Energy Scheme Award winners for our leading Smart Energy Network Demonstrator (Green Energy Awards, 2023).
You will have access to regular tutorials, maths problem classes, a dedicated academic mentor and Keele's Student Experience and Support team.
With increased focus on climate change and demand for clean energy, it's an exciting time to pursue a career in renewables.
On successful completion of this programme you will develop a variety of transferable skills including computer programming, the application of numerical methods to solve problems mathematically, the ability to design and execute original scientific investigations and to report the results in diverse ways to a variety of audiences.
You will be equally qualified and well prepared for postgraduate studies or for graduate level employment in a wide variety of industrial sectors including:
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Physics with Renewable Energy course.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Physics with Renewable Energy with Foundation Year (UCAS code FH33) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/physiotherapy:
Accelerate your physiotherapy career with our diverse and innovative four-year Master’s programme.
Become a highly competent and clinically astute physiotherapist who can improve people's quality of life and physical wellbeing by restoring, maintaining and enhancing their function and movement.
As a physiotherapist you will use physical approaches to strengthen and maintain people's physical, psychological, and social wellbeing, optimising their general health and helping to prevent illness.
Physiotherapy at Keele provides you with an exceptional breadth of theoretical knowledge and practical experience to enable you to deliver high quality patient centred care.
This innovative course has been carefully designed to reflect physiotherapy in the 21st century and is flexible and future proof to accommodate the changing demands of health and social care, and the profession globally.
You will develop the required competencies and clinical skills, which are underpinned by evidence to enable you to deliver high quality, safe and effective care that meets the needs of patients.
The programme has embedded the following themes:
Our programme has recently been reaccredited to ensure its content is current and reflects contemporary physiotherapy practice in the UK, and is sufficiently flexible to accommodate the changing demands of health and social care and the future requirements of the profession, both in the UK and globally.
The programme is committed to the development and provision of high quality multi and inter-professional learning.
You will improve your understanding of anatomy, physiology and movement science including basic therapeutic handling and the fundamentals of physiotherapy practice.
You will study modules that focus on common conditions associated with the cardiovascular, respiratory, musculoskeletal, and neurological systems.
Throughout the programme you will explore the effects of acute critical illness and the deteriorating patient, as well as studying core themes such as pharmacology, hydrotherapy, assistive technology, orthotics and neuropsychology.
The course explores concepts of physical rehabilitation, functioning and disability and investigates the impact of disability and how to restore function to individuals with specific conditions such as diabetes mellitus and heart disease.
Physiotherapist’s play a key role in promoting health and preventing illness and you’ll gain a solid understanding of the factors that can impact on people’s health and wellbeing.
You will undertake practical sessions within our Anatomy Suite where you will analyse and handle real anatomy prosections to enhance your understanding of the human body.
You will learn the required patient assessment techniques, including those who may have complex rehabilitation needs to improve your clinical decision making and analytical abilities.
This will enable you to propose effective management strategies for patients in a well-informed and confident manner.
You will benefit from specific modules which aim to enable you to establish your communication skills so you can become confident in your professional interactions as a physiotherapist.
As a physiotherapist you will need to learn to communicate with a range of patients, carers, family members and fellow clinicians.
Modules to enhance your research and critical thinking competencies are embedded throughout the programme.
We put a strong emphasis on the role of evidence and using it to support physiotherapy best practice.
The advantage of a fourth year of study is that it offers you the flexibility to explore specialist areas of practice in areas such as musculoskeletal and neurological.
Inter-professional learning is a key element in your growth as a professional physiotherapist and studying alongside students from other healthcare occupations reflects your future working environment.
We give you the skills not just to become a physiotherapist but to become effective future educators and teachers through specific modules that concentrate on learning and teaching.
Physiotherapy practice is a core element of the programme.
Exposure to a range of clinical environments will enable you to build your confidence.
This practical, authentic, hands-on experience ensures you are able to graduate with the required skills and competencies to practice and deliver high quality patient care.
There are placement opportunities to complete over 1350 hours of practice throughout the programme.
Our dedicated Practice Placement Team will source appropriate placements in a wide variety of settings including state-of-the-art simulation suite and provide additional support during your placements.
We offer a wide range of diverse opportunities to gain practical physiotherapy experience supporting people of all ages with different conditions.
You will be exposed to various clinical settings that may include working within the NHS, individuals injured at work, charities and the private sector, as well as supporting rugby and football clubs.
Most of your placements take place in the West Midlands area, although placements may require you to travel further afield.
There are opportunities to apply for international placements so you can study abroad.
Helping to bridge the gap between what you learn in the lecture theatre and clinical placement is our on-campus physiotherapy and rehabilitation clinic where you can get involved and observe the treatment of patients.
The clinic offers ‘hands on’ treatments for a wide range of common musculoskeletal injuries.
Teaching is undertaken by highly skilled, highly qualified, and knowledgeable staff, some of whom are nationally and internationally recognised experts in their field.
Many of our academic staff are active researchers, and physiotherapists teaching on the course are all registered with the Health and Care Professions Council.
We provide a supportive and inclusive learning environment for you during your physiotherapy course.
You will be allocated an academic mentor at the beginning of your course who can give advice and guidance.
Also during your first year you will be offered a student mentor.
Supervision whilst you are undertaking your clinical placements is undertaken by practice educators.
Based within our faculty is a Student Experience and Support team who have a member of the team who is dedicated to the School of Allied Health Professions.
As part of Keele’s student services, they work closely with teams across Keele so you can easily access the support you need.
Physiotherapy at Keele is accredited by the UK Health and Care Professions Council and the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy.‌
"Keele has provided me with high-quality education from an expert faculty who have always guided, encouraged and supported my journey to becoming a well-rounded and competent Physiotherapist.
The multimodal approach to teaching and learning has enhanced my overall academic experience.
Furthermore, the continuously expanding diversity among staff and cohort members, has been empowering and conducive in creating an inclusive environment"
"
Nafisah, Physiotherapy
"I chose to study physio at Keele because of the atmosphere that was created and shared by everyone I met at my first open day.
This is something that has continued through my 3 years at Keele.
I have made some amazing friends who along with the staff at SAHP have supported me through the duration of my degree and helped to make a stressful 3 years some of the most enjoyable."
Millie, Physiotherapy
ABB in three A Levels including B in Biology, Chemistry or Physical Education.
Contextual Offer: BBB in three A levels including B in Biology, Chemistry or Physical Education.
DDM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Human Biology, Applied Science, Health and Social Care, Sport or Sport and Exercise Science.
Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in Biology, Chemistry or Physical Education A Level, or Distinction and Merit in Applied Human Biology, Applied Science, Health and Social Care, Sport, or Sport and Exercise Science BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and A in any A Level.
Distinction in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels including B in Biology, Chemistry or Physical Education, or Distinction in Applied Human Biology, Applied Science, Health and Social Care, Sport, or Sport and Exercise Science BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels.
655 in three Higher Levels including 5 in Biology, Chemistry or Physical Education, or 32 points including 5 in Higher Level Biology, Chemistry, or Physical Education.
Contextual Offer: 555 in three Higher Levels including 5 in Biology, Chemistry, Physical Education or Sport Science or 31 points including 5 in Higher Level Biology, Chemistry, or Physical Education.
To include 15 Level 3 credits in topics relating to Human Biology / Anatomy / Physiology / Chemistry.
BBBBC in five Highers in Biology, Chemistry or Physical Education Higher, or CC in two Advanced Highers and BC in two Highers including Biology, Chemistry or Physical Education Higher or Advanced Higher, or BCC in three Advanced Highers including Biology, Chemistry or Physical Education Advanced Higher.
H3, H3, H3, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate including H4 in Biology, Chemistry, Physics and Chemistry (combined), or Physical Education.
2.0 overall average in the Abitur including 12 in Biology, Chemistry or Physical Education.
14 in the French Baccalaureate / International Option Baccalaureate including 14 in Biology, Chemistry / Physics or Physical Education, or 13 in the Baccalauréat Français International including 13 in Biology, Chemistry / Physics or Physical Education.
544 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE including 4 in Biology, Chemistry or Physical Education.
85% in the Esame di Stato including 8 in Biology, Chemistry, Physical Education or Natural Science.
18.5 / 88% in the Apolytirion including 18 in Biology, Chemistry or Physical Education.
Overall average of 16 in a Secondary Certificate including 16 in Biology, Chemistry or Physical Education.
70% / BBBBC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma including 70% in Biology, Chemistry or Recreation and Healthy Active Living Leadership.
ABB in three Advanced Levels including B in Biology, Chemistry or Physical Education.
ABB in three Principal Level subjects in the STPM including B in Biology, Chemistry or Sports Science.
ABB in three H2 Levels including B in Biology, Chemistry or Physical Education.
75% overall with 7 in Biology (4 period), Chemistry or Physical Education
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with ABB including B in Chemistry, Biology or Physical Education.
ABB in three Advanced Level subjects including B in Biology, Chemistry or Physical Education.
Under normal circumstances, students must be 18 years old when they commence the course, or by 1 October of the first Semester, due to the clinical elements of the programme.
Health checks and DBS Clearance Offers are subject to Occupational Health clearances and an Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance.
The University follows the DBS Code of Practice in these issues and can provide a copy of the code on request.
"I have loved my time at Keele studying Physiotherapy.
With outstanding guidance and support I have gained the academic, clinical and research skills needed in a wide variety of topics."
Tom, Physiotherapy
Eligible Physiotherapy MSci students can apply for funding support via the NHS Learning Support Fund, which includes a £5,000 training grant and certain travel and accommodation costs for placements.
Graduating from this MSci programme with master's level skills in physiotherapy will give you a competitive edge to help get your career off to a flying start.
The course enables you to go on to work as an autonomous professional physiotherapist in a range of varied careers nationally and internationally.
This includes the NHS, private sector, occupational health, and sport.
The research knowledge you will acquire also gives you the potential to go on to clinical and research careers.
"The sense of community within the student body has positively impacted my learning experience and outcome, I dont think I would have completed my 3 years at Keele successfully without the help and support from my peers.
Marcus, Physiotherapy
Key elements of physiotherapy are taught over four years and we use a variety of learning and teaching methods depending on the subject matter and level of the module.
You will be taught on campus at Keele University and in clinical environments and teaching is designed to integrate university learning and learning undertaken in practice settings.
You will develop your clinical skills in small groups, depending on the subject matter.
In practice settings you will work with designated practice educators and receive support from visiting tutors from the School.
To track your progress through this integrated masters course we use a variety of methods to reflect the range of knowledge and skills you will develop including:
Upon meeting the progression criteria and successfully completing our  foundation year, you will automatically progress into your Keele undergraduate degree with the confidence that you have the skills, and knowledge needed to successfully complete your course.
This Foundation Year is a is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the Msci (Hons) Physiotherapy Integrated Master's course.
You should apply for Physiotherapy with Foundation Year, UCAS code: B1B9

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/politics:
Empowering you to create positive change, answer big questions and make sense of society in an ever-changing political world.
Politics BA at Keele is designed to help you understand society and the events and forces that shape it.
Our wide-ranging course develops your knowledge and understanding of government, people, ideas, institutions, and their interactions.
Engage in real-world experiences that equip you with core skills in analytical thinking, problem-solving and research, ready to embark on a career of your choice across various sectors including government, public relations and business.
Our Politics degree introduces you to the study of politics with insights into the concepts, ideas and the nature of power.
You will focus on the processes of political change and the influences at a local, national and global level, with consideration of some of the biggest challenges to face global politics.
Our programme looks to make sense of politics, exploring the concepts of power, democracy and governance, and how we address the many contemporary challenges of the political world.
Politics at Keele focuses on activism: you will explore, understand and develop the skills you need to make a positive impact on your own lives and in the communities in which you live.
You will do this by developing knowledge of power, governance, activism and participation, and skills that equip you for success in your career, as an active citizen, and as someone able to lead change that promotes political, social, and economic well-being.
By the end of the degree, you will have been exposed to a range of different ways of interpreting and answering the biggest questions in politics, empowering you to reflect on your own positions and how we can make a difference in an ever-changing political world.
We offer a range of opportunities to engage with practical learning through real-world examples such as policy-making simulations, devising manifestos for change, policy reports, data analysis and case study reports.
These enrich your university experience, providing key skills in critical thinking, problem-solving and communication, all of which that are invaluable for your career prospects.
Embark on your employment journey with skills that are beneficial to employers and organisations, demonstrating your ideas, knowledge and confidence to promote political, social and economic wellbeing.
At Keele, you will have the opportunity to engage with projects and placements to combine your degree programme with practical experience, applying your learning to real-world scenarios and kick starting your career.
You can tailor your degree programme based on your future aspirations, and also have the opportunity to study abroad with a partner university, developing global perspectives or learning a foreign language and building cultural awareness.
This module introduces the history of the contemporary world, and the main approaches to understanding it.
You will explore the rise and fall of the Cold War, the growth of international organisations, and the birth of a twenty-first century new world order; and you will examine key approaches to the study of International Relations such as realism, liberalism and social constructivism.
Overall, the module introduces you to vital academic and professional skills and competencies that will allow you to thrive in the first year of undergraduate study.
Social Science at Work This module introduces you to possible careers for social scientists and links to the work you are doing in your subject core and option modules asking the question ‘how can we mobilise academic study into the real world?’ You will also be encouraged to prepare for placement work that you may pursue and reflecting on your social media footprint; developing your personal/professional brand and digital networking platforms.
People, Power and Participation Who participates in politics and why?
What are the barriers to participation for women, young people and ethnic minorities?
Why does participation vary?
What are the different ways we can participate?
How can we encourage more people to participate in politics?
And what is the relationship between participation and democracy?
You will explore the dynamics of citizen engagement and how political activism can lead to political change, reflecting on our own roles as political actors and drivers of political change.
Work Placement for Social Sciences This module is designed to give you the opportunity to contribute to the world beyond the university.
While on the placement, you will produce a portfolio that you can draw on in future applications and interviews, reflecting on and giving evidence of the activities/outputs completed at their chosen workplace.
Dissertation in Politics This module provides guidance in researching and writing a dissertation.
"I loved studying Politics at Keele.
The range of modules on offer really helped me develop an in-depth understanding of British and international political systems, elections, and the policy-making process, all of which have been really valuable to me in my current role in influencing legislation and working with policymakers in government.
The teaching staff in the Politics department at Keele are just amazing.
I always felt so supported throughout - they always made time for me, and no question or query was ever too big.
The smaller class sizes really helped to create an open and collaborative learning environment.
I always felt so comfortable contributing to discussions and asking any questions I may have had.
Shivani, Policy Adviser, Money at Which?, History and Politics Graduate
Our Politics programme at Keele offers the chance to engage with work placements as part of your degree programme to gain valuable experience in the workplace on real-world case studies.
"I really enjoyed the Parliamentary Studies module.
It was an honour to meet and be taught by the parliamentary staff and it's been a great experience to be able to learn about our parliament and government from them.
It is a unique opportunity that will really make your CV stand out."
Emily, Politics Graduate
Having a degree in Politics from Keele will equip you with a broad set of skills, transferable to various careers.
You will learn how to communicate clearly to a range of audiences, work both independently and collaboratively as part of a team and critically evaluate using different methods, grounded in social science.
You will be prepared for rewarding roles across exciting sectors, such as:
You may also wish to explore further study or other employment opportunities across the health sector, business, marketing and public relations.
From mock interviews, careers guidance and CV advice, to careers fairs, alumni mentoring and networking events, along with helping you find part-time and graduate employment, the Keele Careers team will support you throughout your studies and beyond.
Keele Politics also offers bespoke careers and employability opportunities.
The Careers and Employability team provide a series of workshops each academic year tailored specifically for Social Science students.
Alongside this, regular alumni network events allow Keele Politics students to meet Keele Social Sciences graduates to develop their networking skills and ask questions about future career opportunities.
Studying my Bachelor’s degree at Keele ignited my love of learning which has become a key driver throughout my career.
My course gave me the transferable skills of critical and lateral thinking, communication and problem solving that I have been able to apply to every area of any business that I have worked in throughout my career.
Sophie Lawler, CEO Total Fitness, Politics and Sociology Graduate
Politics at Keele is taught through various methods to provide a range of different learning experiences and engagements with peers and academics.
These include traditional lectures, group seminars, encouraging discussions and debates and workshops where you can gain hands-on skills in data analysis and research.
Our programme involves web-based learning and independent study using academic journals, textbooks, official government publications and printed media.
The practical simulations and experiential learning provide the opportunity to explore real-world scenarios and delve into political examples that you might engage with in your future career.
This is also useful preparation for your dissertation where you will independently design and conduct your own project with the supervision of active researchers and staff in the School of Social Sciences .
The vast array of assessment methods on this programme complement the teaching delivered to allow you to challenge and demonstrate the knowledge and skills you have gained throughout your degree.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Politics degree.
Foundations of Social Sciences - 1
Foundations of Social Sciences - 2
Students need to apply for BA (Hons) Politics with Foundation Year (UCAS code: L2LH) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/politicsandinternationalrelations:
Learn how politics shapes everyday lives, the influence of power, security concerns, and current geopolitical transformations.
Our Politics and International Relations BA brings together the study of domestic and international politics, whilst investigating current issues such as environmental change, threats to democracy, and foreign policy calculations.
Our degree will equip you with key skills in analytical thinking, problem-solving, and social research, as well as provide opportunities to work with community groups, activists, and professionals in the public and private sectors.
Keele's Politics and International Relations degree is the study of power at the local, national, regional, and global level.
Explore how politics and policy are made, how democracy functions, and the many challenges democratic regimes face.
You will cover topics from environmental politics and foreign policy, to security and conflict.
On this course you will examine a range of influential factors in world politics and how this shapes society.
Prepare to understand politics and international relations, how to make a difference and its future on a global scale.
Taking an active role in your learning experience, you will benefit from participating in real-world opportunities like crisis simulations, model United Nations and devising activist strategies for change which will enable you to gain hands-on experience in preparation for your career.
You will also have the chance to engage with preparing funding proposals, participating in genocide-prevention workshops, and writing case study analyses and policy reports.
Become a social scientist through the development of key skills and expertise in research and critical analysis, preparing you for an exciting career across various sectors.
Whether you wish to make a difference in the world or are intrigued by the future of politics, our programme provides opportunities to enhance your career prospects.
You will develop the skills you need to become an effective changemaker in society, developing the argumentation and communication skills necessary to analyse contemporary environmental problems critically, and thus respond to them effectively.
Social Sciences Placement This module is designed to give students in their second year the opportunity to contribute to the world beyond the university.
Work Placement for Social Sciences Final Year Students This module is designed to give students in their third year the opportunity to contribute to the world beyond the university.
"Studying International Relations and Politics at Keele has allowed me to build an in-depth understanding of international and regional organisations and their functions while developing my perspectives on a wide range of events in the history of International Relations.
The course has not only facilitated the development of a critical perspective on current global events but has also equipped me with a strong comprehension of the theoretical foundations that underpin the field of IR.
Moreover, despite facing adversity during my time at Keele, I have always felt supported within the department."
Jordan, International Relations and Politics
With a Politics and International Relations degree, you will graduate with transferable skills that are applicable to a wide range of careers.
You will become an active problem solver, critical thinker and analyst of topical issues and debate.
Our programme will encourage you to engage with social sciences on a practical level, working with community groups, activists and people working in public and private sectors.
This will help to prepare you for the workplace environment and enhance your career prospects.
You may also wish to explore further study or other employment opportunities across the health sector, marketing and public relations.
"While I was at Keele, I feel like I really grew in confidence.
I understood so much about my own skills and I also found new interests across policy and international politics.
The caring and dedicated network of teachers and peers at Keele really allows you to apply that knowledge later in life.
For me, that's been things like policy formulation and parliamentary process, but I can definitely attribute that back to the modules and also the knowledge-based work that happens at Keele, but also the wonderful people that I met."
Rose, International Relations and Politics
Teaching on this programme offers a diverse mix of learning opportunities.
You will be taught through the delivery of traditional lectures, seminars and workshops.
These interactive learning sessions offer you the chance to discuss, debate and work with peers and academics on subject topics to put your learning into practice.
You will also engage with web-based learning and independent study using academic journals, textbooks, official government publications and printed media.
With an array of assessment methods, you will be able to demonstrate the knowledge and skills you have gained throughout your degree.
This includes essays, reviews, critiques and presentations which allow you to showcase your analytical mind, creative thinking and effective communication skills.
Our foundation year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Politics and International Relations degree.
Meanwhile, the Foundations of Social Sciences 2 module considers the topic of migration and mobility by exploring how migrants are framed in terms of law, economy, data and the media over time and how ideas regarding migration are often shaped by socio-political discourses of ‘race’ and the ‘other’, creating an ‘us’ versus ‘them’ narrative.
Find out more about the Keele Foundation Year, including information about teaching and assessment methods by visiting the Foundation Year homepage.
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) International Relations with Foundation Year ( UCAS code: L2L3) through UCAS at www.ucas.com.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/politicsandsociology:
Are you intrigued by socio-political issues and how we can build a better future for the next generation?
Politics and Sociology BSc at Keele examines how societies have formed, and the influential role of politics within these communities.
Uncover these two disciplines to understand the world we live in, adopting a forward-thinking approach to analyse and investigate the most pressing and urgent challenges in a contemporary world, preparing you for a wide range of careers.
On our Politics and Sociology degree, you will investigate social issues and global political matters, enabling you to develop a theoretical understanding of contemporary challenges that impact politics and society.
Delve into topics such as political systems, law, governance, gender, class and race, and build an awareness of real-world problems and complex scenarios.
You'll consider the past, present and future, and the ways in which key decision making has or can have both positive and negative impacts on society.
With an understanding of roles and responsibilities within society, you will become equipped to solve problems, engage in critical review and think creatively, all of which are crucial for employment.
This programme focuses on the nature of power and how we can overcome inequalities, exploring personal opinions and contemporary debates as a social activist.
You will learn to communicate effectively, becoming a confident speaker and leader, preparing you for a range of careers.
As you progress through your degree, you will examine the social and political actors involved at the individual, local, national and global level in relation to international challenges.
You'll consider how we can build a better future and influence social change, with the opportunity to complete a 'Dissertation in Politics' or an 'Independent Study Project in Sociology' in your final year through optional module choices.
We offer a range of opportunities to engage with hands-on learning through our 'Social Science Research Methods' module, looking at quantitative and qualitative data, developing practical research skills, and 'Becoming a Social Scientist', building core academic and professional skills ready for employment.
At Keele, you can tailor your degree programme based on your future aspirations with the opportunity to take a placement year, study abroad with a partner university, or learn a foreign language.
As a Politics and Sociology student you will also have the choice to complete a 'Work Placement for Social Sciences' optional module to gain real-world experience, working in industry to build professional experience and apply your knowledge in the workplace.
Social Design Social Design is an interdisciplinary module exploring the interplay between societal structures, human behavior, and crime, that equips you with the knowledge and skills to critically analyse, design, and implement interventions that foster safer and more inclusive communities.
Please note: You must take either 'Dissertation in Politics' or the 'Independent Study Project in Sociology' module.
You may complete an interdisciplinary project, but you must do this as part of the Dissertation/ISP module.
Our Politics and Sociology programme at Keele offers the chance to engage with work placements through our optional Work Placement for Social Sciences modules as part of your degree programme.
These introduce you to possible careers for social scientists and provide valuable experience in professional skills through real-world examples.
With a degree in Politics and Sociology, you will develop a broad range of skills in communication, critical analysis and problem solving.
These skills will prepare you for a wide variety of careers, for example in civil service, local government, education and business.
You will learn to take a balanced approach towards your work and make reasonable judgements when collaborating with colleagues.
These qualities will be an asset to your professional profile and will help to enhance your career opportunities.
You might choose to work in the following sectors:
Politics and Sociology is delivered through various teaching methods to enable you to explore subject matter through different forms and build skills in critical thinking, independent learning and collaborating with your peers.
Our assessments complement the teaching delivered on this programme, allowing you to demonstrate the knowledge and skills you have gained throughout your degree.
Engaging with different assessments will help to prepare you for different tasks throughout your career, with skills in research, critical analysis, independent working as well as teamwork.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Politics and Sociology degree.
Students need to apply for BSc (Hons) Politics and Sociology with Foundation Year (UCAS code: L001) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/politicswitheconomics:
What impact does politics have on economies and how do markets shape politics?
The relationship between political and economic power is essential for comprehending our society, its challenges, and how to change it.
Explore contemporary developments in both the political sphere and the economy on our Politics with Economics BA, asking fundamental questions to understand how politics shapes the economy and vice versa.
Placement opportunities will enable you to gain valuable experience in the workplace and prepare you for careers in government, business and finance.
To understand society is to understand the relationship between political and economic power.
Our Politics with Economics degree explores both areas individually and combined as the study of 'political economy', enabling you to consider the relationship between the two and how these disciplines shape social, economic and political life.
You will begin your journey by becoming familiar with both subjects and examining the nature of power and inequalities, whilst covering the basics of macro-economics and micro-economics.
As you progress through your degree, you will investigate the process of political and economic change, with insights into the influences at the individual, local and national level and how decisions are made by actors in politics.
With this knowledge, you will delve into the bigger issues facing political economy and how we can build a better future, developing skills in critical thinking, problem-solving and commercial awareness.
This programme offers a range of opportunities to engage with practical learning through real-world examples such as policy-making simulations, devising manifestos for change, policy reports and memos, data analysis, economic modelling and case study reports.
These enrich your university experience, providing key skills in analytical thinking, communication and teamwork, all of which that are invaluable for your career prospects.
You can tailor your degree programme based on your future aspirations with a range of optional modules, and also have the opportunity to study abroad with a partner university, developing global perspectives or learning a foreign language and building cultural awareness.
Introductory Macroeconomic & Microeconomic Principles Macroeconomics covers inflation, supply-side economics, macroeconomic equilibria, output and aggregate demand, consumption, money supply & money demand, fiscal & monetary policy, and exchange rate economics.
Microeconomics covers decision-making under uncertainty, general equilibrium approaches and modelling, competitive markets, oligopolistic behaviour and cartel formation, game theory applications, auction theory, selection mechanisms, non-linearity and chaos in economics.
Our Politics with Economics programme at Keele offers the chance to engage with work placements as part of your degree programme to gain valuable experience in the workplace on real-world case studies.
"My time at Keele was crucial in supporting me getting to where I am today.
The economics elements were crucial to gaining a good understanding of economic theory (quite handy as an economist), and studying Politics was really important in developing the skills I needed to be a leader in the civil service.
Beyond the practical knowledge like understanding how Parliament works, the soft skills I gained from Keele were incredibly helpful."
Matt, Politics and Economics
A degree in Politics with Economics will equip you with a wide range of skills that will assist you in the workplace across different sectors and industries.
You may wish to work in local government, the civil service or in financial organisations.
This programme will prepare you to bring an open mind and analytical skills to new environments and experiences.
Politics with Economics at Keele is taught through various methods to provide a range of different learning experiences and engagements with peers and academics.
This is further strengthened through practical and computer laboratory-based classes where you can analyse, describe and interpret business data.
You will have the opportunity to work with such companies and develop your own entrepreneurial ideas if you opt to take the Entrepreneurship Year.
Our foundation year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Politics with Economics degree.
FYO-00251
Students will need to apply for BA (Hons) Politics with Economics with Foundation Year (UCAS code: LL15) through UCAS at www.ucas.com.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/psychology:
Are you curious about the human mind, people's emotions and behaviours?
Train for a career in Psychology with our British Psychological Society (BPS) accredited degree.
Our Psychology BSc covers core BPS content including biological, cognitive, social, and developmental psychology.
You'll also get the opportunity to explore specialised fields like mental health, counselling, forensic, health, business, and sport psychology.
By blending theoretical knowledge with hands-on experience using industry-standard equipment, along with opportunities for placements or study abroad, you'll graduate equipped with the skills needed to excel in your career.
Join Keele's comprehensive BPS-accredited* Psychology degree with a modern curriculum, systematically exploring the mind, brain and behaviour.
Designed to prepare you for a successful career in psychology, our programme equips you with essential skills in both quantitative and qualitative research, ensuring a thorough understanding of diverse psychological methodologies that you can apply to your learning throughout your degree.
You will explore a breadth of topics from social, cognitive and biological psychology, building a foundation to your degree which you can tailor through optional modules across areas including forensics, business and sport and exercise psychology.
As an emerging researcher, you will gain experience with data analysis, report writing and practical sessions that enable you to apply your learning and draw upon psychological theories explored as part of your programme of study.
You will have access to a range of facilities and equipment, including virtual reality headsets, brain stimulation devices, and our state-of-the-art Central Science Laboratories .
You'll learn from real-world research projects, use industry-standard equipment and gain practical experience from placement opportunities.
We will examine many contemporary issues such as online dating, the use of social media, online advertising, and how we interact with others on the Internet.
Business Psychology Theory and Practice Due to the changing nature of work, work environments and technology, business psychology is one of many growth areas in psychological practice.
Topics will be introduced with due consideration to evidence-based practice, to give you an understanding of the importance of scientific evidence in psychological practice; as such you will synthesise and evaluate literature from psychological and business publications.
Current Themes in Sports and Exercise Psychology Sport, physical activity and exercise play an essential part in many people’s lives.
Moreover, they play a significant role in society both from local and international perspectives.
This module provides you with an opportunity to develop your knowledge and understanding of how key psychology theories and models are applied to sport, physical activity and exercise contexts.
You will be introduced to debates in sport and exercise psychology and how it is used to examine and support sport, physical activity and exercise in everyday life as well as elite and professional sport and performance.
Evidence-based Sport and Exercise Psychology This module will introduce you to some of the evidence-based practices used by applied practitioners within sport and exercise psychology.
You will be introduced to a variety of psychological measurement tools and interventions aimed at either improving athletic performance of enhancing exercise uptake and adherence.
Forensic Psychology and the Criminal Justice System This module provides an in-depth investigation of forensic psychology, covering the full process of criminal justice system, including factors affecting witness memory, accuracy of identification, jury decision making, working vulnerable witness and offenders, as well as offender assessment, treatment and rehabilitation.
This module will further deepen your understanding of crimes and criminal investigation, giving you a wholistic understanding of how human factors affect and interact with the criminal justice process.
Applied Sport, Exercise, and Performance Psychology Building on content delivered in previous years, this module will further develop your applied knowledge and increase your understanding of the different aspects of sport, exercise and performance psychology and the context in which psychology may be applied in these settings.
You will apply theories, strategies and skills aimed at improving and enhancing performance in both individual and competitive/team sports.
Similarly, you will explore the psychological factors underpinning physical activity and inactivity and the reasons why people do and do not engage in physical activity while also exploring the link between physical activity and mental health.
A psychology degree opens a wide variety of career options in both science and the arts.
The unique combination of skills that characterise the study of psychology are transferable across disciplines and into the world of work.
You will acquire skills in oral and written communication, the use of IT, numeracy and data analysis, project management, team working, problem-solving, and skills in research methodology.
Graduating with a degree in psychology will open many opportunities whether you wish to become a professional psychologist through further study, or explore careers in:
"Conducting research and experiments in fields you have an interest in - where you could possibly have an impact on the world is definitely the most rewarding part of the course."
Pierce, Psychology
Our enriched psychology programme involves an array of teaching  methods to suit a range of learning styles.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Psychology course.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Psychology with Foundation Year (UCAS code C802) through UCAS at www.ucas.com
"My time at Keele was completely pleasurable and thoroughly supported by course tutors and my dissertation supervisor.
As a mature student, Keele had everything I could ask for in regards to understanding my circumstances and helping me achieve my best.
Covid-19 did not affect the high standards of teaching and support, it enhanced these by showing just how dedicated the staff are to all students."
Corina, BSc Psychology and MSc Child Development alumna

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/psychologyandeducation:
Launch your career with our Psychology and Education BSc at Keele.
Explore the study of the mind, brain, and behaviour while examining contemporary issues in education to better understand society and the lifelong impact of education.
Build a wide range of skills in critical analysis, communication and research to become equipped for careers in psychology, education and beyond.
Keele's Psychology and Education degree covers the biological bases of behaviour, cognition, individual differences, human social interaction and lifespan development, as well as contemporary issues in education and policymaking.
Our BPS-accredited* programme studies the mind, brain and behaviour to understand how people think, feel, communicate and act.
You will develop the skills to understand people, and investigate how children learn in the classroom, from effective teaching to individual development.
Build a foundation of knowledge across Psychology and Education exploring core areas of social development, personalities and social interactions to examine individuals on a scientific and theoretical basis.
The blend of both subjects enables you to investigate concepts such as equality of opportunity, class, and gender and how psychology can explain behaviour within various social contexts such as the classroom.
You will be introduced to a range of psychological theories and models, covering topics in developmental and social psychology to investigate how we understand sensory information and memories, and the influence of genes and hormones on behaviour.
Studying education will enable you to consider its relationship to the economy, its evolution and impact on people's life chances and identities.
These insights will allow you to challenge inequalities in education and consider the support available for children from marginalised communities, with a focus on diversity and inclusion.
Throughout the programme, you will develop relevant skills and expertise to conduct qualitative and quantitative research in psychology, applying your knowledge to real-world scenarios within educational contexts to understand how children learn and the challenges professionals face working with young learners.
You will have the opportunity to study abroad with a partner university, developing global perspectives and cultural awareness or take a work placement year to prepare for your career after university.
Education, Identities and Spaces This module explores what it means to ‘be’ a teacher or someone working with learners in the 21st century and what the biggest challenges are currently facing the profession.
Grand Challenges in Psychology This final year module serves as the culminating and integrative experience of your undergraduate degree programmes.
With a degree in Psychology and Education, you will gain a thorough understanding of young people within educational settings and an array of advanced skills that can be applied to various careers.
You will develop emotional intelligence, critical thinking skills and effective communication abilities that will support you in the workplace.
Popular graduate destinations include:
Engage with a diverse mix of teaching methods which vary according to the subject matter and level of modules on this programme.
You will refine your independent study skills as you progress throughout the programme, with directed readings and reflection on your own learning.
Teaching sessions allow you to gain a systematic understanding of ideas and how they may be used to analyse a variety of contemporary issues.
This will include lectures, video or audio presentations, tutorials and seminars and laboratory classes.
You will also engage with flipped learning which enables you to review and revise materials in advance of your classes to prepare for discussions, debates and evaluations.
This programme includes a wide variety of assessment methods to reflect the broad range of knowledge and skills that are developed throughout the programme.
You will engage with essays and laboratory reports to evaluate the quality and application of subject knowledge, as well as research projects and reports to communicate ideas effectively.
This is strengthened through opportunities to critique, present and review other scholars' work to identify key information and demonstrate your psychological knowledge.
Our Psychology and Education degree offers fortnightly tests to reinforce your learning and to provide valuable feedback.
You will work on problem-based assignments to solve real-world scenarios and critically analyse public policies and documents related to education.
With an array of skills and knowledge, you will be able to showcase your expertise through portfolios and reflective diaries enabling you to think about your personal experiences.
The Keele University Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Psychology and Education degree.
For example, the Foundations of Psychology module introduces you to the principles and concepts of psychology in a theoretical context, while also demonstrating the application of concepts to everyday life.
You'll discover how psychology as a science studies human behaviour.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Psychology and Education with Foundation Year (UCAS code CX84) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/psychologywithcounselling:
Psychology with Counselling BSc provides insights into the mind, brain and behaviours and equips you with advanced skills, applicable to a range of specialist careers.
We will train you to become a well-rounded psychologist, enabling you to build the skills to work effectively with clients and to understand how people think, feel and communicate.
Our British Psychological Society (BPS) accredited programme prepares you for a career in helping others with a focus on the person-centred approach and insights into the skillset of a counselling practitioner.
With mental health at the forefront of society, explore the challenges facing research and practice in the sector, and the psychological approaches to improving public wellbeing.
Delve into a breadth of topics from social, developmental, cognitive and biological psychology, building a foundation of knowledge and insights into individual differences.
You will learn about the appropriate methods for clients to talk about experiences and personal concerns, both from an emotional and psychological perspective.
Accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS)*, our contemporary Psychology with Counselling degree explores the mind, brain, and behaviour through the investigation of psychological theories that underpin cognition, individual differences and social development.
Examine various theoretical approaches within counselling, from Cognitive and Behavioural Therapy to other broad holistic approaches to wellbeing, with a focus on the person-centred approach.
You will develop professional practitioner skills around compassion, care, active listening, and interpersonal communication.
Our programme equips you with essential skills in both quantitative and qualitative research, ensuring a thorough understanding of diverse psychological methodologies.
Please note: this is not a practitioner training programme and does not qualify you to work with clients.
If you wish to become a qualified counsellor, psychotherapist or counselling psychologist in the future this programme can lead on to these courses of study.
Whether you would like to pursue a career in industry or related fields, our programme equips you with core skills in communication, problem-solving and analytical thinking.
You will also have the opportunity to study abroad with a partner university, to learn about Psychology and Counselling in an international context.
Introduction to Person Centred Therapy and Cognitive Behavioural Therapy In this module, you will be introduced to two different therapeutic approaches; Person-Centred Therapy (PCT) and Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT).
You will begin exploring how PCT and CBT are used in counselling practice through understanding and applying theory to practice.
You will also develop your personal and professional awareness and competencies in therapeutic settings to support you with critically reflecting on how PCT and CBT theories fit with your own experiences and beliefs and how these approaches can help you understand and support individuals in distress.
Exploring and Applying Person Centred Therapy and Cognitive Behavioural Therapy Building on the 2nd year module, you will develop a range of basic counselling skills in a safe and structured environment.
You will focus on your own personal and professional development, helping you to begin to develop the necessary therapeutic skills for working in helping relationships.
You will practice listening and interpersonal communications skills necessary for utilizing both PCT and CBT approaches.
"Conducting research and experiments in any field that you have an interest in, where you could possibly have an impact on the world, is definitely the most rewarding part of the course."
Peirce, Psychology
You will have access to an academic mentor, academic support team, disability officer and careers tutor.
A member of Keele’s Student Experience and Support team is also dedicated to the School of Psychology if you need any additional support, or someone to talk to, whether about your degree programme or life outside of your studies.
In addition to the School's support offering, Keele Student Services is also your one-stop-shop for information, support and guidance.
They can offer help on a range of areas, including:
As a university and as a school, we are committed to equality, diversion and inclusion.
Our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) agenda is embedded throughout the School of Psychology curriculum and we are proud to have been recognised for our activities in this area by holding the Athena SWAN bronze award.
With a passion for helping others, a popular route after graduation may be to pursue a career as a counselling psychologist.
Counselling psychologists treat a wide range of mental health matters including depression, anxiety, eating disorders and psychosis.
To practice in the UK you must be registered with the Health & Care Professions Council (HCPC), which involves training at postgraduate level.
The unique combination of skills that characterise the study of psychology with counselling are transferable across disciplines and into the world of work.
You will acquire skills in effective communication, emotional intelligence, problem-solving, analytical thinking and team working.
There are a wide variety of professional careers that value analytical thinkers, skilled communicators and ambitious problem-solvers.
"Studying Psychology has enhanced my employability by offering countless opportunities to further my skills and knowledge - including voluntary work in labs, and talks from academics.
I believe I will stand out when applying for further study and jobs because of these experiences."
Naomi, Neuroscience and Psychology
To ensure you receive a high-quality learning experience, teaching will be delivered through a diverse range of methods including:
The programme includes a range of assessment styles to develop your academic and employability skills.
Our teaching is driven by research and our counselling team are practicing counsellors.
You will benefit from studying modules that explore the latest, most pertinent topics right at the cutting-edge of psychology.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Psychology with Counselling course.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Psychology with Counselling with Foundation Year (UCAS code C8BF) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/psychologywithcriminology:
Are you fascinated by human behaviour and curious about why people commit crimes?
Advance your expertise in critical thinking, along with qualitative and quantitative research skills, to better understand people and crime.
By combining a solid foundation in psychological and criminological theories with practical skills, our Psychology with Criminology BSc will open doors to a wide range of career opportunities - not only as a psychologist but also in sectors like criminal justice, healthcare, and education.
Delve into the study of the human mind, people's emotions and behaviours.
Psychology with Criminology degree at Keele explores why people act the way they do, how they think and why they commit crimes.
Our BPS-accredited* programme covers a breadth of topics from social, cognitive, biological and developmental psychology, as well as fundamental topics in criminology, criminal justice and ethics.
This integrated programme provides the scientific basis of psychology with explanations of criminal behaviour, how the criminal justice system operates and challenges in the 21st century.
You’ll develop an understanding of people and crime through a strong theoretical foundation in criminology, paired with practical skills as a psychology researcher skilled in both quantitative and qualitative data.
Throughout the programme you’ll gain hands-on experience as an analytical researcher by working on various mini-projects, all of which prepare you for your final-year dissertation, where you can specialise in an area of your choice
At Keele, you will advance your professional skills as a researcher, psychologist and social scientist.
Whether you would like to pursue a career in psychology or related fields, our programme equips you with core skills in communication, problem-solving and analytical thinking to help prepare you for employment.
You can broaden your horizons by studying abroad, learn a foreign language, or complete a work placement year for industry experience, and tailor your degree programme based on your future career aspirations.
Students will have a combination of in-person and asynchronous active learning, complemented by weekly 2-hour practical labs.
The aim of this module is to introduce you to criminology as a subject, to where our understanding of ‘crime’ comes from, and to the ways in which criminological theories and ideas can help us to understand contemporary crime problems.
Crime Across Boarders This module introduces cross-border crime and the impacts of globalisation and technological innovation on crime and criminal justice.
These topics will be explored in a way that extends and synthesises your previous learning from across the breadth of the programme.
Policing in the 21st Century The module will explore changes, challenges and opportunities in 21st century policing relating to topics such as decision making, public protection, response policing, roads policing, vulnerability and risk, domestic abuse, counter terrorism, community policing, policing and the digital and police investigation.
Health, Illness and Behaviour Change This module aims to cover aspects of health, disease, and disease prevention from a Health Psych perspective.
A variety of perspectives on justice and power have emerged, including the idea that criminology's focus should not simply be on crime but on social harm.
Whether you wish to explore a career in the sciences, the criminal justice system or healthcare, Psychology with Criminology BSc will equip you with an array of transferable skills that can be applied to various careers.
From problem-solving, critical thinking to investigate qualities, you will attain both practical and research skills that will provide a foundation for professional roles across industries.
Our integrated programme in Psychology with Criminology offers an array of teaching methods to suit a variety of learning styles.
In addition to this range of learning styles, you will also be able to apply your learning in preparation for your final year dissertation 'Being a Psychology Researcher', with the opportunity to undertake a piece of independent research.
This programme includes a range of assessment types to develop your academic subject knowledge and skills as well as preparing you for employment with transferable skills across various industries.
With insights into psychology and criminology, you will be able to apply your learning and demonstrate your expertise through the following assessments:
The Keele Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Psychology with Criminology degree.
Applicants will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Psychology with Foundation Year (UCAS code C802) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/psychologywithhumanbiology:
Are you fascinated by what drives human behaviour and curious about the biological systems fundamental to human existence?
Our Psychology with Human Biology programme at Keele bridges psychological theories with biological foundations to reveal the key influences shaping human conduct.
Through applying your combined knowledge to real-life situations, you'll graduate prepared for diverse career opportunities - from specialised psychology fields to professions in teaching, childcare, counselling, human resources and more.
Our Psychology with Human Biology programme at Keele offers the perfect blend of psychological theory and biological understanding.
Your first year will provide a strong grounding in the fundamentals of both subjects.
You'll dive into the core British Psychological Society curriculum, covering developmental, social, biological, and cognitive psychology - while examining what makes each of us unique within these areas.
You will explore research methods for psychology, including the philosophical underpinnings of qualitative and quantitative design, as well as data collection, data analysis, and report writing.
This will enable you to draw meaningful conclusions about human thought and behaviour.
The programme also explores the core areas of human biology, physiology, and anatomy, whilst equipping you with the essential laboratory skills required for future work in bioscience.
During your studies you will have access to a range of facilities and equipment, including virtual reality headsets, brain stimulation devices, and our state-of-the-art Central Science Laboratories .
We also make extensive use of our large and diverse campus environment for fieldwork in addition to numerous fieldwork visits off-campus.
As you progress through your degree, you can explore specialised topics that align with your interests - such as child psychology, neurodiversity, human genetics or cancer biology.
This comprehensive approach allows you to connect psychological principles with biological underpinnings and discover how these disciplines apply to countless real-world situations.
We will also help you to advance your professional skills as a researcher and psychologist in the making, whilst providing you with the knowledge to become a responsible and ethical researcher.
Starting with small projects in your first and second years, you will build toward completing a substantial dissertation in your final year under the guidance of an expert in your chosen field.
This programme is accredited by the British Psychological Society, as providing the Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership [GBC].
This is subject to passing the final year compulsory module ‘Being a Psychology Researcher' and achieving a minimum 2:2 degree award.
First Steps in Becoming a Psychology Researcher (30 credits) You will be introduced to research methods for psychology, including the philosophical underpinnings of qualitative and quantitative design, as well as data collection, data analysis, and report writing.
Understanding People (30 credits) The core psychological topics in development, social, cognitive, and biological psychology, as well as individual differences, will be introduced.
Human Physiology and Anatomy (30 credits) The module will introduce you to the major physiological systems and anatomical structures of the human organism, including the digestive, cardiovascular and endocrine systems.
Cells, Genetics and Evolution (30 credits) Embarking on the study of biology from a genes to ecosystems level requires knowledge and understanding of fundamental concepts in biology.
Practical and Academic Skills in Bioscience (0 credits) In this module you will develop a range of core practical laboratory skills, applying theoretical concepts from across your programme and deepening your understanding of the subject through hypothesis-driven practical investigation.
Next Steps in Becoming a Psychology Researcher (30 credits) Building on ‘First Steps in Becoming a Psychology Researcher’, you will be introduced to more advanced topics in both qualitative and quantitative research methods.
Understanding People in Depth (30 credits) Building on ‘Understanding People’, you will study theory and findings associated with developmental, social, cognitive, and biological psychology and individual differences.
Applications of Molecular Biology (15 credits) In this module, you will explore how we can study and manipulate genetic material, from sequencing technologies to gene cloning and genetic engineering.
Psychopathology (15 credits) "Psycho" translates to "mind" and "pathos" means "illness or disease"; "-ology" means "to study".
Cyberpsychology - the psychology of technology and the internet (15 credits) Cyberpsychology is a relatively new sub-discipline, but one that is increasingly relevant in today's online world.
Collective Action and Social Change (15 credits) You will learn about individual and group level processes that energize and sedate social change.
You will then apply your knowledge to and learning to analyse and understand current events, protests, demonstrations, and larger social movements and provide recommendations to decision makers Health Psychology (15 credits) Why do people behave the way that they do around their health?
Child Psychology in Practice (15 credits) Psychology is used in many fields and professions which seek to improve the lives of children.
Wellbeing & Mental Health in the Community (15 credits) In this module, you will be introduced to different communities and how mental health and wellbeing might vary depending on the community.
Neuroimaging and Cognitive Neuroscience (15 credits) One of science’s biggest unanswered questions regards how complex cognition, behaviour, and consciousness arise from the structure and activity of the brain.
Microbes, Viruses and Parasite (15 credits) Here you will study the biology of bacteria, viruses and parasites, considering a range of pathogenic organisms and the diseases they cause.
Human Genetics (15 credits) You will look at some of the applications of key genetic concepts at the level of the individual and the population.
Nutrition and Health (15 credits) In this module, you will explore the critical roles of macronutrients and micronutrients in nutrition and health.
Current Topics in Biology (15 credits) A broad range of biological challenges facing society today will be featured in a series of expert talks.
Being a Psychology Researcher (30 credits) The dissertation module, which runs over Autumn and Spring Semesters, offers the opportunity to put into practice all the scholarship and research methods skills developed over the Psychology Course.
Professional Skills for Researchers (15 credits) Building on the skills developed in previous years, this module will support you in the final steps to being a psychology researcher.
Grand Challenges in Psychology (15 credits) This final year module serves as the culminating and integrative experience of our undergraduate degree programmes.
Human Evolution (15 credits) Have you ever wondered how you came to be a member of the only species we know that lives in a highly complex, global, and technological society?
Health, Illness and Behaviour Change (30 credits) You will cover aspects of health, disease, and disease prevention from a Health Psych perspective.
Morality in Action: Justice, Society, and Climate Change (30 credits) This module explores the fundamental questions of morality and justice, including how we decide what is right and wrong, how we assign blame and responsibility, and the factors that affect trust and cooperation.
Cognitive Psychology (30 credits) This module will develop your ability to evaluate and test cognitive psychological models.
Gender and Sexualities (15 credits) You will participate in a series of interactive classes and online activities which examine the theories and methods used to examine gender and sexuality from a psychological perspective.
Psychology in Education (15 credits) Psychology in Education is designed to develop your understanding of psychological research, theory and practice in education.
Wellbeing & Mental Health Practice (15 credits) In this module, you will be introduced to advanced psychological approaches to predicting and protecting wellbeing and mental health.
Neurodiversity in Society (15 credits) This module focuses on neurodiversity in society: how do individuals differ from each other, and what effects could these differences have?
Human Parasitology (15 credits) In this module, you will explore the theoretical and practical aspects of parasitic diseases of humans, considering such topics as the life cycle of select parasites between vector and host, the pathogenesis of parasitic infections, and their diagnosis and treatment.
Cancer Biology (15 credits) This module will introduce you to the field of cancer biology, exploring the molecular and cellular hallmarks of cancer, and how the understanding of these is beginning to inform novel therapeutic development.
Conservation Biology (15 credits) Dive into conservation biology, exploring biodiversity and conservation in the face of human impacts.
Delve into conservation with guest speakers, gaining first hand insights into this multifaceted domain.
Experience conservation work first hand and broaden your understanding of this vital field.
Animals and Society (15 credits) Non-human animals interact with humans on a daily basis as wildlife, livestock, food, clothing, companions, beasts of burden, entertainment and therapy.
Our British Psychological Society accredited degree can open doors to advanced postgraduate qualifications, paving the way to specialised careers such as clinical psychology, educational psychology, forensic psychology, or organisational psychology.
This qualification also supports career advancement in diverse fields including teaching, childcare, counselling, human resources, research, data analysis, law enforcement, prison services, social work, marketing, healthcare, and numerous other professional pathways.
Our teaching approach is diverse and inclusive, featuring both large lectures and intimate seminar groups, guided online learning through videos and readings, and independent study opportunities.
Our passionate and supportive staff will guide you through psychological theories and practical research methods, offering additional help whenever you need it.
Assessments on this programme include:
Human biology practical work will take place in Keele's new, state-of-the-art, Central Science Laboratories and The David Attenborough Laboratories .
The David Attenborough research laboratories will make a significant contribution to the Global Health Initiative at Keele, and will be home to researchers working on neurological disorders including Parkinson’s disease, spinal injury, oncology, viral infections and carbohydrate biochemistry.
This foundation year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Psychology with Neuroscience degree.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Psychology with Human Biology with Foundation Year (UCAS code TBC) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/psychologywithneuroscience:
Fascinated by why people behave the way they do or how emotions and the brain shape actions?
Keele's Psychology with Neuroscience BSc dives into human behaviour, blending core psychology topics with neuroscience to explore how the brain controls movement, emotion, and senses.
You'll gain a broad understanding of the mind and behaviour, applying your knowledge to real-world situations, and preparing for diverse careers in biosciences, human health, and research.
From physiology and anatomy to human behaviour and brain activity, our BPS-accredited Psychology with Neuroscience degree* introduces you to core psychological topics in social development, cognition and biological influences to understand why people act in certain ways and how the human brain works.
Investigate the study of the nervous system and how humans function and navigate through their environment, gaining knowledge of various neurological functions and the consequences of their deficiencies and dysfunctions such as the immune, respiratory and digestive system.
Build core practical skills in laboratory and/or fieldwork as well as quantitative and qualitative research, ensuring a thorough understanding of diverse psychological methodologies.
Gain hands-on experience with analytical and observational tasks and procedures equipping you to become an ethical researcher.
Introduction to Neuroscience This module will introduce you to the anatomy and function of the nervous system, drawing on information from a range of organisms but primarily aimed at understanding the human nervous system.
You will be given practical exercises to supplement your understanding of both human and animal anatomy and physiology, microscopy and recording techniques using computer based physiology work stations.
Human Physiology and Anatomy This module will introduce you to the normal human anatomy and physiology.
This will include the digestive, nervous, neuromuscular, respiratory, cardiovascular, excretory, immune, reproductive and endocrine systems, and their functions.
We will also begin to explore how different pathologies can develop as a result of a deficiency or dysfunction within these body systems.
A lab-based proforma will help you to understand how to analyse and interpret data.
Practical and Academic Skills in Bioscience The development of core practical skills is an essential component of a bioscience degree and therefore this module will enable you to develop laboratory and/or fieldwork skills appropriate to the subject you are studying in the School of Life Sciences in the first year of your course.
This module will be delivered through a suite of timetabled laboratory and/or field-based sessions across  the year, allowing you to gain hands-on experience in a range of preparative, analytical and observational procedures, as well as in the safe use of equipment and general good laboratory working practices.
You will also develop skills in data recording, analysis and interpretation using a laboratory/field notebook and completion of other assigned analysis tasks.
Neurodevelopment In this module you will learn how the body builds its nervous system on an anatomical, physiological and molecular level.
We will try to answer questions about how neurones grow, migrate and change, how synapses are made and pruned and how wiring develops with particular reference to vertebrate nervous systems.
The module includes a discussion of postnatal development and the ways in which the nervous system continues to change during childhood, adulthood and old age.
Neuropharmacology By the end of this module, you will be able to discuss how medications that are aimed to treat neurological and mental disorders would usually apply their effects (e.g., binding to specific substrates).
You will be able to critically appraise preclinical trials (in models of disease) and evaluate the effectiveness of an intervention in the clinic (clinical trials).
You will be able to explain absorption, metabolism, solubility, ability to cross the blood-brain barrier, clearance (excretion and secretion), and toxicity (ADMET) of a drug of choice in neuroscience.
You will be able to discuss about drug-receptor interactions, dose-response (concentration response in models of disease) and how presence of confounding factors could alter   distribution, metabolism, and elimination of drugs systemically or within the nervous system.
You will also be able to link basic principles of neuropharmacology, molecular mechanisms, and therapeutic index with wider disciplines such as population health, health economics, and neuroanatomy.
Finally, you will be able to critically evaluate advances made in neuropharmacology towards precision therapy and personalised medicine in recent years.
Learning & Memory How we learn and remember events is a complex process that we often take for granted.
Learning is critical to how we adapt our behaviour in an ever-changing, and often challenging, environment.
Memories allow us to draw from our experiences and come to define who we are.
In fact, they are so crucial, it would be extremely difficult to function with any kind of impairment to our learning or memory.
The human brain is highly plastic, changing significantly following experience and can support many different types of learning and memory.
In this Learning Memory module, you will understand how the brain encodes, stores and recalls information, which are also important challenges in neuroscience research.
Tutorials and workshops throughout the module will support group discussion of core material and you will explore many of the fascinating behavioural, cellular and biological aspects of how we learn and remember.
Behavioural Neuroscience Behavioural Neuroscience is a multidisciplinary module designed to develop an understanding of human and animal behaviour in terms of nervous system function.
The module content focuses on the brains of mammals — especially humans — through a detailed examination of both cortical and subcortical systems that mediate specific behaviours.
There are occasional references to lower vertebrates and even invertebrates where the study of shared mechanisms in simpler animals is useful.
Modern Neuroscience is an interdisciplinary study, and this is reflected in the syllabus in that it draws on information from anatomy, physiology, neurochemistry, neuropharmacology and neuroendocrinology to bring about an understanding of behaviour.
Topics covered include motivated behaviours that comprise basic and primal drives to adapt to the environment such as pleasure and pain, stress, emotions, sleep and consciousness.
Although there are no prerequisites for this module, if you have little or no background in Neuroscience you may find some of the module content challenging.
There is supplemental material listed on the KLE to help you master the module topics.
There is also a special “crash course” seminar in basic Neuroscience.
You will take a very active role in your own learning, working in a small group with other students.
There will be close guidance of module tutors to help you develop the lecture content and deliver a part of the curriculum.
This will include the preparation of supplemental study notes, reading lists and SAQs.
Neuropathology In this module, you will learn about the pathophysiology, aetiology, and predisposing factors of a number of common neurological, neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric disorders.
You will study clinical manifestations of neurological disorders, cellular and molecular mechanisms, and advances made in diagnosis, prevention, prediction and treatments of these pathologies.
Problem Based learning (PBL) sessions will enable you to develop transferable skills such as team work, group-based learning, and problem solving.
Regeneration and Repair in the Nervous System The adult nervous system displays quite a remarkable ability to regenerate following degeneration or trauma.
Furthermore, it has been extensively demonstrated that primary neuronal tissue/cells can be transplanted into the adult nervous system, and given an appropriate time period can integrate with the host tissue, ultimately restoring neurological function.
You will explore regeneration and repair strategies across the peripheral and central (brain and spinal cord) nervous systems, and examine their application in an array of neurological disorders, including Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, Alzheimer's disease, spinal cord trauma and stroke.
The module is mainly delivered through the release of short, pre-recorded videos which will be fully supported by live workshops and tutorials all delivered by tutors with active research in nervous system regeneration and repair.
You will hear about their current research and get involved in debates on current regeneration topics.
Additionally, thanks to the in-course assessments and associated workshops, you will explore and learn two important and essential skills in science: how to write a grant proposal and how to critically peer-review.
Current Research Topics in Neuroscience Neuroscience is one of the fastest growing research areas with new concepts and ideas emerging all the time.
Keeping track of these new areas is a challenging but rewarding task for the neuroscientist, especially those interested in deep knowledge of their subject and potentially interested in a research career.
In this module you will learn about the most recent advances in selected fields of neuroscience and their implications.
You will be expected to read journal articles on a specific topic and learn how to summarize and evaluate the subject area concisely, in the process developing a better understand of the subject and an ability to identify the key points and what they mean for the future of neuroscience.
Special Senses In this module, you will learn about the special senses i.e., vision, hearing, balance, smell, and taste.
You will be able to explain transduction (how the effective stimulus is converted into electrical signals in the periphery), transmission (how these signals are conveyed to the brain), processing (how the nervous system analyses the information) and perception (what aspects of the stimulus humans become aware of).
You will also learn about the aetiopathology and cellular and molecular mechanisms behind common diseases and disorders of special senses as well as neurological disorders that affect special senses.
You will be able to critically evaluate a research paper in the field and enhance your understanding about advances in research and discovery.
A degree in Psychology with Neuroscience will open up a range of opportunities, enabling you to demonstrate your high level skill-set.
Your subject-knowledge and professional skills will prepare you for the workplace environment, further study and a career based on your interests, whether you wish to work as a laboratory technician, researcher or in clinical science.
Our programme is delivered in a variety of ways, meaning there is something to suit a range of learning styles.
You will have both large and small group teaching, guided online learning via videos and readings, as well as independent study.
You will be guided through your learning of psychological theory and practical research skills by passionate and supportive staff within the School of Psychology .
With a range of assessment types to complement your learning experiences, you will develop various subject-specific skills as well as professional skills that are transferable across a variety of careers.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Psychology with Neuroscience with Foundation Year (UCAS code C833) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/psychologywithphilosophy:
Why do people act the way they do?
How do we reason with logic?
Our Psychology with Philosophy BSc uncovers the theories and topics behind human behaviour, thoughts and actions.
Our BPS-accredited programme introduces you to psychological and philosophical topics to understand people, and provides a logical toolbox to answer contemporary questions, equipping you with advanced skills for various careers.
Are you curious about human behaviour and why people think, act and respond the way they do?
With a critical view of the world around us, our Psychology with Philosophy degree opens doors to investigate the human mind, people's emotions and behaviours.
On this BPS-accredited* programme, you will cover a breadth of topics from social, cognitive, biological and developmental psychology, as well as fundamental topics in philosophy, ethics and logic.
Our integrated programme provides a grounding in the discipline of psychology, whilst delving into philosophical ideas, from ancient, Greek, Indian, Chinese and African philosophy.
You will explore the philosophy of the mind and examine contemporary issues in science using logical and analytical skills.
You’ll develop as an inquisitive researcher, gaining experience through various mini-projects and hands-on learning opportunities that will prepare you for your final-year dissertation, where you can specialise in an area of your choice.
At Keele, you will advance your professional skills as a researcher, psychologist and social scientist in the making.
You'll learn how philosophical thinking can improve your life, similar to psychotherapy.
Graduating with a degree in Psychology with Philosophy will prepare you for a wide range of careers with transferable skills in communication, analytical thinking and problem-solving, that can be applied to various roles across industries.
You will become a critical thinker with a curious mind, providing new insights in the workplace, whether you wish to pursue a career in science, the arts or beyond.
Your degree will open many opportunities whether you wish to become a professional psychologist through further study, or explore careers in:
Psychology with Philosophy BSc offers an exciting mix of teaching methods to suit a variety of learning styles.
In addition to this array of learning styles, you will be able to apply your learning in preparation for your final year dissertation 'Being a Psychology Researcher', with the opportunity to undertake a piece of independent research.
With an range of teaching styles, our assessments allow you to demonstrate the knowledge and skills you have gained on this programme and how you can apply your learnings through different methods.
Our assessments include:
Our combined honours foundation year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Psychology with Philosophy degree.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Psychology with Foundation Year (UCAS code: C802) through UCAS at www.ucas.com.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/psychologywithplacementyear:
Prepare for your professional career with a work placement year, whilst building a foundation of knowledge in psychology.
Our four-year BPS-accredited Psychology with Placement Year BSc enables you to take a scientific approach to understanding why people behave the way they do and apply your learnings through a work placement, developing industry insights and practical experience in the real-world.
The skills you will develop on this degree will not only equip you with subject-specific knowledge but will also provide you with a variety of transferable skills that can be used across a wide range of sectors.
Study psychology for a deep understanding of the mind and behaviour.
From biological influences and social pressures to environmental factors that affect how people think, act, and feel - psychology underpins all that we are and everything we do.
On this BPS-accredited programme*, you will follow the Single Honours Psychology structure, and take a year out to work within an applied setting between your second year and final year.
This might be working with a charity, working with people with mental health difficulties or disabilities, or acting as a research assistant in a university department.
Doing a placement year enables you to use the psychological knowledge and skills acquired from the course in a practical setting relevant to developing a professional psychology career.
Whether you choose to source your own placement or take advantage of our links with local organisations, we'll support you throughout the process to find a placement to suit your future aspirations.
You'll learn from real-world research projects, use industry-standard equipment and gain practical experience.
Graduating with a degree with enriched work experience will help to enhance your career prospects, having transferable skills ready to hit the ground running.
Your work placement year will help to prepare you for a range of careers, working effectively with colleagues and independently, whist building your expertise in the workplace.
Our enriched psychology programme involves an array of teaching methods to suit a range of learning styles.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Psychology with Placement Year course.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/psychologywithsociology:
Embark on a fascinating journey to understand people, society and behaviour on our Psychology with Sociology BSc.
Learn about the mind, emotions and individual differences, using theories, research methods and concepts to uncover human behaviour.
As a social scientist, you will develop valuable skills in critical thinking, communication and problem-solving that will support you in the workplace, across a wide range of careers in psychology, education, civil services and the health sector.
Are you curious to understand why people act in certain ways and how social groups are formed?
Keele's Psychology with Sociology degree examines the human mind, people’s emotions, and behaviours, as well as analysing culture and society.
Our BPS-accredited* programme covers developmental, social, biological, and cognitive psychology, as well as the 'why' behind individual differences within each of these areas.
Sociology explores fundamental questions about society, social relationships, institutions, and culture.
You will be introduced to fundamental topics in ethics and social theory with the opportunity to investigate these further as you progress through your degree.
The blend of Psychology with Sociology enables you to consider how these subjects can be applied to different areas of life and go hand in hand to understand society.
Throughout your degree, you will train as a responsible and ethical researcher, building valuable skills, applicable to various careers.
You will gain skills in how to conduct research and interpret qualitative and quantitative data to draw conclusions that advance your understanding of how people think and behave.
Developing critical thinking skills, you will become equipped with essential attributes applicable for working in various fields from caring professions, education and psychology.
You will also have the opportunity to gain hands-on experience through placement opportunities that will support you to hit the ground running in the workplace environment, developing personal and professional skills.
Society People and Place: Global Issues and Local Realities This module explores the theories and methods used by sociologists for analysing culture and society.
Health, Illness, and Behaviour Change Aims to cover aspects of health, disease, and disease prevention from a Health Psych perspective.
You also cannot take both 'Flexible Work Placement (Level 6)' and ‘Professional Experience in Education’.
Having a greater understanding and social awareness of different environments, people and social structures will enable you to demonstrate your transferable skills across a range of social and professional contexts.
With a Psychology with Sociology degree at Keele, you will become equipped with skills that can be applied to different areas of the workplace.
You will attain strong communication skills, analytical thinking and emotional intelligence that will support you in your career.
Whether you wish to pursue further study to become a Chartered Psychologist or explore a career in education, policing or government, you will develop interpersonal skills that will contribute to your career across different industries.
This also includes the use of IT, numeracy and data analysis, project management, team work and research methodology.
Our Psychology with Sociology degree is delivered through an array of teaching methods.
You will engage with a range of teaching sessions, equipping you to build a diverse mix of skills that will support you in your assessments.
This also involves independent study, with use of academic journals and textbooks, whilst building team working skills alongside your peers.
With a variety of assessment methods, you will be able to demonstrate the knowledge and skills you have developed throughout the programme.
The Keele University Foundation Year  is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Psychology with Sociology degree.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Psychology with Foundation Year (UCAS code C802) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/radiographydiagnosticimaging:
Studying Radiography (Diagnostic Imaging) BSc will give you the skills, resilience, and healthcare knowledge to use cutting-edge medical technology to capture diagnostic images.
You will develop your clinical abilities for an exciting career in a dynamic healthcare environment providing outstanding patient centred care.
Our Radiography (Diagnostic Imaging) degree at Keele is designed to reflect the current nature of radiography practice and to meet the future demands of the profession.
The programme is structured around core themes including radiographic practice and radiographic science, the human body, interpreting images, inter-professional learning, and research.
You will apply your learning through a range of clinical placements to enable you to develop your practical skillset.
Medical imaging is used as a major diagnostic tool in the clinical setting including trauma, neurology, oncology, health screening and cardiac events.
You will develop clinical experience and technical knowledge by using all modes of medical imaging to take accurate images.
Imaging includes ionising radiation-based imaging such as  computerised tomography (CT), mammography and nuclear medicine (NM), and non-ionising radiation-based imaging such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and ultrasound (US).
You will study all aspects of radiographic science, anatomy, physiology and pathology and professional patient care both in theory and in practice.
You will also learn about the factors that can affect diagnostic images and acquire the skills you need to clinically evaluate the resultant radiographic images.
As you progress through your studies you will deepen your knowledge and expertise by looking at more complex imaging methods so that by year three of the programme you will be proficient in all graduate attributes required for registration as a Radiographer by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
Most patients require some form of diagnostic imaging as part of their care, so developing effective communication skills is essential in managing these interactions.
You will develop your communication skills from the beginning of the course to enable you to provide excellent patient care in a dignified way that meets the needs of a diverse range of service users.
You will benefit from inter-professional education which reflects the teamwork environment in the healthcare sector.
This involves working with a variety of students from physiotherapy, rehabilitation and exercise science, medicine, nursing, midwifery, paramedical science and pharmacy.
Gain hands on radiography experience in our excellent facilities that will further aid your learning.
These include a state-of-the-art digital X-ray suite, CT scanner, mock theatre setting with image intensifier, and mobile imaging in wards including simulated patients to hone your practical skills.
Your image evaluation skills will be enhanced through a digital hub with high-resolution screens for image interpretation.
Acquiring this essential radiography know-how in this safe and simulated clinical environment will increase your confidence and build your key skills before you start your radiography practice in an authentic clinical setting.
A large part of the programme involves you gaining clinical experience on placements using the various diagnostic imaging modes.
We have a dedicated placement education team who have extensive knowledge and skills to help source your placements, assist with preparing for them, and to provide ongoing support.
It is a mandatory requirement that you will rotate around clinical placement sites and at times seek accommodation/travel to support this rotation.
Commuting and seeking accommodation, where necessary, is essential for elements of your clinical placement.
Placements take place in a variety of healthcare settings which may include:
You may also undertake an elective placement of your choice during years two and three.
These give you the opportunity to select a specific area of interest like paediatrics or veterinary medicine.
Radiography at Keele University is accredited by the Society of Radiographers and is approved by the Health and Care Professionals Council.‌‌
"I have found the Radiography modules incredibly interesting and this has inspired me to read around topics and look up concepts in greater detail."
Max, Radiography (Diagnostic Imaging)
BBB in three A Levels including B in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
Contextual Offer: BBC in three A Levels including B in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in Biology, Chemistry or Physics A Level, or Distinction and Merit in Applied Science or Health and Social Care BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in any A Level.
Merit in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels including B in Biology, Chemistry or Physics, or Distinction in Applied Science or Health and Social Care BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels.
555 in three Higher Levels including 5 in Biology, Chemistry or Physics, or 30 points including 5 in Higher Level Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
Contextual Offer: 554 in three Higher Levels including 5 in Biology, Chemistry or Physics, or 29 points including 5 in Higher Level Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
122 UCAS points in an Access to HE Diploma with Biology, Chemistry or Physics related content, including Distinction in at least 30 Level 3 credits.
BBBCC in five Highers in Biology, Chemistry or Physics Higher, or CC in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers including Biology, Chemistry or Physics Higher or Advanced Higher, or CCC in three Advanced Highers including Biology, Chemistry or Physics Advanced Higher.
H3, H4, H4, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate including H4 in Biology, Chemistry, Physics, or Physics and Chemistry (combined).
73% in the Gaokao including 70% in Chemistry, Biology or Physics.
Average of 70% from four subjects including 70% in Chemistry, Physics or Biology in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 75% from four subjects including 75% in Chemistry, Physics or Biology in any other Standard XII.
2.2 overall average in the Abitur including 12 in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
13 in the French Baccalaureate / International Option Baccalaureate including 13 in Biology or Chemistry / Physics, or 12.5 in the Baccalauréat Français International including 12.5 in Biology or Chemistry / Physics.
444 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE including 4 in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
Overall average of 7.4 in the Título de Bachillerato including 8 in Chemistry, Physics or Biology.
80% in the Esame di Stato including 8 in Biology, Chemistry, Physics or Natural Science.
18 / 86% in the Apolytirion including 18 in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
Overall average of 15.5 in a Secondary Certificate including 16 in Chemistry, Physics or Biology.
65% / BBBCC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma including 70% in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
444 from three Advanced Placement subjects including 4 in Biology, Chemistry or Physics (any).
BBB in three Advanced Levels including B in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
BBB in three Principal Level subjects in the STPM including B in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
BBB in three H2 Levels including B in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
72% overall with 7 in Chemistry, Physics or Biology (4 period).
6 in European Baccalaureate Maths, plus an English language qualification (see below).
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with BBB including B in Chemistry, Biology or Physics.
BBB in three Principal Level subjects in the Advanced Certificate of Education including B in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
National Senior Certificate: 66666 in five subjects including 6 in Life Science or Physical Science.
BBB in three Advanced Level subjects including B in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
Under normal circumstances, students must be 18 years old when they commence the course, or by 1 October of the first Semester, due to the clinical elements of the programme.
We will also consider applicants with previous degrees, Foundation Degrees, and other health related higher education qualifications.
"I’ve enjoyed my Keele University and Radiography experience so much, mainly due to the amazing teaching from you all and how much our course feels like a family.
You’ve all gone above and beyond to ensure we all receive the best university experience and I can’t thank you enough.
I’m so glad I chose to come to Keele to study Radiography.
I feel I will come out of this a better person and radiographer because of my choice."
Victoria, Radiography (Diagnostic Imaging)
Eligible Radiography (Diagnostic Imaging) BSc (Hons) students can apply for funding support via the NHS Learning Support Fund, which includes a £5,000 training grant and certain travel and accommodation costs for placements.
Take a look at our Radiography simulation equipment including our new portable x-ray machine.
You will be supported through every stage of your studies on the radiography course.
You will be allocated an academic mentor who will be your first point of contact for advice and guidance and as a first year student, you are also offered a student mentor.
You will have access to a dedicated Student Experience and Support Officer who supports students from the School of Allied Health Professions and Pharmacy.
As part of Keele’s student services, they work collaboratively with other teams across the university to enable you to easily access the support you need.
There is peer support, and additional help available from the School's  Student Engagement and Retention Lead who provides an additional layer of support for all students, particularly for those who have special learning needs.
Radiography offers excellent career prospects as the changing needs of the healthcare sector has created a demand for more radiographers.
There are different career paths you can pursue as a professional such as a reporting radiographer for CT, MRI and plain imaging.
There are more study opportunities at postgraduate level or you can choose to become a consultant radiographer who provides expertise, and who leads the radiography department.
Advanced radiography practitioners also undertake procedures and are able to diagnose and treat patients.
State of the art Siemans Multix Fusion digital X-ray suite will allow you to become confident and competent with authentic X-ray equipment before attending clinical placements.
In the Darwin you can practice using the phantom patient to practice your technique in small group sessions.
There is also IT facilities and recording cameras to revise your positioning technique as required.
All the above facilities in the Darwin Imaging Suite will help you consolidate learning from all academic modules into clinical practice.
A state of the art IT suite with multiple double screened high definition monitors enabling you to review high quality images in your image interpretation sessions.
This facility allows you to independently review radiograph images to aid your learning.
Teaching on the course is undertaken by recognised healthcare professionals such as radiographers who are experts in CT, MRI, mammography, paediatrics, nuclear medicine, medical physics and forensics.
They have experience of working within the NHS and teaching on undergraduate and postgraduate programmes.
Staff are involved in clinical teaching and research, many being members of the Society of Radiographers and registered with the Health and Care Professions Council.
How we teach on this course depends on the module subject and level.
We use a different teaching methods including:
Assessments on the radiography programme reflects the breadth of skills and knowledge you will acquire as you progress through the course.
We use a variety of assessment methods including:
Radiography is an evidence-based profession, and we embed the development of your research skills from your first year, culminating in your final year with a research dissertation.
You will be able to critically analyse, reflect on and evaluate research findings, using these to underpin your radiography practice.
The Foundation Year is a is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Radiography.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/rehabilitationandexercisescience:
Develop the skills required to restore and promote both the physical and psychological wellbeing of individuals.
Our innovative and diverse Rehabilitation and Exercise Science BSc provides you with the the underpinning theory to enable you to practice competently and confidently.
Keele's new Human Performance Laboratory provides a learning and research environment for students and staff studying sport, exercise and rehabilitation-related disciplines.
Our Rehabilitation and Exercise Science degree at Keele explores themes such as promotion of physical activity, causes of disease and prevention of injury.
All of these are aligned to an expanding range of sectors such as health and social care, and sport.
Our innovative programme prepares you for an exciting and flexible career focusing on both health and rehabilitation.
Rehabilitation professionals are experts in utilising a range of methods to promote, restore and preserve the physical and psychological wellbeing of individuals of all ages.
Our aim is for you to thrive in a rapidly changing and often changing external environment and to give professional care with empathy and respect for others.
You will explore the factors that influence managing rehabilitation and advance your problem-solving techniques, communication, and interpersonal skills.
As well as giving you the essential clinical expertise we also incorporate business and research skills into our curriculum to further enhance your career opportunities.
You will study a wide range of rehabilitation themes including human anatomy and how it changes throughout a person’s life, physiology, the science behind movement, and human neurological, cardiovascular, and respiratory systems.
Different forms of disability are also analysed along with disabling conditions aligned to areas such as cardiorespiratory, musculoskeletal, metabolic, and neurological.
You will explore the full range of demographics including the elderly and children, not just individuals involved in sport related activity.
The course enables you to develop your practical handling and the therapeutic skills that underpin exercise physiology.
You will learn contemporary concepts and issues around global health and wellbeing and their impact on healthcare economies.
As you progress through the course you will enhance your understanding of rehabilitation strategies and look at increasing your organisational and management skills.
There are opportunities to focus on rehabilitation in sport and to understand the different techniques used in this area along with the prevention and management of sports injuries.
You can also deepen your knowledge around health behaviour change and the prescription of physical activity in specialist areas like cardiac and pulmonary rehabilitation.
The course draws on knowledge from other areas including physiotherapy, occupational therapy, medicine, nursing, psychology, nutrition, and public health.
You will complete at least 50 hours work experience in a setting related to the course content.
This will be with one of clinical or professional partners, or you may self-source if you have a specialist area of interest.
Our on campus clinic offers opportunities for you to gain experience of engaging with patients, enhance your rehabilitation skills and improve your communication skills.
You will have opportunities to be involved with leading rehabilitation sessions on members of the public once your gym qualifications have been achieved.
There will also be the possibility to conduct massage on patients should you attain the relevant qualification..
Embedded into the course is the importance of scientific research evidence.
You will develop your awareness of how this research contributes to the general health and wellbeing of individuals, including in the management of global conditions including coronary heart disease, osteoarthritis, stroke, obesity and Type 2 diabetes.
A team of highly qualified and knowledgeable academic staff teach on this course, all are accredited with their relevant professional bodies from ACHS, BASES to HCPC.
There are also nationally and internationally recognised academics, including Professor John Buckley, Advisor to WHO prehab 2020 for Ischaemic Heart Disease.
Rehabilitation and Exercise Science at Keele is recognised for its applied practical skills by the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA).
This accreditation allows st udents to gain industry-recognised gym instructor and personal trainer awards in years 1 and 2, with an optional cardiovascular exercise prescription qualification available in year 3 (additional BACPR assessment cost may apply).
These qualifications are recognised in the sector and complement the academic content of the Rehabilitation and Exercise Science BSc at Keele.
Research, Academic and Professional Skills (30 credits) The module aims to prepare you to work in the sport, exercise, health and rehabilitation industry, developing transferable skills that can be applied in a variety of employment settings and specialties, alongside an understanding of and an appreciation for the learning and self-development opportunities available whilst studying at University.
Assessment and Applied Practice (30 credits) The module introduces exercise testing and assessment of physical activity and fitness within healthy populations; with a strong focus on building communication skills relevant for professionals post graduation.
You will also gain an insight into practicalities of exercise prescription and applied practice of patient management in an exercise setting, using relevant research to inform your approach.
Human Anatomy, Physiology and Movement (30 credits) To follow.
Public Health Nutrition and Physical Activity (15 credits) This module introduces concepts of the roles for nutrition and physical activity as drivers for positive communities.
You will also build your literature searching and application knowledge - skills that are crucial to success within any degree programme.
Health and Wellbeing (15 credits) Explore the concept of health and wellbeing with a focus on primary prevention and health promotion.
This module reflects on the shifting emphasis away from a medical disease model, towards a health model based on personal responsibility and prevention of disease.
Advanced Assessment and Applied Practice (30 credits) In this module you will gain insight into practicalities of exercise prescription within apparently healthy populations who are at risk of developing long term conditions.
Offering students the opportunity to gain external qualifications, increasing employability opportunities.
Lifestyle Risk Factor Modification (15 credits) This module focuses on the primary theme of modifying/changing behaviour through application of models and principles of behaviour change to impact health and wellbeing, and enhance rehabilitation.
You will learn the theories underpinning behaviour change and the scientific principles based on the theory.
You will also be taught how to recognise the signs of non-adherence and how to select the most appropriate behaviour change model/principles to suit particular population groups (inactive, obese, elderly).
Evidence in Sports and Exercise Medicine (15 credits) The Evidence in Sports and Exercise Medicine module builds on content introduced in Year 1 and enables you to extract key information and begin to discuss literature relevant to practice.
You will have the opportunity to acquire the knowledge and skills required to assess quality of research methodology both qualitative and quantitative, and understand common statistical terminology used for evidence based research.
Exercise in Long Term Conditions (30 credits) This module introduces you to pathophysiology of disease and provides you with knowledge of underpinning exercise science principles in relation to health behaviour change and physical activity and exercise prescription in long term conditions.
Biomechanical Concepts and Techniques (15 credits) This module will develop your knowledge and understanding of biomechanical procedures and process.
You will develop your understanding around musculoskeletal injuries and gait patterns, using appropriate biomechanical instruments to assess activity.
Research Skills (15 credits) The module builds on content introduced in Year 1 and Year 2 and offers you some choice in research themes/topics.
The module reflects the shifting emphasis away from increasing the quantity of care, towards enhancing the quality of care - moving away from a medical disease model towards a health model based on personal responsibility and prevention of disease.
Experiential Learning in Sport and Exercise (15 credits) You will have the opportunity to use practical taught skills in a professional environment, and develop your employability skills to prepare you for the realities of working in the sport, exercise and/or physical activity industry.
Twenty hours of applied experiential learning will take place during the semester, on non teaching days.
The university will provide support identifying opportunities (including on campus) however, you are encouraged to self source the opportunity.
Innovations in Sport and Exercise Technology (15 credits) This module will critically appraise the use and value of technology in sport, exercise, and performance.
Through a combination of lectures and seminars, and lab-based practicals, you will be introduced to various contemporary wearable devices and sensors.
In doing so, you will explore current and future applications of such technology, and their validity and reliability and use to support the to UN's Sustainable Development Goal 3 (Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages).
Rehabilitation in Sport and Exercise (15 credits) This module complements the programme content introduced in Level 4 and in Level 5 in relation to the science of rehabilitation.
The focus of this module is rehabilitation in sport; it will develop your understanding of the sports rehabilitation process, prevention and management of sports injuries and the impact of sports injuries, both physical and psychological.
Practical Experience Placement (15 credits) The applied placement module allows you to use practical taught skills in a professional environment.
It also offers opportunities to build relationships and gain skills that are crucial for employment and career aspirations.
Sport and Exercise Project (30 credits) The Sport and Exercise Project module runs across the full academic year, and offers you the opportunity to put into practice the scholarship and research methods skills developed over the programme.
You can select to: (i) design, conduct and present their experimental research project as a journal article or conference poster defence; (ii) design, conduct and present your practice-based case study as an extended client report; or (iii) design and conduct an systematic review.
Advanced Clinical Exercise Practice  (15 credits) This module will complete the journey of exercise prescription from healthy populations, to those at risk and finally patients with a long term condition.
The theoretical content in this module will allow students to continue working towards a nationally recognised qualification on completion of degree.
Health in Places of Work and Learning (15 credits) This module develops your knowledge and awareness of workplace related health, linking to various initiatives and health and safety regulations.
It aims to develop your ability to apply knowledge authentically into work and learning environments.
Organisational Management in Exercise, Health and Rehabilitation (15 credits) This module offers you a broad-based introduction to key organisation and management principles with particular reference to exercise, health and rehabilitation settings.
You will explore, analyse and critically evaluate the complex interrelationships and influences that operate within business, and identify how potential problems/opportunities in one area can influence another and offer reasoned strategies for their management.
The module will use a problem based case study approach to enable you to analyse a wide variety of information, reflect upon management approaches and recommend critically reasoned solutions.
Interdisciplinary Approaches in Sport, Exercise and Performance (15 credits) Using contemporary communication tools (such as blogs, vlogs, Instagram lives, and TedTalks), this module provides you with an opportunity to explore contemporary interdisciplinary themes within sport, exercise and performance.
Watch our Q&A with academic teams in Sport & Exercise Science and Rehabilitation and Exercise Science here at Keele, to delve into our courses and opportunities here at the university.
You will be supported through every stage of your studies on the rehabilitation science and exercise course.
You will be allocated an academic mentor tutor who will be your first point of contact for advice and guidance and as a first year student, you are also offered a student mentor.
You will have access to a dedicated Student Experience and Support Officer who supports students from the School of Allied Health Professions.
There is peer support, and additional help available from the School's Disability Inclusion Tutor who provides an additional layer of support for all students, particularly for those who have special learning needs.
This is an exciting course that gives you the skills, attributes, and opportunities to shape your own professional development.
Rehabilitation and exercise science is a growth area offering the potential to follow diverse career avenues.
You could work in health and wellbeing in the public, private and charity sectors, leisure industry, education, business or even set up your own business.
There are options to continue your studies at postgraduate level in subjects like physiotherapy, or you could pursue a management role in the health sector.
We use different teaching and learning methods depending on the module you are currently studying.
A variety of different assessment methods are used to monitor your progress throughout the Rehabilitation Science and Exercise Course.
These might include:
This Foundation Year is a is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the  BSc (Hons) Rehabilitation and Exercise Science.
You should apply for R ehabilitation and Exercise Science with Foundation Year
UCAS code: B902

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/socialsciences:
Embark on an exciting journey to critically explore the structures, institutions, and forces shaping contemporary society with a Social Sciences BSc at Keele.
Engage with key debates on power, inequality and governance, developing critical skills to navigate complex social, political and ethical challenges.
Our programme will equip you to apply social science to real-word issues such as crime, climate justice and political decision making, preparing you for a wide range of careers in education, government and beyond.
Examine social issues and learn to understand our society better through our interdisciplinary Social Sciences degree, exploring areas of criminology, politics and sociology.
Investigate how social change is driven by policy, activism, and global interconnections, and explore how digital transformations and emerging technologies influence justice, democracy, and everyday life.
You will gain an understanding of contemporary social issues and build research skills to evaluate theories and concepts.
Our programme introduces you to core theories, case studies, and methodological approaches, equipping you with the foundational knowledge to critically engage with social issues.
This is further enhanced by focusing on advanced research methods, including digital data analysis and policy evaluation, while also expanding your understanding of social change in a global context.
The final year challenges you to apply your learning to real-world contexts, working on independent and collaborative projects that reflect the applied nature of social science in professional and policy settings.
Throughout the degree, you will have opportunities to connect with practitioners working in social research, policymaking, advocacy, and the public sector, ensuring that your learning is directly relevant to contemporary social issues.
You will become equipped with critical thinking, research, and communication skills necessary for careers across policy analysis, social research, public administration, criminal justice, and beyond.
Develop as a leader and problem-solver, ready to engage with diverse audiences and drive meaningful social change, enhancing your career prospects.
At Keele, you will benefit from opportunities to further enhance your employability and broaden your horizons, including study abroad, learning a foreign language, or completing a work placement year or module for industry experience, you can tailor your degree programme based on your future aspirations.
Society, People, Place: Global Issues and Local Realities This module explores the theories and methods used by sociologists for analysing culture and society.
This module is designed to provide you with an introduction to the contestable nature of politics and its relevance in contemporary society.
What is power?
What is democracy?
What seems to be going wrong with democracies throughout the world?
These key questions are incredibly important at this moment in history.
We will analyse how well these concepts describe what is happening in current events.
You will tackle the complexities of the modern politics by discussing current national and/or world issues from diverse perspectives and angles and learning how to systematically analyse these problems and proposed solutions to them.
Imagining Social Order and Deviance Imagining Social Order and Deviance explores societal norms, values, and the construction of deviance through a series of real life case studies.
Social Science at Work This module introduces you to possible careers for social scientists and links to the work you are doing in your subject core and option modules asking the question ‘how can we mobilise academic study into the real world?’ You will also be encouraged to prepare for placement work that you may pursue and reflect on your social media footprint; developing your personal/professional brand and digital networking platforms.
Public Policy and How to Make it To influence the policies that shape our lives, whether that's the failure of trains to turn up on time or deep inequalities in our society, you have to understand the system that makes them.
Ultimately, most politics is about what governments do, or don't do.
While many scholars of politics work in specific fields (e.g.
legislatures, transport policy), those working in the field of public policy try to explain the whole: how does the system fit together to produce change or continuity in the way the government acts?
That raises further issues: how do you influence agendas?, how do people in a policy area work together or compete with one another?, who has access to the process?, how does policy reflect people's political interests?
These are some of the big questions about politics and policy - this module introduces you to key ideas that help to answer them.
Social Sciences Placement This module gives you, as a student in the School of Social Sciences, the opportunity to contribute to the world beyond the University, in any workplace where the specialist knowledge, research, analytical, and communication skills developed as part of your Social Sciences degree can be used and can make a difference.
Note: You must choose between 'Global Democracy Under Threat: Resilience or Retreat?' or 'Redefining Social Theory: Digital and Global Perspectives'.
You cannot take both modules.
ISP/Dissertation in Social Science This module enables you to undertake a significant Independent Study Project (ISP) or dissertation focused on a social science topic of your choice.
You will design and execute an original research project, applying relevant theoretical frameworks and methodologies learned during your degree.
Guided by an academic supervisor, you will develop advanced skills in research, critical analysis, argumentation, and extended academic writing.
The final dissertation/ISP will demonstrate your ability to conduct an independent research and contribute original insights to your field.
Crime: From the Everyday to the Extremes This module explores how the extreme and the everyday intermingle.
In this module, you will focus on the dark side of politics, exploring issues such as polarisation, corruption and anti-politics from a global perspective, developing your critical analytical skills through analysing how these trends impact on democracy in different contexts.
Work Placement for Social Sciences Final Year Students This module gives students studying subjects in the School of Social Sciences the opportunity to contribute to the world beyond the University, in any workplace where the specialist knowledge, research, analytical, and communication skills developed as part of your Social Sciences degree can be used and can make a difference.
Our Social Sciences degree at Keele offers the chance to engage with work placements as part of your degree programme to gain valuable experience in the workplace.
From analytical thinking, problem-solving, to research and communication skills, you will be well equipped for a range of careers.
Our BSc in Social Sciences will equip you for a range of careers in policymaking, research, social advocacy and related fields.
Whether you wish to pursue a career in education, policing, government, or charity, you will develop strong interpersonal skills that will support you in the workplace and beyond.
With advanced skills in critical analysis and research methodology, you will become equipped as a social scientist, ready to embark on an exciting career of your choice.
These include, working effectively with others, problem-solving and applying your learning to real-world situations.
You may wish to pursue a career in the following roles:
You may also wish to explore employment opportunities across the health sector, business, marketing, public relations and law.
From lectures, seminars and workshops, teaching sessions on our Social Sciences programme encourage both independent and interactive learning through discussions and debates with academics and peers.
You will build key problem-solving and communication skills whilst engaging with module material and web-based learning available on the Keele Learning Environment (KLE).
This is further enhanced through your final year dissertation/independent study project which allows you to study a topic of your choice at an advanced level and benefit from academic supervision and feedback.
Our wide variety of assessment styles support the teaching delivered on this programme to test your knowledge and understanding gained throughout the course.
You will be assessed through essays, critical reviews, and oral presentations, allowing you to demonstrate your written and oral communication skills, as well as research and analytical skills.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Social Sciences degree.
Students apply for BSc (Hons) Social Sciences with Foundation Year (UCAS code: L401) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/socialwork:
Begin your journey to become a social worker making positive changes in people’s lives on Keele's Social Work BA.
Support diverse groups of people of all ages, and promote human rights and social justice in a flexible, varied and challenging career in which you will learn to be autonomous so you can progress in your chosen field.
Social work focuses on improving the lives and wellbeing of adults, children and families, and helping to protect the most vulnerable in society.
You may have to make difficult decisions, sometimes when there are competing 'rights' and needs.
You will work with a diverse range of individuals and groups to assist them through difficult circumstances.
It could be helping them to address issues currently affecting their lives such as trauma, poverty or social disadvantage, organising specific support or making referrals to other services.
Study social work at Keele to gain a solid grounding in this professional area of study and be supported in the development of key professional skills and values ready for your future career as a Social Worker.
Our social work degree has been carefully designed to allow you to apply the course theory into a range of exciting, varied and specialist social work occupations in the UK and potentially internationally.
You will explore child, adult and family social work, and cover key elements of the profession including law, social policy, ethics and values, and the socio-economic contexts of social work.
You will investigate the impact of inequality and the disadvantages in society around age, race and sexuality.
You will examine anti-oppressive and non-discriminatory approaches in social work whilst developing your communication, assessment and decision making skills.
Social work at Keele is part of the Keele's highly rated School of Medicine, this provides you with a wealth of interprofessional and skills based learning opportunities.
You will benefit from studying in an interdisciplinary environment learning alongside other health specialists such as nurses, occupational therapists, paramedic students GPs, paediatricians and psychiatrists.
We include 170 days of professional placement opportunities within the course, enabling you to put the theory you have learnt into practice.
This is in addition to at least 30 University based skills days, some of which take place in our excellent simulation houses where a range of professional scenarios can be replicated to support your learning.
You will engage with service users and carers throughout your studies in addition to your direct work with service users and carers on placement.
This engagement helps you to develop your confidence, abilities and understanding of a social worker’s responsibilities.
You will strengthen your practical knowledge through course activities to ensure you are well prepared for your social work placements.
You will be encouraged to adopt reflective practice techniques to enable you to evaluate your progress and inform your future work.
Members of our teaching staff are professionally qualified and experienced social workers who are registered with Social Work England or with the appropriate regulatory body for their current location.
We also have staff who are active researchers in the the areas of social work practice, social work education and related fields, with work published in academic journals, monographs and books.
Some staff also review for academic publications by other authors and some also sit on the editorial boards for respected international journals.
We are a member of the WMSWTP which aims to strengthen the quality of education and training for social work students and qualified practitioners.
It seeks to ensure teaching excellence and that what you learn is contemporary and reflects the needs of children, adults and families.
We have excellent relationships with our partners who provide us with placement opportunities.
These include local authorities in the West Midlands and Staffordshire, and voluntary sector organisations.
In year one you will spend two to three days shadowing social work professionals and will complete skills development workshops to demonstrate your readiness for practice.
Throughout the programme you will undertake a total of 170 days of practice learning in at least two settings.
One of these will be in a service gaining important experience of statutory interventions such as within a local authority children and families department or in hospital social work teams.
This will ensure you are ready to apply for jobs upon graduation in any social work setting.
Before the first assessed placement, you will complete a written profile of your own study needs and begin to compile information relevant to your placement setting and service user group.
This portfolio will be used in the pre-placement meeting between you, a tutor from the university and practice educator to develop a placement agreement.
Before embarking on your work assignment, you will also need demonstrate your readiness for direct practice and will be supported to develop a range of skills and professional attributes.
You will also need to maintain your own professional suitability and fitness to practise throughout the course.
Robust support is available to you during every stage of your programme.
Academic mentors on the course are able to provide advice and guidance as well as reviewing your progress and where appropriate, identifying and dealing with areas of concern.
We have recently further improved tutorial support so that it closely mirrors professional practice through the addition of small group tutorials to existing one-to-one support.
This ensures that you have both one to one and small group support alongside professional development opportunities throughout the course
A Student Experience and Support team is based within our Faculty with a member of the team dedicated to the School of Medicine.
Our programme is regulated by Social Work England.
When you successfully complete this course, you will be eligible to apply to join their register as a qualified social worker.
Introduction to Professional Learning and Development Semester one of this module will support your transition into professional learning at university.
Whilst exploring concepts that are core to social work practice, such as ‘identity’ and ‘othering’, you will also develop confidence in academic writing and referencing expectations.
In the second semester, the module introduces you to core skills required within social work, from initial communication and engagement skills through assessments, interventions and endings.
You will work with members of our service user and carer group to develop your skills.
Social Justice, Ethics and Values Within this module, you will examine issues of inequalities within contemporary society and how these are relevant for understanding social work values and ethics.
You will explore different philosophical traditions within ethics, as they apply to social work.
In the second semester, you will build upon this by considering different forms of social action and change and its relevance within social work and will design a small scale project with the support of staff, aligned to an issue that matters to you.
Life Course Development Within this module, you will consider a range of different approaches to understanding human development.
This will include psychological and sociological approaches alongside more biological approaches and the inter-connections between these.
In addition, you will consider how socio-economic contexts and adverse experiences can impact upon individual and community experiences of the life course.
Introduction to Law, Policy and Safeguarding This module introduces you to some of the key principles and concepts that underpin the legal framework and systems within which social work is practised.
You will consider the nature of the English legal system and the various roles social workers may have within this.
You will also learn about specific areas of law for different social work specialisms, including child protection, children in need of support, adult safeguarding, mental health and mental capacity work.
Social work Practice Placement One: Practice, Theory and Methods Within this module, you will complete a 70-day placement in a social work organisation.
With supervision and support, you will work directly with service users providing a range of interventions and learning about the placement organisation and broader context of social work services.
Before and during placement, you will have academic learning about different theories and methods used in social work practice.
Children and Families Social Work This module builds upon your first year modules to explore in more depth the nature of social work with children and families.
You will learn about some of the approaches, policy frameworks and practice dilemmas associated with this area of practice, and will develop your skills in relation to these through engagement with carefully planned immersive learning sessions, as well as more theoretical taught sessions.
Social Work with Adults In this module, you will learn about the key policy and practice issues and priorities in relation to social work in a range of adult services contexts.
Learning from academic staff, service users and carers and also from practitioners, you will develop your understanding and confidence in relation to this area of specialism within social work.
Understanding Contemporary Society: Key Concepts This module runs after your first placement and will support you to understand some of the key issues that are relevant for a broad understanding of contemporary society and therefore the contexts of social work practice.
You may be exploring knife or gang crime and exploitation, or other current issues, but always with the aim being to understand the significance of these for informed and effective social work practice.
Research Mindedness Introducing you to research methods and approaches, and the importance of being ‘research minded’ within professional practice.
You will consider the main forms of research and their strengths and weaknesses as well as the philosophical underpinnings of these.
You will then examine one approach in more depth in relation to a chosen area of focus for your assignment.
This module prepares you for your final year research project as well as for a career-long focus upon research informed social work practice.
Authority, Leadership and Partnership in Social Work Running at the start of the final year of your degree, this module will introduce you to theories and models of leadership and to the notion of professional authority.
You will consider your own authority, and how personal and professional authority may intersect, and appropriate use of authority and power in professional practice, whilst encouraging a partnership approach.
Research for Social Work: Individual Project This module runs throughout the final year and builds upon your exploration of research approaches within the second year module, research mindedness.
You will plan and carry out a piece of secondary research (a literature review) on a topic that reflects your interests, with supervision and guidance from an experienced member of the staff team.
You will become an expert on the published literature on this specialist topic and this prepares you well for interviews for jobs as a social worker as well as for any future study.
Contemporary Social Work Practice: Issues and Approaches Contemporary Social Work Practice focusses upon the main current issues and dilemmas affecting social work.
You will learn from practitioners and leaders of social work practice teams as well as academic staff so that you more fully understand the current practice priorities, challenges and opportunities.
This also helps prepare you for your professional practice beyond the degree whilst also supporting your preparation for your final placement.
Social Work Practice Placement two: Practice, Ethics and Critical approaches You will complete 100-day placement within this module, and it will be one which enables you to experience statutory roles.
You will be supported by university staff and supervisors on your placement to develop your confidence and knowledge of this area of practice and the skills needed to reach the professional standards required prior to qualification.
You will return to the university at least once a month for group tutorial support and taught content on more advanced ethical theories and issues relevant to the social work context.
"The course layout and placement opportunities were the main reasons why I chose to study at Keele, as they allow for me to develop my skills whilst being supported by the University."
Evie, Social Work
Under normal circumstances, students must be 18 years old when they commence the course, or by 1 October of the first Semester.
Health checks and DBS Clearance Offers are subject to an Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) clearance.
Whilst there is not a formal health check completed by all candidates, prospective students are required to sign a Declaration of Suitability/Fitness to Practice for Social Work form.
Depending on the information supplied by candidates, the programme director may seek clarification on any potential health concerns and this may also require further consultation with your GP or the university’s Occupational Health department.
Admissions Tests/Institutions Own Test (IOT)
Candidates for the social work programme will be selected through a two-part process.
Firstly, the candidate’s application form and personal statement will be assessed.
As well as reaching the required academic standards, the candidate’s personal statement should demonstrate a clear understanding of social work and its values.
If this is achieved, candidates will then proceed to part two of the process and be invited to a selection day, which will include a written task, a group discussion, and an individual interview with academic staff, a social work practitioner and a service user (in most cases).
Candidates who successfully pass both parts of the selection process will then be offered a place.
Candidates must also complete a written declaration of their suitability to undertake social work training in respect of health status, criminal convictions and other matters.
"Keele has smaller group sizes, a beautiful campus and the staff are friendly and helpful.
If you have a problem, even if it is not university related, you can turn up at their office door, they are happy to help."
Sian, Social Work
Eligible social work students can apply for one of a limited number of bursaries (grants) provided by the NHS Social Work Bursary fund.
Further details can be found on the NHS Social Work students webpage .
There are a range of social work career opportunities open to you once you qualify.
You will be able to apply your knowledge and expertise acquired on the course to work for a local authority, the NHS or in the voluntary sector.
You could undertake employment based, or employer sponsored further training or specialise in areas like child protection or mental health.
Alternatively, you could use your academic and placement learning in a range of other settings such as in support or project worker roles, in management and leadership roles or undertake additional training to work as a qualified counsellor or complete further study.
We use a variety of teaching and learning methods on this programme including;
There are regular opportunities to talk through areas of your course with your academic mentor or lecturers on a one-to-one basis.
To evaluate your progress we use different assessment techniques.
You will receive regular, constructive feedback to help you clarify things you did not understand and to improve your performance.
Assessment methods include;
You should apply for Social Work with Foundation Year
UCAS code: L502

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/sociology:
Do you share a concern for the future of society?
Discover sociology’s potential to chart a course towards more hopeful alternatives.
Learn to analyse contemporary social phenomena, such as the advancement of technology and climate change, and offer solutions to current and future challenges with a Sociology BA at Keele.
Explore the intersections of culture, community and identity, and the methods that shape our understanding of social systems and our roles within them.
Delve into the study of culture, community and identity, taught by lecturers who are actively researching in the industry today.
Put your learning into practice in real-world situations by having the opportunity to engage with the public and community sectors during your studies at Keele.
The modern curriculum on this Sociology BA degree has been carefully curated to ensure that you get an understanding of well established and emerging theories, concepts and methodologies used in contemporary practice.
You will gain hands on experience by training in practical research skills such as, formulating research questions, sampling strategies, the collection of quantitative and qualitative data, and data analysis, considering the ethical issues related to this.
Throughout your time at Keele, you will get under the skin of some of the contemporary issues that we face in society today such as gender, migration and belonging, the development of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and the ever-present challenges around climate change, to name but a few.
The final year focuses on sociology as a ‘live’ subject.
You will learn how sociology can be used to improve social conditions and the lives of individuals and will be supported to explore a sociological concern that interests you in an independent study project.
As a Sociology student at Keele you will be prepared for a wide variety of careers, with employability and professional skills development embedded in the programme, and optional work placements available.
You will have a range of opportunities to further enhance your employability and broaden your horizons, including studying abroad, learning a foreign language, or completing a work placement year or module for industry experience, you can tailor your degree programme based on your future aspirations.
"As well as enhancing my knowledge of sociology throughout my three years as an undergraduate at Keele, studying sociology has allowed me to develop a range transferable skills such as; communication skills, organisational skills, research skills and analytical skills.
These have all helped me to develop as a person and will be beneficial to me in my future employment."
Megan, Sociology
This module introduces you to the core social science of designing, implementing, and analysing social phenomena.
From quantitative surveys to qualitative interviews and ethnographic studies, you will explore methodological approaches to understanding society and develop practical researcher skills that prepare you to carry out original research ethically.
As a Sociology graduate at Keele, you will attain the relevant and sought-after skills for roles across various industries.
Your advanced skill set will prepare you for a rewarding career as a:
You may also wish to explore employment opportunities across the health sector, business, marketing and public relations.
From lectures, seminars and workshops, teaching sessions on our Sociology programme encourage both independent and interactive learning through discussions and debates with academics and peers.
This is further enhanced through your final year dissertation/independent study project which allows you to study a topic of your choice at an advanced level.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BA (Hons) Sociology degree.
Students apply for BA (Hons) Sociology with Foundation Year (UCAS code: L390) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/speech-language-therapy-prereg:
Embark on a dynamic and rewarding vocational career, transforming the lives of individuals, groups and communities who experience challenges with their communication, eating, drinking or swallowing.
Informed by the latest research and taught by practitioners and expert staff, our four-year Speech and Language Therapy with Integrated Master's (pre-registration) MSci combines the academic and enhanced clinical learning required to pursue a professional occupation as a qualified speech and language therapist.
Speech and language therapy provides assessment, treatment, support and care for individuals of all ages who have difficulty with speech, language and communication or with eating, drinking and swallowing.
Speech and language therapists promote inclusive approaches to communicate effectively with service users, adapt environments accordingly and collaborate to improve health, educational and social outcomes for people with speech, language and swallowing difficulties.
As allied health professionals, they work in a variety of settings with a diverse range of individuals, health care professionals, education staff and psychologists to develop holistic, individualised treatment plans.
Designed to reflect local and national workforce demands, our person-centered curriculum is underpinned by evidence and is reflective of contemporary speech and language therapy practice, both nationally and internationally.
In an environment of reflection and research awareness, the Speech and Language Therapy with Integrated Master's (pre-registration) degree will enable you to develop into an autonomous professional who is able to initiate and respond to change in a wide variety of settings.
From year one and throughout the programme, you will combine the study of theoretical knowledge with clinical practice to help you link the different domains of knowledge, skills, values and behaviours to specific clinical contexts.
Our principle themes of study complement the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists' (RCLST) five core capabilities which guide the development of speech and language therapy workforce.
The MSci Speech and Language Therapy degree is monitored and approved by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and accredited by the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists (RCSLT).
Successful completion of this degree provides eligibility to apply for registration with the HCPC as a speech and language therapist and to apply for membership of the RCSLT.
Linguistics, Articulatory Phonetics and Phonology (30 credits) This module aims to facilitate your understanding of all levels of typical processing and the differences for individuals whose home language is not English.
By exploring morphology, syntax, semantics, pragmatics and sociolinguistics,  you will recognise the possible contribution of social and cultural factors to communication.
The ability to make an accurate detailed description of service users' communication is a fundamental skill for speech and language therapists.
Biomedical Science for Speech and Language Therapy (15 credits) Our Biomedical Science for Speech and Language Therapy module will provide you with knowledge regarding to the anatomy, neuroanatomy and physiology involved in communication and eating, drinking and swallowing.
This core knowledge, which underpins speech and language therapy practice, is essential for understanding clinical concepts relating to speech and language disorders.
Language Acquisition and Psychological aspects in Speech and Language Therapy (15 credits) In this module you will develop knowledge and understanding of typical acquisition and the cognitive mechanisms and processes involved in language processing.
You will explore different theoretical approaches to language acquisition and development, the typical sequence of psychological development and cognitive changes across the lifespan in addition to the psychosocial consequences of atypical language development.
Health and Wellbeing (15 credits) Our Health and Wellbeing module will provide you with an introduction to the concept of health and wellbeing with a focus on primary prevention and health promotion.
The module reflects the shifting emphasis away from a medical disease model towards a health model based on personal responsibility and prevention of disease.
Professionalism and Effective Communication (15 credits) The Professionalism and Effective Communication module is designed to help you comprehend the significance and consequences of professionalism.
It also provides insights into various communication strategies and their practical applications.
Principles of Assessment and Measurement (15 credits) This module will facilitate your understanding of research terms and enable you to apply this knowledge to common measurement tools used in clinical and practice settings.
You will also acquire the knowledge and skills of data collection and audit.
Clinical and Professional Development and Practice Education 1 Focusing on key foundational areas, this module will introduce you to the speech and language therapy profession and the role and responsibilities of a speech and language therapist.
Knowledge acquired in this module will be built upon in subsequent years.
Clinical Linguistics and Phonetics (15 credits) This module builds on the topics covered in the Articulatory Phonetics, Phonology and Linguistics module in year one.
This will enable you to consider the application of your knowledge to clinical data from both children and adults.
Eating, Drinking and Swallowing (15 credits) This module aims to provide you with the understanding required of a graduate speech and language therapist in relation to assessment and intervention in eating, drinking and swallowing impairments (dysphagia).
This will enable you to support service users and their carers in a variety of settings.
Developmental Speech and Language Disorders 1 (15 credits) During this module you will have a variety of opportunities to gain requisite knowledge and understanding of diagnosis, assessment and management of children with developmental speech and language disorders.
Acoustic Phonetics, Hearing Impairments and ENT (15 credits) This module will provide you with knowledge and understanding of the mechanisms of speech, hearing and the management of people with hearing loss.
You will gain a practical understanding of acoustic phonetics, audiology and deafness in line with the RCSLT curriculum.
Research Methods and Statistics (15 credits) In this module you will build on the content introduced in year one of the programme, enabling you to acquire the skills to collate and evaluate relevant evidence sources.
You will gain basic statistical knowledge and understanding of statistical tests and procedures, enabling you to interpret research articles and design a detailed, clinical research project.
Acquired Speech and Language Disorders 1 (15 credits) This module aims to provide you with the opportunities to gain knowledge and understanding of the theory, assessment and management of a range of acquired communication difficulties, including aphasia, motor speech disorders and apraxia of speech.
Clinical and Professional Development and Practice Education 2 (30 credits) This module will enhance the foundational clinical skills you have developed in the first year and deepen your comprehension of speech and language therapy practice processes through simulated learning sessions involving clinical cases.
You will present clinical cases, analyse assessment data, and formulate management plans grounded in evidence-based practice.
Additionally, this module includes a practice placement, during which you will engage in five weeks of clinical placements.
Clinical and Professional Development and Practice Education 3 (30 credits) This module allows you to build on the clinical skills developed in the first and second year.
You will further and enhance your understanding of the processes of speech and language therapy practice through simulated learning sessions using adult clinical cases.
You will also enhance your interprofessional practice, teamworking and working with service users, families and carers.
Acquired Speech and Language Disorders 2 (15 credits) This module will provide you with opportunities to gain knowledge and understanding of the theory, assessment and management in three areas of acquired communication disorders: Progressive cognitive-communication disorders, voice and head and neck cancer.
Developmental Speech and Language Disorders 2 (15 credits) This module will provide you with a detailed understanding of current approaches to assessment, differential diagnosis, intervention and management of school aged children presenting with persistent speech and language developmental disorders.
Neurodevelopmental Disabilities and Lifelong Conditions (Adults with Intellectual and Development Disabilities) (15 credits) This module aims to equip you with skills required to offer the support people with learning difficulties need whilst embracing the social model of disability and partnership working.
Speech and language therapists are seen as a core profession working in adult learning disability services.
Neuropsychology, Neurodevelopmental Conditions and Psychiatric Disorders (15 credits) This module will equip you with the foundational understanding, knowledge and skills required when planning assessment, intervention and clinical management for clients who have communication difficulties associated with neurodevelopmental conditions such as autism, cerebral palsy, learning disability and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Furthermore, this module considers assessment and management in fluency disorders for children, adolescents and adults.
Evaluating Healthcare Services (15 credits) This module builds on the content introduced in Year one and two and enables you to plan and undertake service evaluation.
You will evaluate aspects of clinical practice whilst also developing transferable skills such as presentation of charts, graphs and evaluation of data that can be applied in a variety of healthcare settings and specialities.
Evaluating Healthcare Service is one of the interprofessional modules in the programme that is delivered by registered healthcare professional tutors and other specialists from Keele University.
Planning Research (15 credits) The Planning Research module enables you to prepare and write a research rationale and proposal.
You will have the opportunity to acquire the knowledge and skills required to complete the process of applying for ethical approval of research, composing an appropriate research design and method and exploring and undertaking methods of describing, presenting and analysing data.
Leadership and Management for Healthcare Professionals This module builds on previous content and enables you to acquire the knowledge and skills of leadership and management systems and strategies to apply in clinical practice.
Research Skills and Funding In this module you will have the opportunity to acquire the knowledge and skills required for grant applications and participate in the peer review process.
Practice Based Learning 4a Building on the speech and language therapy practice experience introduced in years one to three of the programme, this module will further develop and apply knowledge of communication impairment, linguistics, phonetics, psychology and biomedical sciences to the identification, assessment and differential diagnosis of a range of communication and swallowing impairments.
Research Project (level 7) In this module you will gain the opportunity to implement a research proposal and produce a structured written report of your work.
The module aims to develop your ability to carry out subsequent research independently and commission, manage and evaluate the research activities of others.
Practice Based Learning 4b This module aims to provide you with an opportunity to adapt and critically reflect on your interpersonal skills in a placement setting.
With the support of practice educators, you will develop and justify speech and language therapy knowledge, decision-making and implementation abilities in a placement setting.
Enhanced Practice: Developmental Language Disorder (15 credits) This module aims to provide you with opportunities to build and extend your knowledge of assessment and management of children and young people who have developmental language disorder and their long-term educational and social implications, with a particular focus on adolescence and the transition to adulthood.
Language Variation (15 credits) This module aims to provide you with learning opportunities to examine how language and a user’s societies are interconnected, focusing on factors that lead to linguistic variation within speech communities.
Our suite of specialist speech and language facilities include a state-of-the-art simulation centre, offering shared simulation spaces such as ward areas and individual consultation rooms, a wide variety of anatomical models, the most commonly used clinical assessment and intervention materials in the field and access to our anatomy suite whilst studying your initial module.
Under normal circumstances, students must be 18 years old when they commence the course, or by 1 October of the first semester, due to the clinical elements of the programme.
For students who require a test, this course requires a result from Group F.
Practice-based learning is embedded throughout the course and takes place in a range of health, education, social and third sector care settings.
Clinical placement opportunities will include working with a wide range of clients with eating, drinking, swallowing and communication difficulties.
The hours you will spend in practice experience environments will exceed the minimum 563 hours required by the Royal College of Speech Language Therapists (RCLST).
This additional capacity is intended to not only consolidate and enhance your clinical skills, but also to provide you with opportunities to demonstrate leadership skills.
To personalise, widen your knowledge and promote engagement in lifelong learning, you will have the opportunity to study specialist areas of practice such as developmental language disorder, applying for research funding and leadership and management for health care professionals, in addition to developing your interpersonal, team working and partnership skills.
You will benefit from the support of Keele's Student Experience and Support team , an academic mentor, module leaders, disability inclusion tutors and practice educators.
On successful completion of this programme you will acquire the competencies required for autonomous practice in a diverse range of settings.
You will also be eligible to apply for registration with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC).
In order to use the title 'speech and language therapist' a practitioner must be registered with the HCPC.
HCPC registration is a prerequisite for employment as a speech and language therapist in the UK NHS.
The programme meets the requirements of the HCPC standards of Education and Training (2014).
In terms of career prospects for potential Keele graduates of Speech and Language Therapy MSci, there is a national shortage of speech and language therapists (HEE, 2022).
This allied heath profession is nationally recognised as needing more graduates for reasons including ageing populations and associated increasing prevalence of neurological conditions.
Teaching is undertaken in both the university and clinical environments.
Practical skills are taught in small groups.
In your practical sessions you will work with designated practice educators, supported by visiting tutors from the School.
University-based elements of the programme are taught using a variety of approaches.
The practice component of the programme is delivered and assessed by a range of practice educators.
These are suitably experienced practitioners working across a broad range of practice environments including 'role emerging placements'.
The wide variety of assessment methods used on this programme reflects the broad range of knowledge and skills that you will develop as you progress through the degree programme.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the Speech and Language Therapy Integrated Master's (pre-registration).
Students will need to apply for Speech and Language Therapy MSci with Integrated Master's (pre-registration) with a Foundation Year (UCAS code B621) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/sportandexercisepsychology:
From helping professional athletes prepare for the demands of competition to motivating everyday exercisers to increase their physical activity, our Sport and Exercise Psychology BSc examines the fascinating role of psychology in its application to sport coaching and performance, as well as exercise, health and wellbeing.
Advance your psychological research skills, applicable to a range of careers in sports coaching, science and related industries.
Programme Lead and Senior Lecturer, Dr Mike McGreary talks about the Sport and Exercise Psychology BSc at Keele University.
Mike is a HCPC Registered Sport & Exercise Psychologist, and chartered psychologist with the British Psychological Society.
Have you considered how the mind, emotions and behaviour can influence performance in sports and exercise?
Are you keen to learn more about the impact of sport and exercise on mental health and wellbeing?
Our BPS-accredited* Sport and Exercise Psychology degree introduces you to the psychological methods and theories that can be applied to support individuals, teams and coaches in enhancing sporting performance to improve leadership, encourage motivation and promote team building.
Delve into the core psychological principles to better understand why people behave and perform the way they do, exploring biological influences, cognition, individual differences and social development.
Through the exploration of human behaviour in sport and exercise contexts, you will develop strong quantitative and qualitative research skills, equipping you as a science practitioner ready to embark on a range of careers in sports coaching, personal training and related science fields.
As a member of Sport and Exercise Psychology BSc, you will be a part of the Keele University Institute of Sport and will be able to take advantage of what it will offer, whether that be events, opportunities or guest lectures.
Understanding People in Depth Building on ‘Understanding People’, students will study theory and findings associated with developmental, social, cognitive, and biological psychology and individual differences.
You will be introduced to debates in sport and exercise psychology and how it examines and supports sport, physical activity and exercise in everyday life, elite and professional sport and performance.
Evidence-based Sport and Exercise Psychology Ever wondered how athletes and coaches use psychology to enhance performance?
Or how do practitioners use psychological principles to help individuals adhere to exercise guidelines?
This module will introduce you to some of the evidence-based practices used by applied practitioners within sport and exercise psychology.
You will be introduced to a variety of psychological measurement tools and interventions aimed at either improving athletic performance or enhancing exercise uptake and adherence.
Innovations in Technology for Sport, Exercise + Performance This module will critically appraise the use and value of technology in sport, exercise, and performance.
Through a combination of lectures and seminars, and lab-based practicals, students will be introduced to various contemporary wearable devices and sensors.
In doing so, they will explore current and future applications of such technology, and their validity and reliability and use to support the UN's Sustainable Development Goal 3 [Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages].
Applied Sport, Exercise and Performance Psychology Building on content delivered in previous years, this module will further develop your applied knowledge and increase your understanding of the different aspects of sport, exercise and performance psychology and the context in which psychology may be applied in these settings.
Interdisciplinary Perspectives in Sport, Exercise and Performance Using contemporary communication tools (such as blogs, vlogs, Instagram lives, and TedTalks), this module provides students with an opportunity to explore contemporary interdisciplinary themes within sport, exercise and performance.
Students opting to study the 'Interdisciplinary Perspectives in Sport Exercise and Performance' module must have studied at least 15-credits of Sport and Exercise Science related content at Level 5.
A degree in Sport and Exercise Psychology will equip you with a wide range of personal and professional skills that will be valuable to a variety of roles across industries.
Whether you wish to pursue a career in psychology, sports or science, you will attain core graduate attributes that will enable you to communicate effectively with others, project manage efficiently and resolve challenges in the workplace environment.
Learn from experienced academic staff who are leaders in the fields of sport and exercise psychology.
Our team of qualified sport and exercise psychologists bring a wealth of real-world experience and cutting-edge research to the classroom, ensuring you engage with a contemporary and practical education.
With an array of assessment types, you will be able to demonstrate your subject knowledge and skills as you progress throughout the programme.
Building key skills in communication, problem-solving and analytical thinking, you will become well-prepared for a range of careers.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Psychology course.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Psychology with Foundation Year (UCAS code C814) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/sportandexercisescience:
Our Sport and Exercise Science BSc is designed to challenge you to examine the fascinating role science plays within sport and exercise.
As one of a handful of sport and exercise degree programmes delivered within a Faculty of Medicine in the UK, you will have the opportunity to study within an academically rigorous environment, that nurtures the merging of scientific knowledge, hands-on practical experience, and professional practice.
Through a combination of theory and practice, this course will enable you to develop real-world, lab-based practical skills in preparation for employment in the sport, exercise, and health sector.
Endorsement for this programme is being sought from the Chartered Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (CASES).
Programme Director Dr.
Clare Pheasey talks about Keele's new BSc in Sport and Exercise Science.
With experience of working at Sport England, British Swimming, and England Golf, Clare specialises in physiology with interests in sports performance and the development of professional practice in sports science.
Sport and exercise scientists are in increasing demand given the efforts of health officials to encourage participation in exercise and physical activity, and the drive of professional athletes to maximise their potential.
Sport and Exercise Science is the application of the scientific principles to sport and exercise contexts.
Sport and Exercise Scientists are interested in using these scientific principles to answer important questions that can have a significant and positive impact on individual performers, teams, and wider society.
For example, sport and exercise scientists are interested in answering questions such as:
In the first year of our Sport and Exercise Science degree, you will undertake a suite of compulsory modules focused on the core sport and exercise disciplines of anatomy, biomechanics, coaching, nutrition, and physiology, and a course specific skills module, designed to develop your academic, research and professional skills competences.
Alongside this, there is the opportunity to undertake an optional module of your choice or participate in the university’s Global Challenges Pathway .
The second year builds upon the knowledge and practical experiences you have acquired, to start to explore the scientific applications underlying human engagement and performance in sports, exercise, and health-based activities.
During this year, you will continue to study the disciplines of biomechanics and physiology through two discipline-specific 15-credit modules, alongside 30 credits of psychology-specific content.
Again, you will have the opportunity to undertake a 15-credit optional module of your choice or continue your journey along the Global Challenges Pathway.
During the final year we will challenge your knowledge and skillset further, in order to encourage and nurture the experience and confidence needed to secure graduate employment.
To facilitate this, you will complete five compulsory 15-credit modules and a 15-credit optional module.
Alongside these this you will complete a 30-credit project.
This yearlong project module allows you to combine your academic development with a personal area of interest, through a research project or case study, carried out with the support of a member of the academic team.
You may choose to spend a semester or year studying abroad.
O ur programme offers the opportunity for you to gain familiarisation with the professional working environment, develop professional contacts and apply the skills and theories you have learnt.
You will be supported through every stage of your studies.
Based within the School of Allied Health Professions and the wider Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, you will have the opportunity to learn from sport, exercise and health experts from disciplines including physiology, psychology, biomechanics, nutrition, and physiotherapy.
Our academic staff are also active researchers and scholars whose work has been widely published in books, research monographs, and leading international journals.
This research and scholarship culture informs the teaching that takes place within the School.
Additionally, some of our staff actively research teaching and learning within Higher Education, so how we teach is also at the forefront of Higher Education practice.
During your first, second and third year you will study 105 credits of compulsory modules, with 15 extra credits of optional modules or Global Challenge Pathways.
Human Anatomy, Physiology and Movement (30 credits) To be confirmed Principles of Human Nutrition (15 credits) Through a combination lectures, seminars, and lab-based practicals, you will learn about the basic macronutrient types and understand the role of key micronutrients in maintaining good health, and the manipulation of dietary intake for health and optimal athletic performance.
The significance of nutritional sustainability (i.e.
the move towards a healthier, more sustainable and inclusive foods, including exploring UN Sustainability Development Goals and specifically Goal 12) will also be explored.
Advanced Assessment and Applied Practice (15 credits) Advanced Applied Practice in Coaching, Exercise and Fitness module offers you insight into practicalities of exercise prescription within apparently healthy populations who are at risk of developing long term conditions.
You will have the opportunity to gain external qualifications, increasing  employability opportunities.
You will also demonstrate applied practice of patient management in an exercise setting using relevant research to inform your approach.
You will have the opportunity to acquire the knowledge and skills required to assess quality of research methodology both qualitative and quantitative and understand common statistical terminology used for evidence based research.
The module aims to prepare you to integrate research into clinical practice whilst also developing transferable skills (such as academic writing, presentation of an argument) that can be applied in a variety of sport and exercise settings and specialities.
Physiology of Sport, Exercise and Health (15 credits) Within this module you will explore the acute responses and chronic adaptations to exercise.
This will include practical experience: conducting health screening; undertaking steady rate and incremental exercise testing; exploring metabolic cost using breath by breath expired gas analysis and finger-prick blood collection, and analysis to explore responses to exercise and adaptations to training.
Current Themes in Sport and Exercise Psychology (15 credits) Sport, physical activity and exercise play an essential part in many people’s lives.
This introductory module aims to provide you with an opportunity to develop your knowledge and understanding of how key psychology theories and models are applied to sport, physical activity and exercise contexts.
You will be introduced to issues and concepts in sport and exercise psychology and how sport and exercise psychology is used to examine and support sport, physical activity and exercise in everyday life as well as elite and professional sport and performance.
Evidence-Based Sport and Exercise Psychology (15 credits) This module will introduce you to some of the evidence-based practices used by applied practitioners within sport and exercise psychology.
In doing so, you will explore current and future applications of such technology, and their validity and reliability and use to support the to UN's Sustainable Development Goal 3 [Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages].
Applied Sport, Exercise and Performance Physiology (15 credits) This module explores practical strategies that may be employed to enhance sport, exercise and performance (e.g.
dietary interventions, training prescription, acclimation and altitude training, recovery approaches and travel strategies), and provides a bespoke opportunity for you to acquire practical and interpretive laboratory skills with a client.
Applied Sport, Exercise and Performance Biomechanics (15 credits) This module encourages you to apply your previously acquired knowledge and skills in an applied, practical context.
In doing so, the module provides you with the knowledge and skills required to operate equipment (such as advanced motion analysis systems) safely, effectively, and ethically within the sport, exercise and performance domain.
Dedicated practical classes complemented by theory will enable you to gain hands-on experience of using advanced motion analysis systems.
Applied Sport, Exercise and Performance Psychology (30 credits) To be confirmed
Interdisciplinary Approaches in Sport and Exercise (15 credits) Using contemporary communication tools (such as blogs, vlogs, Instagram lives, and TedTalks), this module provides you with an opportunity to explore contemporary interdisciplinary themes within sport, exercise and performance.
Experience and Skills Learning (15 credits) The applied placement module allows you to use practical taught skills in a professional environment.
Offering opportunities to build relationships and gain skills that are crucial for employment and career aspirations.
Sport and Exercise Science at Keele is recognised for its applied practical skills by the Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA).
These qualifications are recognised in the sector and complement the academic content of the Sport and Exercise Science BSc at Keele.
You will have the opportunity to attain external qualifications studying a parallel award, including the CIMSPA Level 2 Fitness Instructing award and the CIMSPA Level 3 Personal Trainer award.
These parallel awards are funded by the University to enhance graduate employability.
On successful completion of this programme you will be prepared for employment or further study in a wide range of sport or exercise contexts.
You will develop an in-depth understanding of how the human body responds to physical activity, exercise, and training to enhance performance and improve health.
The design and delivery of the programme includes opportunities for self-selected industry-based, experiential learning in the second and third year.
It also reflects the real-word, diverse professional contribution within the wider sport, health and physical activity sector; providing you with an opportunity to not only shape yourself in terms of personal and professional development, but also to contribute to the development and future growth sport and exercise science in the UK.
Careers related to this programme include:
To explore more career opportunities with a degree in sport and exercise science, why not look through the BASES Career Guide .
Across the programme, you will experience a range of different learning and teaching methods.
Each module has different prescribed learning activities, including taught classes and seminars, discussion with staff, and practical work.
You will gain valuable hands-on experience of research design, critical reviewing, planning, analysis, and interpretation with a combination of tutor-led sessions, group discussions, practical activities, and individual feedback.
Our authentic, employability focused assessments develop the skills employers seek, such as intervention proposals, and campaign reports.
Many of the assessments will require you to respond to an authentic situation, such as a real sport or exercise intervention to support individual athletes, teams or coaches.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science course.
Foundations of Numerical and Quantitative Methods for Health Science
Foundations of Human Biology for Health
Foundations in Physics
You should apply for Sport and Exercise Science with Foundation Year, UCAS code: C601

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/sportsbusinessmanagement:
The sports industry - a fast-paced, global sector with exciting career possibilities.
If you love sport and aspire to work in this dynamic field, our Sports Business Management BA will develop your understanding of the inner workings of the industry and help you to build a comprehensive set of business skills so you can achieve your goals.
Develop a thorough understanding of the complexities of the sports industry with our Sports Business Management degree.
Build a portfolio of essential and transferable business skills for a variety of sports careers such as sports management, sports marketing or event coordination.
You will explore core topics such as managing sports organisations, examining governance and regulatory frameworks, and understanding the ethics around sportswashing, greenwashing and sponsorship.
Growth areas such as esports, environmental sustainability and women’s sports are studied and you will gain an insight into the intricacies of areas such as sports marketing, sponsorship, consumer behaviour, media relations and researching future trends.
You'll develop a broad understanding of the leisure sector, discovering the importance of sport and leisure in society, politics and the economy and examine aspects such as hospitality, tourism and events.
BA (Hons) Sports Business Management is part of our dynamic suite of Business Management degrees, offering you a comprehensive understanding of key business and management principles.
Proposing a Successful Sports Sponsorship Sponsorship is an integral part of the sports industry’s income.
However, what is it that makes a successful sponsorship and what do we do when sponsorship goes wrong?
You will look at good and bad practice and take on their learnings, whilst we will consider future trends within the sponsorship space.
Ultimately, you will propose your own sponsorship for a rightsholder of your choice and provide justification for your match, considering the role of fans, athletes and politics.
To be part of the growing sports industry and to pursue a successful career you will need skills and experience that set you apart from the competition.
By enhancing your skills via our Professional and Academic Development Programme, you will grow in confidence and graduate with intellectual, professional, and personal resources to advance to a successful career within the dynamic sports sector.
Teaching We use a variety of teaching and learning methods throughout this Sports Business Management BA, tailored to the module theme and level.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme that provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Sport Business Management degree.
Students will need to apply for Sports Business Management with Foundation Year (N881) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/sustainabilityandenvironmentalmanagement:
Do you want to be part of a new generation of environmental champions leading the way to a more sustainable future?
Are you keen to develop a comprehensive understanding of current global challenges?
From biodiversity loss to resource depletion, you’ll explore a range of issues on our Sustainability and Environmental Management BSc.
Through hands-on fieldwork, laboratory projects, and industry placements, you'll gain the practical experience needed to become a highly valued professional in careers such as environmental consultant, nature conservation officer, or recycling specialist.
Our world is facing significant environmental problems, and we urgently need to find solutions to mitigate the devastating impact humans have on our planet.
Our Sustainability and Environmental Management BSc will provide you with a comprehensive understanding of environmental science, policy and management, and equip you with the professional skills necessary for a dynamic career in the sustainability sector.
The programme has been designed to provide you with a solid foundation in sustainability with environmental management in your first year, preparing you for advanced study in years two and three.
You will explore concepts from ecology, environmental science, geography and social sciences, and study topics such as sustainable resource management, clean technology and renewable energy, environmental impact assessment and environmental change.
You will gain hands-on experience using equipment, samples and digital resources in our state-of-the-art Central Science Labs and master different fieldwork skills through various residential and one day field courses.
We offer study abroad and work placement options and have strong industry links providing opportunities for internships and networking so you can apply your knowledge in a real-world setting and learn from industry experts.
They allow you to apply both theoretical knowledge and practical skills, providing essential hands-on experience while developing and refining the skills required for a career in the industry.
You’ll practice key research and fieldwork skills such as environmental survey design, plant and invertebrate identification and water quality assessment.
This programme is accredited by the Institution of Environmental Sciences (IES).
This accreditation means you will graduate with the right knowledge, skills and tools to deliver value in a global economy.
Currently seeking the Institute of Sustainability and Environmental Professionals (ISEP) accreditation.
Through this module you will gain knowledge, skills and hands-on experience of conducting ecotoxicology laboratory protocols (terrestrial and aquatic systems), constructing and interpreting dose response curves, sourcing and evaluating ecotoxicology data, deriving Predicted No Effect Concentrations (PNECs), and ecotoxicological risk assessment.
Sustainable Futures Consultancy, Flexible Work Placement (level 6) and Professional Experience in Education are barred combinations.
A work placement year between years two and three of your degree is a fantastic way to gain industry experience with an environmentally focused company or organisation, helping you to stand out in the competitive job market.
Joining a society related to the field, is a great opportunity to continue to develop your skills away from your studies.
This is another excellent way of demonstrating your genuine interest for the environment and sustainability and can be beneficial when it comes to applying for graduate roles.
Upon graduation you will have a breadth of knowledge that crosses the traditional science-social science divide and have become familiar with the professional working environment.
You will have gained valuable transferable skills and experience in areas such as field and laboratory skills, data collection and analysis, Geographic Information Systems, critical thinking, team working and project management.
Employers are actively seeking individuals with these skills.
Our small class sizes enable you to forge close connections with other students, study in a focused environment where you will find staff who are friendly, accessible and supportive.
Teaching methods may include lectures, tutorials, seminars and workshops, problem-solving classes, practical and laboratory classes, field courses, group presentations and online learning through Keele’s virtual learning environment (KLE) and other digital platforms.
The Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Sustainability and Environmental Management degree.
Students will need to apply for BA/BSc (Hons) Sustainability and Environmental Management with Foundation Year (UCAS code F750) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/veterinarymedicineandsurgery:
Achieve your ambition to pursue a career in the exciting and rewarding field of veterinary medicine and surgery.
We offer a unique delivery model that combines the expertise and resources of two outstanding universities enabling you to develop into a dedicated and compassionate veterinary professional.
This five-year, dynamic programme provides you with the specialist skills required for a varied and challenging career in veterinary medicine and surgery.
It is delivered by two highly respected universities, and you will benefit from their excellent joint facilities and academic expertise.
Harper Adams has a superb reputation for animal sciences combined with exceptional resources, including an on-campus farm and companion animal facilities.
Keele University has an impressive track record in health and life sciences and excellent state-of-the-art teaching laboratories.
This is a highly practical and clinically focused programme where you will study key concepts in the veterinary medicine field, which will increase in complexity as you progress on the course.
Teaching is delivered by experienced educators including scientists, veterinary surgeons, and other professionals.
You will also have multiple opportunities to engage with students on other programmes which will give you an invaluable insight into the roles of allied professionals.
You will experience authentic work placements on your clinical rotations with our network of vet practice partners and other related businesses.
These help you to build up your practical experience and develop a portfolio of professional, clinical skills.
We give you the clinical skills and expert know-how to become a resilient and confident veterinary professional.
This includes equipping you with techniques to look after your own health and wellbeing so you can be confident operating in what can be a demanding and challenging veterinary profession.
Both universities provide an excellent student support environment for you throughout all aspects of the programme.
During your studies you will spend full days on either campus, mainly at your ‘host’ university and travelling to the other campus to access specialist facilities when necessary.
For more information such as course structure, including the full Programme Specification, and Harper Keele Veterinary School open days, please visit the Harper Keele Veterinary School website.
Harper Keele Veterinary School
For Entry Requirements for Veterinary Medicine, please see the Harper Keele Vet School Veterinary Medicine course page .
A wide range of qualifications are considered suitable for entry onto the course.
For further information please contact the Harper Keele Veterinary School admissions team: admissions@hkvets.ac.uk
Upon meeting the progression criteria and successfully completing our Foundation Year, you will be eligible to transfer to the Bachelor Veterinary Medicine and Surgery (BVetMS) degree at Harper & Keele Veterinary School.
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine and Surgery (BVetMS).
Applicants wishing to progress onto Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine and Surgery (BVetMS) are required to have:
Please note to progress on to this programme from the foundation year, students will be required to pass the Veterinary Medicine and Surgery selection event and successfully complete the Foundation Year at the required threshold grades with an average of 70% in semester 2 modules.
Students are also encouraged to gain some relevant work experience in both a vets practice and an animal environment.
If you wish to apply for the Foundation pathway for Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine and Surgery (BVetMS) please state this in the further details box in the choices section of your UCAS application form and also in your personal statement.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Bioveterinary Science with Foundation Year (UCAS code D103) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .
Applicants need to state that the application is for the Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine and Surgery (BVetMS) course in the further details box in the choices section of the UCAS application form and in your personal statement.
Our Foundation Year provides an excellent alternative route to Keele, providing a unique opportunity to better prepare for your chosen degree.
This extra year of study can improve your academic skills, expand your subject knowledge, give you a better understanding of higher education and, perhaps most importantly of all, build your confidence.
Keele University is consistently ranked among the top universities for student satisfaction, and we have over 70 years' experience of teaching a foundation year to students.
On the Keele Foundation Year, you'll study on campus, joining our undergraduate community from the outset, with access to all the facilities and support that you'd get as an undergraduate student at Keele.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/zoology:
Whether you're passionate about animal biology, environmental challenges, or scientific discovery, our Zoology degree offers a broad understanding of the diversity of life, with a focus on animals, their evolution and conservation.
With access to our 600-acre diverse campus, state-of-the-art David Attenborough Laboratories, use of statistical, bioinformatic and GIS analyses, and dedicated employability modules, you will gain the knowledge, skills and experience to pursue an exciting career in the biological sciences.
Our Zoology degree blends broad knowledge of animal biology, behaviour, ecology and conservation with the cutting-edge technical skills and professional expertise you'll need to build an impactful career in biological sciences.
With species disappearing at an unprecedented rate during our current biodiversity crisis, our contemporary programme will equip you with the essential tools to help tackle these urgent environmental challenges.
From the microscopic world of cells and genetics to sophisticated techniques for analysing animal populations, you'll discover how the smallest biological processes connect to the greatest conservation challenges of our time.
In your first year you will gain a thorough understanding of key biological concepts such as cells, genetics, evolution, physiology of animals, ecology and animal diversity.
You will also begin to develop a range of academic and practical laboratory skills.
From year two, optional modules allow you to tailor your studies to specific interests and deepen your understanding of topics such as biodiversity, microbes, bacteria, viruses and parasites, human evolution, environmental and wildlife forensics.
In your final year, you will have the opportunity to undertake a substantial piece of meaningful research on a topic that excites and challenges you.
To hone your communication skills, you will present the outcomes of your final year research project in the context of a realistic research conference experience.
Practical learning happens both in our cutting-edge David Attenborough Laboratories and across our 600-acre diverse campus.
You'll master intricate molecular techniques, learning to analyse DNA and proteins while developing into a confident field researcher - sharpening your species identification abilities and learning to assess biodiversity across different natural environments.
To enhance your employability, the option of either a year-long or flexible work placement will provide you with the opportunity to gain the professional experience, practical skills and connections to launch your career.
Animal Physiology and Anatomy (30 credits) This module introduces you to the vast diversity of vertebrate and invertebrate animals and takes a comparative approach to the study of their structure and function.
Animal Diversity (30 credits) Since the time of Aristotle, people have sought to understand the great diversity of animals and place them into meaningful categories.
This module helps you to understand how the vast diversity of animals is classified and systematically organised today - this is vital for anyone beginning the study of zoology.
Explore how familiar classes such as the mammals are organised and delve into less well-known groups of vast taxa such as arthropods and molluscs.
This module will train you in skills of identification and classification and will enable you to study a chosen phylum in depth.
Ecology (30 credits) Commence an exhilarating journey into ecology, delving into organisms' habitats, interactions, and environmental dynamics.
Field Biology (15 credits) The safe and ethical study of biology in the field is a vital skill in much of the biosciences and essential for those seeking a career in ecology and conservation.
Animal Behaviour (15 credits) In this module we will delve into the study of animal behaviour.
GIS & Remote Sensing (15 credits) The module will provide you with powerful analytical and mapping skills that underpin research and applications in Geography, Environment, Zoology and other disciplines.
In recent years mapping has undergone a revolution through the development of GIS combined with advances in imaging the earth through remote sensing technology, and this module will help you develop the practical skills required to capture, store, manage, manipulate, analyse and visualise spatial data.
These skills are important across all sectors in business, NGOs, government, and academia.
Research and Analytical Skills (15 credits) This module brings together skills of experimental design and data analysis which are a vital step in the process of scientific research.
Animal Nutrition and Health (15 credits) Gain a deep understanding of the vital role nutrition plays in animal growth, production, and health.
Practical and Professional Skills in Bioscience (15 credits) This module will expand your practical skills through enquiry-based, hypothesis-driven laboratory investigations applying key skills and competencies to more advanced molecular and analytical techniques.
Microbes, Viruses and Parasites (15 credits) Here you will study the biology of bacteria, viruses and parasites, considering a range of pathogenic organisms and the diseases they cause.
Key skills in literature analysis and communicating to different audiences will be developed through the produced content on a select module topic.
Biodiversity Crisis (15 credits) Explore the pressing question of a potential sixth mass extinction, where you will learn all about human impacts on our environment.
Flexible Work Placement  (level 5) (15 credits) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
Research Project (30 credits) Your research project is an excellent opportunity for you to carry out a substantial piece of meaningful research drawing together skills in experimental study design, critical interpretation of data and presentation.
In addition to a project report, you will also present outcomes as an oral presentation and research poster at our undergraduate student conference Employability and Communication Skills in Bioscience (15 credits) Whatever your interests or future career, communication is vital.
We explore a range of communication methods to present and disseminate findings to inform and enthuse both a scientific and lay audience.
Current Topics in Zoology (15 credits) Animals are at the heart of a wide range of challenges facing society, from conserving endangered species, managing invasives, controlling disease reservoirs and inclusion of animals in a one-health approach.
The module will take you to the cutting edge of zoological research through a series of expert talks.
Skills in debating will be developed on the module as each talk is discussed as well as literature reviewing and topic synthesis skills honed.
Academic and Professional Development in Bioscience (0 credits) This module will develop your professional skills, attributes and qualities required for your next steps following graduation.
Tropical Biology Field Course (15 credits) This module allows you to explore the vibrant world of tropical ecology first-hand and join an exciting opportunity to explore first-hand the challenges facing tropical ecosystems and how humanity impacts them.
Delve into conservation with guest speakers, gaining insights into this multifaceted domain.
Applied GIS (30 credits) This module will provide you with the broader context of GIS applications to address real-world societal and environmental issues within human and physical geography, geology and environmental sciences.
Animal Welfare (15 credits) This module will develop your knowledge of legislation and current topics in animal welfare.
(15 credits) This module explores the causes and consequences of extinction events throughout Earth's history.
Environmental and Wildlife Forensics (15 credits) Through this module, you will have the opportunity to apply your forensic expertise to environmental and wildlife crime, exploring topics ranging from industrial contamination of land to the illegal trade of exotic animal products.
Flexible Work Placement (level 6) (15 credits) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
Professional Experience in Education (15 credits) This module gives students interested in pursuing teaching or training as a career the opportunity to gain experience in the world of teaching in schools and colleges.
If you don't think you can commit to a full year on placement, our Flexible Work Placement (available as an optional module in year two or three) has built-in flexibility on when and how you complete your placement, enabling you to balance your time in industry around existing demands.
During your studies you will have the exciting opportunity to study for a semester or year abroad at a partner university .
Please note this is an optional module with additional costs.
ABB in three A levels including B in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List
DDM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science Animal Management Forensic and Criminal Investigation Health and Social Care Information Technology Sport Sport and Exercise Science
Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in one Science A Level from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or Distinction and Merit in Applied Science, Animal Management, Forensic and Criminal Investigation, Health and Social Care, Information Technology, Sport, or Sport and Exercise Science BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in any A level
Distinction in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels including B in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or Distinction in Applied Science, Animal Management, Forensic and Criminal Investigation, Health and Social Care, Information Technology, Sport, or Sport and Exercise Science BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A levels including B in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
Distinction in any of the following T levels: Health Healthcare Science Science
655 in three Higher Levels including one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or 32 points including one Higher Level Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List
128 UCAS points in a Computing, Engineering, Health, Nursing, Medicine, Science, or Sports Access to HE Diploma including Distinction in at least 30 Level 3 credits
BBBBC in five Highers including one Higher Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or BC in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers including one Higher or Advanced Higher Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List, or BCC in three Advanced Highers including one Advanced Higher Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List .
H3, H3, H3, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate including H4 in one subject from the Science or Applied Science Groups
75% in the Gaokao including 70% in Maths, Physics, Biology or Chemistry
Average of 75% from four subjects including 70% in Maths, Physics, Biology or Chemistry in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 80% from four subjects including 75% in Maths, Physics, Biology or Chemistry in any other Standard XII
2.0 overall average in the Abitur including 12 in Geography, Psychology, Maths, Physics, Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Technology, Nutritional Science or Sports
544 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE including 4 in Maths, Physics, Biology, Chemistry, Geography, Design and Applied Technology, ICT or Physical Education
Overall average of 7.8 in the Título de Bachillerato including 8 in Chemistry, Maths, Biology, Physics, Geology, Geography, Earth Sciences and Environmental Sciences, Psychology, Industrial Technology or ICT
85% in the Esame di Stato including 8 in Chemistry, Maths, Physics, Natural Science, Geography, Physical Education, or ICT
18.5 / 88% in the Apolytirion including 18 in Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Design and Technology, Information Technology, Geography, Maths, Physical Education or Physics
Overall average of 16 in a secondary certificate including 16 in Chemistry, Maths, Biology, Physics, Geology, Geography, Computer Applications, Psychology, Physical Education
70% / BBBBC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma including 70% in Advanced Functions, Biology, Calculus and Vectors, Chemistry, Computer Science, Maths of Data Management or Physics
544 from three Advanced Placement subjects including 4 in Chemistry, Calculus (either), Physics (any), Biology, Computer Science (either), Environmental Science, Psychology or Statistics
ABB in three Advanced levels including B in Combined Maths, Chemistry, Physics, ICT, Biology, Physics or Agricultural Science
ABB in three subjects in the STPM including B in Maths, ICT, Physics, Biology, Chemistry, Geography, or Sports Science
ABB in three H2 levels including B in Chemistry, Biology, Physics, Computing, Maths, Further Maths or Geography
75% overall with 7 in Chemistry, Maths (3 or 5 period), Physical Education, Biology (2 or 4 period), Geography (2 or 4 period), or Physics
National Senior Certificate: 76666 in five subjects including 6 in two of Maths, Maths Literacy, Technical Maths, Agricultural Sciences, Agricultural Technology Civil Technology, Computer Applications Technology, Geography, Information Technology, Life Sciences, Mechanical Technology, or Physical Science.
On successful completion of the programme, you will build a suite of academic and employability skills that will prepare you for workplaces such as ecological consultancy, government bodies, conservation research, museums and zoos.
Key skill you will acquire include:
The Student Voice helps us to shape what we do and we include students and local employers in our decision-making process.
The delivery of our programme will include the following types of activities:
This Foundation Year is a two-semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Zoology degree.
Students will need to apply for BSc (Hons) Zoology with Foundation Year (UCAS code C301) through UCAS at www.ucas.com .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/subjectareas:
Explore your academic interests and career aspirations through Keele’s breadth of courses, range of elective modules and history of interdisciplinary teaching and learning.
You can also view our full range of undergraduate courses in A to Z format .
The foundation years at Keele provide an opportunity for those with diverse backgrounds to access an honours degree.
You will examine life at the most intricate level, discovering what organisms are made of, how viruses and other animal models work.
With almost every aspect of society touched by business, it’s no wonder graduates from business and management are in high demand.
Chemistry is the 'central science'; disciplined in experimental approach, highly creative in thinking and life-enhancing impact.
Understand the theory behind practical computer programming and applied mathematics while gaining practical skills for your future career.
Our disciplines of Criminology, Sociology and Education are respected internationally for our world leading research and education.
Designed to inspire talented individuals develop the critical and creative thinking required for successful careers and lifelong passions.
Our Film, Game Design, Media, Music and Digital Media courses immerse you in historical and contemporary creative expression from around the world.
Forensic science is the application of science within a legal context and forensic scientists are key to investigating and prosecuting crimes.
Focus on the relationships between people and the environment, global environmental change, sustainability and social inequality.
Develop valuable sector specific skills, preparing you to become a highly employable health and social care professional.
Develop superior insights into clinical applied anatomy, equipping you with essential skills and knowledge for careers in healthcare, education or research.
Join an internationally renowned civic law school, offering a range of opportunities to develop your practical skills.
Medicine is a highly rewarding and challenging career that has a huge impact on society and makes a real difference to people’s lives.
Nursing and midwifery are highly respected career choices, offering a range of opportunities for advancement and specialism.
We are at the forefront of paramedic science education in the UK and our programme will provide you with the skills to care for people when they are at their most vulnerable.
Learn to support diverse groups of people of all ages and make positive changes in people's lives.
Become the best pharmacist possible, whether you want a career in community pharmacy, primary care, hospitals or industry.
Understand the way the universe works and the underlying basis for the developments that characterise life in the 21st century.
Our suite of programmes encompassing Physiotherapy, Radiography, Rehabilitation and Exercise Science, Speech and Language Therapy and Sport and Exercise Science, will enable you to develop the therapeutic, analytical and communication skills to succeed as a healthcare professional.
More than ever we need highly skilled and creative people to understand and influence the key social and global challenges of our time.
Explore the mind, brain and behaviour and understand how and why people think, feel, communicate and act.
From learning about the global sport and esports industry to examining the fascinating role science and psychology play in sport, exercise and health, discover our exciting suite of undergraduate sport programmes.
This is a unique partnership between two outstanding universities, Harper and Keele.
This exciting new programme will educate a new generation of veterinary surgeons ready to enter the modern veterinary profession.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/tuitionfeesandfunding:
It can be difficult to understand the true costs of being a student as well as the financial support that is available to help you meet those costs so that you can begin to plan your future and make the most of Keele.
Our Financial Support Team within Student Services can offer you confidential advice and support when you need it.
We’ll do our best to answer your enquiries straight away.
We can help you to manage your funds, create a budget and ensure that you receive any funding for which you may be eligible, for example bursaries and scholarships and government funding.
Information about fees for undergraduate UK and international students, as well as study abroad fees.
All funding opportunities, including bursaries and scholarships, NHS funding changes, hardship funds, Article 26 Sanctuary scholarships, information for USA students, emergency loans and many more.
Study Abroad fees and funding
Foundation years fees and funding
International students fees and funding
Course related costs vary by programme.
This overview will help you plan ahead.
Contact us to make a tuition fee payment, or discuss a payment plan.
Come and see us, we're here to help.
Become a budgeting ace with Blackbullion training.
Careers and employability at Keele

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/opendays/undergraduateopendays:
The best way to discover what student life is really like at Keele University is to visit us in person.
Join us for an undergraduate Open Day and explore our beautiful 600-acre campus, tour our state-of-the-art teaching facilities, meet expert academics, and learn more about student life at Keele.
Whatever subject you're interested in, get a real insight into studying at Keele University.
Keele University Open Days in 2025 will take place on the following dates:
Please complete the form below to book on to our Open Days.
You can get to Keele by bus, train, car, or bike!
Discover more about our Open Days and plan your visit.
Take a look at what's on offer at our Open Days
With talks, tours and drop-in sessions taking place throughout our Open Days, there's plenty to do!
The full programme for our Open Days is made available to view above in advance of each event, and there will be copy available for you to collect when you register on the day.
Explore our campus, tour our state-of-the-art facilities and take a look around our accommodation.
You can also meet our support teams, and visit the Student's Union, Library and Sports Centre.
And if you need a pit stop, head to one of our many restaurants or cafes.
The day is yours - but here's our suggestion for key things to do to make the most of your visit to Keele!
Sign in when you arrive
Sign in at the Chancellor's Building when you arrive, to receive your programme and guide for the day and map of campus.
You can also speak to our teams to help plan your day.
Sign-in is open from 09:00 - 15:30
Attend a welcome talk
Hear from our students and University senior leaders in the Chancellor's Building , to find out why Keele could be the University for you.
'Why Keele' talks at 09:15 | 10:30 | 13:00
Duration: 30 minutes
Meet our support teams
In Chancellor's Building you'll find lots of our teams including Admissions, Accommodation, Foundation Year, Student Services, and Disability Support.
Marketplace is open 09:00 - 15:30
'Supporting you at Keele' talks at 10:30 | 11:30 | 14:30
Attend a subject talk
Meet academics and students from your chosen subject area(s) to find out more about what it's like to study at Keele.
Typically between 10:00 and 15:00, with drop-in sessions also available.
Check your programme for full details.
Duration: 30-60 minutes
Explore our 600-acre campus
Take a guided campus tour (register in Union Square for a student-led tour) or explore at your leisure.
Campus tours available: 9:30-15:30
Duration: allow 45 minutes
Tour our accommodation
Explore a variety of room types across our accommodation blocks.
Different rooms will be available for you to view on a self-guided tour.
Accommodation self-guided tours available: 9:30-15:30
Duration: allow 15-20 minutes per accommodation block you wish to view
If you’re visiting the area for one of our Open Days, you might want to explore beyond Keele.
Newcastle-under-Lyme, the closest town to campus, offers a student-friendly high street with plenty of eateries, bars, a cinema and four big supermarkets within walking distance of the bus station.
Stoke-on-Trent is home to The Potteries Shopping Centre, a cinema and theatres, nightlife and food outlets; there’s plenty to see and do!
There's also a hotel on campus if you wish to stay overnight.
Get hands on with clay experiences, go behind the scenes, shop, dine and discover the V&A Wedgwood Collection at World of Wedgwood.
Keele Open Day attendees can enjoy 10% off our Wedgwood Tea Room, guided tours, and Josiah & Co, plus a free glaze in our Creative Studios.
Book via www.worldofwedgwood.com referencing 'Keele' in the special request box.
Tours must be purchased at the World of Wedgwood reception desk to redeem offer.
Offer can only be used once per visit.
You must show your Open Day booking confirmation email to redeem.
Offer only applicable to full-price tickets and menu items.
Subject to availability.
If you have any general questions.
Find out more about Student Life at Keele.
Book a room at our on-campus hotel.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/apply:
The information on this page relates to undergraduate applications for September 2026.
We are committed to making the admissions process as smooth as possible for our applicants.
If you need to to speak to our Admissions Team, please get in touch:
Please email all enquiries before application to enquiries@keele.ac.uk For enquiries after application to admissions@keele.ac.uk
Applications for all undergraduate courses at Keele should be made online through UCAS.
UCAS stands for the University and Colleges Admissions Services.
It is the charitable organisation through which applications to universities in the UK are processed.
By completing a UCAS application, you can apply for up to five courses at a single university or different institutions.
You will be charged a small application fee.
Further information is provided by UCAS on their webpages.
Further advice is also available from careers advisers at schools and colleges; local careers organisations; and British Council offices and other centres overseas for overseas applicants.
Your application should include:
Please also see the UCAS Undergraduate: When to Apply page for more information.
You can download a copy of our Transfer Guidance here.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/additionalopportunities:
There are many ways to build your knowledge and skills, and enhance your career prospects at Keele.
Many of our courses include the opportunity to study abroad, learn a foreign language, take a work placement, or enhance your degree though exciting routes of elective study called Global Challenge Pathways .
Global Challenge Pathways allow you to explore current debates in areas such as Sustainability, Social Justice, Global Health, Digital Futures, Enterprise, and Languages and Culture, enhancing your understanding and employability, and complementing your chosen subject.
Whether you want to develop your academic skills, develop your digital skills, or develop your career, we're here to provide you with the support you need.
There are also lots of additional academic opportunities that you can pursue at Keele; you could learn a second language, study abroad, or gain a qualification to teach English as a foreign language.
Making the most of your studies.
Resources to help you organise, plan and complete your work.
We provide careers guidance, advice and information to help you achieve your career plans.
Whether you are looking to enter a graduate career, applying for further study or aim to become self-employed we will offer a wide range of services, resources and activities for you.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/globalchallengepathways:
Many of our courses include the option for you to choose routes of elective study called Global Challenge Pathways.
Our pathways offer you an exciting opportunity to work with students and staff from different disciplines to explore topical global issues such as power and conflict, health inequalities, climate change, generative AI, social justice, global citizenship, and enterprise from different perspectives.
Eligible students can choose to take any one of our five Global Challenge Pathways as an integrated part of their degree programme - which is recognised on degree certificates at graduation.
These pathways are one of the additional opportunities we provide for Keele students, helping you to be more competitive in the graduate marketplace.
From Climate Change and Sustainability to Social Justice, our pathways allow you to explore the global challenges that we face.
You will develop the skills to address these challenges with confidence and critical insight.
Are you interested in how different cultures and global organisations view health?
Do you want to understand how different disciplines all play a role in addressing global health inequalities?
This pathway is for you if want to learn more about health inequalities and how we can promote quality of life for different populations.
Global Health: Understanding Health Beyond Borders.
What are the greatest threats to health globally?
How do we work together to decrease health inequalities?
In any given population, good access to health care plays only a small part in determining the health of that population.
Factors such as poverty, literacy, education, employment opportunities and the environment have far greater impacts.
In this module you will develop an understanding of how to improve the living standards and opportunities for people to live happy and healthy lives worldwide.
Global Health: Understanding Health Beyond Borders What are the greatest threats to health globally?
Global Health: Solving Global Health Issues How do wars, climate change, poverty and political instability influence global health?
How can we develop solutions to reducing global health issues and inequalities?
In this module you will learn about how we can use data and evidence-based research to develop interventions and propose solutions to improving the quality of life.
You will work collaboratively to propose new strategies to reduce global health inequalities, developing skills in leadership, teamwork, problem-solving and communication in the process.
Global Health: Working to Improve Global Health How can I contribute to improving global health?
What difference can an individual make to reducing health inequalities?
In this module we will explore the roles of different disciplines in improving global health and reducing inequalities.
We will examine the link between the workplace setting and the health of individuals and populations.
You will have the opportunity to reflect on your understanding of how to reduce inequalities, and consider what skills are important for improving global health.
Are you interested to learn more about the historical inequalities that shape global injustice?
Do you want to promote social justice in your community, workplace or wider society?
This pathway is for you if you want to be an agent of change towards a more socially just society.
Social Justice: Past, Present and Future What does social justice mean to you?
How are your life chances impacted by the past, present and future conditions of social justice?
This module will explore how you can engage as an agent of change to transform social justice.
Informed by community voices, we will explore past, present and future injustices based on the identity politics of the recognition of race, religion, gender, sexuality, disability and class within the wider framework of the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Social Justice: Strategic Interventions Is every human born equal in society?
How does the UK meet its obligations under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights?
How can we monitor and create awareness to strategically intervene in society to ensure schools, universities, businesses, local authorities meet their obligations?
In this module you will learn about strategic interventions and develop your skills as agents of change by using the Human Rights Tracker to monitor the UK according to a Convention of your choice.
Social Justice: Transforming Global Perspectives How can we develop a global justice model in today’s world?
Conflict, disaster, poverty, epidemics, displacement and climate change, all present global crises which each disproportionately impact society.
Yet are these inevitable or a consequence of longstanding inequalities of colonialism, capitalism, racism and patriarchy?
In this module we will hear a range of experiences from the United Nations through to community-based organisations to help us understand the root causes of ‘crisis’.
Ultimately, we will consider how to transform perspectives.
Is the digital revolution redefining what it means to be human?
Can it make or break the global drive for a more sustainable future?
This pathway is for you if you are interested in understanding and actively shaping the digital society of tomorrow.
Digital Society: Living through a Revolution What does the digital revolution mean for us as humans?
Are we on the verge of a new human society?
This module dives into the digital revolution's impact on our lives and the paths that brought us here.
Explore how the internet and the web, the multi- and meta-verse, and generative AI are reshaping our identities, communities, and societies.
Unpack the ethical dilemmas, explore emerging opportunities, and gain essential skills to thrive in a digital world.
Digital Society: People, Spaces and Data How can we harness digital innovation to create sustainable futures whilst minimising risk?
In this module we will explore the present and future(s) of humanity at the intersection of unprecedented technological revolution and extreme sustainability crises.
You will participate in debates on how social media, and AI are transforming our lives and gain skills in data visualisation and digital storytelling.
Through real-world projects, you will explore solutions to sustainability challenges that balance digital innovation with freedom, equality, and justice.
Digital Society: Digital Citizens with a Purpose What does it mean to be a responsible digital citizen and how can this become a catalyst for a more sustainable future?
Through this module discover strategies that fuse digitally-empowered action with social responsibility and impact; and navigate complex ethical decisions in the pursuit of a better future for humanity.
From combating misinformation to fostering community, this module invites you to become a responsible, forward-thinking change-maker in an increasingly interconnected world.
Do you want to enhance your employability and professional skills?
Are you keen do so whilst exploring important global issues including sustainability, decent work and economic growth?
This pathway is for you if you would like to grow your enterprising skills and mindset to navigate the changing and dynamic world of work and enterprise.
Enterprise, Entrepreneurship and Employment: Future Ready How is the world of enterprise and entrepreneurship changing?
How do we drive innovation and be entrepreneurial in a digital world?
This module explores the evolving dynamics of business, innovation, and work in a rapidly changing world.
We will examine emerging trends, such as digital transformation, sustainability, and the gig economy, while emphasising the skills needed to navigate future challenges.
By fostering critical thinking and adaptability, you will be better prepared to lead and innovate in tomorrow’s business landscape.
Enterprise, Entrepreneurship and Employment: Challenges and Opportunities What is the role of businesses and entrepreneurs in addressing global sustainability issues?
What innovative strategies can organisations offer for sustainable development?
In this module we explore the environmental, social, and economic challenges organisations face.
You will analyse real-world case studies, assess sustainable business models, and explore the balance between profitability and responsibility.
By fostering critical thinking and creative problem-solving, you will be equipped to understand the future challenges and opportunities for enterprise, work and employment.
Enterprise, Entrepreneurship and Employment: Designing Change How can we address critical sustainability challenges through innovative and responsible action?
This module explores the intersection of business, entrepreneurship, and sustainable development, emphasising the role of individuals as catalysts for change.
Through practical projects, collaborative learning, and real-world case studies, you will develop strategies to create social, environmental, and economic impact.
By fostering creativity and leadership, this module will prepare you to lead transformative efforts in enterprise and employment for a sustainable future.
Are you passionate about climate change and want to make a difference?
Do you want to engage with sustainability professionals working in different roles in different countries?
This pathway is for you if you want to make a difference to addressing climate change and sustainability.
Climate Change and Sustainability: Global Perspectives Do you want to explore the impacts of climate change in different countries?
Do you want to engage with sustainability professionals working towards solutions?
This module explores climate change impacts and the solutions being adopted on a global scale.
You will hear from different sustainability professionals, understand how climate change integrates with other sustainability challenges and learn about the role of various disciplines in addressing these issues.
We will also examine the United Nations' response to climate and sustainability crises.
Climate Change and Sustainability: Driving Change What is the role of activism in addressing sustainability?
How can activism be used to drive positive change in society?
This module integrates theory and practice and explores the history and debates within sustainability activism, drawing on diverse disciplinary perspectives, experiences, and global case studies.
You will develop the skills to critically evaluate the role of activism in sustainability and have opportunity to design, execute, and evaluate your own project to drive positive change.
Climate Change and Sustainability: Skills for Sustainability What skills do we need to engage and thrive in a more sustainable world?
How can I pursue sustainability in my future personal and professional life?
In this module we will consider the importance of 'green skills' in the workforce and development of 'sustainability competencies' in education.
The module addresses the challenges in defining and achieving green skills across various employment pathways.
Through peer learning activities, you will support each other to assess and develop you own skills for sustainability.
You also have the opportunity to learn a language or train to become an ESOL teacher while you are at Keele.
Visit the Language Centre for more details.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/typesofdegree:
There are many ways to build your knowledge and enhance your career prospects at Keele.
We have a broad range of specialist subject areas and qualification types for you to choose from.
Many of our courses also include extra-curricular opportunities to give you a unique and rewarding experience that will help you stand out from the crowd as a confident graduate in your chosen field of study.
Our Single Honours degrees enable you to specialise in one subject area, exploring this in depth throughout the duration of your course.
The course will have a range of modules which may include optional modules but they will all be focused around the Single Honours subject area.
Our Single Honours courses are available to view on our undergraduate course list .
We have a long-standing history of interdisciplinary teaching and learning which you can benefit from.
You may choose to diversify your knowledge and skills in two related subjects with a degree that integrates their study giving you a wider range of expertise by the end of your course.
Our combined honours courses have been carefully designed to ensure that they are relevant and practical for both study and employment.
Our facilities are all at the heart of campus making it convenient to manage studying two subjects.
Some of our courses allow you to combine three years of undergraduate study with an additional fourth year at postgraduate level.
Integrated master’s are a great way to deepen your knowledge of a subject area, refining your skillset ready for employment.
Our Integrated Masters courses are available to view here .
Our degree courses are organised into modules.
Each module is usually a self-contained unit of study, and each is usually assessed separately with the award of credits based on 1 credit = 10 hours of student effort.
An outline of the structure of the programme is provided in the tables below.
There are three types of module delivered as part of this programme.
They are:
Whether you have non-traditional qualifications, want to change your subjects, have had a break from education and wish to return or want a change of career – a foundation year at Keele provides an opportunity for those with diverse backgrounds to access an honours degree.
This extra year of study can boost your academic skills, expand your subject knowledge, give you a better understanding of higher education and, perhaps most importantly of all, build your confidence.
For International Students, Foundation Years are delivered through our dedicated on-campus provider, Keele University International College.
To find out more, visit https://kuic.keele.ac.uk/
If you are already employed but want to strengthen or expand your knowledge and capabilities in a certain area, we have a growing portfolio of apprenticeships across different sectors and specialisms that you can study alongside your work.
Furthermore, your employer can utilise the Apprenticeship Levy to fund your learning.
Many of our undergraduate courses have additional opportunities you can take to enrich your studies with extraordinary experience such as studying abroad, learning a language and taking a work placement.
You can also enhance your degree through elective modules and volunteering.
You can find out what additional opportunities are available on each of our course pages.
Our students are the pioneers who will make positive change for our future, and our innovative teaching prepares students to meet the challenges ahead.
Many of our courses include the option to choose engaging routes of elective study called Global Challenge Pathways .
These allow you to explore current debates in society throughout your course in areas such as Sustainability, Social Justice, Global Health, Digital Futures and Enterprise.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/biomedicalengineering:
Subject to validation
We are planning to launch a Biomedical Engineering BEng/MEng Top up programme and hope to welcome our first intake in September 2026.
This course is ‘subject to validation’ which means that it is in the last stages of the validation process, awaiting final approval.
Validation is a rigorous process undertaken with academic staff, students, independent subject experts and employers to ensure the course is of high quality, and able to prepare students well for their future employment or further study.
Validation is not guaranteed.
The Biomedical Engineering programme is being developed to meet the requirements for accreditation as an IEng or CEng award by the Institution of Engineering designers.
It aims to offer an inclusive educational pathway that bridges critical industry gaps, while championing diversity in engineering.
Rooted in a rich legacy of medical engineering innovation, taught by leading bio and medical engineering experts, and enriched through immersive, real-world learning experiences - the degree proposes an accessible route for students from varied backgrounds to launch professional engineering careers in healthcare technology.
If you would like to be notified when the programme is validated and accepting applications, simply register your details using the form below.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/businessandmanagementtop-up:
Elevate your business and management knowledge and convert your existing business credentials into a 'top-up' undergraduate degree.
Our one-year Business and Management Top-Up BA is the perfect way to gain a deeper understanding of business providing a stepping stone to further academic study and greater career opportunities.
If you have previously studied business at an international institution or further education college and meet our entry requirements, our Business and Management Top-up degree recognises that existing expertise and allows you to ‘top-up’ that knowledge.
The programme provides you with the opportunity to complete the necessary 120 credits, which when added to your previously completed qualifications amounts to the equivalent of an undergraduate degree.
You will study final year undergraduate degree level modules to enhance your range of business and management insight and practical experience.
Plus, you will benefit from opportunities to engage with different business challenges to develop your confidence.
The programme curriculum focuses on several subject-specific core areas, alongside the option to adapt your studies to specific business themes and interests.
Firstly, you will analyse what makes an effective business strategy, developing your strategic thinking abilities and learning to improve your decision-making skills through reflective practice and the examination of different theories and case studies.
Our exciting virtual business simulation game also provides scope to work within groups and put into practice the theory you’re learning, whilst enjoying some healthy competition!
Gain an invaluable perspective on the diversity of international business cultures and use that global view to inform your understanding of management in a global context.
You will examine how international projects are managed and the potential challenges and risks involved.
You’ll discover what issues contemporary management currently faces and how the theory you’re learning can be applied within organisations.
A choice of independent study projects enables you to focus on specific themes such as managing diversity in organisations and developing a new business venture, or you could choose to undertake a consultancy project, which will see you working on a ‘real’ project set by a local organisation.
Broaden your knowledge further through a choice of optional modules.
You could study the modern retail environment and topical themes within the sector such as green retailing, store design, e-retailing and m-retailing.
Another option involves exploring marketing and globalisation to understand what shapes global marketing activities and you'll cover important questions around issues such as the power of multinational companies, fair trade and the impact of political and ideological change on consumer patterns.
Alternatively, you could study business ethics to investigate how the business actions of managers can have ethical consequences or analyse theories around business integrity and which stakeholders could be affected by ethical and unethical corporate decisions.
You will be allocated an academic mentor at the start of the programme who will review your progress, meet regularly with you, and is contactable by Teams and email.
Academics can also provide guidance about specific course modules and all members of the teaching team on this programme are available to see you during office hours, if available, and by appointment.
Student Voice Representatives provide a focus for issues at module and year level.
If English is not your first language you will be offered language classes, facilities and services by our Language Centre.
There are credit bearing modules on English for academic study and you will also have access to one-to-one tutorials for individual help and advice, and to a wealth of resources for self-study and practice.
You can access advice, guidance and one-to-one support from our School's Student Experience and Support Officer who is part of our Faculty's Student Experience and Support Team.
You will also have access to a mixture of advice and support services at Keele including:
Joining a society related to business is a great opportunity to continue to develop your skills away from your studies.
Students would need to have completed the equivalent of 240 credits of prior learning in an area relevant to the programme to access Level 6.
Applicants whose first language is not English must provide a language test certificate and achieve an IELTS score of 6.0 overall (or equivalent) with no less than 5.5 in any component.
You will gain a wealth of transferable skills on our Business and Management Top-up BSc programme, enabling you to enjoy career success in a wide range of sectors and industries.
Jobs suited to a graduate of this programme could include:
We use different teaching and learning techniques depending on the specific module.
You will be assessed by a variety of methods which reflect the broad range of skills and knowledge you will develop on this programme.
Such methods may include:

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/computing-top-up:
Elevate your expertise by converting your current computing qualifications into a full degree.
Informed by research and benefitting from close interaction with industry, our one-year Computing Top-up programme will expand your knowledge in the field, equipping you with advanced skills and techniques to excel in a graduate-level role or pursue master’s level studies.
If you have studied computing at an international institution or further education college and meet Keele's entry requirements, our one year Computing Top-up programme allows you to ‘top-up’ your existing knowledge by completing the necessary 120 credits to gain a full BSc.
From exploring how computing can be applied to a wide range of real-world interdisciplinary problems to gaining expertise at the cutting edge of the discipline - you will develop the intellectual, practical and transferable skills required for further study or employment in industry, commerce or public service.
During the programme you will have the opportunity to study a range of innovative modules in current and emerging areas of Computer Science, including Web Technologies, Data Ethics and Security, Networking, Games Computing, Cyber Security, and Software Development Management.
You will also undertake a 30-credit Computer Science project where you will integrate and apply theoretical knowledge and problem-solving skills to a relatively large or complex technical, software, programming, research or business problem within the discipline.
The topic of your project is decided by you but guided by our experienced academic staff.
The programme’s flexibility allows you to showcase your creative and leadership skills through various a uthentic, industry-inspired assessments.
There is also an emphasis on the development of professional, academic, and transferrable skills such as communication, management, groupwork, and self-reflection, through regular sessions taught by academic and subject experts, including industrial guest lectures and sessions related to careers, placements, employability, and academic skills.
Third Year Double Project - ISP In this module, you will undertake an individual project across two semesters.
The module will enable you to integrate and apply theoretical knowledge and problem-solving skills to a relatively complex technical, software, programming, research or business problem within the discipline.
Web Technologies Our Web Technologies module provides the knowledge and skills necessary to enable you to develop multi-tier web applications.
It aims to provide an understanding of Internet communication architectures (such as client-server) regarding standard protocols and to enable the development of web applications and the configuration of the servers on which they rely.
Database Technologies and Applications The core aim of this module is to provide an advanced understanding of database techniques and current issues associated with database deployment.
Software Development Management Gain a comprehensive foundation in software development management and its process.
This module will cover the skills needed to manage software products and their quality.
It also explores modern development techniques such as API and microservices testing and Test-Driven development.
Games Computing You will learn the necessary knowledge and skills to write more ambitious computer games, exploiting modern computer architectures, using game-related APIs and libraries, and gain the practical experience of building a game and its various components.
You will have an opportunity to develop a game which can be showcased as part of a portfolio of developed software, increasing your employability upon graduation.
Students would need to have completed the equivalent of 240 credits of prior learning in Computer Science or a closely related discipline to access Level 6.
We offer a robust multi layered student support structure to help you meet your academic and personal needs.
You will benefit from the guidance of an academic mentor and access to Keele's Student Experience and Support team , should you need this additional support.
Our open-door policy enables you to engage with your lecturers directly, meaning you can seek support, gain feedback, or discuss any matters relating to your studies on a regular basis.
In addition to this, experienced demonstrators and doctoral researchers usually run virtual help-desk sessions to help with understanding practical aspects of module content and the use and configuration of software, especially when exam and coursework deadlines get closer.
On successful completion of this programme you will develop your intellectual, practical and transferable skills, to enable you to gain a sound academic grounding in the discipline of Computing and an understanding of the professional issues relevant to your future working life.
You will also have regular opportunities to talk through particular areas of difficulty, and any special learning needs you may have, with your Academic Mentors or module lecturers.
The wide variety of assessment methods used on this programme reflect the broad range of knowledge and skills that are developed as you progress through the programme.
Computational teaching will take place in Keele’s state-of-the-art Central Science Laboratories (CSL) and the Colin Reeves Building, home to the School of Computer Science and Mathematics.
Our Central Science Laboratories house world-class facilities.
During your studies you will have access to a suite of facilities within the School.
Keele is at the forefront of research and our lecturers in Computer Science are internationally recognised leaders in research on synthetic biology, wearable technologies, health and cultural informatics, responsible artificial intelligence, computer vision, evolutionary robotics.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/engineering:
We are planning to launch a suite of Engineering programmes, with the first intake expected in September 2026.
These programmes will provide a range of engineering specialisms and allow you to either graduate with a Bachelor’s degree (BEng) or continue to Master’s level (MEng).
We are delighted to share our intentions to launch a selection of programmes, all designed to prepare our graduates for the contemporary landscape of Engineering.
The proposed collection of Engineering programmes at Keele are:
These degrees will offer a modern engineering curriculum designed to equip graduates with the technical expertise and professional skills needed to address global challenges.
Through planned career-focused pathways, these programmes will aim to cultivate distinctive professional attributes, preparing students for successful careers in an ever-evolving engineering landscape.
Located in the West Midlands - an area renowned for its engineering and manufacturing excellence - these programmes will draw on the region’s strong industrial base.
Our students will benefit from a vibrant local network that supports industry-informed learning, potential networking opportunities and access to practical experience through a range of partnerships and initiatives.
The curriculum is planned to support the progressive development of both technical and professional capabilities, from undergraduate study through to Master’s level expertise.
Our aim is for the programmes to offer the flexibility for you to explore general engineering throughout your first year, before having the option to choose or switch between named specialisms from your second year onwards.
A planned key feature of these programmes will be a focus on systematic professional skills development, which will facilitate a seamless transition into professional practice, either through a work placement or direct entry into employment after completing Level 6 (BEng), or through continued study at Level 7 (MEng) for further specialisation.
Located at the heart of the country and with a strong regional industrial base, Keele is ideally situated to provide a strong foundation for those looking to enter and excel in this high-demand field.
We expect to welcome applicants with a wide variety of qualifications including A level, T level, BTEC, International Baccalaureate, and Access to HE, as well as a wide range of international qualifications.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/financeandmanagementtop-up:
Upgrade your achievements and earn a Finance and Management 'top-up' BSc.
This one-year top-up undergraduate degree provides the ideal opportunity to enhance your knowledge of both subject areas, preparing you for postgraduate study and maximising your career potential.
Our Finance and Management Top-up degree provides you with the opportunity complete the required 120 credits which when added to your existing qualifications amounts to the equivalent of an undergraduate degree.
If you have previously studied finance or business at an international institution or further education college and meet our entry requirements, our programme recognises that existing expertise and allows you to ‘top-up’ your knowledge.
Study final year level modules to enhance your range of finance and management knowledge and practical experience, plus benefit from opportunities to engage with different business challenges, developing your confidence.
The programme curriculum focuses on several subject-specific core areas, providing you with a solid foundation.
Plus additional optional modules allow you to adapt your studies to specific business themes and interests.
Diverse international business cultures are examined so you can use that global view to inform your understanding of management in a global context.
How are international projects managed and what are the potential challenges and risk involved is explored.
You’ll discover what issues contemporary management currently faces and how the theory you are studying can be applied within organisations.
You will examine international finance, exploring the foreign exchange market to understand how currencies are traded, and get an introduction to the different theories and models that are used to explain exchange rate behaviour.
Risk management with derivatives is analysed so you can understand the specific techniques that rely on the use of derivative contracts such as options, forwards and futures and you’ll examine the different key factors that this is dependent on.
The different challenges faced by developing countries operating in a global financial system centred around developed countries is evaluated.
You'll explore questions such as, what are the development opportunities for these countries, what are the consequences of sovereign debt burden and crises, and how do they access finance?
You’ll consider how the economic and politic landscape has changed since Brexit - the UK’s withdrawal as a member of the European Union (EU) - such as what the pros and cons of Brexit are, and evaluate areas such as the theory around European integration and the prospects for trade relationships between the UK and the EU.
A choice of independent study projects enables you to focus on specific themes such as managing diversity in organisations and developing a new business venture, or you could choose to undertake a consultancy project which will see you working on a ‘real’ project set by a local organisation.
If English is not your first language, you may be offered language classes, facilities and services by our Language Centre.
You will gain a wealth of transferable skills on our Finance and Management Top-up BSc programme enabling you to enjoy career success in a wide range of sectors and industries.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/medicalsciencestop-up:
Our BSc Medical Sciences Top-up programme provides a one-year route to a full BSc degree for home and international students with an HND, FdSc, or equivalent qualification in bioscience.
Covering key biomedical subjects from haematology to cancer biology, this degree enhances your learning through workshops, authentic assessments, and a short integrated placement.
Whether you're aiming for further study or professional growth, you will graduate with the expertise and qualifications valued by employers in healthcare and biomedical sectors.
Our Medical Science Top-up programme explores the key pathology disciplines of haematology, clinical biochemistry and medical immunology, as well as more specialist areas of clinical pathology including reproductive science and toxicology.
Optional modules allow you to broaden your understanding of biosciences, covering areas like host-microbe interactions, infectious disease control, molecular oncology, and emerging therapeutic strategies.
You also have the option to complete either a flexible work placement module, or a placement module in a school or college for those considering a career in teaching.
These placements provide valuable hands-on experience, help you build essential employability skills, and offer insight into real-world professional settings.
You’ll enhance your subject knowledge and develop advanced research skills by undertaking an authentic, hypothesis-driven research project.
This includes designing and executing investigations, analysing results, and critically evaluating current scientific literature.
To support your transition to BSc level study, you’ll also complete a zero-credit 'Academic and Professional Development in Bioscience' module.
This includes targeted workshops and tutorials focused on literature research, scientific communication, and academic integrity.
Throughout the year, you'll benefit from guest lectures, alumni career talks, and weekly research seminars delivered by world-leading researchers and educators working at the forefront of bioscience.
You will study 90 credits of compulsory modules and 30 credits of optional modules.
Research Project (30 credits) Your research project is an excellent opportunity to carry out a substantial piece of meaningful research, drawing together skills in experimental study design, critical interpretation of data, and professional competencies.
Advanced Clinical Pathology (30 credits) In this module, you will explore some of the more specialist disciplines across Clinical Pathology, including reproductive science, point-of-care testing and toxicology.
Case-based learning will allow you to work in small groups to explore some of the key challenges affecting public health across the UK, and will give you real insight into the relationship between research, clinical practice and national guidance.
These sessions will also support you in developing teamwork, leadership and communication skills.
Biomedical Blood Science (30 credits) The key discipline areas of a typical Blood Science pathology department will be discussed in this module where you will explore Clinical Biochemistry, Immunology, Haematology and Transfusion Science.
You will investigate the pathophysiology of disorders of blood and bone marrow, as well as autoimmune and allergy-related conditions and how major organ function is assessed, identifying common biochemical abnormalities.
Small group case-based learning sessions will develop teamwork and communication skills, contextualising taught content through application and problem-solving.
Academic and Professional Development in Bioscience (0 credits) This module will provide additional academic and professional development workshops supporting your transition BSc level study and beyond.
You will reflect on outcomes from previous study and attend a range of workshops to develop and enhance your skills in good academic practice, literature searching/evaluation, and science communication.
This, together with career planning and employability workshops, will support you as you move to the next steps post-graduation, whether employment in the biosciences or wider fields, or progression to further postgraduate study.
Human Parasitology (15 credits) Here we will explore the theoretical and practical aspects of parasitic diseases of humans, considering such topics as the life cycle of select parasites between vector and host, the pathogenesis of parasitic infection and their diagnosis and treatment.
Case Studies in Microbiology & Immunology (15 credits) In this module, you will study current research into diseases of major public health concern in the fields of microbiology and immunology.
This will be supported with real-world case studies where you explore clinical interventions and how current research is informing development of novel therapies.
You will also investigate the application of microorganisms in areas such as the biocontrol of environmental pests or manipulation of our microbiome.
You will further develop skills in critically evaluating current literature and communicating to different audiences.
Cancer Biology (15 credits) You will be introduced to the field of cancer biology, exploring the molecular and cellular hallmarks of cancer, and how the understanding of these is beginning to inform novel therapeutic development.
Epidemiology  (15 credits) Epidemiology is concerned with the study of disease development and prevention within populations.
Flexible Work Placement (Level 6) (15 credits) In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
Our flexible work placement module, is a fantastic way to gain industry experience whilst balancing your time in industry around existing demands.
We also offer a work placement based in a schools or colleges, specifically for students interested in entering the teaching profession.
Students would need to have completed the equivalent of 240 credits of prior learning in a subject area relevant to the course to access Level 6 entry.
Our open-door policy enables you to engage with us directly, meaning you can seek support, gain feedback or discuss matters on a regular basis.
In addition to the open door policy, you can also contact the following people across Life Sciences for help and support:
Student Services also offer a comprehensive range of specialist services that can help you at any time - from enrolment to graduation.
On successful completion of the programme, you will develop a range of key skills valuable in areas where numeracy and a scientific approach to problem-solving are essential.
You will also cultivate your critical thinking, autonomous learning, independent research, and communication skills.
Whether you're aiming for further study or professional growth, you’ll graduate with the expertise and qualifications valued by employers in healthcare and biomedical sectors.
Our state-of-the-art David Attenborough Laboratories provide cutting-edge science facilities, support Keele’s world-leading research and teaching, and tackle the key challenges of the 21st Century.
University life is not just about the content of your degree.
It is also an opportunity to network, to speak to people working in fields that excite you.
Here in Life Sciences, you will meet a diverse range of staff.
Our staff include world-leading researchers, clinical practitioners and experts in learning and teaching.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/nursingassociatefoundationdegree:
We are planning to launch a Nursing Associate Foundation Degree (FdSc) and hope to welcome our first intake in September 2025.
The Nursing Associate Foundation Degree (FdSc) at Keele University is designed to nurture individuals to make a difference in the workplace.
The programme has a practical approach to the knowledge, skills and behaviour development required to be a Nursing Associate.
It is designed for anyone looking to become a Nursing Associate who works in a caring role and has a desire to develop their healthcare career.
The programme is delivered alongside apprentices studying on our established Nursing Associate Apprenticeship (FdSc).
The Nursing Associate Foundation Degree (FdSc) typically requires:
You may be eligible for funding support via the NHS Learning Support Fund .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/undergraduatecourses/nursingstudies:
Nursing Studies BSc (Hons) at Keele University offers health and social care professionals the opportunity to enhance their clinical expertise and academic achievements.
We provide six distinctive clinical pathway options in: Critical Care, Contemporary Rheumatology, Fundamentals in General Practice Nursing , Neonatal, Generic and International.
Our BSc (Hons) Nursing Studies curriculum reflects contemporary clinical practice and recognises that the health and social care needs of patients and clients are changing.
It aims to future proof your career by building on your existing professional experience, enabling you to progress in your chosen field.
As a registered clinical practitioner you will strengthen your competencies in areas such as critical reflection on clinical practice, clinical reasoning and ethical conduct, theoretical knowledge and practical abilities, to enable you to improve your practice to confidently manage and coordinate the evolving provision of clinical care.
Our academic staff and pathway leads come from a range of clinical backgrounds and have a wealth of knowledge and relevant experience to support you throughout this Nursing Studies programme.
Many of our staff are research active and all are registered with the appropriate professional body, such as the Nursing and Midwifery Council.
You can select one of the following pathways:
You will be required to complete the following core modules:
Successful completion of the core modules will total 105 credits.
You must choose a 15 credit option module.
This enables you to reach the 120 credits required for the BSc to be awarded.
This Critical Care Pathway is currently only available for students who hold postgraduate qualifications and would like to integrate RPL (recognition of prior learning) into this pathway.
This enables you to reach the 120 level 6 credits required for the BSc to be awarded.
Apply Now - Contemporary Rheumatology Pathway
Apply Now - Fundamentals in General Practice Nursing Pathway
Apply Now - Neonatal Pathway
Successful completion of the core modules will total 75 credits.
You must choose option modules to a total of 45 credits.
Apply Now - Nursing Studies (generic route)
Successful completion of the core modules will total 90 credits.
You must choose online elective modules to a total of 30 credits.
Apply Now - International Pathway
You have the option to gain an intermediate Graduate Certificate which is the equivalent to the first year of study towards the full Nursing Studies BSc.
For 2026/27 entry, fees are as follows:
Home (UK)
Note: There are exceptional module fees for NUR-30171 Independent Professional Practice Development (30 level 6 credits), which is charged at £1900, and NUR-30239 Independent Professional Practice Development (15 level 6 credits), which is charged at £950.
International
We provide a supportive learning environment for you throughout your studies.
Based within our Faculty is a Student Experience and Support team who have a member of the team dedicated to the School of Nursing and Midwifery.
You will have access to advice and support services at Keele which include:
The local NHS Trusts also provide counselling services.
Previous Nursing Studies graduates have gone on to pursue specialist and advanced practice roles or continued their studies on other programmes.
We use various learning and teaching methods in recognition of the varied nature of nursing studies.
The course is delivered through a range of blended learning approaches including online synchronous and asynchronous teaching.
The Keele Virtual Learning Environment (KLE) supports and complements this approach which reduces the emphasis on traditional, classroom based learning.
Learning and teaching methods may also include:
We utilise a variety of assessment methods on this programme which may include:
Successful completion of the course requires achievement of 120 credits at Level 6 for BSc (Hons).
The School of Nursing and Midwifery has excellent facilities, based centrally on Keele campus and at the Clinical Education Centre (CEC).
Academic colleagues and professional support staff from the school are based on Keele campus.
The David Weatherall building contains a large lecture theatre, flexible learning teaching spaces and a range of classrooms, computer suite and seminar rooms.
The healthcare simulation suite within Darwin Building is used by students across the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences .
This state-of-the-art facility has been created to give students the opportunity to practice and hone their skills in a realistic environment throughout their curriculum.
The Clinical Education Centre (CEC) based at the University Hospitals of North Midlands NHS Trust (UHNM) provides a modern clinical learning environment, which is shared between the School of Nursing and Midwifery, and the School of Medicine.
The clinical skills suite is equipped to a high standard to facilitate a wide range of clinical skills learning and simulation.
It hosts a range of electronic learning packages and licences to aid dynamic, flexible individualised learning including drug calculation software.
Explore the CEC.
In addition to the University Library facilities on Keele campus, the school provides excellent facilities with a multidisciplinary Health Library at the CEC.
The libraries house a specialist stock of health and health-related material including books, journal subscriptions and other web-based resources.
There are quiet study areas, and self-service photocopiers available for use as well as a help desk for queries.
To ensure you receive important updates about your application, please include both your work and personal email addresses.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/apply:
The information on this page relates to undergraduate applications for September 2025.
You can download a copy of our Transfer Guidance .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/accountingandfinance:
Develop the essential accounting and finance skills and knowledge required to open the doors to careers in accountancy, finance or management in a variety of global industries.
Our Accounting and Finance BSc can open doors to high-level careers in accountancy, banking, insurance, corporate enterprises and more.
Everything’s on your doorstep at Keele, and you’ll soon feel at home and make friends wherever you go.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/accountingwithbusinessanalytics:
Personal and Business Taxation Individuals and companies should be aware of their obligation to calculate and pay the correct amount of taxation at the correct time.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/astrophysicswithintegratedmasters:
From the discovery of extrasolar planets, to the study of gravitational wave events and the evolution of the universe, you'll deepen your curiosity and develop a solid foundation of astrophysical knowledge on our 4 year integrated masters programme, gaining the advanced research, professional, practical and employability skills to pursue PhD study or employment in a wide variety of industrial sectors.
Our Astrophysics with Integrated Master's programme combines a solid grounding in core physics concepts, graduate skills and attributes defined by the Institute of Physics (IoP) accreditation framework with exploration of frontier topics, informed by the interests of our world-class research teams, and the advanced research skills and experience to enhance your employability.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/biochemistry:
From unlocking the secrets of the human genome to the individually tailored molecular therapies of the future, our Royal Society of Biology accredited degree investigates some of the most exciting areas of 21st century life science and medical research.
Our core laboratory programme delves deep into the intricate world of human and mammalian biochemistry, exploring how this is advancing our understanding and treatment of conditions like diabetes, cancer, and infectious diseases.
The first year of the programme is designed to equip you with a broad and varied grounding in modern biochemistry.
A comprehensive laboratory programmes runs throughout the course utilising our state-of-the-art David Attenborough laboratories, where you will develop key skills in diverse biochemical and molecular biology techniques.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/biochemistrywithintegratedmasters:
Investigating some of the most exciting areas of 21st century life science and medical research, our four-year programme will be of particular interest to those who wish to continue in a research career, such as further study to PhD level, working in industry or the wider bioscience sector.
Our programme explores human and mammalian biochemistry and how this is advancing our understanding of the molecular basis of conditions ranging from diabetes and cancer, to the interactions of microorganisms and viruses with their hosts as agents of infectious disease, and how this can be controlled.
In your third year, you will choose from a range of optional modules in areas of cutting-edge bioscience research and complete a Research Project.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/biochemistrywithneuroscience:
Biochemistry with Neuroscience follows a focused pathway through core areas of the discipline from understanding the structure-function relationships of the major building blocks of life including nucleic acids, carbohydrates and proteins to the regulation and control of major metabolic pathways, gene expression and cellular activity.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/biochemistrywithneurosciencewithintegratedmasters:
Accelerate your career in the biosciences with our four year Biochemistry with Neuroscience Integrated Master's.
Our MSci Biochemistry with Neuroscience programme offers a focused exploration of key biochemistry concepts, ranging from the structure-function relationships of the major building blocks of life, such as nucleic acids, carbohydrates, and proteins, to the regulation and control of metabolic pathways, gene expression, and cellular activity.
Alongside study in core areas of Biochemistry you will also study a strand of neuroscience focused modules across all three years of the course, where you apply your knowledge of cellular biochemistry and molecular biology to the study of the nervous system.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/bioengineeringregenerativemedicine:
Our Bioengineering (Regenerative Medicine) BSc is an innovative programme that aims to develop aspiring bioengineers into a specialised workforce, that will respond to the future demands for regenerative therapeutic strategies.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/biology:
From genes to ecosystems, Biology at Keele explores the fascinating intricacies of life in its broadest sense, whilst offering opportunities to specialise in topics aligned to your interests, from animal behaviour to human genetics.
With access to our 600-acre diverse campus, state-of-the-art David Attenborough Laboratories, and integrated employability modules, you will graduate with the academic, practical and professional skills required for careers as diverse as ecological consultancy to pharmaceutical sales.
At Keele, you will gain a comprehensive understanding of the intricacies and interconnections of life on Earth and the challenges it faces due to human activity, by studying biology from the smallest building blocks of life, to entire sprawling ecosystems.
During your first year you will gain a solid grounding in key biological concepts such as cells, genetics, evolution, physiology of humans and other animals, ecology and plant biology.
From year two, you can choose to study topics across the biosciences or focus on key specialisms aligned to your career goals.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/biomedicalscience:
From the intricacies of human physiology to the complex mechanisms of disease progression, our dual accredited Biomedical Science degree combines expertise across multiple disciplines of biology to solve real-life problems for patients and society at large.
At the start of your degree you will look at normal physiological function including whole systems and organs right down to a cellular, molecular and genetic level.
Clinical Applications of Biomedical Science I The first of our vocational modules exploring the role of Biomedical Scientists working in clinical laboratories.
DDM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science, Health and Social Care, Sport and Exercise Science.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/businessandmanagementtop-up:
Our one-year top-up programme is the perfect way to gain a deeper understanding of business providing a stepping stone to further academic study and greater career opportunities.
If you have previously studied business at an international institution or further education college and meet our entry requirements, our Business and Management Top-up BSc recognises that existing expertise and allows you to ‘top-up’ that knowledge.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagement:
Explore the field of business management to prepare you for a career in today’s global business world.
Gain essential management expertise and skills through real-world experiences and professional development opportunities, setting the stage for your business career.
Whether you’ve got a clear career goal or want to explore where the world of business could take you, Business Management at Keele is the perfect starting point.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagementandaccounting:
Studying Business Management and Accounting blends core elements of business with a focus on accounting to support the development of the essential academic and professional skills you’ll need to launch your career.
As you discover how organisations operate, you will explore themes such as marketing, human resource management, leadership and strategy.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagementandfinance:
Studying Business Management and Finance at Keele will equip you with the financial acumen to make critical business decisions and manage organisational success.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagementwithentrepreneurship:
With hands-on projects, networking with successful entrepreneurs, and real-world experience, you’ll be prepared to confidently navigate today’s fast-paced business landscape.
Our Business Management with Entrepreneurship programme is for ambitious entrepreneurs who want to create their own ventures, or bring innovation to existing organisations.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagementwithevents:
This contemporary curriculum allows you to put your skills into practice through practical experience, ensuring you are fully prepared for a successful career in events management.
Prepare to be part of the vibrant and rapidly growing events sector with Keele's Business Management with Events programme.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagementwithhospitality:
You’ll study areas such as food, drink, and culture, as well as contemporary business operations, while gaining hands-on experience through placements, internships, and industry projects, preparing you for a variety of exciting careers within the hospitality industry.
Prepare to become a leader in the hospitality industry with Business Management with Hospitality at Keele.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagementwithhumanresources:
Business Management with Human Resources BA offers the potential for you to gain a thorough understanding of how businesses operate and manage their best asset – their employees.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagementwithinternationaltourism:
Business Management with International Tourism at Keele will prepare you for a career in the dynamic tourism sector by combining core business management principles with specialised tourism modules.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/businessmanagementwithsustainability:
By integrating innovative business strategies with a commitment to long-term environmental and social impact, this degree opens doors to thriving careers that make a real difference.
Our BA (Hons) Business Management with Sustainability is the ideal degree for students who want to combine business expertise with a passion for sustainability.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/businesspsychology:
Develop an understanding of people, their behaviour and wellbeing and how this influences performance in the workplace.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/businesstechnology:
Our Business Technology BSc will equip you with cutting-edge skills and knowledge, preparing you to address the technological challenges you may encounter working in areas such as tech companies, financial services and the public sector.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/chemistry:
From core chemical principles, models and vocabulary to the pivotal role chemistry plays in addressing global, economic and environmental challenges, Chemistry at Keele offers maximum flexibility to explore topics across the full breadth of the subject.
Our Royal Society of Chemistry accredited programme explores the pivotal role chemistry plays in tackling global, economic and environmental challenges of the 21st century, threading sustainability and industrial chemistry through traditional chemical principles and theories.
During your first two years of study, you will be taught the core concepts in the fundamental areas of inorganic, organic, physical and analytical chemistry.
This course is accredited by the RSC.
It partially fulfils the academic requirements for Chartered Chem (CChem).

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/chemistrywithintegratedmasters:
Our Chemistry with Integrated Master's offers maximum flexibility in allowing you to explore topics across the full breadth of chemistry, with a focus on your development as an independent researcher.
Our Royal Society of Chemistry accredited programme provides in-depth fundamental and applied knowledge in addition to current research trends from across the chemical sciences.
It fulfils the academic requirements for Chartered Chem (CChem).
"I had an incredible experience working as quantum materials scientist during my placement year at STFC.
I had the chance to make a lot of new friends, as well as increase my professional network, connecting with many researchers in a range of disciplines.
I believe this experience has prepared me for my future scientific career.
I learned how to conduct my own research, which is valuable for a PhD, and gained many analytical chemistry skills."
Polina, MChem placement - Quantum materials scientist at the Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC)
"The open-door policy and friendly, relaxed atmosphere at Keele really is unrivalled at larger Universities.
I cannot overstate how my experience at Keele shaped my future career.
My personal tutor and project supervisor helped me at every step of the PhD application process – from whittling down prospective courses right through to mock interview questions"
Hannah, Chemistry with Integrated Master's

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/chemistrywithmaterialschemistry:
Chemistry with Materials Chemistry at Keele combines the principles of chemistry with the study of materials and their real-world, practical applications in tackling global challenges, such as energy security.
At the intersection of Chemistry and Materials Science, our Chemistry with Materials Chemistry programme provides you with an in-depth understanding of the fundamental theory and practical applications of such materials.
BBB in three A levels including B in Chemistry
Contextual Offer : BCC in three A levels including B in Chemistry
DDM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science, including completion of three out of four of the following units: Applications of Organic Chemistry, Applications of Inorganic Chemistry, Industrial Chemical Analysis, Practical Chemical Analysis
Contextual Offer : DMM  in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science, including completion of three out of four of the following units: Applications of Organic Chemistry, Applications of Inorganic Chemistry, Industrial Chemical Analysis, Practical Chemical Analysis
Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in Chemistry A level, or Distinction and Merit in Applied Science BTEC National Diploma / Diploma including completion of three out of four of the following units: Applications of Organic Chemistry, Applications of Inorganic Chemistry, Industrial Chemical Analysis, Practical Chemical Analysis, and B in any A level
Merit in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels including B in Chemistry.
555 in three Higher Levels including 5 in Chemistry, or 30 points including 5 in Higher Level Chemistry
Contextual Offer : 544 in three Higher Levels including 5 in Chemistry, or 28 points including 5 in Higher Level Chemistry
122 UCAS points in an Access to HE Diploma with Chemistry related content, including Distinction in at least 30 Level 3 credits.
BBBCC in five Highers including Chemistry Higher, or CC in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers including Chemistry Higher or Advanced Higher, or CCC in three Advanced Highers including Chemistry Advanced Higher.
H3, H3, H4, H4, H4, H4 in the Irish Leaving Certificate including H4 in Chemistry or Physics and Chemistry (combined).
73% in the Gaokao including 70% in Chemistry.
Average of 70% from four subjects including 70% in Chemistry in the ICSE, CBSE or Western Bengal Standard XII, or average of 75% from four subjects including 75% in Chemistry in any other Standard XII.
2.2 overall average in the Abitur including 12 in Chemistry.
13 in the French Baccalaureate / International Option Baccalaureate including 13 in Chemistry / Physics, or 12.5 in the Baccalauréat Français International including 12.5 in Chemistry / Physics.
444 from two electives and one core subject in the HKDSE including 4 in Chemistry.
Overall average of 7.4 in the Título de Bachillerato including 8 in Chemistry.
80% in the Esame di Stato including 8 in Chemistry.
18 / 86% in the Apolytirion including 18 in Chemistry.
Overall average of 15.5 in a Secondary Certificate including 16 in Chemistry.
65% / BBBCC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma including 70% in Chemistry.
444 from three Advanced Placement subjects including 4 in Chemistry.
BBB in three Advanced Levels including B in Chemistry.
BBB in three subjects in the STPM including B in Chemistry.
BBB in three H2 Levels including B in Chemistry.
72% overall with 7 in Chemistry.
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with BBB including B in Chemistry.
BBB in three Principal level subjects in the Advanced Certificate of Education including B in Chemistry
BBB in three Advanced Level subjects including B in Chemistry

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/chemistrywithmaterialschemistrywithintegratedmasters:
Combining the principles of chemistry with the advanced study of materials and their practical applications in tackling global challenges, you will gain the advanced analytical techniques, data fluency, chemical design, applied problem solving and employability skills to pursue a research career as a professional materials chemist, or further your studies with a PhD.
Focusing on your development as an independent researcher, our Chemistry with Materials Chemistry Integrated Master's will provide you with an advanced understanding of the fundamental theory and practical applications of materials such as batteries, fuel cells and catalysts that allow us to transport, convert, deliver and conserve energy in all aspects of our industrial society.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/chemistrywithmathematics:
In the first two years of study, we will support you in learning the core concepts in the fundamental areas of inorganic, organic, physical and analytical chemistry, whilst developing your pure mathematical knowledge and skills to fully understand their use in a chemical context.
BBB in three A levels including B in Chemistry and B in Maths
Contextual Offer : BBD in three A levels including B in Chemistry and B in Maths
Merit in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in two A Levels including B in Chemistry and B in Maths.
BBB in three Advanced Levels including B in Chemistry and B in Maths.
BBB in three Principle level subjects in the STPM including B in Chemistry and B in Maths.
BBB in three H2 Levels including B in Chemistry and B in Maths.
BBB in three Advanced Level subjects including B in Chemistry and B in Maths

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/chemistrywithmedicinalchemistry:
Our accredited Chemistry with Medicinal Chemistry programme will equip you with a solid grounding in the core areas of chemistry, exploring the complex biological and chemical problems involved in the design and synthesis of new clinical drugs.
Our Chemistry with Medicinal Chemistry BSc applies a strong grounding in chemistry towards the medicinal chemistry principles required to solve problems at the interfaces of chemistry, biochemistry, molecular biology and pharmacology.
One of the highlights of your degree is your final year individual independent research project, which can be aligned to your own interests and career goals.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/chemistrywithmedicinalchemistrywithintegratedmasters:
If so, our accredited programme offers a strong foundation across the entire spectrum of chemistry, with a particular emphasis on medicinal chemistry.
Our Chemistry with Medicinal Chemistry with Integrated Master's will provide you with a deep understanding of the complex biological and chemical problems that are involved in the design and synthesis of innovative clinical drugs.
In your first two years, you will study the organic, inorganic, and physical chemistry fundamental to medicinal chemistry.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/computerscience:
Jonah, Computer Science

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/computerscienceartificialintelligence:
Our research-focused BSc combines a solid foundation in computing, mathematics, and programming with specialisation in advanced areas such as machine learning.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/computersciencecybersecurity:
Our Computer Science (Cyber Security) programme combines a solid grounding in computing, mathematics, and programming with exploration and application of specialist topics including risk analysis.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/computersciencedigitalforensics:
Our Computer Science (Digital Forensics) programme blends a solid foundation in computing, mathematics and programming with the technical and analytical skills to make an impact in the fight against cybercrime.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/computersciencewithintegratedmasters:
Cloud Computing This module explores cloud technologies and fundamental cloud concepts, allowing students to plan, design and implement cloud-based solutions to business problems and providing skills in global awareness, sustainability, and problem solving.
Reliability and performance concerns are addressed, together with crucial issues related to the security and privacy of data stored and managed remotely.
Lectures are supported by a complementary and asynchronous online course from a world-leading cloud provider (e.g.
AWS) and by practicals that allow accessing the provider's cloud infrastructure.
Distributed Intelligent Systems Intelligent systems are increasingly present in our lives, including the home and industrial environments.
These systems include robots, autonomous vehicles, intelligent household appliances equipped with artificial intelligence, wearable computing devices (e.g.
health and fitness monitors), intelligent sensor networks in buildings, and so on.
This module prepares you to analyse and design distributed intelligent systems, to develop computer software that can control and coordinate interactions and communications effectively and efficiently, and to develop distributed intelligent applications that can solve real-life problems.
Mathematics for AI and Data Science This module is designed to introduce the fundamental areas of mathematics required to understand concepts related to Artificial Intelligence and Data Science, for students from a non-mathematical background.
You will learn to critically appraise and analyse different types of data sets, apply suitable techniques to solve problems in AI, Data Science, and areas of mathematics and to apply these ideas to real world problems.
You will gain critical thinking, problem solving, and numeracy skills.
Human Factors of Cyber Security This module provides you with a foundational understanding of the role of human factors in cyber security and how to design security that is usable and acceptable to a range of human actors.
It also aims to introduce a broader organisational and societal perspective on security and ethics, both within the UK and globally.
You will gain group working and leadership skills, alongside integrity, time management, and communication skills.
Collaborative Application Development The module provides an opportunity to undertake a project on behalf of a client from industry giving hands on experience of a real world project.
You’ll work as part of a group to complete the project and present your results back to the client at the end of the module.
Tutorial sessions are run twice weekly to allow for time to work on the project in the group and have meetings with the client to check on the groups progress.
Visualisation for Data Analytics The information age is characterised by large amounts of data generated as part of an ever-widening range of day-to-day activities.
When properly analysed, this data can lead an organisation to better decision-making, insight, and competitive advantage.
The module equips you with an understanding of the use of Data Analytics within areas such as health, security, science and business.
You will also learn a variety of Data Visualisation techniques to make sense of the emergence of big data.
Data Analytics and Databases The module aims to equip you with the knowledge of operations on databases and of a variety of tools and statistical techniques that enable you to make sense of the emergence and exponential growth of big data.
You will learn to critically evaluate and apply big data applications and advanced analytics and statistical modelling techniques appropriate to different types of problems and to develop advanced applications of statistical data analytics techniques using an advanced specialist programming language.
Applications of AI, Machine Learning and Data Science This module aims to equip you with knowledge and experience of a variety of cutting-edge AI and Machine Learning techniques applied to authentic problems and datasets from the real-world.
It also aims to give you an opportunity to explore how these techniques can be contextualised in an area that you wish to pursue post-graduation, thus increasing your employability.
Cryptography The module will provide you with a broad overview of cryptography, the fundamental security goals achieved through cryptographic algorithms and protocols, major cryptanalysis techniques and possible countermeasures.
Significant attention will be placed on how algorithms are attacked and to the characterisation of the properties that allow such attacks to be effective.
You will also learn how to write algorithms to resist attacks.
You will learn transferable skills such as team working, leadership, reflective practice, and problem solving.
Cyber Security Cyber security is becoming increasingly important in today’s ever more connected world.
This module provides you with an understanding of advanced topics in cyber security.
You will see a selection of recent and emerging advances in cyber security, network security, distributed systems security and privacy.
The module develops critical analysis and academic writing skills.
You will carry out a group project in an advanced cyber security topic, experiencing and developing team working skills.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/creativewriting:
Develop your voice as a writer within a supportive community of academics, published authors, and creative peers at Keele University.
Creative Writing at Keele allows you to develop your writing skills in various literary forms while deepening your understanding of the historical, social, ethnic, gender, and geographical contexts of the texts studied in this programme.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/criminology:
With links to various criminal justice agencies, you will benefit from networks with the police, probation services and prisons to explore real-world scenarios and prepare for a career across a range of sectors.
From day one, you will explore themes of crime control, justice, victimisation and harm through contemporary case studies, building your awareness across a range of different perspectives.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/criminologyandcriminaljustice:
Delivered by research-active criminologists who work closely with a range of criminal justice agencies, this programme will help to prepare you for a career within areas such as policing, probation, prisons, criminal justice and youth justice.
Keele’s BA in Criminology and Criminal Justice combines a theoretical understanding of crime with the practical application to criminal justice systems.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/digitalmedia:
This programme covers a diverse range of topics—from Data and Design to Social Media Cultures, and from Content Creation to Audience and User Research—offering you a comprehensive blend of critical, creative, and professional approaches to digital media.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/digitalmediaandmarketing:
Digital Media and Marketing at Keele will launch you into a world where creativity meets strategy.
Academic staff in Keele Business School are active researchers in core areas such as accounting, finance, economics, human resource management, marketing and management.
Currently, academic staff in Media are active researchers in areas such as social media, race and representation, and environmental communication.
Located at the heart of the Keele University Science & Innovation Park, Keele Business School is one of the leading developments of its kind in the UK.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/ecologyandconservation:
Our BSc in Ecology and Conservation provides you with the expertise to understand these complex issues and explore innovative solutions.
You’ll gain hands-on experience using equipment, samples and digital resources in our state-of-the-art Central Science Labs and master a range of fieldwork skills through various residential and one day field courses in diverse ecosystems.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/ecologyandconservationwithintegratedmasters:
Study in detail how we can protect species, habitats, landscapes and ecosystems on our four-year integrated master’s programme.
Our Ecology and Conservation with Integrated Master's offers an advanced understanding of ecology, conservation biology, conservation practice and environmental management to address the ecological and conservation issues facing our planet.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/economicsandfinance:
Expand your understanding of stakeholders in financial markets, exchange rate markets, stock markets, banking, financial intermediaries, cryptocurrencies, and central bank digital currencies with our Economics and Finance BSc.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/economicsba:
Explore the dynamic field of economics and uncover the answers to these questions and more on our programme.
Develop the skills to analyse these interactions and deepen your understanding of economic models and techniques on our Economics BA.
Our contemporary programme will broaden your knowledge of the discipline and provide you with the core skills to effectively assess economic environments and design policies that drive excellent economic outcomes.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/economicsbsc:
Explore how economics seeks to answer these and other questions, and develop your understanding of the subject’s theories and techniques to open doors to a range of exciting future career opportunities.
At Keele, our Economics BSc programme supports you to cultivate the skills for analysing these interactions and attain a comprehensive understanding of economic models and tools.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/educationandenglish:
"I was fortunate enough to have the opportunity to study in Uppsala, Sweden for a semester in my second year of studying Education and English.
Learning the language and understanding cultural differences have not only enhanced my employability prospects but have developed me as a person."
Phoenix, Education and English Literature

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/english:
Build advanced skills applicable to a huge variety of careers and take advantage of the placement opportunities embedded throughout the programme to prepare for your chosen career, benefiting from hands-on insights, work experience with skilled practitioners and collaboration with your peers.
With English at Keele you will engage your imagination with texts from near and far and from the past and present, and develop your understanding of the cultures that they are part of and the ways that they reflect, generate or contradict the ideas of their time.
"Keele University provides an enriched English Literature programme, taught by a department of impressive academics and encompassing a range of literary disciplines, including English and American Literature, and spanning time periods from early modern to contemporary.
What really distinguishes Keele’s English Department from other universities, however, is the warm and nurturing environment it provides to encourage prospective scholars to explore their own academic interests and establish themselves as independent literary critics."
Athena, English Literature
Please note: You must take either 'Employing English: Putting Your Subject into Practice’ or ‘Professional Experience with English (Year 3)'.
"I really enjoyed how versatile the module choices are for English Literature.
There are plenty of options depending on your reading preferences and there is flexibility within modules as various texts are explored."
Zahra, English Literature
"The staff at Keele always go the extra mile for students and offer immense academic and mental support."
Kyle, English Literature

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/englishandcreativewriting:
Study English and Creative Writing at Keele and you'll develop your critical skills and nurture your voice as a writer, through the exploration of literature and engagement in creative practice across several genres of writing.
You'll analyse texts to understand the cultures they’re part of and how these reflect, generate, or contradict ideas of their time, and experiment with writing in different literary forms.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/englishandfilmstudies:
Spark your creativity with our English and Film Studies programme.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/englishandphilosophy:
"The Work Placement for Humanities Students module has enhanced my understanding of the valuable, practical application of my degree subjects in the workplace, and has set me on a clear career trajectory.
I would certainly regard it as the most invaluable and rewarding experience of my degree so far."
Hollie, English Literature and Philosophy

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/environmentalscience:
Enhance your understanding of our fragile natural environment with our Environmental Science BSc, equipping you to tackle these challenges and contribute to a healthier planet for all.
Flexible work placement (level 5)
Flexible work placement (level 6)

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/environmentalscienceandgeography:
Discover the Earth’s physical processes and the complexities around how humans interact with the environment on our Environmental Science and Geography BSc.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/esportsbusinessmanagement:
Explore the esports industry in depth with our Esports Business Management BA and build a solid foundation in business concepts while gaining valuable practical experience.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/filmandmediastudies:
Launch your career in the creative industries with Film and Media Studies at Keele.
Awaken your creativity with Film and Media Studies at Keele.
You'll dive deep into how meaning is brought to life—exploring everything from social media and film to television, news, and popular music.
Find more information here .
Find out more here.
Our combined honours Foundation Year is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the  BA (Hons) Film Studies and Media degree.
Students need to apply for BA (Hons) Film Studies with Foundation Year ( UCAS code: TBC) through UCAS at www.ucas.com.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/filmandmusicproduction:
Kickstart your career in the creative industries with Film and Music Production at Keele.
Film and Music Production at Keele combines the in-depth analysis of film and creative music production as an art form and industry.
You will also have opportunities to learn and practise creative filmmaking, music production, sound design, screen music, audio-visuals, and music software.
You'll explore influential figures and movements in global cinema and creative music production while developing the skills to craft powerful multimedia narratives around causes and topics that matter to you.
Music Fellowship Scheme – Studio Innovation Fellowship Award (SIFA) Supported by the Mericos Foundation and exclusive to Keele.
Students will need to apply for Music Production with Foundation Year (UCAS code TBC) through UCAS at www.ucas.com

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/filmstudies:
Learn to express your creative voice and get to grips with the theory of film with Film Studies at Keele.
Film Studies student Han, tells us why she loves studying Film at Keele.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/filmstudiesandcreativewriting:
Step into the vibrant world of film and creative writing at Keele.
The contemporary curriculum involves an in-depth analysis of film as an art form and industry, focusing on the screenwriter's role.
Juliette, Film Studies and Creative Writing student, tells us why she loves her course at Keele.
Study Abroad (Summer School)

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/financeandmanagementtop-up:
Upgrade your finance and management achievements and earn a 'top-up' undergraduate degree.
This one-year top-up programme provides the ideal opportunity to enhance your knowledge of both subject areas, preparing you for postgraduate study and maximising your career potential.
Our Finance and Management Top-up programme provides you with the opportunity complete the required 120 credits which when added to your existing qualifications amounts to the equivalent of an undergraduate degree.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/forensicbiology:
Topics in Forensic Biology This module will allow you to build advanced skills in collecting and interpreting forensic biological data.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/forensicchemistry:
With these practical and professional skills, you'll be prepared for an exciting career in Forensic Chemistry.
Spend a year in industry In an increasingly competitive job market, employers are seeking to recruit employees who have high-level knowledge, skills and an understanding of the workplace.
International year In between years two and three of your studies you can choose to spend a year studying abroad.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/forensicscience:
BBC in three A Levels including B in Chemistry or Biology.
DMM in any of the following BTEC Extended Diplomas / National Extended Diplomas: Applied Science
Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and B in Chemistry or Biology A Level, or Distinction and Merit in Applied Science BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and C in any A Level.
554 in three Higher Levels including 5 in Chemistry or Biology, or 29 points including 5 in Higher Level Chemistry or Biology.
12 in the French Baccalaureate including 13 in Chemistry / Physics or Biology, or 11.5 in the International Option Baccalaureate including 12 in Chemistry / Physics or Biology.
BBC in three Advanced Levels including B in Chemistry or Biology.
BBC in three subjects in the STPM including B in Chemistry or Biology.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/forensicsciencewithcriminology:
Hatred, Justice & the State What is ‘hate speech’ and when, if at all, should governments prohibit it?
Through doing this, the module will explore how states have, at different times and places, both protected people against prejudice and promoted prejudice through laws, policies and policing practices, Flexible Work Placement and Professional Training In a competitive job market, practical skills and understanding workplace dynamics are crucial.
BBC in three A levels including C in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
Contextual Offer: CCC in three A levels including C in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List.
Distinction and Merit in any BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and C in one Science A Level from the Keele Defined Sciences List, or Merit and Merit in Applied Science, Forensic and Criminal Investigation, Health and Social Care, Information Technology, Sport, or Sport and Exercise Science BTEC National Diploma / Diploma and A in any A level
Distinction in any BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and CC in two A Levels including C in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List, or Merit in Applied Science, Applied Human Biology, Forensic and Criminal Investigation, Health and Social Care, Information Technology, Sport, or Sport and Exercise Science BTEC National Extended Certificate / Subsidiary Diploma and BB in any two A levels
Merit in any of the following T levels: Health, Healthcare Science, Science.
554 in three Higher Levels including 4 in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or 29 points including 4 in one Higher Level Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List .
Contextual Offer : 444 in three Higher Levels including 4 in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List, or 27 points including 4 in one Higher Level Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List .
BCCCC in five Highers including one Higher Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or CD in two Advanced Highers and CC in two Highers including one Higher or Advanced Higher Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List , or CCD in three Advanced Highers including one Advanced Higher Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List .
12 in the French Baccalaureate/International Option Baccalaureate including 13 in Chemistry / Physics, Maths, Science, Sport, Engineering Sciences, Life and Earth Sciences or Information Technology, or 12 in the Baccalauréat Français International including 12 in Chemistry / Physics, Maths, Science, Sport, Engineering Sciences, Life and Earth Sciences or Information Technology.
60% / BCCCC in five courses in the Grade 12 Diploma including 70% in Advanced Functions, Biology, Calculus and Vectors, Chemistry, Computer Science, Maths of Data Management or Physics.
BBC in three Advanced levels including C in Combined Maths, Chemistry, Physics, ICT, Biology or Agricultural Science.
BBC in three Principal level subjects in the STPM including C in Maths, ICT, Physics, Biology, Chemistry, Geography, or Sports Science.
BBC in three H2 levels including C in Chemistry, Biology, Physics, Computing, Maths, Further Maths or Geography.
70% overall with 7 in Chemistry, Maths (3 or 5 period), Physical Education, Biology (2 or 4 period), Geography (2 or 4 period), or Physics.
Pass NCUK Foundation Year with BBC including C in one Science subject from the Keele Defined Sciences List .
BBC in three Principal level subjects in the Advanced Certificate of Education including C in Chemistry, Maths, Physics, Biology, or Geography.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/geographyhumanandphysical:
Activities include day field courses where you can practice key research and fieldwork skills, with trips to places such as Trentham Monkey Forest to investigate issues surrounding land use and tourism, or exploring ‘contested landscapes’ of the Lake District.
You’ll also have the option to undertake an international field trip to further enhance your skills, our current location is Geneva and the French Alps.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/geographywithbusinessmanagement:
Employers seek to recruit individuals with high-level knowledge and skills, who also understand the workplace.
In between years two and three of your degree, you can choose to spend time studying abroad.
Through hands-on learning opportunities such as placements, fieldwork, and case studies, you will acquire practical insights into the application of geographical knowledge in diverse business contexts.
This will equip you with a versatile skill set to pursue careers in areas such as location analysis, market research, planning, environmental consulting, and corporate sustainability.
You will be assessed through various methods that reflect the breadth of skills and knowledge you will acquire in this programme.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/geology:
Our programme will develop your geology knowledge and skills, empowering you to address these matters, and secure a promising future with excellent career prospects.
FYO-00185
Practical and Academic Skills in Science
FYO-00211
Foundations in Numerical and Quantitative Methods for Scientists
FYO-00193
Foundations of Geography, Geology and the Environment
FYO-00276
Foundations of Science and Sustainability

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/geologyenvironmentalgeoscience:
Gain a strong foundation in geology with an emphasis on environmental geoscience on our contemporary programme.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/geologyvolcanology:
Our Geology (Volcanology) BSc programme will build your comprehensive geology knowledge and skills and provide an in-depth study of volcanic processes and their effects on society.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/geologyandphysicalgeography:
Geology explores Earth’s origins, the evolution of life, and the management of natural resources.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/history:
Our programme builds a global perspective of how the past has shaped the present through political, social, cultural and economic influences, as well as providing practical experience in industry through placement opportunities.
Embark on an exciting and interactive journey through our History BA at Keele.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/humananatomy:
Our Human Anatomy BSc will prepare you to become a skilled anatomist who has the expertise to succeed in diverse career opportunities in clinical, laboratory, educational or surgical device roles.
You’ll have the opportunity to learn in a centre of anatomical excellence with access to Keele’s Anatomy and Surgical Training Centre (KASTC), giving you amazing insights into clinically applied anatomy and the opportunity to learn from highly experienced anatomy academics.
This Foundation Year is a is a two semester programme which provides a tailored pre-degree programme of study to better prepare you for the BSc (Hons) Human Anatomy course.
You should apply for Human Anatomy with Foundation Year through UCAS at www.ucas.com.
UCAS code: B111

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/internationalbusinessmanagement:
Develop your skillset and explore the key areas of international business management so you can graduate with the business acumen to succeed.
Our International Business BA programme provides you with the tools to master the fundamentals of the global business environment, focusing on the international aspects of the business world, and paving the way for a diverse range of careers.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/internationalrelations:
Are you intrigued by how politics shapes our everyday lives?

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/marketing:
Develop your understanding of essential marketing theories and techniques, and gain real-world experiences to enhance your career potential.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/medicalsciencestop-up:
We also offer a work placement module based in a school or college, specifically for students interested in entering the teaching profession.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/medicine:
Ranked 5th in England (Guardian University Guide, 2025).
Medicine at Keele adopts a modern, spiral, highly integrated curriculum that combines a range of learning strategies, including early clinical experience, integrated communication and clinical skills teaching, practical activities (including dissection), problem-based learning (PBL), lectures and seminars.
Additionally, inter-professional learning with other health students, including nursing, midwifery, paramedic science, physiotherapy and radiography, is fostered throughout the programme..
Our spiral curriculum means you will re-visit core topics, building on your knowledge as you progress through the degree.
Problem-based learning (PBL) is one major component of the Keele MBChB curriculum in Years 1 and 2.
You will work in small groups to study written descriptions of clinical situations.
Using a specific set of study skills, you will use scenarios to guide you towards relevant theoretical and practical learning.
Normally, each scenario is the focus for learning for a week, with two tutorials devoted to it.
From Year 3 onwards PBL develops into case-based and case-illustrated learning, where the written scenarios are augmented using discussions of patients encountered by students in their clinical placements.
The PBL programme is supported by a variety of methods which include: plenary lectures, seminars, laboratory practical classes, and a wide variety of placement experiences in primary and secondary care.
Placements begin in Year 1 and you will learn the skills needed to get the best out of placement opportunities prior to their occurrence.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/microbiologyandimmunology:
You will carry out practical laboratory work in both The David Attenborough Laboratories and Keele's state-of-the-art Central Science Laboratory (CSL) building - which is part of the biggest single investment in learning and teaching in the University’s history.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/midwifery:
Gain the clinical skills and knowledge to provide holistic, safe, and effective care for women, newborn infants, and their families.
Applications for Midwifery for 2025/26 entry are now closed.
Your studies will combine theory and clinical practice and you will be taught by highly qualified, registered midwives.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/neuroscience:
Students will complete a total of 45 credits in a science subject of their choosing, either:
FYO-00201
FYO-00189
FYO-00201: Foundations of Psychology (15 credits) and FYO-00203: Advancing Psychology (30 credits) OR
FYO-00189: Foundations of Chemistry (15 credits) and FYO-00191: Advancing Chemistry (30 credits)

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/adultnursing:
Gain essential nursing knowledge and authentic clinical practice experience in our fantastic clinical simulation facilities and placement settings, enabling you to qualify as a competent and confident adult nurse.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/childrensnursing:
Start your journey to becoming a qualified children’s nurse.
Applications for Children's Nursing for 2025/26 entry are now closed.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/mentalhealthnursing:
Modern society understands that our mental health is as important as our physical health; throughout the programme you will acquire the knowledge, skills and empathy to develop into a competent mental health nurse.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/nursingstudies:
For 2025/26 entry, fees are as follows:
Note: there are exceptional module fees for NUR-30171 Independent Professional Practice Development (30 level 6 credits), which is charged at £1500, and NUR-30239 Independent Professional Practice Development (15 level 6 credits), which is charged at £750.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/paramedicsciencewithintegratedmasters:
Applications for Paramedic Science for 2025/26 entry are now closed.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/pharmaceuticalscience:
The pharmaceutical industry strives to develop new drugs, the formulation of medicines and medical devices to advance healthcare provision.
The School of Allied Health Professions and Pharmacy has a wide and diverse group of staff, including some who have directly worked in the pharmaceutical industry
Pharmaceutical Science at Keele offers you the flexibility to tailor the course to your personal interests and career aspirations.
From year two you can choose to spend time in industry with our work placement year or learn a language and develop a cultural understanding of nations outside your home country.
If you’re aiming for a role within pharmaceutical sales and marketing, then you can take optional marketing modules that focus on key marketing theories that could assist you to promote new medicines effectively.
You may choose to study modules that introduce you to management concepts that develop your knowledge for future leadership roles, and learn about international business which concentrates on global trade, investment, and international management.
You will be taught by staff with expertise in the core areas of pharmaceutical science such as pharmacology, physiology, medicinal and organic chemistry, and pharmaceutical formulation.
Some of our academic staff have previously worked in the pharmaceutical and related industries.
We have connections with industry professionals who deliver authentic examples around current areas of the sector such as clinical development, marketing and branding of pharmaceutical products, and the role of healthcare systems in the context of pharmaceutical sales and regulatory affairs.
Business and management modules are delivered by experienced academic staff from Keele Business School.
Ahmad, Pharmaceutical Science with Business
Compulsory Modules:

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/pharmacology:
Modules for the Foundation Year will be confirmed soon.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/pharmacologywithintegratedmasters:
Our secondments are shorter work-based placements that usually take place over the summer in between the second and third year and usually last between 2-8 weeks.
Taught across the Schools of Life Sciences, Chemical and Physical Sciences and Allied Health Professions and Pharmacy, our Pharmacology programme offers enhanced networking opportunities where you can establish links with academics and peers.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/philosophy:
From ethics to religion and the ultimate nature of reality, Philosophy at Keele offers a deep exploration of human life and its place within the world.
On our Philosophy programme you will study a range of philosophical debates, answering big questions and evaluating reality.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/philosophyandpolitics:
"My time at Keele was fantastic.
I had three incredible years there and have made life-long friends whom I am still in regular contact with.
Philosophy in particular taught me how to be a critical thinker and that there aren’t always straightforward answers to some of the questions we face in life and at work.
I now work in Artificial Intelligence within medicine (specifically within breast cancer detection) which was not even a concept when I graduated in 2001.
Through managing increasingly more complex and bigger projects over the years and adapting as technology has evolved, I have ended up where I am.
I love my job.
I love that I am helping make a difference to patients and clinicians.
I love pushing the boundaries as to what is possible and helping design and decide ethical, political and social policy and agenda for the greater good."
Simon, Philosophy
The broad range of skills and knowlege acquired on the Philosophy and Politics BA will have set you up to start your professional career in a range of industries and roles or prepare you for further study.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/physics:
Practical teaching takes place in Keele’s state-of-the-art Central Science Laboratories (CSL) , as well as existing laboratories in the Lennard Jones Building.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/physicswithastrophysics:
You will have access to our on-campus Observatory , which opens regularly to the public and recently underwent a £250,000 refurbishment.
The campus also benefits from a low carbon energy park (6 MWp of solar panels and two wind turbines) that generates 50% of campus electricity, and a smart energy network offering access to massive datasets for projects and analysis.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/physicswithrenewableenergy:
You will have regular opportunities to talk through any challenges and learning needs you may have, with your academic mentor or module lecturers on a one-to-one basis Teaching methods may include:

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/politicsandinternationalrelations:
Or
Foundations of Humanities 2

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/politicsandsociology:
Politics and Sociology at Keele examines how societies have formed, and the influential role of politics within these communities.
On our Politics and Sociology programme, you will investigate social issues and global political matters, enabling you to develop a theoretical understanding of contemporary challenges that impact politics and society.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/politicswitheconomics:
Explore contemporary developments in both the political sphere and the economy, asking fundamental questions to understand how politics shapes the economy and vice versa.
This programme explores both areas individually and combined as the study of 'political economy', enabling you to consider the relationship between the two and how these disciplines shape social, economic and political life.
The Entrepreneurship Year in taken within Keele’s Smart Innovation Hub and is available as an additional year between Year 2 and 3 of your studies.
Beyond the practical knowledge like understanding how Parliament works, the soft skills I gained from Keele were incredibly helpful.
In my job, I'm often asked to produce advice for ministers who are keen to understand a particular issue in only a couple of pages - I remember writing a mock research report for The House of Commons library in one of my modules, which was excellent practice!"
Foundations of Business 2
Foundations of Social Science 1
Foundations in Social Sciences 2

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/psychology:
You'll cover core BPS content including biological, cognitive, social, and developmental psychology.
Join Keele's comprehensive BPS-accredited* Psychology programme with a modern curriculum, systematically exploring the mind, brain and behaviour.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/psychologywithcounselling:
Psychology with Counselling provides insights into the mind, brain and behaviours and equips you with advanced skills, applicable to a range of specialist careers.
Accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS)*, our contemporary programme explores the mind, brain, and behaviour through the investigation of psychological theories that underpin cognition, individual differences and social development.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/psychologywithcriminology:
By combining a solid foundation in psychological and criminological theories with practical skills, you’ll open doors to a wide range of career opportunities - not only as a psychologist but also in sectors like criminal justice, healthcare, and education.
Psychology with Criminology BSc at Keele explores why people act the way they do, how they think and why they commit crimes.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/psychologywithhumanbiology:
Through applying your combined knowledge to real-life situations, you'll graduate prepared for diverse career opportunities—from specialised psychology fields to professions in teaching, childcare, counselling, human resources and more.
You'll dive into the core British Psychological Society curriculum — covering developmental, social, biological, and cognitive psychology—while exploring what makes each of us unique within these areas.
You will also be introduced to research methods for psychology, including the philosophical underpinnings of qualitative and quantitative design, as well as data collection, data analysis, and report writing.
You will also explore the core areas of human biology, physiology, and anatomy.
These modules will also equip you with essential laboratory skills, providing a solid foundation for future work in bioscience.
During your studies you will have access to a range of facilities and equipment, including virtual reality headsets, brain stimulation devices, and our state-of-the-art Central Science Laboratories.
As you progress through your degree, you'll have the opportunity to explore specialised topics that align with your interests ranging from child psychology and neurodiversity to human genetics and cancer biology.
Throughout your studies, you'll develop into a responsible and ethical researcher.
Starting with small projects in your first and second years, you'll build toward completing a substantial dissertation in your final year under the guidance of an expert in your chosen field.
Health, Illness and Behaviour Change (30 credits) Aims to cover aspects of health, disease, and disease prevention from a Health Psych perspective.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/psychologywithneuroscience:
Keele's Psychology with Neuroscience programme dives into human behaviour, blending core psychology topics with neuroscience to explore how the brain controls movement, emotion, and senses.
From physiology and anatomy to human behaviour and brain activity, our BPS-accredited programme* introduces you to core psychological topics in social development, cognition and biological influences to understand why people act in certain ways and how the human brain works.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/psychologywithphilosophy:
With a critical view of the world around us, Psychology with Philosophy opens doors to investigate the human mind, people's emotions and behaviours.
On this BPS-accredited* degree, you will cover a breadth of topics from social, cognitive, biological and developmental psychology, as well as fundamental topics in philosophy, ethics and logic.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/psychologywithplacementyear:
Our four-year BPS-accredited programme enables you to take a scientific approach to understanding why people behave the way they do and apply your learnings through a work placement, developing industry insights and practical experience in the real-world.
Psychology is the study of mind and behaviour.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/radiographydiagnosticimaging:
Studying radiography will give you the skills, resilience, and healthcare knowledge to use cutting-edge medical technology to capture diagnostic images.
BSc (Hons) Radiography (Diagnostic Imaging) at Keele is designed to reflect the current nature of radiography practice and to meet the future demands of the profession.
This involves working with a variety of students from physiotherapy, rehabilitation and exercise science, medicine, nursing, midwifery, and pharmacy.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/rehabilitationandexercisescience:
Our innovative and diverse programme provides you with the the underpinning theory to enable you to practice competently and confidently.
Rehabilitation and exercise science at Keele explores themes such as injury prevention, rehabilitation and the promotion of physical activity.
Our aim is for you to thrive in a rapidly changing and sometimes uncertain external environment and to give professional care with empathy and respect for others.
As well as giving you the essential clinical expertise we also incorporate business skills into our curriculum to further enhance your career opportunities.
For example, you may have future ambitions to be your own boss and we currently deliver a module that focuses on how to set up and market your own business.
You will study a wide range of rehabilitation themes including human anatomy and how it changes throughout someone’s life, physiology, the science behind movement, and human neurological, cardiovascular, and respiratory systems.
Different forms of disability are also studied and analysed along with disabling conditions aligned to areas such as cardiorespiratory, musculoskeletal, metabolic, and neurological.
The course enables you to develop your practical handling and the therapeutic skills that underpin physiotherapy assessment and management.
There are opportunities to focus on sport rehabilitation and to understand the different techniques used in this area along with the prevention and management of sports injuries.
You will benefit from inter-professional education, drawing upon areas such as physiotherapy, medicine, nursing, occupational therapy, psychology, nutrition and public health.
All students will complete at least 50 hours work experience in a setting related to the course content.
This will be with one of clinical or professional partners, students may also self source if they have a specialist area of interest.
There will also be the possibility to conduct massage on patients should you attain the relevant qualification.
The degree embeds nationally recognised qualifications such as Gym Instructor and Personal trainer into the first year of study.
These will expand your employability opportunities on graduation and while you are studying.
A team of highly qualified and knowledgeable academic staff teach on this course, some of who are recognised nationally and internationally as experts in their fields, including Professor John Buckley, Advisor to WHO prehab 2020 for Ischaemic Heart Disease.
This accreditation allows you to gather gym instructor, personal trainer awards during years 1 and 2 - progressing to a specialist qualification in cardiovascular exercise prescription in year 3.
These awards are highly recognised by employers and are seen as an excellent addition to the degree.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/socialwork:
Begin your journey to become a social worker making positive changes in people’s lives.
Social work at Keele gives you a solid grounding in this professional area of study and supports the development of key professional skills and values ready for your future career as a Social Worker.
The programme has been carefully designed to allow you to apply the course theory into a range of exciting, varied and specialist social work occupations in the UK and potentially internationally.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/sociology:
Learn to analyse contemporary social phenomena, such as the advancement of technology and climate change, and offer solutions to current and future challenges with Sociology at Keele.
This modern curriculum has been carefully curated to ensure that you get an understanding of well established and emerging theories, concepts and methodologies used in contemporary practice.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/speech-language-therapy-prereg:
Informed by the latest research and taught by practitioners and expert staff, our four-year integrated master's combines the academic and enhanced clinical learning required to pursue a professional occupation as a qualified speech and language therapist.
In an environment of reflection and research awareness, the MSci programme will enable you to develop into an autonomous professional who is able to initiate and respond to change in a wide variety of settings.
Foundations of Psychology

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/sportandexercisepsychology:
From helping professional athletes prepare for the demands of competition to motivating everyday exercisers to increase their physical activity, our BSc examines the fascinating role of psychology in its application to sport coaching and performance, as well as exercise, health and wellbeing.
Our BPS-accredited programme* introduces you to the psychological methods and theories that can be applied to support individuals, teams and coaches in enhancing sporting performance to improve leadership, encourage motivation and promote team building.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/sportandexercisescience:
Our BSc Sport and Exercise Science degree is designed to challenge you to examine the fascinating role science plays within sport and exercise.
What is Sport and Exercise Science?
In the first year you will undertake a suite of compulsory modules focused on the core sport and exercise disciplines of anatomy, biomechanics, coaching, nutrition, and physiology, and a course specific skills module, designed to develop your academic, research and professional skills competences.
Studying abroad You may choose to spend a semester or year studying abroad.
Work placement year In an increasingly competitive job market, employers are seeking to recruit employees who have high-level knowledge, skills and an understanding of the workplace.
Student support You will be supported through every stage of your studies.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/undergraduate-2025/undergraduatecourses/sportsbusinessmanagement:
Develop a thorough understanding of the complexities of the sports industry with our Sports Business Management BA.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/postgraduatestudy/january:
You can start some of our taught postgraduate degrees in January.
A January start works well for overseas students as it allows more time to meet visa requirements, as well as for those studying during a career break.
Find out more about how to apply for a postgraduate programme with a January start date here You can also view our full Postgraduate course A-Z here.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/postgraduatestudy/whykeele:
If you’re interested in studying a postgraduate degree, our Postgraduate Open Events allow you to find out more about your chosen subject area, meet our academics, and get a feel for what life is like in our close-knit postgraduate community.
Book on to a Postgraduate Open Event
Our beautiful campus is self-contained with student accommodation, teaching buildings, restaurants and cafés, a sports centre, bars and medical centre all within just a few minutes’ walk
Find out more about campus life
Having a postgraduate degree could lead to improved career prospects.
25% of the population has an undergraduate degree compared with just 11% having a postgraduate degree.
Gain an edge in the competitive jobs market with a postgraduate degree.
A postgraduate degree could also lead to an improved salary.
On average, postgraduates earn £6,000 more a year than graduates (Graduate Labour Market Statistics, 2018), and earn more than £200,000 of added lifetime earnings (Sutton Trust, 2013)
If you’ve previously graduated from Keele or a Keele programme delivered overseas you can get a discount of 20% off the taught postgraduate course fee.
Find out more about alumni discount
The Keele Postgraduate Association (KPA) is one of the few Students’ Unions in the country specifically representing postgraduate students.
The KPA exists to enrich your overall experience whilst studying at Keele.
As well as conferences and networking opportunities, the KPA arranges social activities and events and has its own Clubhouse on campus.
Find out more about the KPA

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/postgraduatestudy/tuitionfeesandfunding:
Tuition fees and funding opportunities for postgraduate students at Keele University.
Information about fees for postgraduate UK and international students, as well as Continuing Professional Development (CPD) tuition fees.
All funding opportunities, including loans, bursaries and scholarships, hardship funds, awards, prizes and discounts, emergency loans and many more.
Contact us to discuss making a payment, or a payment plan.
Come and see us, we are here to help.
Information for international students.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/opendays/postgraduateopenevents:
Our Postgraduate Open Events allow you to find out more about your chosen subject area, meet our academics, and get a feel for what life is like in our close-knit postgraduate community.
You will have full access to our respected academics and benefit from our excellence in research.
Keele offers a full range of postgraduate programmes, that will enable you to progress your career and broaden your opportunities.
Our next Postgraduate Open Event will take place on Wednesday 3 December 2025 (virtual event 10am-12pm; in-person event 2pm-4pm)
Register for our Postgraduate Open Events using the link below
You can choose to join us on campus or online.
The virtual online element of the event takes place during the morning (10am-12pm UK time), and the on-campus element takes place during the evening (2pm-4pm UK time).
During both the on-campus and online sessions, you can:

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/postgraduatestudy/apply:
Find out how and when to apply for a postgraduate course at Keele.
On this page, you can find out more about how to apply for a Postgraduate programme, and key dates for September 2025 entry.
Please read through everything carefully as it contains important information about how to progress your application with us.
If you need to speak to our Admissions Team, please get in touch:
Browse our courses
See what Keele has to offer, either in person or online
Application links are on course pages
Here is an overview of the steps from receiving your offer to enrolling at Keele.
Please see below for all of the details and dates of each step.
If your offer is conditional, you need to meet the conditions specified in your offer letter.
You can upload any documents requested by our Admissions team to your Applicant Portal .
Once you’ve met the conditions of your offer, you will be sent an unconditional offer letter.
For September start dates: If you think you may need support to meet our English language requirements, take a look at our pre-sessional English courses to see if they may be suitable for you.
When you have decided that you intend to study at Keele, you will need to pay your £4000 tuition fee deposit.
We recommend paying your deposit as soon as possible.
For international postgraduate students starting in September 2025, the latest date for your deposit payment to reach us is 19 August 2025 .
We anticipate that places will fill before then and we will close our September intake, so we advise you to pay your deposit as soon as possible.
Pay my deposit The remaining balance for your annual tuition fees is payable in 2 instalments, and students will be invoiced for this after enrolment.
For more information about deadlines for deposit payments and refund policy, please see our deposit webpages.
If you are a sponsored student, you don’t need to pay a tuition fee deposit – and instead will need to send a financial guarantee letter to admissions.reply@keele.ac.uk.
You qualify as a sponsored student if you are being supported by an external source such as your employer or government.
Please see our web page for sponsored students for details about the information you need to send to us.
If you would like to live on campus, you will need to apply for accommodation before the deadline of 30 June 2025 .
You can do this from 48-hours after you have accepted your offer.
You can also find out more about living off-campus.
If you haven’t done so already, upload to your Applicant Portal copies of your passport and any previous UK visas you may have.
If you require a visa to study in the UK, once you have completed the above steps, you will then begin the CAS process.
Once you’ve accepted your unconditional offer and we’ve received your tuition fee deposit and copies of your documents, our Admissions team will send you your pre-CAS checklist.
For students starting in September 2025, we will issue pre-CAS checklists up to 29th August 2025.
Please make sure you allow plenty of time to pay your deposit, meet the conditions of your offer, and return your documents.
When you receive your pre-CAS checklist, you will need to check the details are all correct and return it to our Immigration Compliance team by 4 September 2025 at the very latest .
Provided that there are no issues, you will then be sent a CAS number which is needed to complete an online visa application to book an appointment at a Visa Application Centre.
For Postgraduate students starting in September 2025, we will issue CAS letters up to 5 September 2025, so you must make sure you return your pre-CAS checklist in plenty of time before this date, and by 4 September 2025 at the latest.
If you do not require a visa to study in the UK, our Admissions team will send you a non-visa checklist which you will need to check and return to our Immigration Compliance team.
Find out more about the CAS process .
Once you have your CAS number, you need to apply for a visa.
Find out more about applying for a student visa from outside the UK.
Once you have a decision on your visa application, you must send a scanned copy of the decision letter by email to visa@keele.ac.uk .
You can then start to prepare for your travels to Keele!
You will also receive more information from our Student Welcome team closer to the start of your studies with us, which will help you to prepare for life at Keele and studying in the UK.
International student enrolment for September 2025 will take place on 18 September 2025 , with induction for all students beginning on 22 September 2025 .
We will ask you to provide at least one reference to support your application (please see below for more details).
If you are already in receipt of a reference on letter headed paper that is signed and dated, please upload this to your application via the Applicant Portal.
The Admissions team may contact your referee to verify the reference provided.
If a reference is not provided with your application, you may find this is included in the conditions of your offer.
Academic references
Please provide an academic reference which meets the following criteria:
Employment references
Please provide an employment reference which meets the following criteria:
What to include in references for referee's information:
Below is a guide to what you should and shouldn’t include in your personal statement.
Do include:
Don’t:
Each course page has a link to the application form for that particular course (see the 'apply' links at the top of each postgraduate course page).
There is no application fee.
The online application will allow you to complete your personal details and enter your qualifications (those completed or those you are still studying for).
You can also upload your personal statement and scanned/pdf copies of transcripts and copies of certificates.
When you make an application you will be given a login to our Applicant Portal to allow you to track the progress of your application, and submit any further information required prior to the submission of your application.
Find out more about the Applicant Portal .
Please note that we encourage you to apply as soon as possible.
You can apply in the academic year before the completion of your degree.
All applications should include the following (for each requirement further information can be sourced on this section):
If you are an international applicant there is further information about agents and visas on the pages for i nternational applicants.
The particular entry requirements for each course are given in the individual postgraduate course page.
As a general rule, you will need the equivalent of a UK honours degree at second-class standard or higher and if English is not your first language you will need to provide an appropriate qualification.
Staff will be happy to advise on the acceptability of your qualifications before you apply.
Looking for general advice about studying a Postgraduate course?
' Steps to Postgraduate Study ' provides information for students who are making decisions about postgraduate study.
Anyone applying from a country where English is not the first language is required to show evidence of English language competence.
Please see relevant course page for specific English Language requirements.
Applications for some professional courses are made through other, centralised admissions systems.
If you wish to apply for these courses you should contact the following:
MA in Social Work Contact: Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS)
You will receive an acknowledgement of your application within 24 hours and we aim to process applications, and dispatch our decision on your application, within 20 working days.
You should note that the processing of your application might be delayed if the information provided on your form is incomplete or if we are awaiting copies of qualifications.
Also, some of our courses require an interview, this will be displayed on the relevant course page if applicable.
Sometimes our offer of a place is conditional upon performance in examinations that you still have to take – this could include English language tests.
Offers may also be conditional on you providing us with references, updated personal statement, certificates or transcripts.
Once a decision on your application has been reached, this will be sent to you by email.
Please make sure that you upload your documents to the Applicant Portal as soon as possible, otherwise there may be a delay in making your offer unconditional.
Once you have received your offer, you can respond through the Applicant Portal .
Full details of how to do this will be in your offer letter.
Please note that if we make you an offer of a place at Keele, this does not mean that the University will provide any financial assistance.
Any scholarship or bursary awards will be made to you separately.
If you accept an offer from Keele, you must agree to observe the Charter, Statutes, Ordinances and Regulations of the University.
If you have declared a disability on your application form, and if we make you an offer of a place, then we will inform our Disability Services Co-ordinator who will contact you to discuss your support needs.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/postgraduatestudy/alumni:
There's never been a better time to study a postgraduate course at Keele.
Our alumni can get up to 20% discount off postgraduate tuition fees , and that's in addition to the master’s loan available through Student Finance.
our postgraduate A-Z course list
to attend a postgraduate open event
As a Keele graduate, you could be eligible for up to 20% discount on the standard postgraduate taught and research tuition fees.
Terms and conditions apply.
Explore our postgraduate bursaries and scholarships
The Postgraduate Master's Loan is available through Student Finance England to support students during their studies.
You could be eligible for up to £12,858 to support you with your course and living costs.
Find out more about postgraduate student finance
Your prospects could be significantly enhanced by completing a postgraduate degree.
93% of our 2022 postgraduates went on to secure professional and managerial jobs, compared to 72% of our undergraduates (Graduate Outcomes Survey, 2021/22).
Find out more about our careers and employability support for students
Specialise in your current field of study, or pursue a new and innovative subject to complement this - the choice is yours.
View our full postgraduate taught A-Z>
Your Keele undergraduate course can lead directly on to a postgraduate course.
See which ones are available by choosing your area of study below.
Submitting your application for postgraduate study
Current Keele students will apply for their chosen course via e:Vision.
You will login to your e:Vision account and select ‘continue your studies with a postgraduate taught degree’ within graduate opportunities.
From here you will select the year of entry and your chosen course and click ‘apply’!
As an international student, you need to email the Admissions Team with the name of the course you would like to study in the first instance.
Keele alumni will apply online via the apply now button on the relevant postgraduate course page.
If you wish to apply for one of our 100% online Master's courses then you will need to complete our online application form .
Once you have submitted your application, the Admissions team will then check to make sure that you meet any subject-specific or additional* requirements for the programme you wish to be considered for and then confirm your offer of a place.
Your conditional offer can be cancelled at any time prior to enrolling or within 14 days of commencing your studies, meaning you are not binding yourself to this option by applying now.
However, some courses do have deadlines so it may be worth checking your preferred option sooner rather than later.
* Some of our programmes have additional requirements e.g.
additional forms to complete and/or an interview.
** Due to the highly specialised nature of some of these postgraduate programmes, not all of them will be open to you.
You can apply for a postgraduate taught course by logging into your e:Vision account.
Please apply online via our apply now button on the relevant postgraduate course page.
Please contact us with any questions you may have about postgraduate study.
"I wanted to apply the skills I learnt at BSc to an industrial setting, in order to, not only gain work experience but to improve my employability.
I have gained the maturity and work ethic associated with a fast paced working environment, along with the practical skills associated with a laboratory based setting.
This helped me a lot in job interviews!
Jodie Wright, MSc Analytical Science for Industry Graduate
"Having an MSc, MA or MBA widens career opportunities and demonstrates competency to employers.
I'm hoping achieving this MSc will support experience gained in industry to allow me to realise my full potential and achieve all my career goals."
Aaron Whittaker, MSc Advanced Computer Science Graduate
"I genuinely believe that my international law LLM, which included a two-week UN internship in Geneva, really gave me the edge in my graduate job applications."
Daniel Murray, MA International Law Graduate
"I was a desirable PhD candidate due to my knowledge and experience of specific research equipment."
Steven Lewis, Geoscience Research Graduate

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/postgraduateresearch/apply/entryrequirements:
Before submitting an application to undertake a research degree at Keele, you are advised to contact the relevant Research Office .
This will allow you to discuss your research proposal, available supervision and the entry requirements of the research degree.
You are advised to contact the relevant administrator listed on the course website.
Our dedicated postgraduate support staff can provide information on course-specific entry requirements.
For PhD, MPhil and DM applicants, they can also provide information on potential supervisors you need to consider before applying.
If your qualifications are non-standard or different from the entry requirements stated, please contact the relevant course administrator, to discuss whether your application would be considered.
Entry on to many degrees is highly competitive; consequently, we also consider industrial experience as well as the skills, attributes, motivation and potential for success of an individual when deciding whether to make an offer.
In addition to academic qualifications, you may be required to produce evidence of your English language ability.
This is because in order to benefit from your studies, you need to demonstrate that you have a good level of written and spoken English before taking up a place here.
For PGR students joining us from August 2024 onwards , for all subject areas, we require IELTS 6.5 with no less than 6.0 in any subtest.
If you do not have current documentation of the required level of English language you must either retake your language test (IELTS) or attend and successfully complete a pre-sessional (summer) English course before the start of your postgraduate studies.
Keele University runs 11 and 6 week pre-sessional Academic English courses online and face to face.
If you require a Visa to study at Keele and undertake a Pre-Sessional English course, you may be eligible for a Visa to cover both the pre-sessional (11 or 6 week only) and Degree course, on the basis of you achieving the required language competencies by the end of the pre-sessional course, but will be withdrawn if you fail to satisfactory progress to the equivalent level of English required.
For more information please visit keele.ac.uk/visa .
All Visas to study in the UK are subject to the rules and requirements of the UK Home Office Visas & Immigration (UKVI) and the supporting (sponsoring) institution.
When you start your studies at Keele, we can assess your English language standard and recommend language modules for you to take as part of your degree course.
You do not pay any additional fees for these.
You can also speak to staff in the Language Centre
Fees and funding support information including Fellowships.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/postgraduateresearch/apply:
With a wide variety of research opportunities to choose from, Keele University is a popular choice for postgraduate researchers (PGR) in the UK and this section will guide you through the application processes.
We would encourage all potential applicants to also review our fees and funding support page that provides information on internal and external funding available to support PGR students.
For PhD, MPhil and DM applicants, we recommend that once you have identified the area you wish to undertake a research degree in, that you make contact to express your interest in applying.
There is a contact person within each research area and this pre-application stage is designed to help you focus your efforts and identify whether further work on a Keele application is likely to be productive.
It is useful to give the following information in your first email or another contact:
For Professional Doctorates , you are welcome to contact the course administrator for further information or you can simply apply.
Prepare your supporting documents, referring to our entry requirements .
Please note, as part of your application, you will also need to submit:
If you are an international student, you will also be asked to submit:
Apply online via the research area page here .
Please note, certain postgraduate research degree programmes require additional supporting documents.
If you are applying for a funded studentship/research project, please apply via the advert .
Please note, as part of your application, you will need to submit:
Once we receive your application form and supporting documents, the School will review their supervisory capacity and whether you are suitable for a doctoral programme.
We will contact you about your application within 18 working days, but this may not be a final outcome.
PGR administrators will often contact you directly about details of your application or your project prior to a final decision being made.
If you do not hear from us then you should contact the PGR administrator to find out what is happening to your application.
Once a decision has been reached, we will advise you whether or not it has been possible to offer you a place.
Sometimes our offer of a place is conditional upon performance in examinations that you still have to take – this could include English Language tests.
Any offer is subject to your agreement to observe the Charter, Statutes, Ordinances and Regulations of the University.
If you accept our offer you will be understood to have given such an agreement.
All formal offers are issued by the University – you should not accept any other assurances that you have been offered a place.
If the University is able to provide financial assistance this will be clearly indicated on the formal offer of a place issued by the University.
Otherwise the offer of a place carries no implication that the University will provide financial assistance and you will be required to find sufficient funding for the tuition fees and for your living expenses.
Applicants must note that, by accepting a place at Keele University, they give an undertaking to abide by the rules and regulations in force, both academic and disciplinary.
It is the responsibility of students to make themselves familiar with these rules and regulations, and to understand that any breaches may lead to disciplinary action.
Once you have accepted the unconditional offer of a place at Keele, or met the conditions of any offer, then you will be sent pre-arrival information by the University to help you prepare for the start of your programme.
In addition, your School will contact you about starting your programme and any preparations you need to make.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/postgraduateresearch/whatisaresearchdegree:
A research degree is the highest degree awarded by UK Universities.
There are several varieties of degree and we have outlined the differences below.
If you still have a question, please do not hesitate to get in touch .
The aim of a PhD (also referred to as 'Doctorate'), DM or MPhil is to make an original contribution to knowledge in a specific field by refining understanding and developing new ideas.
Students will be required to manage a research project, based on their area of interest, with the support of a dedicated supervisory team.
Supervisors will provide comments on their student's work which will ultimately form a written thesis consisting of 100,000 words (maximum) for PhD or 60,000 words (maximum) for MPhil.
The thesis must then be defended in a viva voce (spoken) examination and support and training is provided, to help students prepare for this.
Full-time
Students normally complete their active research over a three-year period.
A fourth year can then be used to write the thesis and prepare for the spoken examination.
Part-time
Students normally complete their active research over a six-year period.
The seventh/eighth year can then be used to write the thesis and prepare for the spoken examination.
Students normally complete their active research over the first year.
The second-year can then be used to write the thesis and prepare for the spoken examination.
Students normally complete their active research over two years.
The third/ fourth year can then be used to write the thesis and prepare for the spoken examination.
In some instances, students complete a PhD or MPhil degree in less time and guidelines for the minimum study periods can be found within the Code of Practice on Postgraduate Research Degrees (PDF, 158KB) .
We offer year-round entry on to our PhD, DM and MPhil programmes.
A Professional Doctorate award represents an original contribution to knowledge but in a professionally focused context.
It has similar demands and timescales to that of a PhD, but is notable by the title which relates to the students profession or area of work.
The programmes are delivered using a blended approach as students are usually in full time work whilst on programme.
The first stage is devoted to taught modules with assessments.
The second stage focuses on research with students managing a research project usually based on their professional practice.
The final degree is awarded on the basis of a thesis discussing said research project, in the same way as for a PhD.
These programmes are usually offered on a part time basis and are usually completed in 2-6 years with provision for 8 years.
View our centres and partnerships here .
As a distance learning postgraduate research student, you will also benefit from research training, rigorous assessments and community engagement and support.
We remain committed to delivering the highest student experience for our student community.
Alongside our robust academic delivery, our provision of student services remains in place for distance learning students.
This includes our Student Support team, the Language Centre, counselling and disability support.
Admission to a distance learning research degree will be subject to meeting the admissions criteria for the programme, in addition to a compulsory interview to ensure that distance learning is a suitable option.
We encourage interested students to discuss the feasibility of distance learning PGR study with the PGR lead for the area of interest as well as directly with potential supervisors.
Distance learning students will only qualify for UK Government doctoral loans if they are already living in England or Wales at the start of their programmes and will continue to do so, or if they are serving in the armed forces or a spouse, partner, or dependent parent living with a serving member of the armed forces.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/postgraduateresearch/feesandfunding:
Programme fees and funding opportunities for postgraduate research students at Keele University.
Information about fees for postgraduate research students (Home, EU and international).

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/postgraduateresearch/contact:
Interested in a PhD, MPhil or Professional Doctorate?
Our postgraduate research administrators are here to help you every step of the way.
If you are interested in information on our Master of Research (MRes) please refer to our Postgraduate A-Z for course information or for further information contact enquiries@keele.ac.uk.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/postgraduateresearch/researchareas/astrophysicsandphysics:
PhD / MPhil
Physics Research at Keele focusses on “Astrophysics” and “Materials Science and Renewable Energy”.
Physics Research at Keele focusses on “ Astrophysics ” and “ Materials Science and Renewable Energy ”.
The research interests in Astrophysics include star formation and stellar clusters, late stellar evolution, massive stars and their impact on the early universe, the interstellar medium, binary stars, interacting binary stars, the detection and characterisation of extra-solar planets.
The research interests in Materials Science and Renewable Energy include physical acoustics and 2D materials.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/postgraduateresearch/researchareas/biochemistry:
Research opportunities in the biological, biomedical and life sciences include a wide range of topics in mammalian molecular biology, molecular medicine, epigenetics, proteomics, physiology,  and neuroscience.
There is an emphasis on links to clinical and other complementary expertise across the four sites comprising the University Hospital North Midlands, RJAH Orthopaedic Hospital at Oswestry, the Haywood Hospital and Keele University campus.
A wide range of research facilities and state-of-the-art equipment are available in purpose-built laboratories in the Huxley Building (School of Life Sciences), the Guy Hilton Research Centre (Hartshill, UHNM hospital site) and RJAH Oswestry, including the Keele Mass Spectrometry facilities .

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/postgraduateresearch/researchareas/biologicalbiomedicalandlifesciences:
Research opportunities in the biological, biomedical and life sciences include a wide range of topics in mammalian molecular biology, molecular medicine, epigenetics, proteomics, physiology, structural biology and neuroscience.
There is an emphasis on links to clinical and other complementary expertise across the four sites comprising the University Hospital of North Staffordshire, RJAH Orthopaedic Hospital at Oswestry, the Haywood Hospital and Keele University campus.
A wide range of research facilities and state-of-the-art equipment are available in purpose-built laboratories in the Huxley Building, the Guy Hilton Research Centre (Hartshill, Hospital site) and Keele Proteomics Facility.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/postgraduateresearch/researchareas/biology:
A wide range of research facilities and state-of-the-art equipment are available in purpose-built laboratories in the Huxley Building (School of Life Sciences), the Guy Hilton Research Centre (Hartshill, Hospital site) and RJAH Oswestry, including the Keele Mass Spectrometry Facility.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/postgraduateresearch/researchareas/biomedicalengineering:
A multi-disciplinary team linked to the University Hospital of North Midlands (UHNM) and the RJAH Orthopaedic Hospital at Oswestry has a major focus on enabling technologies involved in cell and tissue engineering and introduction to the clinic of cell therapies for regenerative medicine.
Specific expertise includes active clinical cell therapies, enabling technology development associated with environmental chambers or bioreactor design, targeting and delivery vehicles and strategies using magnetic nanoparticles, control of differentiation of tissue specific stem cells and skeletal stem cells.
The grouping holds an EPSRC Doctoral Training Centre in Regenerative Medicine since 2009 run jointly with Nottingham and Loughborough.
The Institute has commenced the first UK MRC multi-centre trial (ACTIVE) into cell therapy in connective tissues.
The two hospital sites have GMP cell therapy labs for culture and delivery of human cells on site.
Recently, the group has been awarded as partner the first EPSRC Innovative Manufacturing Centre in Regenerative Medicine, which aims to initiate and improve links to industry for taking cell therapies to market for clear patient benefit and the team is part of the EXPERTISSUES EU FP6 NoE.
The BT group includes links to other research areas listed here such as Respiratory Medicine, Pharmacy, Clinical Science, Imaging and Neurology.
The group has also held and EU FP7 IRSES programme - HYANJI - establishing a research network to Universities in China, Tsinghua and Chengdu Universities, Schools of Pharmacy and Biotechnology.
The multidisciplinary Bioengineering and Therapeutics Group, comprises a multi-disciplinary team linked to the University Hospital of North Staffordshire and RJAH Orthopaedic Hospital at Oswestry with a major focus on enabling technologies involved in cell and tissue engineering and introduction to the clinic of cell therapies for regenerative medicine.
Recently, the group has been awarded as partner the first EPSRC Innovative Manufacturing Centre in Regenerative Medicine, which aims to initiate and improve links to industry for taking cell therapies to market for clear patient benefit and the team is part of the EXPERTISSUES EU FP6 NOE.
The group has commenced a SP3 - People IRSES EU programme (HYANJI) establishing a research network to Universities in China, Tsinghua and Chengdu Universities, Schools of Pharmacy and Biotechnology.

New sentences found on https://keele.ac.uk/study/postgraduateresearch/researchareas/biomedicalengineeringcomputational:
Biomedical Engineering is one of the key research themes for the Research centre in Computer Science.
We focus on computational and computer-based aspects of biomedical engineering, such as applications of robotics, data analytics applications and tools in biomedical contexts, intelligent control for rehabilitation engineering applications, computational tools for public health and so on.
We have extensive expertise and experience in robotics, data science, data analytics, wearable sensor systems, user experience design, social media analytics, and evidence based engineering.
We collaborate with colleagues in the Faculty of Medicine and in hospitals.
Intelligent robotics applications – Dr Theo Kyriacou, Dr Charles Day, Dr Thomas Neligwa
Wearable sensors for healthcare and biomedical analytics – Professor Peter Andras, Dr Sandra Woolley, Dr KP Lam, Dr Charles Day
Data science for biomedical engineering – Professor Peter Andras, Dr KP Lam, Dr Charles Day, Dr Theo Kyriacou, Dr Thomas Neligwa
Web intelligence for public health applications – Dr Ed de Quincey, Dr Theo Kyriacou, Dr Nikki Williams
User experience design for biomedical engineering – Dr Ed de Quincey, Dr Sandra Woolley, Dr Nikki Williams