# Site: https://www.kent.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 499
# --------

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk:
Got your results?
Don’t wait.
Call now to secure your place at Kent and start this September.
Our team can confirm your offer today - before spaces fill up.
Search by course name, subject, UCAS code and more
Search by course name, subject and more
You might have questions from 'what courses are open for Clearing?' to 'what even is Clearing?'.
You're not alone, read our handy guide and relax!
It only takes two minutes to find out if you’re likely to get an offer for your course during Clearing!
We guarantee a place in campus accommodation if you're applying through Clearing.
Secure your place to study and your home from home.
As a Kent first-year student, you receive a free sport and fitness membership as soon as you join.
Find your community, get healthy and have fun on us.
Hear how Kent prepared George for a career in marketing
I remember during my studies I was really impressed with the careers support that KBS gave to their current students and also those who already graduated.
Why work at Kent
I love seeking out new professional and personal challenges and opportunities, there's always something new happening if you look out for it.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/clearing:
Discover which courses are still available for Clearing 2025.
When you accept your offer to study at Kent, we’ll guarantee you accommodation on one of our campuses or off-campus nearby.
Whether your passion is sport or sustainability, you’re a foodie or keen on gaming, there are lots to choose from and something for everyone!
Kent is ranked 40th in The Times Good University Guide 2025 and 40th in the UK in the QS World University Rankings 2025.
Great green spaces.
Historic sites.
Beaches galore.
Cobbled streets.
Riverside views.
Independent shops.
Rooftop bars.
London only an hour away by train.
It’s all here.
The world is on your doorstep at Kent.
Our community is made up of people from different backgrounds, of different ages and from over 152 nationalities.
At Kent, we are all about making you future ready.
We are listed as one of the top 50 Universities for Work Experience and Placements for the 2024 – 2025 Rate My Placement Awards.
These Kent students used Clearing for different reasons.
Find out how they got on.
Feel like you're ready to apply?
Or maybe you already have?
Either way, we're here to help!
Excited?
Nervous?
Not sure?
We're here to help.
Our Clearing Fast Track service is here to get you ready for Clearing.
You'll get access to a dedicated phone number for your subject on results day, be the first to hear about any events and be able to book a call with our friendly admissions team!

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/visit:
Whatever your interests, whatever your goals, we’ll help you achieve them.
Booking will be available soon.
Can't wait?
Book a campus tour where you'll discover more about life at Kent as you're led through our campus by an experienced guide.
You'll get a real feeling for what it's like to be a Kent student.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/foundation-programmes:
If you do not have the qualifications, study skills or English language ability you need to take the degree of your choice, you can apply for one of our foundation programmes.
We offer two types of foundation programme: an honours degree with a foundation year and the International Foundation Programme (IFP).
The International Foundation Programme (IFP) is a level 3 foundation year and an equivalent qualification to A levels.
It's designed for international students, and allows you to bridge the gap between your current knowledge and qualifications, and future study at undergraduate level.
We offer guaranteed progression to a range of undergraduate courses at Kent once you have met the progression requirements for your degree.
Kent's undergraduate degrees are some of the best in the UK, designed to challenge you, and take your studies to the highest level.
A degree with a foundation year is a subject-specific programme for students with acceptable English language ability but school-leaving qualifications below the level required.
It offers one year of full-time study prior to a particular undergraduate degree.
You can apply for one of these programmes if you have a minimum of two passes at A level, or another recognised post-GCSE qualification, but not in the subject areas needed for your chosen degree.
You can also apply if you did not obtain high enough grades or you don’t have the necessary standard of English.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships:
The government has recently announced that funding for Level 7 apprenticeships will be withdrawn from January 2026 .
You can read more about this here: here
Our Level 7 September 2025 cohorts will be going ahead as planned:
Please contact recruitapprenticeships@kent.ac.uk to find out more
Higher and Degree Level apprenticeships are developed by Kent, employers and professional bodies working in partnership.
These programmes combine practical work experience with tailored academic study, ensuring apprentices gain the most relevant skills and knowledge.
Apprentices are employed throughout the programme, spending approximately 20% of their time studying with the University and the rest with their employer.
The minimum duration of each apprenticeship is based on the apprentice working 30 hours a week, including any off-the-job training they undertake.
Programmes last from one to six years, depending on the level.
To be eligible for an English Apprenticeship, candidates must spend 50% of their working time located in England.
Our programmes offer the opportunity to obtain a degree while working, combining earning and learning seamlessly.
Higher apprenticeships offer Level 4 qualifications or above, including NVQ Level 4, HND, or foundation degrees, and can progress to Level 7 (which is postgraduate degree level).
Degree apprenticeships allow students to earn a full Bachelor’s or Master’s degree.
Whether you're an employer looking to develop a skilled workforce or an individual seeking to advance your career, our apprenticeship programmes at Kent have something for you.
Explore the opportunities tailored to meet your specific needs.
Higher Level (4-5)
Degree Level (4-6)
Degree Level (7), PGDip / MBA
Higher Level (4)
Specialist: Degree Level (4-6)
Degree Level (7)
Specialist: Degree Level (7)
Degree Level (6)
Kent offers various funding options: employers benefit from government co-investment and the apprenticeship levy, while apprentices can access funds for training and assessment costs.
Discover the most recent updates and success stories from Kent's apprenticeship programs.
Got questions?
Check out our FAQ section for more details.
We can help and advise you every step of the way, from initial consultations to fully managed apprenticeships.
Contact our team to find out more.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/part-time:
Part-time study allows you to achieve the same academic qualifications as on a full-time programme over a longer period of time.
You can search for part-time undergraduate and part-time postgraduate programmes.
There are more opportunities to explore whether you wish to study for personal interest or as your first step towards a degree.
Valuable stand-alone qualifications, as your first step towards a degree, or just for interest.
Study at our Medway campus or with one of our partner colleges
VALUE MaP is a free programme of study skills development for Mature and Part-time students.
A wide variety of practical workshops teach learning strategies that help you to succeed your studies.
Many of the sessions are held on a Saturday and repeated across Canterbury and Medway campuses.
There is ample opportunity for informal study at the University of Kent.
Short courses, study days and lectures are open to all - staff, students and members of the public.
Learn a new language or brush up on your existing language skills.
The Language Centre give you the opportunity to study a variety of language modules as part of your degree or as an extracurricular module.
You can choose a short course tailored to your own needs and study for interest, credit, professional training or as preparation for further learning.
Kent International Pathways offers programmes designed to give international students the best possible start to your undergraduate and postgraduate studies.
The International Foundation Programme (IFP) prepares you for academic study at undergraduate degree level, while pre-sessional and language preparation courses are designed to prepare you  for your study at Kent.
We offer tailored short courses and summer schools in the historic city of Canterbury and on our vibrant Medway campus.
And our short-term exchange programmes can be studied for personal interest, professional training or as preparation for further learning.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/apply:
Everything you need to know about applying to the University of Kent.
Search by course name, subject, UCAS code, and more
Search by course name, subject, and more
At Kent we welcome applications after the main UCAS deadline and will accept applications for many courses until 30 June 2025.
You can apply via UCAS until 30 June, or via UCAS Extra if you have already made an application but aren't holding any offers.
Eligible applications received after this date will be entered into Clearing .
International students can apply through UCAS or directly to Kent.
Please note, you should only make an application on our website if:
For more information, see international student applications .
If you require, any advice or support, please g et in touch .
Part-time students should apply directly to the University, not through UCAS.
There is no fixed closing date but you should apply as soon as possible.
Look up your course using our course finder, click the ‘Apply’ button and then click ‘apply online’ under ‘part-time applicants’.
Our timeline helps you keep on track, giving you the key dates and deadlines you need to know.
Cut out the noise and start your journey.
Plot your course with our application timeline
Studying at university is very different to school.
It requires independent learning and self-motivation so it’s important you choose a subject that really interests you.
Kent offers a number of degree types - all designed with you in mind through a progressive approach - to provide the right study experience for you.
All undergraduate courses require a personal statement.
Get the lowdown on how you can write a great personal statement.
What happens after you submit your UCAS application?
And when do you find out if you’ve been offered a place at Kent?
It's not uncommon to rethink your university choice.
If it's not quite working out at your current university and you would like to transfer to Kent, here's our quick step guide on what to do.
Kent accepts a wide range of qualifications, and we always try to judge applications on the basis of academic potential.
See our entry requirements page for more information.
You need to know the UCAS code for the degree programme you want to study.
These are all listed in our courses A-Z .
Our UCAS institution code is K24 and our code name is KENT.
Full-time applicants
We make a decision on your application as soon as possible.
This will be confirmed via UCAS.
You can enquire about your application by contacting the Recruitment and Admissions Office through the KentVision application portal .
You can also check the status of your application via the UCAS website .
You must satisfy the conditions of your offer by 31 August (of the year of entry).
The University may withdraw offers not confirmed by this date.
Part-time applicants
This will be confirmed via the KentVision portal – you will receive an email letting you know of any change to your application.
Most programmes do not require you to attend an interview.
See the entry requirements tab on the programme page to find out if an interview is required as part of the selection process.
Kent accepts applications more than 12 months before the date of admission, but this does not guarantee that requests for deferral will be approved.
The maximum period allowed for deferral is one academic year.
If you are applying for deferred entry, you must state this on your UCAS application.
It is also advisable to give some indication of how you will spend the intervening year, ie travelling, voluntary work or paid work.
When should full-time applicants apply for deferred entry?
We will consider applications for deferred entry in 2025 on the same basis as those for entry in 2024.
You should apply in the usual way during 2024/25 and you are expected to meet the conditions of an offer by the summer of 2024.
Received an offer from Kent?
Head to our applicants site to book a visit, apply for accommodation and find out what funding is available so you can focus on your studies and get ready to join us in September.
You will receive confirmation of your offer directly from UCAS.
If you do not understand the conditions of your offer please contact the Recruitment and Admissions Office at Kent .
Our Undergraduate Prospectus includes details of our general admission requirements and entry qualifications.
The University receives results electronically from Edexcel, OCR, AQA, SQA and WJEC examining boards for AS and A levels.
If you are taking other qualifications, or your A/AS levels and Vocational A levels (VCEs) are with any other examining board, please ensure that you provide full copies of your results to the University as soon as they are available.
You can upload these via the My Applications page in KentVision.
In addition, if you have to complete any GCSE qualifications as a condition of your offer, please make sure that the results are provided to the University as soon as possible.
If you are an International Baccalaureate student please supply confirmation to the International Baccalaureate Organisation that your results can be released to UCAS.
We cannot guarantee to honour any offer of a place or accommodation if we have not received your results by 31 August (of the year of entry).
Please let us know if you do not expect your results until after that date.
If your exam results only fall short by a small margin your application is automatically reconsidered.
Depending on the results of the other candidates and the number of places available, we can usually offer a few places to students who have not quite reached their offer.
In these circumstances, we give priority to students who are holding Kent as their Conditional Firm (CF) choice as opposed to an Insurance choice.
We may offer you a place on an alternative course in a similar subject area, so if you are prepared to be flexible your chances of gaining a place increase.
A number of science subjects also offer foundation courses, which lead to a degree programme, for example, Forensic Science and Physics.
The University normally takes special circumstances that may have an adverse effect on your examination performance (for example, illness or family difficulties) into account, provided you inform us either before or at the time you take your exams.
If you wait until after your results, we will need to know why you did not tell us sooner.
Independent evidence is essential, for example, from a doctor, teacher or social services.
In the case of illness or health problems, we require dates when you were affected and the dates of each of your exams, with supporting medical certificates if appropriate.
You need to tell us if you have applied for any form of compensation, such as extra time, from the examining authority.
If you keep us informed, we try to make a fair decision in the light of the evidence you provide, but we cannot guarantee that we will be able to accept you.
If you are unsuccessful in gaining a place, this does not prevent you from applying to Kent again in the future, especially if you are retaking your exams or taking additional qualifications.
Conditional offers usually take into consideration all the examinations you have taken and those you have indicated you will take in the future (unless otherwise stated in your offer).
If you change the exams you are taking in any respect it is very important, in your own interest, that you inform us as soon as possible in writing.
This includes changes to any aspect of the examination details in your application, such as changes of date, examining board or centre number.
If you take GCE exams in November or January and then decide to retake in June, you should tell us.
If, for any reason, you think there might be an error in your offer (for instance, if three A levels are asked for and you said you were only taking two), please contact us immediately.
UCAS normally sends you notification of your place being confirmed within two weeks of the publication of your results.
Following confirmation of your place, in late August we send you an email confirming your Kent ID number and including a link to the Getting Started at Kent booklet, which provides information on the enrolment and registration process and Welcome Week.
You then complete enrolment on our Getting Started website.
First-year students will be able to access Stage 1 module choice information and preliminary reading lists as part of the online enrolment process.
We aim to keep in contact with you throughout the application year, normally by email newsletter, to keep you up to date with events happening at Kent.
Deferred entry is if you want your application to be considered for the next academic year.
Subject to you satisfying the conditions of your offer, your deferred entry place will be confirmed via UCAS.
For more information about deferred entry, see our how to apply page .
If English is not your first language, you will need to produce evidence of English ability in order to satisfy the University’s general entry requirements.
Please see English language entry requirements .
Any requirements will be specified in your offer.
If you require an educational visa to study in the UK, you should check the UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) website to ensure that your English language qualification meets the Student visa requirements for entry purposes.
You need to demonstrate a good level of English language skills to study at degree level.
If you need help to reach this level we offer a number of courses in English and academic skills .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/apply:
Most taught degrees begin in September, although we do offer postgraduate courses with January starts .
Our course page will include all the information you need about when your course starts.
There is no fixed application deadline for applications from home students, though we strongly recommend you apply as soon as possible; no later than three months before your intended start date.
Admissions deadlines for international students may vary, so it's a good idea to check them well in advance.
In your application you will typically need to provide:
Your personal statement is an opportunity for you to show the admissions tutor that you have applied to the right course for you.
Think of the personal statement as a 'written interview'.
Please answer the following four questions in no more than 200 words per question:
We strongly recommend you contact potential supervisors in the school where you wish to study.
This is an important part of the application process as we must be confident that we can provide you with suitable supervision, support, training and facilities.
School or staff contact details can be found on the school's website.
Alternatively, you can use our ' Find a supervisor ' search tool to look up academics.
PhD and Master's by Research entry points include September, January and May.
Please see individual course pages for the specific entry points available for your chosen course.
Although there is no fixed closing deadline for applications to research degrees, we strongly recommend that you apply as soon as possible and no later than three months before your intended start date.
However, if you are seeking funding, you should keep in mind that most scholarship awards will have set deadlines.
Please see our scholarship pages for more information.
If you require a Student visa to study in the UK, you should also allow enough time to complete the visa application process.
For more information about student visas, visit our country pages .
To apply, choose your course from our postgraduate course pages and click ‘Apply now’ to be taken to our online application portal, Kent Vision.
You will be asked to provide the following information:
Some schools may also ask you to provide an academic writing sample.
Application processes for study in Business, Economics and Law.
In Kent Business School, entry to all research programmes is in September only.
The deadline for PhD applications is 31 July.
Economics PhD applicants should follow the subject-specific guidelines for the application process.
In Kent Law School, entry to all research programmes (PhDs and Master's by Research) is in September only.
The deadline for all applications for September entry of the same year is 30th June.
We make sure our taught courses work in the ways that are best for you.
Find out more about our January start or distance-learning options.
All research programmes involve a majority of independent study but can also be delivered in different ways.
Find the course that's right for you by exploring our wide wange of postgraduate study options.
We're here to help you find the best financial support available through postgraduate scholarships, research funding and loans.
Do you want to change lanes and jump into something new?
If so, our conversion courses are ideal for you.
Discover why Kent is the perfect place to start your postgraduate journey.
All the answers to the most common questions we get asked by our applicants.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/visit/open-days:
Bring your vision to life at our Open Days.
Engage with our staff, explore cutting-edge facilities and picture your academic journey at Kent.
For potential postgraduate students (Master's and PhD) and supporters.
Meet us in person to discuss your postgraduate study goals.
We'll have experts on hand to help with your queries about funding, accommodation, finding a supervisor and more.
Extend your stay and get a feel for the local area as well as campus life.
Canterbury city is a short bus ride from campus and you'll have peace of mind with fee parking, Wifi and breakfast included, plus 50% off at the Gulbenkian cinema.
The University of Kent’s bed and breakfast accommodation is available this autumn in Tyler Court.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/why-kent:
Kent is ranked 40th in the UK in The Times Good University Guide 2025 and the QS World University Rankings 2025.
The Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 confirmed Kent as a leading research university, with the majority of our submissions rated as world-leading or internationally excellent.
Kent maintained its 2:1 class in the 2023/24 People and Planet University League, achieving 32nd place overall.
Kent is a place for everyone, somewhere you can be yourself.
Whether you’re an out-of-the-box thinker, boundary-breaker or change-maker, this is where you’ll get ahead and find your place as part of a global community.
Canterbury
I like Canterbury.
You see everyone there – students, locals, tourists – and I like diversity because that’s what I grew up with.
Medway
The Medway campus has been my second home for the past year.
It has been exciting to immerse myself into the rich history of the area.
Medway campus might be small, but it’s big in character and close-knit charm!
Create your personalised tour of Kent and get to know our students courses and campuses.
Developing new ideas and putting them into words is easier when you have great places to work in.
At Kent we have industry-leading facilities to really bring your subject to life.
Our workshops and 1-1 appointments, will help you achieve your academic potential.
Funding your studies is an important part of your decision-making.
Check out our scholarships and funding packages.
Whether you have a definite career plan or are still deciding on your future path, we'll support you as you make important choices for your future.
We'll help boost your wellbeing at Kent through events and community activities, as well as offering specific mental health support.
Our Year in Industry or placement options offer you the chance to be employed by a company doing graduate-level tasks that count towards your degree.
More than 80 of our undergraduate degrees offer you the opportunity to study abroad.
Living and studying in another country will broaden your understanding of your subject.
Learn the tech skills that will make you stand out to a graduate employer and open up new career opportunities in a competitive field .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/prospectus:
Order a printed publication or download your chosen guide today - now including the NEW guide for undergraduate 2026.
Download a PDF version of the Undergraduate Prospectus.
Everything you need to know about postgraduate study and research at Kent.
Register your interest to view our guide to courses, facilities, accommodation and more.
Everything you need to know about the MBA at Kent.
Download our mini guide to Undergraduate study at Kent in 2026.
Order your free Undergraduate 2025 prospectus and explore our world-class courses, vibrant campus life, and exciting opportunities - everything you need to start your journey at Kent.
Register your details below to get a printed copy delivered to your door.
Get the inside story on Kent directly from our students.
Find out more about a course, your application or anything about Kent.
Meet us in-person or join a virtual event from anywhere in the world.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/clearing/what-is-clearing:
Clearing is open from 5 July and closes on 20 October 2025.
Every university will have different hotline hours during Clearing.
Most will stay open for extended periods on results day, but make it part of your research to check their timings.
Course availability will change quickly during Clearing, especially on results day.
We update our course vacancies in real time, so make our website your first port of call.
Bear in mind that popular courses fill quickly.
It’s a good idea to have other options in mind when you start to make your applications.
Once you’ve checked your eligibility for a course, you can apply online or speak to one of our hotline operators.
If you chose to call us, we’ll need to check that you meet the required grades for your chosen course.
If you do, we’ll go ahead and take you through our Clearing application form and advise if you are eligible for an offer, or whether your application requires further review.
If we can make you an offer via telephone, we will send you confirmation of this via email.
Tip: keep track of your offers and don’t overwhelm yourself.
Although there’s no limit to the number of offers you can hold in Clearing, applying to loads of courses will make shortlisting even harder.
But before you start...
You're eligible to use Clearing if:
and...
You’ll usually have 24 hours to accept a Clearing offer.
So, once you’ve decided which one you’d like to accept, head to your UCAS Hub.
Go to the ‘next steps’ section, select ‘add a Clearing choice’ and input the course details.
By adding the course as a Clearing choice, you are accepting your offer.
If you are holding an offer elsewhere in UCAS you'll be able to self-release from Results Day to cancel your place.
One done, you can accept another offer and add it as a Clearing choice on your Hub.
Kent takes the pressure off finding a room in Clearing with.
We ask if you need accommodation as part of our Clearing application form - just select ‘yes’, and our accommodation team will get in touch with advice about the best option for you.
Dora is proof that you'll have a great experience no matter how you find your university place.
Discover what Clearing means for you.
There's lots you can do to take the stress out of Clearing.
You might be feeling nervous when results come out, but you’ll have lots of options and plenty of support available to you.
Our team of experienced advisers are here to support you throughout the application process.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/clearing/how-to-apply:
You can check the status of your offers on results day  by signing in to your UCAS Hub.
If you're eligible for Clearing, your application status will read 'You are in Clearing' and a unique Clearing ID number will show on your account.
(If your application hasn’t been updated, you can always contact the university directly to confirm the status of your offer.)
You'll need to contact all the universities you're interested in directly to discuss your options.
At Kent we make it easy by asking you to complete a short online form which you'll find on each course page .
We'll get in touch to discuss your application or make you an offer.
Once you have your offer you can then make your final decision using UCAS Hub (if you previously applied through UCAS).
You can also use UCAS Clearing Plus by going to the 'My matches' option in UCAS Hub and selecting the 'I'm interested button' for the courses you're interested in.
If you have an unconditional offer:
All you need to do is:
You’ll need the UCAS code for your course, which you’ll find at the top of your course page in our course listings, and our institution ID, which is K24.
If you have an unconditional firm offer:
Just log into your UCAS Hub and add Kent as your Clearing choice.
If you have any questions, just give our friendly Clearing team a call on +44 (0)1227 768896 and they’ll be happy to help.
Kent's Institution ID is K24
Just log into your Kent applicant portal, and accept our offer there.
Kent will notify UCAS on your behalf, you won’t need to do anything further.
Sending proof of qualifications
UCAS sends us results for most types of qualifications as soon as they're available, so you won't normally need to send us any proof if you previously applied through UCAS.
We will eventually need to see your exam certificates.
We'll tell you if you do need to send us your results because you applied to us directly or UCAS can't send them to us.
Kent takes the pressure off finding a room in Clearing.
We'll ask you if you want accommodation as part of your application.
If you do, our accommodation team will get in touch with advice about the best option for you.
If you've already applied for your student loan and you applied through Clearing, you need to update your details to show your new first choice university.
You simply log into your account and go to Your Account > Change your application > University/college course to update your details.
Student Finance England will re-assess your application and let you know if there are any changes.
If you haven't applied for a student loan yet, apply as soon as you can through Student Finance England.
You should get at least some of your loan as close to the start of your course as possible.
If you are new to Higher Education and starting in Stage 1 at the University of Kent in September 2025 you may be eligible for the Kent Financial Support Package .
You can update your details and apply for student finance through your local government or education authority.
We understand that the rising costs of living are having an impact on everyone, and you may be wondering whether university is affordable.
At Kent, we want you to feel happy, healthy, and able to focus on your studies.
We know you can’t do that if you’re worrying about money.
We've listened to what our students have told us about how the cost of living is affecting them.
Here are some of the ways we've put in place to help support them, and our future students.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/clearing/when-does-clearing-open:
Our timeline below shows you the key dates for when Clearing opens and closes this year.
Remember you can use Clearing if:
If you have any questions about Clearing you can contact us at study@kent.ac.uk or telephone: +44 (0)1227 768896 and we'll be happy to help you through the Clearing process.
If you haven't applied via UCAS you can apply directly to Kent.
if you would like to apply through Clearing or have any questions about the process contact us at study@kent.ac.uk or telephone: +44 (0)1227 768896
From 5 July, you can apply for a course via UCAS Clearing if you’re not already holding an offer from a university or college, and the course still has places, or you’ve declined your firm place using the ‘decline my place’ button in your application
Scottish Exam Results Day.
Students across Scotland find out their results for National 5, Higher, Advanced Higher and National Progression Award.
Results are released for A-Level, T-Level and BTEC exams.
Students who sat these exams find out their results.
You can no longer apply for a 2025 course.
Applying via Clearing is simple and straightforward, find out all you need to know.
If you think you might need to apply via Clearing, here's how to prepare to make things smoother on results day.
Hear from or students who applied via Clearing and how it was for them.
If you're applying via Clearing internationally we have a guide just for you.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/clearing/courses:
Ambition doesn’t have to follow a straight path, it just has to be yours.
Explore our available courses and take the next step toward your future.
Kent Law School brings the study of law to life and prepares you for a successful career in law.
Our LLB in Law develops your critical and analytical skills, enables you to think about the role of law in society, and provides hands-on experience through opportunities to work on real cases in our Law Clinic.
A law degree from Kent prepares you for a career in law and opens doors to many other professions.
Do you want to be the kind of leader who can make decisions that look at the big picture?
Our BSc Business and Management course is designed to support those who want to learn to lead and manage responsibly.
Whether you see yourself starting your own business or leading teams to help create a sustainable future, this course is for you.
At Kent, you'll study all aspects of mechanical engineering, from 3D design to advanced manufacturing, control and mechatronic to advanced robotics and fluid dynamics to thermodynamic and heat transfer, preparing you for a career in any branch of mechanical engineering.
By analysing real-world events and studying the principles of economics, you gain the skills and tools to make a difference in the world around you, and open doors to a variety of employment opportunities.
Recent graduates have gone on to work for Deloitte, HMRC, Goldman Sachs, Barclays and more.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-guide-for-parents:
If your child is taking A levels, they will be able to use Clearing from results day in August.
Students taking BTECs or other qualifications can enter as soon as they receive their exam results.
We know this can be a stressful time so if you have anything you’d like to ask, get in touch on +44 (0)1227 768896 or by email at information@kent.ac.uk .
Our team will answer any questions you have about studying at Kent and applying through Clearing (we may not be able to answer specific questions about a child's application, but we'll be happy to chat to them too.)
Our Clearing hotline is open all day on Results Day and for extended periods for the following week.
Your child can make a Clearing application online, or they can call our hotline on 01227 768896 to speak to one of our operators.
If they meet the entry requirements for their chosen course, we will make them a verbal offer over the phone, which will be confirmed via email on completion of our application form.
If they choose to accept, they need to head to their UCAS Hub (formerly UCAS Track) and add the course as a Clearing choice.
Encourage them to carefully consider their decision as they can only enter one choice at a time.
We make it really simple to apply - this information from the Accommodation Office explains everything you need to do.
As you progress through your Clearing application you will be asked if you would like to apply for accommodation in the additional information section, just make sure you select YES from the drop-down, and then continue with your application.
It really is that simple!
The first thing you can do to help your child during the Clearing process is to have a good grasp of it yourself.
Familiarise yourself with the key dates, requirements and steps of the process and get to know the details that your child will be asked to provide when calling the Clearing hotline or universities.
This way, you can help them through each stage of Clearing.
Clearing moves at a fast pace, so being able to quickly apply for their preferred course will be key to your child’s Clearing success.
Most universities will publish their course vacancies on 5 July 2025, giving your child plenty of time to research and decide which courses they like the look of.
Encourage them to get into the details such as module content, methods of assessment, graduate opportunities and sandwich years.
They should look at the student experience at each university too.
What is the accommodation like?
Are there opportunities for part-time work?
Which societies do they like the sound of?
Before your child starts calling university hotlines, help them to gather some essential info.
They’ll need their UCAS Personal ID, details of their qualifications (including GCSE and equivalent results), and examination bodies.
You may also need to encourage your child to make phone calls.
Although you can’t call on their behalf, you can help them prepare for possible questions, read and remind them of what’s included in their personal statement and stay with them for moral support as they make those calls.
Even with the help you’re giving them, your child may still need to speak to someone who can provide expert advice.
Get to know the support services that are available, such as careers advisers at your child’s current school or college, and advisers at Kent.
Clearing can still be overwhelming, even if your child has done everything they can to prepare.
To help maintain their momentum, be on hand to provide meals and snacks and encourage them to take regular breaks.
They might not want to move an inch from their computer for fear of missing out, but it’s important to have time away from their screen.
Giving them a quiet space free from distractions can be helpful too.
Waiting for results can be nerve-wracking.
On the day, you may want to accompany them to pick up their results or be close by.
But depending on your child, they may also just want their own space.
As it can be an overwhelming day, try to find ways to keep them calm and remind them that you’re there to support them however you can.
They may need help making lists of numbers to call or may just need someone to talk through their options and ideas with.
Our campus tours are open to everyone, whether you're just beginning to look at universities, or you've already applied to Kent.
We tailor our tours for your needs and will be able to answer any queries you have about your Clearing application.
Book your campus tour online.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/clearing/faq:
If you’ve not applied through UCAS and you’ve applied directly to Kent:
This could mean your results haven’t been updated or the universities are still considering your application.
If you’re waiting on confirmation of your place at Kent, please give us a call on 01227 768896.
Yes, if you’re confirmed at a university (UF) but have changed your mind about where you want to study, you can decline your place in UCAS Hub.
You won’t be able to go back if you change your mind, so you should only self-release if you’re sure you want to enter Clearing, or you’d like to accept an offer from another university.
Once you’ve received an offer, log into your UCAS account.
Find the ‘your choices’ section and click on ‘add Clearing choice’.
Your chosen university will process your details and confirm your place if no further information is required.
Keep an eye on your inbox in case they get in touch.
100% – we’d love to hear from you!
If you’re thinking about studying with us, give our hotline a call to find out if we have any places on your chosen course.
Remember, if we make you an offer, you’ll need to reject any other existing offers before you can add Kent as a Clearing choice on your UCAS account.
Yes, no problem!
Just remember to tell us which course you applied for when you get in touch.
It's helpful if you've got your UCAS ID number handy, so we can speed up the process for you
Unfortunately, you cannot reapply for the same course in Clearing if:
Don’t be put off though – we’ll still consider you for different courses, and you should get in touch if you have any additional information or qualifications to provide.
No!
You will automatically enter Clearing if you reject your firm choice.
While keeping your firm place secure, we’d advise speaking to your insurance choice uni to see if they are still accepting applications for your preferred course.
It’s better to be safe than sorry!
No, Clearing is for students intending to start this academic year (2025).
Absolutely!
Why not come to one of our campus Open Days, or join a  guided Campus Tours which are led by our student ambassadors.
There's also an opportunity to meet a subject representative after your tour.
Yes, most universities will have accommodation hotlines that you can call to apply and discuss your options.
At Kent, we secure campus accommodation for many students who come to us through Clearing.
What’s better is that we don’t ask you to apply separately, we’ll ask if you need accommodation as part of your main application.
You’re still eligible to apply for student finance if you use Clearing, but you’ll need to apply ASAP.
If you’ve already applied for funding for a different course, you’ll need to update your details with Student Finance England as soon as your place is confirmed.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/clearing/contact-us:
Our team of experienced advisers and operators are here to support you during Clearing.
Whether you’d like more information about our course vacancies, accommodation or student life at Kent, here’s how you can get in touch.
Telephone: +44 (0)1227 768896
Email: study@kent.ac.uk
There are lots of other ways to get in touch, whether you want to chat with a student or an admissions expert, or just follow us on social media.
Find more ways to connect .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/visit/campus-tours:
Your tour will be led by an experienced guide who knows the campus inside out.
It's a great opportunity to discover more about life at Kent and to ask lots of questions.
Tours are open to everyone, whether you're just beginning to look at universities, or you've already applied to Kent.
We tailor our tours for both undergraduate and postgraduate study so you'll really get a feel for what it's like to be a student here.
We can make alternative arrangements for you to visit the campus.
Just email our International team and they'll be happy to help.
Yes please.
Pre-booking for a tour is essential so we can ensure everyone has a great experience.
Our team will send you an email the day before your tour.
This will have all the information you need for your visit, including where to park if you're coming by car.
Parking is free, you just need to let us know your vehicle registration number when you book.
If you decide to come by car at a later stage, or you'll be using a different vehicle, just get in touch with us so we can amend your booking.
If you're a teacher and would like to bring a group of your pupils to visit us, email schoolsliaison@kent.ac.uk for UK-based visits and international@kent.ac.uk for international visits.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/tuition-fees:
Useful contacts to help you with your finance questions and offer advice.
Answers to the most common questions about fees, funding and accommodation costs.
Tips and tools to help you save money on your day-to-day student life.
We offer different payments methods to suit you.
Check our payment options here before choosing how to pay.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/scholarships:
Interested in Postgraduate Research Scholarship and GTA opportunities for 2025?
A full package of support for our talented athletes.
Scholarships for talented instrumentalists and singers.
Funding opportunities for undergraduate students.
Postgraduate funding for studies and research.
If you are interested in applying for a Postgraduate Research Scholarship or GTA opportunity, please indicate your expression of interest by completing the form below.
Please note a full, formal application to your chosen scholarship/GTA will need to be completed alongside this, in order for your application to be considered.
The University of Kent administers loans and funding for students from the United States.
The Canada Student Loans Program provides repayable loans and non-repayable grants to help Canadian students pay for their post-secondary education.
A Postgraduate Master's Loan can help you with course fees and living costs while you study a postgraduate Master's course.
Information to help you understand the costs involved and the financial support available.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/fees-and-funding:
Information and advice about tuition fees and managing your finances

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/sports/scholarships/hall-of-fame:
The University of Kent's Sports Scholarship Scheme has seen many exceptional athletes achieve incredible feats both within and outside the University.
Our Hall of Fame is where we showcase some of these talented individuals.
Best sporting achievement while at university:
Details of current sporting status, recent competitions, results or upcoming events:
In the process of building towards a season of Ironman Triathlon racing in 2025, after completion of the PhD.
A short reflection on your time at Kent University and on the Sports Scholarship Scheme:
The scholar scheme allowed me to continue my cycling throughout my undergraduate studies.
The support provided by the programme was invaluable and set me up for future sporting success.
Best sporting achievement outside or post-university:
A short reflection on your time at Kent University and the Sports Scholarship Scheme:
I loved every second of my time at Kent.
I was so lucky to have had access to such amazing facilities and expertise.
Along with the financial, academic, and moral support from everyone at Kent.
BUCS Championship 3rd place
West-Flanders Cup Finalist
Due to time constraints, I focus on individual sports such as cycling and running.
However, I am still very much involved in the volleyball world as a board member of the volleyball team of my home town: Knack Roeselare.
Short reflection on your time at Kent University and on the Sports Scholarship Scheme:
The Sports Scholarship Scheme allowed me to train like a professional sportsman whilst studying.
Progress was real, thanks to the excellent trainers that were associated to the Sports department.
Sports Scholar of the Year.
8th (10 Mile) and 9th (25 mile) at the National BUCS Time Trials in 2017.
Achieving a time of 19m 03 seconds for a 10 mile TT and 48 minutes 57 seconds at a 25 mile TT.
Details of current sporting status, recent competitions, results, or upcoming events:
Half ironman distance triathlon – June 2021 at Goodwood Motor Circuit.
The highlight of my time at Kent was my time on the Sports Scholar Scheme.
As a result of the coaching I received across my three years, my results improved year on year, culminating in top tens in both of my national BUCS events in my final year.
Training alongside ‘the best’ athletes and coaches, helps to challenge you to seek improvement at every opportunity and to maximise your full potential.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-life:
Beautiful, unique, peaceful, green.
Canterbury campus.
Built on 300 acres of parkland, with views over the historic city of Canterbury, it's an idyllic place to study.
Explore the University of Kent Canterbury campus with students Harry and MJ as they take you on a tour of their favourite spots.
Diverse, friendly, engaging.
You're surrounded by historic buildings, renovated for 21st-century study.
With restaurants, cafes and our student Hub, there's space to relax.
Explore the University of Kent Medway campus with students Amarachi and DJ.
Hear from them what they like about living in Medway and all the opportunities available on campus.
Whether your passion is sport or sustainability, you’re a foodie or keen on gaming, there are lots to choose from.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/future-ready:
The University of Kent helps students prepare for successful careers from day one.
Our career support includes expert guidance, one-to-one advice, CV and interview workshops, employer events, and opportunities for work experience or placements across every subject area.
At Kent, our careers support isn't just about careers - it's about so much more.
We don't create graduates for job roles, we create graduates who are ready to make a real impact.
The world of work is constantly evolving, fields develop and demand for positions shift.
However, all fields need innovators, problem-solvers and leaders.
And this is what our careers support is all about.
We are focused on giving you the tools you need to succeed in your career, and beyond it, by centering both skills and personal development.
When you graduate from Kent, you're ready to make an impact.
Only focusing on job roles in careers support isn't supporting anyone's success.
We don't want to just help you make cookie-cutter CV's - we'll help you share your journey, so employers sit up a take notice at all the things that make you, you.
We won't just give you bland 'one size fits all' practice interviews, we'll make sure you can proudly tell people all the things that make you the best fit for whatever path you take.
So you can make your future your own.
We don't settle for preparing you for a job, we prepare you for life.
No one's career journey is linear and this is a good thing!
You'll be ready to pivot, take risks and forge new paths.
And we'll be right there with you, our careers support is there to help for up to three years after graduation.
All of our teaching is designed with industry in mind, so you're ready to make a real impact in your career.
We bring the real world to the classroom, so everything you are learning is informed by real views on professional development.
You can expand your network with guest lectures and alumni events, or you can go out on a placement, take an internship or a year in industry in the UK or abroad.
We're here to open doors for you, not close them.
The skills you develop are at Kent are evergreen.
The world will always need innovative thinkers, problem solvers, communicators and leaders.
These are the skills we focus on so you can thrive in your career and your life after university.
Our careers support is all based around you.
We understand your ambitions and goals develop as you study and grow at Kent.
You'll have tailored support so you can succeed based on your values, passions and talents.
Here are some great examples of our future focused modules at Kent across a wide range of subjects, designed to get you ready for success after university.
Subject - Psychology
What do you need to know to do well studying psychology at university?
How can you best demonstrate and articulate your abilities throughout your studies and beyond?
You'll gain essential information and opportunities to develop skills that will see you through the next years of your course.
From academic writing to self-reflection and career planning, this modules gives you a thorough grounding in how to learn effectively and independently, and to use this learning to think and write like a psychologist.
Subject - Biosciences
How do new scientific breakthroughs become embedded positively within society?
How do we build trust and confidence in science and technology?
How do we sustain a strong future for science by inspiring the next generation?
You'll explore how scientists construct messages across professional disciplines such as media, policy, private sector and charity, understanding the role scientists play outside of the immediate scientific environment.
Finally, you'll apply best practice in communication and public engagement to global challenges where science and technology provide potential solutions.
Subject - Law
Devoted entirely to developing your practical skill in argument, you'll build ability and understanding that will benefit you in legal practice - and across many other areas of employment.
Despite frequent mention in education and employment, few graduates have received the training needed to present knowledgeable, winning argument consistently and confidently.
You gain a critical edge, empowering you to engage in argument effectively, developing the skill of presenting a compelling case and by sharpening your awareness of when poor or underhand arguments are being used against you.
Subject - Business and Management
In a world characterised by perpetual transformation, how can emerging business leaders navigate the challenges and seize the opportunities that shape corporate strategy?
Through engaging and interactive sessions, you’ll explore the complexities inherent in leadership principles and strategic decision-making.
This module emphasises hands-on learning, ensuring that you gain the knowledge and essential practical skills needed for effective leadership in contemporary business environments.
Subject - Computer Science
Delve into this video game module, where you will learn various facets within video game design and development, encompassing game physics, AI, level design, player behaviour, game rules and mechanics, and user interfaces.
Through hands-on instruction, you are introduced to game development utilising state-of-the-art game engine.
Additionally, you will extend the application of these skills in designing immersive and spatial computing applications, so you have all the tools you need to break into an exciting and expanding industry.
Subject - Classical Studies
Get hands-on with a tailored made 70-hour internship within a local, regional or national heritage site.
You’ll gain a first-hand comprehensive experience in heritage work, a crucial step towards a career in the field.
During the internship, you’ll deploy accurately the concepts and principles learned in class within the dynamic context of heritage sites.
Choose the site of your internship as far as possible, ensuring that the internship aligns with your own interests and career aspirations.
Clear objectives and skills to be acquired will be outlined and regularly monitored.
Subject - Accounting and Finance
This module is designed to give you an overview of strategic analysis, strategic decision-making and strategic processes within and between organisations.
It explores approaches to strategic management as well as concepts, frameworks and issues in strategic management.
By taking a case study-focused approach, this module fosters critical thinking and problem-solving skills.
It will help you to contribute meaningfully in your future career, as employers seek individuals capable of strategic thinking.
Subject - Arts
Keen to gain practical experience in a professional industry setting?
As your first step towards your future career, you’ll engage in a placement/internship that will be relevant to your subject of study or ambitions.
In addition to your placement, you will learn about employability in the creative arts industries and enhance your commercial awareness of what is needed to launch a career in this area.
You will be supported in learning how to approach prospective employers, tailor CVs, evaluate job descriptions, and promote yourself in a professional context, preparing you for life after university.
You will also explore the value of your work placement experience through reflection and critical analysis.
From BSc to MBE
Initially, it was absolutely the core programming skills but over time a general understanding of technology how it works and its potential application has become critical to my role
Building your career
From seeing the array of different ideas in crits, to working with architects and your tutors, even to meeting strangers on international trips  – that’s exactly what it’s like when you start working and networking.
There is a LOT of collaboration, and I think Kent set me up well for that.
Those group projects are not for no reason!
Forging new paths
I am immensely grateful for the experiences and guidance I received during my time at the University of Kent and am certain that I would not have achieved pupillage without them.
Chasing results
In my current role, I was given ownership to build a feature in the Chase app which has recently launched to our UK customers.
It was an exciting experience as I was the main developer for that feature and to see so many customers using it now is so surreal.
Finding your place
During my placement, I was also able to build an Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS) registration portfolio, which will allow me to be HCPC (Health and Care Professions Council) registered after I graduate.
It’s a great bonus and I feel very lucky to have been able to do it.
Lessons you can take anywhere
Things really began to make sense to me by second year, the Emerging Markets module was fantastic, I had a lightbulb moment of feeling like I could really apply my expertise and began to think like an international businessperson.
Start up, stay ahead
My brand wouldn't have grown so quickly without uni.
Building brands
Uncovering history
As part of my MA thesis I uncovered some groundbreaking new evidence about one of Anne Boleyn’s private prayerbooks (her Book of Hours) that received international press and scholarly attention.
As a result, I was employed at Hever Castle.
Sharing stories
My time at Kent gave me the confidence and the necessary educational tools to understand and analyse the working environment.
Simply British Ballers
It was my first experience of organising and running a team.
I had to be on top of the detail and also think about marketing the society.
You’re responsible for 30 people, so fantastic training for a future career.
Or, as it turned out, for running a business.
Fluent Futures is our mission to provide free language tuition to step towards a more fluent future, fostering global communication and understanding.
This is your chance to expand your horizons and open doors for your career and your future.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-support:
If you require urgent support please see below link.
Please be aware that Student Support and Wellbeing reception will be closed on Monday 25th and Tuesday 26th August.
If you require urgent support please click here.
We will reopen at 09.00 on Wednesday 27th August.
Struggling with a physical or mental health issue which can't wait?
Get Urgent Support Now
Our safeguarding policies are designed to
protect children and adults at risk of harm on our campuses or involved in any
related University activity including safeguarding for apprenticeship students
in employment.
Safeguarding at Kent
From dedicated mental health advisors and specialist support to alternative therapies such as our Kent Community Oasis Garden, we take a holistic and individual approach to supporting our students.
We have expert staff to support students and discuss academic adjustments.
We can help with mental health, disability, autism and specific learning differences (SpLDs, including ADHD and dyslexia), and accessibility.
Student Support and Wellbeing have been central to my time at university.
The brilliant and attentive support I received, particularly during the pandemic, allowed me to flourish academically.
Find out more about some of the fantastic initiatives at Kent where we work with our students to tackle mental health in new ways.
Our community garden helps students reconnect with nature, meet new people and grow food.
Our Wellbeing Student Advisory Board is revolutionising mental health support at Kent.
From our ADHD running club to autism model making and painting, discover a wide range of support.
Why students love our Kent Community Oasis Garden
Not sure where to start?
Check out our guide on seeking support from Student Support and Wellbeing.
Looking for information on Inclusive Learning Plans (ILPs)?
Our ILP guide page can help.
Counselling offers a safe confidential space to help you re-balance thoughts, feelings and behaviours about life in general.
Mental health advisers can assist you with managing the impact of your mental health on your academic progress and your day to day wellbeing.
Specialist wellbeing support - practical help and advice on sexual assault or rape, discrimination, hate incidents or bullying.
Addiction support - manage addiction and restore control, including gaming, gambling and substance use.
Specific learning differences - advisers, study skills tutors and mentors can support you to manage and thrive with dyslexia, dyspraxia and ADHD.
Autism support can help with transition into university life, managing academic work, accommodation and socialising.
Disability support is available for students with mobility issues, hearing loss or visual impairment, and both long term and temporary health issues.
Long-term health conditions - get advice and support in making the most of uni life whilst managing conditions such as chronic fatigue or diabetes.
Support for care-experienced students to accompany your transition to uni, and help you throughout your studies International students - expert support in navigating disability and wellbeing help available at university for international students.
Accessibility - work and study your way with assistive technology and accessible formats.
Disabled Students' Allowance - get funding to cover specialist equipment, mentoring, tutoring.
Kent Inclusive Practices (KIPs) - find out what you can expect from your inclusive learning journey at Kent.
For contact information and where to find us on our UK campuses please visit our Contact Us page.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/locations:
Get to know our locations in Canterbury and Medway.
Create your personalised tour of Kent and get to know our students, courses and campuses.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/year-in-industry:
Employability matters.
It's important to us, and to you.
Through our innovative industry collaborations you can add a year in industry to many of our courses.
Gain vital experience alongside your degree to kick-start your career.
The Careers and Employability Service is proud and excited to be ranked as one of the best organisations for Work Experience and Placements in the National Rate My Placement Awards.
All of our teaching is designed to have employability embedded, but you don't need to stop there!
Taking a year in industry is the perfect way to boost your career prospects and get a head start on the job market after you graduate.
You'll gain real world experience - not only helping your CV - but giving you a taste of industry, which is crucial in making your future a reality.
You'll discover what you want to do, and how you'll get there.
We already know you have the confidence and commitment to thrive in the workplace and kick-start your career.
This is your chance to prove it, to yourself and to employers.
Don't just take our word for it though.
We have loads of fantastic students and grads who took the opportunity of a year in industry and reaped the benefits!
When should I start looking?
Companies will recruit at different times of the year based on their size.
It's good to be application ready by the summer of your first year.
Where can I get help finding a placement?
Book
an appointment with a placement adviser via the
careers service.
Will I get paid?
Most of our placements are paid.
Do I have to pay tuition fees?
Yes, you’ll pay a
substantially reduced fee.
Fees for the current year (subject to changes) can be found on our tuition fees website .
Where can I get visa advice if I’m an international
student?
Kent Students' Union can help with any visa queries.
Does the University keep in touch?
You receive four-weekly check-in emails, a visit from the team every
three months and you can reach out to us any time
by email or phone.
Do I work for a full year?
The minimum requirement
for an industrial placement is 44 weeks.
Forge your own path.
If you're studying in Kent Business School (KBS), you can choose to spend a year being supported by expert staff in launching your own business.
If you’re a problem solver who loves numbers, this Accounting and Finance BSc is the course for you.
Develop the specialised skills and knowledge to drive your career as an accountant and economist.
Take a giant step towards a well-paid and fulfilling career in financial risk management.
Delve into the ancient world and uncover the cultures, myths, histories and legacies of the civilisations that shaped it.
Inspired by the wonders and vastness of the universe?
This is the course for you.
Tackle contemporary issues in health, agriculture, and the environment.
Discover Biology as the science of life and shape a sustainable future.
Biomedical Engineering at Kent educates engineers that can develop systems used in medical practice and biology research.
Explore biochemical processes in the human body and help to identify and treat disease.
Want to be the kind of leader who can succeed based on your data-driven decisions?
Combine expertise from the School of Computing and Kent Business School to start your journey to a well paid career.
If your ambitions include leading a business or building your own, choose this course.
If you’re creative and have great communication skills with an interest in business then this course is for you.
Choose chemistry to change the world and your future.
Explore classical narratives, myths and memories while gaining the broad skill set and expertise that employers are looking for.
Unearth the secrets of the ancient world while gaining skills and knowledge to kick start your career.
A deep understanding of computing puts you in a great position to influence the future and paves the way to excellent employment opportunities.
Get ahead in your career and become an expert on a rapidly evolving and expanding field.
If you're looking for a career in information security management or cyber security, Kent's got you covered.
Learn valuable analytical skills while exploring cutting-edge mathematical science.
Are you excited by design and the creative possibilities of new technology?
Digital Design at Kent combines both!
Explore your passion for the visual and performing arts on our joint honours degree in Drama and Film.
Become one of the next generation of makers, thinkers and influencers in the theatrical world.
Gain knowledge and skills in conservation and ecology, so you can make a real difference.
Develop the tools to analyse real economic problems and find solutions to societal and global issues.
By gaining an understanding of economics, and developing leadership skills, you'll open up a range of rewarding careers.
By understanding the relationship between economics and politics, you will open doors to a range of careers from consultancy and banking, to government.
Building a future with sustainable engineering strategies.
You’ll gain the skills to innovate, create and find solutions.
Understand the science behind how we communicate and explore the link between language, the mind and society.
Explore literature from across the globe and throughout the ages, from classic to contemporary.
Find your voice as a writer in a city steeped in rich literary tradition, from Dickens to Chaucer to Marlowe.
Find your vision as a filmmaker and critic.
Explore the history of film and create its future.
Blend the power of media and the magic of film, ready to start your career in the creative industries.
Develop the expertise, skills and experience to propel your career into banking, investment or risk management.
Unlock the secrets of crime-solving and gain the skills for a rewarding career.
Connect the unexpected with ideas that spark creativity, transform spaces, and inspire people.
Explore challenging questions and weigh complex judgements about how the past shapes our world today.
Develop the industry-relevant skills to respond to the challenges and opportunities of business in a global context.
By studying Mechanical Engineering at Kent you gain the skills to make your own mark in this exciting field.
Explore media in all mediums and lead discussions about how the media shapes our world today.
Explore Military History throughout the ages and across the globe, from war and conflict to peace and collaboration.
Develop language skills and forge connections between cultures to launch your career in a globalised world.
Unlock your future with physics: open up exciting career options in cyber security, medical physics or the space industry.
Excited by discovery?
Passionate about exploring the cosmos?
This is the degree for you.
Make a difference; reshape the world and your future in it.
Gain an understanding of human behaviour and open doors to a wide range of careers.
Our Psychology with Clinical Psychology degree offers you training in psychology  with the exploration of the models currently used in clinical practice.
Gain advanced computing skills to open up rewarding career opportunities in sectors like programming and applications development.
Add technical skills to your artistic flair and take the first step towards a creative career.
Unlock the science behind peak performance with Sport and Exercise Science.
Discover the world of sports therapy and learn to diagnose, treat and prevent sporting injuries.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/go-abroad:
Experience a different culture, develop your language skills and grow in self-confidence.
Take the opportunity to gain a new academic perspective, establish international contacts and enhance your employability.
The Go Abroad experience offers you a wealth of personal and professional benefits.
Kent has long-established partnerships with leading universities and businesses around the world, which means our students are assured of excellent study or work opportunities.
We are working with the government's Turing Scheme to further enhance opportunities for our students.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/parents:
We understand that helping your child choose the right university is an exciting yet challenging time for the whole family.
At Kent, we’re here to support not only your child’s ambitions but also you as you guide them through this important step.
Explore our Open Days to see how we create an environment where your child can thrive academically, socially, and personally.
It’s your opportunity to discover why Kent could be the perfect fit.
If you can't make it, we have everything you need to know right here, so you, and whoever you are supporting can ditch the nerves, and start focussing on the excitement.
Have questions or need advice?
We’re here to help.
Call us on +44 (0) 1227 816060, and let us provide the answers and reassurance you need.
We know you want to make sure whoever you are sending off to university is going to be looked out for, and looked after.
You can be rest assured we are here to help, from mental health to neurodivergent support, we make Kent their place to thrive.
Support for students
Sign up to receive updates from us about key topics including: important dates and deadlines, Open Days, applying to Kent and preparing for university.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges:
We offer a range of events, activities and resources for your classroom that will help your students as they make decisions about their future and consider studying at University.
We understand the needs and challenges faced by schools and multi-academy trusts.
We continue to develop our role as lead sponsor and support the trust at all levels.
The University has close relationships with local schools, including members of the Kent and Medway Progression Federation (KMPF).
The University is the lead institution for the Kent and Medway Collaborative Outreach Programme (KaMCOP) which is part of the national Uni Connect programme, funded through the Office for Students.
The University is also a member of the East Kent Schools Together (EKST) partnership.
EKST is a collaborative network of state and independent schools working together, sharing resources where appropriate and collaborating for the benefit of young people in the region, particularly those from disadvantaged backgrounds.
Our partnerships are at the heart of our work with schools.
Working closely with secondary schools, we aim to give your students a better understanding of the benefits of higher education and all that the University of Kent has to offer.
The University has partnerships with the East Kent Colleges Group , MidKent College and North Kent College .
These relationships encompass outreach and progression activities, the development of higher and degree apprenticeships and the delivery of Kent validated HE programmes (HE in FE).
There are two main elements to the University’s partnerships with FE Colleges.
Over 150 students in the three partner colleges are studying on university level programmes which are franchised and validated by the University of Kent.
In addition, the University also delivers a programme of bespoke progression activities to FE and Access students studying in local colleges.
These include tailored information talks and workshops, subject specific events and activities and a two day campus residential which aim to raise aspiration and support attainment.
The University also offers activities within the colleges as part of the KaMCOP ( Uni Connect programme).
Telephone: +44 (0)1227 824149
Email: schoolsandcolleges@kent.ac.uk
Telephone: +44 (0)1227 824094
Email: international@kent.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/international:
Join our diverse community and make connections with students from all over the world.
With a welcoming student body representing over 100 nationalities, we are the perfect place to start your university journey in the UK.
We know moving to a new country to study can be a big adjustment, we'll help you find a home away from home with our range of accommodation on campus.
Develop your English language and study skills at Kent.
Our International College is an on-campus college for students starting their studies in the UK.
We are proud to have given our pledge to BUILA's UK Agent Quality Framework.
Discover how we support our agents across the globe.
For agent contact details, please visit our countries page.
Tiwa studied an undergraduate degree in Business Administration at Kent Business School.
And was awarded an honorary doctorate for her incredible music career.
Hear about her time at Kent and watch her acceptance speech.
Discover our subjects and take the first step towards University study in the UK.
We offer a wide range of Masters and research programmes, find your course.
Want to start a successful career in business?
You can study our MBA in the UK and kickstart your journey.
Have any questions?
Get in touch and our friendly international team will be on hand to help.
Want to meet us and see the campus for yourself?
See the dates for our Open Days and Campus Tours.
Can't come to Kent?
Visit us from wherever you are in the world.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/international/countries:
Flag icons created by Freepik - Flaticon

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/china:
开启非凡求学之旅
你的梦想肯特承载
Junhan Xu BSc International Business
肯特大学是全世界范围内最顶尖的商学院，全球前1%。
在英国政府的官方教学质量评鉴中，我们获得了最高评级“金奖”。在英国政府的官方科研质量评鉴中，我们的科研强度位列全英前20, 超过了11所罗素大学成员。在QS排名、泰晤士排名以及世界大学学术排名中，肯特大学均位列世界500强。
主校区位于英国境内素有“英格兰的花园”美誉的肯特郡，距离伦敦仅50分钟，另外在巴黎设有教学中心。因此肯特大学又被誉为“英国的欧洲大学”。
强身健体和学习同样重要，肯特大学为所有新生提供免费健身房会员。
肯特大学是英国高等学府中仅有的七所书院制大学之一。我们的七间书院分别是：
别树一帜的书院制度意味着每个来肯特就读的学子都会被分配到以上七间书院之一。书院在学生们的专业院系的基础上提供了另一层呵护，尤其在住宿、饮食、团体活动、身心健康方面，益处良多。

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/international/international-applicant-faqs:
If you have been sent a request for further information, you can login to the KentVision applicant portal and attach this document by responding to the further information request in the portal.
If you need to amend details on your application, change the programme you applied for, or to defer your application, you will need to contact the Admissions team: study@kent.ac.uk or the International Recruitment Team: international@kent.ac.uk
It may be possible for you to begin in the second year of a Kent course, depending on the topics you have covered in the first year of your degree.
Please contact us via international@kent.ac.uk to find out if you may be eligible.
We do not accept students into the third year of any of our programmes, and we are unable to accept students into the second year of courses offered by the Kent and Medway Medical School.
We work with a network of agents across the globe who can provide support with your application or visa application.
For their contact details, please click on your country page , and then ‘Our representatives’.
For visa advice, you can email advice@kent.ac.uk
For information about our English language requirements, please visit our English language requirements page.
We currently have some Postgraduate taught programmes with January start dates.
Please check our January start webpages for more information.
We also offer an International Foundation Programme with a January/February start.
Please visit the website for further information.
We offer a wide range of international scholarships .
Please refer to our main scholarships pages or your Scholarships webpage within your KentVision portal, to see if there are any other scholarships you may be eligible for.
For most of our scholarships, you will need to
submit an application for a programme at Kent and receive an offer before you
are able to apply.
The Scholarships are available to apply for via your applicant portal.
Once you have logged into the applicant portal, click on 'My
fees and finance', then 'My scholarships and bursaries'.
You will then see an
'Apply for funding' button.
This will bring up a list of the scholarships that
you may be eligible to apply for.
1) The first step would be to see if there is a suitable
supervisor you would like to work with at Kent.
To find a supervisor, you can
use the following tool: https://www.kent.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/research-phd/find-a-supervisor
2) Prepare a summary statement about what
you wish to achieve in your PhD; showing that you have thought through the topic you would like to focus on.
Once you have done this, you should then
approach the supervisor to find out if they would be interested and available
to support you.
If the supervisor is available and interested in
your proposal, you will then be invited to submit an online application, including all your transcripts to date, two academic
references and a personal statement.
3) For further guidance on writing a
successful research proposal, please visit our blogs webpage .
4) You will also need to fulfil our English
language requirements .
For further information for students from
your country, please visit our country
webpages.
Sorry you are having difficulty with our applicant portal.
Please make sure you are using the login details from the email you received at the time of application.
We suggest you try and change the password to see if this solves your issues, by pressing the 'forgotten password' button, and filling in the necessary details.
If you are still having issues, please email our IT Helpdesk Team with a screenshot to show the error message you are receiving.
If you forget your password, simply click on
‘Forgotten your username or password?’, and fill in your username (email address or applicant ID), surname, and date of birth, and then
click on ‘Go’.
A new temporary password will be sent to the email address associated with your account, which should allow you to log in.
You will then need to change this password once you have gained access to your account.
If
you have any problems with this, please take a screenshot of any error message
you receive, and email our IT helpdesk via helpdesk@kent.ac.uk
If you have been asked to complete a fee assessment, you can access the full details on page 2 of your offer letter, which can be downloaded as a PDF from your KentVision portal.
The fee questionnaire can be accessed and completed via Tuition Fee Questionnaire .
Once you have completed the fee questionnaire, please send the requested documents to admissionsosq@kent.ac.uk, so our fee assessment team can make a decision on your fee status:
Please see the guide to the conditions you should meet to be entitled to pay 'home' fees on a higher education course in England.
For our 2025 intake deadlines, please visit our International admissions deadline webpage for all the key dates.
Our team will begin issuing CASs to applicants who have
accepted an unconditional offer 6 months before the start date of the programme if they
are applying outside the UK, and 3 months if they are applying within the UK,
i.e.
have completed a Bachelor in the UK and are now applying for a Master in
the UK.
Please ensure you look out for any information requests from the
CAS team, and respond promptly.
Information about requesting a fee payment to be shown on your CAS can be found on our website.
Please use the online form to notify the CAS Team that a fee payment has been made.
Please note that bank transfer payments can take around a week or more to arrive AND be allocated to your student account.
We are not allowed to list any payments on the CAS until we have the verification from the Income Office.
Therefore, please only pay by bank transfer if absolutely necessary, and allow plenty of time for this to go through.
Please also be aware the CAS can only show a maximum of £1483 of accommodation payments, and won't show the living costs of £10,224 or the £500 the University requires to cover fluctuations in currency.
If you are worried that you will be late arriving because you are waiting for your CAS or visa, please contact us via international@kent.ac.uk so we can discuss your options.
Some courses do allow you to arrive late, but permission must be granted by your School.
From November 2024 all immigration permissions are replaced by eVisas.
The decision email/letter you received from UKVI confirming your application has been successful will have instructions on how to create a UKVI account so you can view your eVisa and prove your immigration status to the University, employers and landlords.
More information here .
Information on what to provide during Arrivals can be found here .
Your latest date of arrival depends on the start date of your course.
Have a look at our International Applicant Deadlines for important information about deadlines to help you plan your arrival.
Yes, we will be running several sessions specifically for our international students.
Full details will be available on our welcome event pages .
It is essential that you enrol online as soon
as possible.
Look out for your 'How to enrol' email in your applicant
portal in-tray.
Registration
will take place remotely.
You don’t need to do anything further once you’ve
completed your enrolment, however please do check your emails in case our teams
need any further information from you.
We’ll let you
know by email when your registration is complete and you are officially
registered as a University of Kent student.
We’ll also let you know how
you will receive your KentOne student ID card.
For more
information about this, please visit our ‘ how to enrol ’ page
Our National Health Service (NHS) provides a
range of services for both UK and international students and
these are available for you to use if you need them.
The
University provides a range of welfare services including counselling, mental health and
wellbeing support .
The College Life Team is your first port of
call; they can provide lots of information about the support and advice you can access at Kent.
You
can also email the Dean for Internationalisation’s Office .
At Kent, we have an International Hardship Fund which can provide financial support to current international students experiencing emergency situations.
Please contact us if you would like further information on this .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/international/international-scholarships:
If you are starting at Kent in September 2025, you could qualify for our new Kent Future Student Scholarships:
Kent Future Student Pakistan Scholarships - Postgraduate Taught
Kent Future Students Africa Scholarships - Postgraduate Taught
Kent Future Students Global Scholarships - Postgraduate Taught
Kent Future Students India Scholarships - Postgraduate Taught
Postgraduate study is a significant investment in your future that enables you to expand your knowledge, skills and career options.
We have a range of packages to ensure you have the necessary financial support during your studies.
Check out our featured scholarships below:

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/international-college:
University of Kent International College (UK IC) is an
embedded on-campus college designed for international students to start with
their studies at University of Kent.
The International College is in a
dedicated building on the Canterbury campus, in the heart of student life and
close to the on site student accommodation village.
At University of Kent International College, students are given the support and encouragement to build a firm foundation for future success in a diverse range of degree programmes.
Students can choose to study from two undergraduate pathways: International Foundation Programme or International Year Zero.
We also offer a postgraduate International Incorporated Master's.
Oxford International (OIEG) operates UK IC in partnership with University of Kent.
OIEG was founded in 1991 and is an accredited private education provider that operates international colleges, independent boarding schools, and English language centres across the UK and North America to create life-enhancing experiences for students worldwide.
Bridge the gap between your current knowledge and qualifications to undergraduate study.
Year one of an integrated 4-year course, covering English Language skills and subject modules.
Study over one or two terms, depending on your qualifications, and progress to your chosen Master’s.
When you start a pathway with UK IC you'll be a full member of University of Kent’s diverse student community from day one, with access to all the study, social, sports and support facilities the University offers.
With accommodation in the student village on the Canterbury campus, the same location as our International College, you are in the heart of student life.
You can also access the Medway campus easily with a free shuttle bus.
Find out more about the Canterbury campus .
Our accommodation comes with a key to a safe and affordable
place to live and a door to a community of new people.
You may think there’s no
place like home, but there is here.
At OIEG we aim to get back to all applications and enquiries within two working days.
If you require any assistance, or have any questions, please get in touch.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/applicants/offer-holder-days:
Our 2025 Offer Holder Days have now finished but if you haven’t had a chance to visit, we’d love to meet you at an Open Day or on a Campus Tour.
If you have an offer from Kent - firstly, congratulations!
This time can be nerve-wracking, but also incredibly exciting.
We are sure you'll fit right in and do great things here, but we want to make sure you feel the same way about us!
Offer Holder Days are your chance to experience life at Kent.
You'll take part in a tailored event based around your subject, have the opportunity to explore what we have to offer, ask any questions and picture your future here.
By the time the event ends, you'll be as sure on us as we are on you, so you'll know you're making the right decision when making us your firm choice.
Our in-person 2025 Offer Holder Days have now finished but if you haven’t had a chance to visit, we’d love to meet you at an Open Day .
Upcoming Open Days

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/visit/postgraduate-events:
Booking will be available soon for our autumn open events.
You'll get a real feeling for what it's like to be a postgraduate student at Kent.
Discover how our world-leading research, flexible study options and dynamic community can help you achieve your ambitions.
Our team of experts and academics will answer all your queries about funding, accommodation, finding a supervisor and more.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/events:
All our current events are shown below and you can also filter by specific types of events.
Just type a keyword into the box to find Open Days, Applicant Events, Taster Event, Webinars and more.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/maps:
Come and see for yourself
Find buildings and rooms, get directions and check room or PC availability.
Explore our Study Hubs and Campus Lounge social spaces.
Search by campus, building or room.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/transport/how-to-get-here:
For Students, Staff and Visitors
This page provides directions and useful information on how to get to campus for Arrivals Weekend for both Canterbury and Medway campuses.
This page provides directions and useful information on how to get to our Applicant Days, Campus Tours and Open Events for Canterbury campus.
This page provides directions and useful information on how to get to our Applicant Days, Campus Tours and Open Events for Medway campus.
How to get to our theatre and cinema.
How to get to Kent Sports
How to get to Colyer Fergusson
For guests staying on campus
This page provides useful maps to help you get to, from and around our campuses.
If you're planning on joining us for study, work or visiting the University and you have the time; try and see a bit of the local area while you're here, to get a feel for where you could be living or working.
Both Canterbury and Medway offer rich history with a variety of local restaurants and great nightlife.
If you are planning to stay over in Canterbury maybe visit our own Gulbenkian theatre or if feeling active, try out ‘Pay to Play’ at our Kent Sport facilities.
If you are coming from further afield and thinking of staying overnight there are plenty of options to stay in the area or within the University B&B rooms.
The University actively promotes its Travel Plan that aims to reduce single car occupancy and encourage sustainable travel to and from Canterbury City and Medway Towns; supporting improved air quality, low-carbon emissions and active travel.
Canterbury & Medway campuses have excellent transport links and where reasonably possible we encourage everyone to commute smarter .
Be prepared for anything, especially with the train strikes

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/welcome:
Early enrolment
Enrol online by 1 September 2025 to access a range of additional benefits.
We hope you're looking forward to starting at Kent.
To help you get started and turn any nerves you may have into excitement, here is everything you need to take your next step with confidence.
We hope you're getting excited about joining us at Kent!
We certainly are, and we're planning all sorts of activities and events to get you settled into life at Kent.
If you are joining Kent in September, make sure you have our Student App!
The app gives you quick access to key services like your timetable and email, as well as news, events and support.
Follow us on socials and stay up to date with everything happening at Kent.
Great learning takes commitment - from all of us.
At Kent, we believe the best experience comes from a shared effort.
While we’re committed to providing the teaching, support and resources you need, you also have a role to play in shaping your own success.
Together, we each have responsibilities - to each other, and to ourselves - to make the most of your time here.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/welcome/arrivals-guide:
Whether you're at Canterbury or Medway, here is everything you need to know to prepare for life at Kent.
All the documents you need to bring with you to ensure you have a smooth start to life at Kent.
Understanding and preparing for when your fees are due to be paid will help you budget for the year.
How to get to our Canterbury and Medway campuses from within the UK or overseas.
Key information for our international students, from airport transfer to enrolment.
We'll introduce you to the Library and IT services and facilities available to you, and support you every step of the way.
How to look after your physical and mental health, and how to find support if you need it.
Stepping up to university is a big step, it is exciting, but can feel daunting.
We're here to help you start your university life and turn nerves into excitement.
A great university experience needs everyone taking part.
We all have responsibilities to ensure the learning experience is the best it can be.
Now that you've arrived, it's time to celebrate.
We have a jam-packed programme of events to help you settle in and make new friends.
Explore campus, get to know people and have some fun!
You're not alone.
Check out our new student FAQs where you'll also find a list of key services and resources.
If there is anything else on your mind, just get in touch and we'll be happy to help.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/welcome/checklist:
Before you arrive and during your first few weeks at Kent, there are a few important things you’ll need to do.
We’ve outlined the key steps below to help you get started - read them carefully and tick them off as you go.
Organise your finances
👉 Learn more: kent.ac.uk/accommodation
For students joining from outside the UK
👉 Full pre-arrival info: kent.ac.uk/international
Make sure you have both physical and digital copies of:
Also, for International Students

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/welcome/library-it:
Get connected before you arrive on campus
Once you've enrolled, activate your Kent IT account as soon as possible
Run our set up tool and be Wi-Fi ready before arriving on campus
Required for access to key IT services and to protect your data.
Once on campus, you can set up Wi-Fi and wired internet in you accommodation.
We've got lots of online support and ways for you to get in touch with us in person too!
Equal access to everything you need.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/accommodation:
No deposit, no stress – student living made simple for September 2025
If you're applying to Kent through Clearing, you'll be guaranteed a room on campus or at Pier Quays in Medway.
Let us walk you through the process of applying for accommodation through Clearing.
Find out what’s on offer, how to apply, and what happens next.
From day one at Kent you'll become part of our welcoming, dynamic and diverse student community.
Our student accommodation options are not only great places to live, they put the community on your doorstep.
There's always something going on and someone to talk to.
We don't need to tell you that your university experience will be one of the most exciting times of your life.
It'll be full of firsts and new experiences, and we're here to ensure you can make the most of your time on campus and enjoy every minute you spend living in our accommodation.
If you're applying to Kent through Clearing, you'll be guaranteed a room on campus or Pier Quays in Medway.
If having your own space is important to you, en-suite is a great option.
You'll share a kitchen or kitchenette with your flatmates where you can socialise and make friends, but have your own en-suite with a shower.
So you don't have to worry about your skincare routine taking too long!
The classic university experience.
You'll have your own bedroom, but share a bathroom and kitchen with your flatmates.
This is often one of the cheapest options, while sharing spaces means you meet people and make bonds from day one.
You save money on accommodation which you can use to get out and enjoy university life.
This option includes £14 per day (2025/26), seven days a week to spend on food.
You'll be able to eat at any of our campus restaurants.
This is great if you don't want to have to worry about cooking (or don't trust your own cooking), while also helping you to budget and minimise the impact of any cost of living rises.
All utility bills, Wi-Fi, and a Kent Sport Premium membership are included, meaning there are no extra bills to pay.
No deposit is needed.
You can walk everywhere on our campuses from whichever room you choose – super easy for those 9am lectures...
All students living in campus accommodation receive free sport and fitness membership for their first year at either Canterbury or Medway.
Whether it’s cooking up a feast or watching a film, you could find some of your best friends and experience some of your best moments in your uni accommodation.
Here to help you settle into your new home on campus, find your feet and make friends.
There'll be lots of opportunities to get involved, meet others, and have fun throughout the year.
Thinking about your accommodation options?
Watch our recorded webinar from June, where our friendly team walks you through everything you need to know about university-owned housing at Canterbury and Medway.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/welcome/international-students:
Enrolment is the start of your university journey, so you'll want to do it as soon as possible.
Look out for your How to enrol email in your applicant portal in-tray to find out when you can enrol.
We'll send you a confirmation email after you complete your enrolment.
You will need to provide a sharecode at enrolment and the Student Immigration Compliance team will register you once all documents are in order.
It’s important to remember that you must provide evidence of entry to the UK (if you are applying for your visa from overseas) and a UK address to complete Right to Study checks.
You should check your Student visa decision letter for information on how to create a UKVI account and where you can view your immigration status online.
If you have already done this, please bring your sharecode with you to registration.
More information can be found on gov.uk .
Once you have completed enrolment, we will check your immigration status to assess the Right to Study, as per UK Visas and Immigrations obligations.
For information on what to upload in enrolment, please visit Student Immigration Compliance Team arrival guide.
Is your parent/family member paying your fees?
Will they need to discuss your finances with the Income office?
If so, please complete the third-party consent form during the Finance registration to give the Income Office team permission to communicate with them.
Regardless of who is paying your fees, ultimately it is your responsibility as a student to ensure payments are made on time.
Most international students will need to apply for a visa to study in the UK.
If your course is for 6 months or less, you will need to apply for a visitor visa.
If your course is for longer than 6 months you must apply for a Student Route visa.
Read our guide to applying for a visa .
You can also find information and guidance on how to apply for your visa on the Kent Students' Union Advice Centre website.
To apply, you must have received a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) number from our Recruitment and Admissions Office.
Before the University can issue a CAS, we must carry out some checks.
These checks include, but are not limited to, ensuring that students have not exceeded the maximum study time allowed to be in the UK as a student, ensuring that students can meet the costs of tuition fees, maintenance and accommodation.
We will ask for supporting documents to evidence the checks that we are required to make.
All students who are subject to immigration control and who are intending to study certain subjects are required to apply for an ATAS certificate before applying for a visa.
You should apply for your ATAS certificate as early as possible from when you have received a conditional offer to study at a UK Higher Education Institution (HEI).
Make sure your ATAS certificate will not expire before you apply for your UK visa.
Read more about the ATAS certificate.
You can find out if your course is on the ATAS list by checking its CAH3 code with Admissions and visiting the ATAS pages at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office website .
If you are applying for a student visa for six months or longer, you are required to pay the immigration health surcharge as part of your visa application fee.
This will allow you full access to the National Health Service (NHS) in the UK.
If you're studying at Canterbury you can register as a patient at the Medical Centre.
If you're studying at Medway, you should register with a local doctor near to your accommodation in order to receive treatment under the National Health Service.
More on Health Services at the University
Pay for UK healthcare as part of your immigration application
In order to avoid delays to your visa being granted, it is essential that you prepare well in advance and that you submit the correct documents.
More information can be found on the following websites:
To complete your visa application, you may need an appointment to provide your biometric details (photograph and fingerprints) at your visa application centre and pay the IHS.
It is important that you do not delay in completing all the Student visa application steps as any delay could result in your visa being issued late and you not being able to register onto your course on time.
Read our information on how to get to our Canterbury and Medway campuses.
Read the Guide to faster travel through the UK border to be more prepared about what you may need to present at Border Control.
Make sure the following documents are packed in your hand luggage:
See our Student Immigration website for more information.
If you're living in accommodation on the Canterbury campus you will need to show a copy of your Arrivals Pass to collect your key from your college reception on arrival.
You can show a paper or digital copy but we recommend that if you are using a digital copy that you have downloaded this onto your phone before arriving.
If you will be arriving outside of reception opening hours you can still collect your keys from there, but will need to use the call-point near reception to contact Campus Security so they know you have arrived and can come to help you.
If you are on a course lasting six months or less you can be seen as a temporary patient at the Medical Centre (Canterbury campus) and the Sunlight Centre (Medway campus), but you will be unable to register.
You may not be entitled to further National Health Service (NHS) treatment  (for example onward referral to hospital services, if required), so you should arrange private medical insurance.
Arrivals Guide: Health and Wellbeing
There are branches of the main national banks (Barclays, Halifax, Lloyds, NatWest and Santander) in Canterbury city centre (for the Canterbury campus) Chatham and Gillingham (for the Medway campus).
There are also a range of UK digital banks such as Monzo.
How to open a UK bank account
If you are bringing children with you, you may need to arrange appropriate schooling and childcare.
Students with families
It's a small thing, but an essential one!
We're planning some exciting virtual and in-person events to help you get familiar with the University and settle in.
You can access all of our events on our Welcome webpages .
Here’s everything you need to know about getting here, registration and moving into your accommodation.
Our Canterbury and Medway Arrival Guides also include visa information for students arriving in the UK.
We have excellent support services at the University to help you academically and personally:
You may find it useful to open a UK bank account as it can be easier to manage your finances and it could save you money.
Our campuses offer great environments for families, with a wide range of child-friendly facilities and a perfect mix of city, coast and countryside.
For September arrivals, join our on campus 1-week course to help you settle in before term starts, with practical tips, organised visits, and Cultural Intelligence (CQ) training.
The British Council have developed a free online course to help you prepare for studying in the UK.
Get involved in Kent Union’s International Network to meet other international students and take part activities and campaigns.
Find out lots of information about the UK and its culture, as well as the best places to visit.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/welcome/new-students/new-student-faqs:
Take a look at our Arrivals Guide It has lots of useful information for arriving at the Canterbury and Medway campuses.
UK/Irish passport holders UK passport
All other passport holders
We will require one of the following (but not limited to) documents:
Please go to the Documents page for a full list and more information.
If you're travelling to the University from within the UK, take a look at our Accommodation Arrivals Guide This will give you all the information you need about when to arrive and what to do when you get here.
Accommodation Arrivals Guide:
All details are on our Arrange your travel to Kent page.
Canterbury students can collect their KentOne
student ID card from the Arrivals Hub .
It is open
10.00-17.00 on Saturday 27 September and 10.00-16.00 on Sunday 28 September,
plus 9.30-16.30 during weekdays.
Please allow 48 hours between enrolling and
collecting your ID card.
Medway students can collect their KentOne student ID card from the Student Record Administration Office (Medway building).
KMMS students will be given their student ID card in Welcome
Week.
Once you’ve activated your Kent IT
Account you should set Kent Wi-Fi on your laptop, phone and tablet – do
this before you arrive on campus, so you’re all set!
Get Wi-Fi ready
Check which technology to bring : advice on compatible laptops, tablets, printers, games consoles, speakers, TVs etc.
You can also download free software .
Bring a network cable if you’re coming to live
on the Canterbury campus.
The wired internet in your room will be more reliable
than Wi-Fi.
Also you’ll need the cable to get your games console online (games consoles
aren’t compatible with our secure Wi-Fi network).
Read our guide to opening a UK bank account .
If you are unable to bring all your personal items when you arrive, make sure your belongings arrive after you have checked into your accommodation as there is no space for storing luggage at the University.
If 
you’re travelling from afar, or are tight on packing space and need to 
buy bedding and kitchen equipment, a good option can be to order from UniKitOut who will deliver any essentials you order through them directly into your room ready for your arrival.
Storage firms and removal companies can store luggage 
during vacations and, for international students, they will also often 
send your belongings from your home country to Kent, if you choose to 
send them in advance.
We have plenty of secure bike shelters and other facilities for cyclists and there are some great cycling routes around the local areas.
Please use the bike shelters provided as you're not allowed to keep your bike in your room or stored in corridors..
Your car
Your own Wi-Fi router, as you won’t be able to
use this in campus accommodation.
You won’t need it to access the free campus
Wi-Fi.
Large items, or too much stuff!
Food and plant produce from outside the EU
Fridges (unless required for medical purposes)
Are you living in Becket Court, Eliot College or Keynes College?
You'll  have a kitchenette supplied with a microwave and a kettle, so don't 
bring saucepans or lots of kitchen equipment; just cutlery and small 
basic items.
More details : Read our 'Living in campus accommodation - what not to bring' leaflet (pdf)
Bedrooms include:
Read more about what's included in your room (pdf)
All self-catered kitchens include:
Types of ovens
Electric hobs and ovens
Gas hobs and ovens
Induction ovens
Gas hobs and electric ovens (Park Wood)
Read more about what's included in your accommodation (pdf)
Yes, if you’re living on the Canterbury 
campus and arriving in September, you can order a range of items including bedding and kitchen 
essentials from UniKitOut to be delivered direct to campus ready for 
when you arrive.
You can also enjoy a 10% discount on your order with the code KENT10 More about UniKitOut , including how to order and order deadlines.
All kitchens include:
Both the Canterbury and Medway campuses have a great range of food and drink options to suit all tastes and budgets.
Find out more about the Flex Meal Plan
Canterbury food outlets Medway food outlets
Take a look at the accommodation FAQ page .
If your question isn't answered there, you can contact us directly .
If you have a question, please get in touch:

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/welcome/whats-on:
There is so much to get involved with from the second you join us here at Kent.
Take a look at the schedule to make sure you don't miss any of the action.
We are the Students’ Union for University of Kent students, we help facilitate 250+ Student Groups , a free on-campus Advice Service , employment opportunities through Jobshop , and run The Venue , Woody’s , Campus Coffee , Co-op and Kent Clothing .
A great way to get acquainted with your new home is to come along to our Welcome Fair and other events taking place during Welcome Week.
Here are just a few highlights to help you find your feet.
You can also see our full calendar of events below.
Come along to the Welcome Fair for your chance to discover sports clubs, societies or volunteering opportunities!
Follow KSU on Instagram to make sure you are up to date with everything happening on welcome week!
KPASS is Kent's official freshers wristband and the ultimate annual events pass for Kent students.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/research:
Our research changes lives.
It protects the environment, influences policy, solves problems for businesses and supports the most vulnerable.
As part of our brilliant research community, your work can have ground-breaking impact.
Explore our five principal areas of research strength:
Our unique portfolio of research and innovation projects are delivering significant cultural, social and economic benefits to communities regionally, nationally and internationally.
This is reflected across our Institutes , Research Centres , and dedicated Graduate and Researcher College .
It's what fires student imaginations, informs our teaching and creates opportunities for our community to develop the skills, experience and connections they need to achieve their ambitions.
Reach your potential as a member of our Graduate and Researcher College.
Innovate and grow in partnership with our academic experts.
Access advice to help you navigate the research lifecycle and maximise your impact.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/research/research_centres:
more of our research.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/research/engagement-and-impact:
Knowledge exchange with industry, policymakers and communities is at the heart of our research activity.
It's sparking debate, driving innovation and creating opportunities for our research to deliver significant cultural, social and economic benefits to communities regionally, nationally and internationally.
In the Research Excellence Framework 2021, Kent was confirmed as a leading research university, with the majority of our REF submissions rated as world-leading or internationally excellent.
We also rose by 11 places to 38 in the Times Higher Education’s ranking for overall quality in the REF.
Our Impact Acceleration Accounts are transforming early discovery research into solutions.
A platform for addressing regional and global needs with other universities in the South East.
We are part of Growing Kent and Medway.
an innovation cluster focusing on climate-smart, sustainable food and drink production.
Our Centre for Advanced Diagnostics Development and Application is driving innovation in human and animal diagnostics in the UK.
In line with our Research and Innovation Strategy , we value and reward people for their contributions, ensuring that we are a sector leader for the quality of our research and innovation culture and environment.
Research excellence refers to the quality and impact of academic research.
This is monitored through the Research Excellence Framework (REF), a system used in the UK to assess the quality of research at higher education institutions with the aim of securing the continuation of a world-class, dynamic and responsive research base across the full academic spectrum within UK higher education.
Read more.
Knowledge Exchange is the two-way exchange of ideas, evidence, research, experiences and skills between researchers, students and research users.
These activities are assessed through the Knowledge Exchange Framework  set up to increase the efficiency and effectiveness in the use of public funding for knowledge exchange and to further a culture of continuous improvement in universities.
We have also signed the Knowledge Exchange Concordat which aims to give universities and their staff and students clarity of mission and to support their approach to KE.
The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, commonly known as the Researcher Development Concordat , is an agreement between stakeholders including Kent to improve the employment and support for researchers in UK Higher Education.
As signatories of this concordat, we recognise the need to change how we conduct research and innovation as well as promote wider solutions and have agreed to take shared action now and in the future to reduce and eliminate our own negative environmental impacts and emissions and achieve the transition to sustainable practices.
Read the letter from our Vice Chancellor.
Our researchers are delivering inspirational, enriching STEM workshops for communities at Discovery Planet on Ramsgate High Street.
We host public lectures open to the community throughout the year at both our Canterbury and Medway campuses.
We take part in this annual worldwide science festival which brings researchers to your local pub/cafe/space to share their scientific discoveries.
Our Institute of Cyber Security for Society regularly engages with schools and wider society to further public understanding of cyber security.
Curious about wildlife conservation and the natural world?
Our esteemed Durrell Institute of Conservation and Ecology hosts free monthly talks offering an insight into their research.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/research-excellence-framework:
Kent confirmed as a leading research university, with the majority of our REF submissions rated as world-leading or internationally excellent.
The University also rises by 11 places to 38 in the Times Higher Education’s ranking for overall quality in the REF.
Our results demonstrate that Kent continues to produce research that not only informs and underpins our teaching at all levels but also makes a very clear and significant difference to lives and livelihoods regionally, nationally and internationally.
8 subjects ranked by the THE in the top 10 for research quality: Architecture; Classics; History (1st in UK); Law; Philosophy; Social Work & Social Policy (3rd in UK); Theology; Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies.
Anthropology, Biological Sciences, Computer Science, Economics & Econometrics, English Language & Literature, Modern Languages & Linguistics, Geography & Environmental Studies ranked in top 25.
Kent’s reputation for world-leading research across the arts and humanities, sciences, and social sciences confirmed.
Shane talks about Kent's 2021 REF results and what they mean for the University.
Our research spans the arts and humanities, sciences, and social sciences.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/research-innovation-services:
The dynamic research office at the heart of Kent's research and knowledge exchange activities.
We assist and facilitate academic and industrial research & innovation collaborations, provide support on research and innovation funding opportunities, prepare funding bids and negotiate research and innovation contracts.
We also increase the impact of our research through collaboration, knowledge exchange activities and commercialisation of Intellectual Property.
If you are a business, charity or public sector organisation, find out more about how we can work with you.
Read more
We promote a supportive research culture that enables research activities to be carried out with integrity.
We support a collaborative, global, impactful, innovative and interdisciplinary approach to research and innovation which is changing the world.
The latest updates and opportunities to attend workshops, conferences and more.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/business-and-partnerships:
Our Cross University Business Engagement group are here to help you, so tell us what you need and we'll support you as far as we can.
More news and events
for our business newsletter.
us on LinkedIn.
Kent's business news.
a business event.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/durrell-institute-conservation-ecology:
Find out more about the courses we offer
More about the Durrell Institute of Conservation and Ecology
Our staff and research students
Everything DICE and how you can get involved
Learn more about our current projects
Our teaching and research is designed to break down the barriers between the natural and social sciences and produce real-world impact.
Our mission is to conserve biodiversity and the ecological processes that support ecosystems and people, by developing capacity and improving conservation management and policy through high-impact research.
In 2024, we received £8.3 million for research on enhancing the role of conservation areas.
In the most recent UK assessment, our work was ranked first in Geography and Environmental Studies
We received £2.2 million in 2024 for PhD studentships, to train a new generation of conservationists.
In 2019, we were awarded the Queen's Anniversary Prize for "pioneering education and research".

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/institute-cultural-creative-industries:
Institute of Cultural and Creative Industries
New to iCCi?
Take a look at the work we do
Discover more about our new digital production facility for Medway.
Take a look through the range of projects we run.
Find out what's on at Gulbenkian Arts Centre and beyond.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/research/institute-of-health-social-care-and-wellbeing:
Established in 2022, the Institute of Health, Social Care and Wellbeing (iHSCW) aims to serve as a major regional catalyst for the highest-quality research, knowledge exchange and education in the fields of health, social care and wellbeing.
It builds on existing strengths across the University’s academic divisions, including the Centre for Health Services Studies (CHSS), the Personal Social Services Research Unit (PSSRU), the Tizard Centre, the Centre for Health and Medical Humanities, and the developing research base in the Kent and Medway Medical School (KMMS).
Working in close partnership with a range of external stakeholders, the Institute is committed to making a significant contribution to addressing health, social care and wellbeing challenges in the Kent and Medway region and beyond.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/fees-and-funding:
Find out more about our scholarships for home and international students.
We are pleased to be able to offer a number of scholarships for our international students.
Financial help with your course fees and living costs while you study for a Master's degree.
The award covers tuition fees, return airfares and living costs for a one-year taught Master's programme.
In addition to the funding above, Kent also offers:
The 2025/26 annual tuition fees for UK postgraduate research courses have not yet been set by the UK Research and Innovation (UKRI).
This is ordinarily announced in February.
As a guide only for the full-time tuition fee for new and returning UK postgraduate research courses for 2024/25 is £4,786.
The equivalent part-time fee for these courses is £2,393.
Our tuition fees ensure the continued provision of high-quality teaching and first-class facilities for our students.
To find out your tuition fees, follow the steps below:

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/employers:
Connect your business with great graduates today.
Our careers and employability team can help you to add a Kent graduate to your team.
Benefit from our students' enthusiasm, energy, hard work and new ways of thinking.
A great opportunity to engage with the best students and graduates from the south east.
Our award-winning careers and employability team work with our students to develop skills beyond their degree focusing on what matters to businesses.
Here's what they'll bring to your business.
They appreciate their own abilities and demonstrate excellent interpersonal and social skills.
They bring fresh ideas and the ability to look at things from a different perspective.
They welcome exposure to multicultural and international experiences.
They demonstrate honesty and professional judgement in responsible ways.
They reflect on their own performance and set challenging personal goals for the future.
They question accepted wisdom and are open to exploring new ideas.
They have the adaptability and perseverance to succeed in new situations.
They use their knowledge and ambition to create new opportunities.
We help our students find the right placement for them.
Advice, networking, placements and consultancy projects to support your organisation.
Students can develop their entrepreneurial skills and prepare to start their own venture.
At Kent we believe in nurturing Innovation.
We apply fresh approaches to support business growth.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/engagement:
Discover how together we can drive positive change in Kent
Our civic mission lies at the heart of who we are as a university and why we are here: to serve our communities.
We are proud of our place within our communities and recognise our key role in making a significant contribution to the health and wellbeing, sustainability, and prosperity and success of the region.
Working with our regional partners and communities we will co-create our approach to civic engagement and use our distinctive strengths to make a positive difference across Kent and ensure we support the needs and priorities of our region.
Using every part of the University we will open our Canterbury and Medway campuses to extend access to our facilities, talents and resources.
We will take our work beyond our boundaries, to the region’s businesses and high streets, schools and colleges, theatres and festivals, coastal and rural communities, and beyond.
From a range of public events to our Law and Sports clinics, we're here for the local community
We work with local businesses, industry and charities, sharing our expertise and cutting-edge facilities.
We work with local schools, delivering workshops, giving advice and expertise and sharing our fantastic facilities
Discover how to boost your workforce with skilled students and graduates, and help shape our curriculum to match industry needs.
We want to continue to work with our regional partners and communities to co-create our approach to civic engagement.
As a university we have distinct and unique strengths – our academic and research excellence; fantastic facilities – from classroom space and theatres to sports facilities and kitchens - and our staff and students who can offer their time, skills and enthusiasm through volunteering hours.
While we are using these in a number of ways, we want to check in with our community and make sure these are used to make a positive difference and support the needs and priorities of our region.
If you have any questions or thoughts about our wider civic mission, please get in touch.
From volunteering in the community to sharing our expertise and facilities with local businesses.
Our staff are encouraged to use their volunteering hours to help in the local community, giving their expertise and time to support the region.
Staff volunteering at Elham Valley
Using expertise to tackle business challenges, local company HR Go worked with Kent to bring AI to their way of working
Due to open in Summer 2026, Docking Station will harness the transformative power of creative technology to open up new possibilities and futures for young people and the communities of Kent and Medway.
We are proud to work with Discovery Planet to bring cutting-edge research to the high street in Ramsgate through free exciting, engaging and educational workshops.
Discovery Planet X Kent
A multi-use space for students, staff and the local community, run in partnership with East Kent Mind
Kent COG
From our ART31 project to our annual bOing!
International Family Festival, the Gulbenkian celebrates work by, with, and for children and young people.
Opportunities for young people
Our honorary sports memberships help realise the ambitions of local sports stars - like tennis player Reuben who recently won the French Open.
Watch Reuben's story
Together we can help change lives - starting with supporting our local community.
Our fundraising teams work across a number of projects designed to give back to our region, communities and young people - from helping asylum seekers into higher education to creating a digital hub in the heart of Medway to support learning, community work and business growth.
Find out how you can support these projects through our giving programme and help change lives.
We will ensure that our people – students, staff, alumni – are the heartbeat of our civic mission, and think about how we can work for and support the region in all we do.
Our two flagships initiatives are designed to champion the University's commitment to civic engagement across our region.
As the world's first Right to Food University, we're making it our mission to tackle food insecurity
We're working to be a safe place for refugees, asylum seekers, and others who are forced to migrate
We have a range of services and facilities that are open to the wider community - come and discover more on our fantastic campuses in Canterbury and Medway.
From holiday camps and family days to a public sports clinic, discover sports at Kent.
A partnership between students, academics, solicitors and barristers who  provide free legal advice.
Discover the UK’s first for non-drug therapy for Parkinson’s disease on our Canterbury campus.
Our Arts Centre offers innovative, engaging and high quality activity for the wider community.
Special collections and archives have been finding new ways to engage the public with our historic pantomine materials.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/conferences-and-events:
The University of Kent campus is set in over 300 acres of beautiful parkland overlooking the historic city of Canterbury.
Our fantastic location with extensive range of event venues and on-site accommodation makes us the perfect choice for an event.
Choose Kent as the perfect location for your special event, conference or celebration!
We offer a bespoke event management service which can help support you and ensure your event runs smoothly.
We can offer delivered catering for your events and we also have a wide range of catering outlets on site.
We have over 4,500 rooms on our Canterbury campus available on a B&B or self-catered accommodation.
We host both shared and private party nights throughout December.
With over 150 conference and event spaces to choose from, we are able to accommodate a wide range of events.
Conferences & Events Manager: With a wealth of experience from over 20 years of service at the University.
Sheena manages the office and handles large-scale conferences and events.
Senior Events Coordinator: Heading our Events Management Service, Caroline will guide you through your event, from proposals to budgets and delegate registration services.
Senior Events Coordinator: For your conference needs all year round, Jan is available to make your event a success from start to finish.
Groups Coordinator: UK, European and international groups are Rachel's speciality, with 15 years in the role, your groups are in safe hands.
Events Coordinator: Overseeing all international language schools and educational events, is Alison's field of expertise.
Event Services Coordinator: Liaising between our clients and our service providers, Katherine will ensure the smooth operation of your event.
Events Coordinator: Overseeing our day events in the Darwin Conference Suite and residential conferences during the summer, Lara is there to help your event run smoothly.
Sales Manager: Sandra manages all new enquiries, ensuring we can accommodate their event needs and organises showrounds for potential clients alongside internal events.
Events Administrator: Looking after our B&B bookings, internal catering enquiries and assisting the team with general event admin.
Emma is onboard to help with any queries.
Keep up to date with the latest news from the Conferences and Events team.
2024-2025
Get in touch with our team today and discuss find the perfect venue for your event or conference.
Subscribe to our quarterly newsletter and keep up to date with the latest in Conferences and Events at Kent.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/press:
Welcome
to our Press centre.
Here you will find information on how to contact our Press
team, read our press releases, and learn about some of key facts and
inspirational people that have helped make Kent the great University it
is.
For all press or media enquiries, please contact our Press team
If you work in the media
and would like to learn more about any aspect of Kent, including our
world-leading research, or speak with any of our academic experts, our team
will be happy to help.
Kent is known regionally, nationally and internationally for
our research strengths, with particular excellence and expertise in:
To contact our Press
Office for general enquiries please email pressoffice@kent.ac.uk
News & Press Manager Email: g.m.hughes@kent.ac.uk Tel: +
44 (0) 7713 087982
PR Campaigns Manager
Email: k.e.moss@kent.ac.uk Tel: + 44 (0) 7514 318356
Press Officer Email: o.miller@kent.ac.uk Tel:+ 44 (0) 7834 808437
Working Hours: Tue, Wed, Fri 0800-1700
We are immensely proud
of our alumni , many of whom remain keen ambassadors for Kent around the world.
Here are just some of our alumni that have gone on to achieve great things.
Journalist and author Gavin Esler is the sixth Chancellor at Kent.
He studied English and American Literature and was an awarded an honorary MA in 1995.
Singer and songwriter Ellie Goulding is an alumna of Kent who studied drama and theatre studies.
She received an honorary degree in 2019.
Comedian, actor and author Alan Davies was a student at Kent in the 1980s.
Watch our YouTube video as he sits down with our Chancellor Gavin Esler in our 'In Conversation series' back in 2019.
Susannah is an Olympic winning field-hockey player who studied Sports and Exercise Science at Medway and still regular trains on our campus.
Award-winning author Sir Kazuo Ishiguro studied English and Philosophy at Kent.
Double MOBO Award Winning Saxophonist YolanDa Brown studied European Management Science at Kent.
Since we opened in 1965,
we have had many outstanding and influential academics teach and research at the
University.
This includes Nobel Prize Winner for Literature Emeritus Professor Abdulrazak Gurnah.
Abdulrazak Gurnah was born in Zanzibar, Tanzania.
He is the author
of ten highly acclaimed novels including Paradise , which was s hortlisted for the 1994
Booker Prize.
Until his recent retirement, he was Professor of English
and Postcolonial Literatures at
the School of English.
Professor Gurnah was a member of the Man Booker
Prize judging panel in 2016.
He was awarded the Nobel Prize in
Literature for ‘ his uncompromising and compassionate penetration of the
effects of colonialism and the fate of the refugee in the gulf between cultures
and continents .’
Want to know things about our University?
Here's some key facts about Kent...

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/research-innovation-services/research-and-innovation-services-contacts:
Tell us what you're aiming to achieve and we'll help you get there.
Email businessrelationships@kent.ac.uk or an individual listed below to discuss industry partnerships, Knowledge Transfer Partnerships, intellectual property licensing, consultancy and research collaboration.
Visit our Ethics and Governance contact page to request expert ethics support and guidance or confidentially raise your concerns about research integrity.
Email ris@kent.ac.uk and we'll connect you to the individual or team that can meet your needs.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/about:
We're ambitious for our people, our communities and the region we serve - join us in making the world a better place.
We stand for ambition, with our diverse community of staff and students committed to making a difference at regional, national and global level.
It’s something we’re very proud of.
As part of the next phase of our Kent 2025 strategy, we continue to build on these three strategic pillars:
We will offer one of the best education
and student experiences in the UK
We will undertake research and innovation that is of the highest of standards
We will be a leading civic university
Our work is driven by our deep and abiding values, our pride in our past and the people and communities we serve.
Our students are at the heart of what we do - read more on everything they bring to Kent
We are committed to research that addresses regional, national and international challenges.
We act as a beacon for how creativity can question, astonish and transform.
Our Institutes play a major role in engagement with external partners and business.
Our education and research, and the talents of our staff and students, will support social, economic, cultural, intellectual and public life in ways that will make us one of the leading civic universities.
Our academic Schools have great freedom in how they work, enabling them to make decisions that best meet the needs of their students
At the forefront of technological innovation and computer science education.
Dedicated to advancing knowledge and innovation through advanced study and hands-on application.
A natural partnership of creative subjects spanning architecture, design, film, media and drama.
A community of psychologists who address complex challenges in mental health, human behavior.
A dynamic community, passionate about understanding the forces that shape our world.
Explore how society works and tackle the challenging issues around how to make it better.
Exploring the law as a tool for societal transformation.
Explore history, literature, creative writing and the study of ancient civilisations.
A focus on transformative education informed by impactful research.
Uniting biosciences, conservation, chemistry, forensic science, and sports and exercise science.
Our staff and students make a significant contribution within our local communities through volunteering, research and public service, while our international links enhance their experience through contact with different countries, cultures and experiences
We make a significant impact within our local communities through public service and engagement
Our research community goes above and beyond for regional/national/international priorities
Our strong impact is based on partnerships with leading universities in Europe and around the world
Our regional partnerships demonstrate our central role in our county – for example, Growing Kent and Medway supports the region’s economic development, Creative Estuary helps drive the delivery of arts and culture across the region, inspiring creativity and firing imaginations, Kent and Medway Medical School directly serves our NHS and the health of the region and Eastern Arc supports collaboration across research and innovation.
We work closely with Universities at Medway, a unique partnership that brings together the University of Greenwich, the University of Kent, Canterbury Christ Church.
We are proud to be a National Portfolio Organisation of Arts Council England through our Gulbenkian arts centre which has partnerships with a wide range of arts and culture organisations across the world.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/strategy/our-vision-and-values:
By 2025, we will be delivering one of the best education and student experiences amongst UK universities that enables and inspires our students.
We will be internationally known for a
transformative student experience and employability outcomes regardless of background.
Our discoveries and research will emphasise existing and new signature areas, where we
match the best in the world.
Our education and research, and the talents of our staff and students, will support social,
economic, cultural, intellectual and public life in ways that will make us one of the leading
civic universities.
We will remain distinctive among our peers in operating with a major stake in continental
Europe, with a strong European dimension in our academic activity.
We will be delivering education in a variety of ways; face-to-face, online and through
alternative routes, in particular, higher and degree apprenticeships.
We have core values around diversity, freedom of speech and the celebration of difference.
In taking this forward up to 2025, we will focus on the below five areas.
Our co-production with students and partners enriches our research and innovation adding to the economy and society.
Our education and student experience must reflect the increasing variety of courses and modes of delivery that our students need and want.
We are strengthening our partnerships at Kent – crossing divisional boundaries in the modules and research we offer.
Regionally, nationally and internationally, we are building relationships with organisations that strengthen society.
We will use digital technologies, in a research-informed way, to enhance our students’ learning and experience, to provide learning opportunities, to enhance our research activity and tackle global challenges, and to improve our infrastructure.
This has always been at our core as an institution, but we will be more proactive in ensuring that these values drive forward all our strategies, plans and policies.
Bringing together different people and ideas and opening minds to shape a better future.
We have established our six academic divisions to promote agility and allow for resilience.
We have
always been a university that
equally values education and
research, believing that one
enhances the other.
We work as a
community, based on collegiality.
Freedom of speech within the law
and freedom of inquiry are
fundamental.
We are outward looking; we embrace change and
are willing to do things differently
and see things differently.
We
value excellence and we support
potential, wherever it may be
found.
We have always been a university that equally values education and research, believing that one enhances the other.
We work as a community, based on collegiality.
Freedom of speech within the law and freedom of inquiry are fundamental.
We are outward looking, we embrace change and are willing to do things differently and see things differently.
We value excellence and we support potential, wherever it may be found.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/strategy:
We aim to be a community that inspires students from a wide range of backgrounds to find and shape their place in the world, and where academics are free to explore and deepen our understanding of it.
Our Kent 2025 Strategy outlines the projects and key strategic initiatives that will ensure we deliver this.
We've also recently published our Mid-Term Review , which builds on this with progress to date, some adjustments based on what we've learned so far,  and how the remaining objectives will be realised.
Read more on progress to date on the How We're Getting On page .
Our vision remains grounded in authenticity about our
campuses, location, history and who we want to be.
Find out what
five aspects we need to emphasise to take our vision forward.
Our Kent 2025 Mid-Term Review looks at progress to date, sets out some adjustments to the strategy, and describes how the remaining objectives are to be realised.
Find out our strategy delivery to date on our How We're Getting On page.
We are committed to create and support of a balanced, inclusive and diverse community.
Our strategy for Climate Action and SDGs helps  achieve our aims of climate, campus and curriculum.
We're committed to driving forward the development of a range of global partnership activity.
From September 2020, the first medical school in Kent began educating aspiring doctors to train to deliver 21st century medicine.
Over 20 years Kent has worked with partner universities, Medway Council and the Historic Dockyard to bring about significant change to the area.
An exciting new community of academics and students is inspiring and opening up access to the fast-growing creative industries.
Our university is based on equality, diversity, respect and we value each other.
We are international in outlook .
Our students will be at the heart of everything we do, with more ways to study and new study options including Science, Creative and Digital courses.
We will identify key areas which bring our research together, building on our strengths and articulating the cutting-edge nature of what we do.
We will take an active role in our community, working with others across Kent and Medway on programmes that put at us at the heart of public life.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/news:
The University has been ranked 49th out of 130 UK universities - a rise of three places.
We're a welcoming and supportive community where every student can realise their ambition.
Our staff, students and community are shaping a sustainable future for all.
We're committed to serving our communities and drive positive change in Kent.
We're proud to have six decades of progress and innovation behind us.
Explore our latest quarterly snapshot of research and innovation across the university.
Working in partnership with The Food Foundation, we're committed to becoming a Right To Food University.
Read more of our expert profiles.
'Female athletes generally report worse sleep than male counterparts.'
'My 5-year survey of UK social and political attitudes is the most ambitious of its kind.'
'Human-driven habitat loss and degradation are the single greatest cause of extinction.'
'My work centres on transforming assessment and feedback practices.'
'So much of what we do through the humanities is assessing what it is to be human.'
'We need to understand how, when, and why people trust artificial agents to make moral decisions.'
If you're looking for information on how to contact our press team and read our latest press releases then head over to our Press Centre page.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global:
International minds with global impact
An education at Kent involves study in an international community of students representing a wide range of nationalities from all over the world.
Kent's global opportunities and links allow our students to enhance their skills through contact with different countries, cultures and activities.
Kent has world-leading research in all subjects and was ranked highly the UK's most recent Research Excellence Framework.
At the heart of Kent's Internationalisation Strategy is an understanding of the importance of embedding and infusing globally-focused values, into the development and realisation of all aspects of Kent's education, research and student experience.
At Kent we believe that everyone at Kent can be #AllInternational and there is opportunity for everyone who would like to get involved with our range of internationally-focused academic, student experience, and engagement activity.
Explore the range of globally-focused opportunities that are available to Kent staff and students as well as a variety of exciting activities across the world involving our students, staff, alumni and international partners.
A series of events and academic activities showcasing current internationalisation activities around the world
Showcasing student-led cultural events or national celebrations
Global Hangouts are free events to network and engage with people from around the world!
The Kent Global Passport (KGP) is a free online app designed to assess your Cultural Intelligence (CQ).
An opportunity for undergraduates to develop leadership skills and become a student Global officer at Kent.
The Kent Global Newsletter is a collection of international news and activity from across the University of Kent.
The Newsletter is electronic and will be sent via MailChimp on a regular basis to your chosen email address.
If you have an international story which your feel would be relevant or interesting for circulation or discussion, then please get in touch.
If you have any queries, please email deaninternational@kent.ac.uk
Hear from one our Global Officers
Kent degrees are based on World Leading Research (Research Excellence Framework) and are taught by leading academics in their fields.
The university offers flexibility and choice throughout its programmes.
There are helpful pathway opportunities for international students, including English language and Foundation courses, to help you meet the requirements of your chosen degree.
See our international programmes website for more information.
Students who choose to study at Kent have the chance to study in some fantastic locations in the UK and the rest of Europe.
Kent also offers generous scholarships and funding for international students.
Our Global Learning team can help staff and students identify opportunities to internationalise teaching, learning and student experience.
Visit our 'About Us' page for further information

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/accessibility:
Accessible Information Team
The Accessible Information team are part of Student Support
and Wellbeing .
We are here to assist students with disabilities,
neurodivergence or Specific Learning Differences (SpLDs) to access learning in
ways that work for them through assistive technology and by providing
alternative formats of teaching materials.
We also provide guidance and
resources for staff and students creating accessible content and can support
departments to ensure they are compliant with accessibility regulations and
sector best practice.
Want to discuss your assistive technology or alternative
format needs?
Book a one-to-one with our team!
Find out more about using alternative formats and assistive technology to enhance your learning
Free software and tools you can use to improve your digital learning experience and accessibility
Creating and checking accessible materials and digital content for staff or students
The social model of disability and relevant legal requirements
Please contact us if you need any of these resources in an alternative format.
Set up and use accessible meeting options including Sign Language Interpreter mode, customised live captions, and screen reader and voice commands
Guidance on key things to remember when creating content including social media and marketing, documents and webpages.
General tips on creating and hosting accessible and sustainable events for all staff.
Guide from National Deaf Children's Society.
Tips on teaching BSL users.
This external guide gives tips on working with BSL interpreters effectively.
The
Accessibility Champions Network is comprised of staff from across the
University, regardless of function, department or campus.
It is like-minded
people coming together to share best practice, hear about related news and
events, and get advice and tips for embedding accessible principles in your
area of work.
You can get as involved as you like; come along to every event,
dip in when it’s something you fancy, or keep an eye on what we’re up to at a
distance – it’s up to you!
We meet on
Teams once a term and there’s no set agenda – just updates, sharing ideas and
showcasing accessible practices you can use in your work.
All are welcome and you don’t need to
stay for the whole thing if you don’t want to.
There’s also
a mailing list and a Teams team so that staff can all share guidance, post
questions and generally chat about all things accessibility!
Contact us to get access to these.
Please do
share this information with friends and colleagues that may be interested.
If you are the business owner of a digital platform or app used at Kent, you may need an Accessibility Statement, to help users use it in a way that works for them.
Sometimes you can use the third party provider's statement, but you will need to write an additional one if you have changed the content or functionality.
Accessibility statements need to be refreshed annually, or after any significant updates.
See which Accessibility Statements we already hold on our A-Z webpage or get in touch if you think you might need to create/refresh one for your digital service - we can help!
We have a number of resources to help you make your teaching more inclusive and accessible, and we can provide bespoke training or awareness sessions.
Get in touch to find out more.
We work closely with a local interpretation agency, Interpreting Matters .
If you'd like help or advice about booking a BSL interpreter for your event/activity please contact us .
Want to enhance your team's disability/accessibility awareness?
We can arrange bespoke internal or external training and/or consultancy to support your department.
Contact us to find out more.
In the UK, at least 1 in 5 people have a long term illness, impairment or disability
The social model of disability suggests that it is society or the environment that is disabling
Kent alumnus Professor Mike Oliver, the first Professor of Disability Studies in the UK, talks about his life and ground breaking work creating the social model of disability.
OPERA was a university-wide project to mainstream solutions for embedding accessibility, originally developed in partnership with the Joint Information Systems Committee (Jisc).
In 2018 OPERA won the Times Higher Education Award four Outstanding Support for Students.
Kent Digital Accessibility Policy Kent accessibility statements Accessibility support for staff (EDI team)
Kent County Council Local Directory B.S.L Community Kent Association for the Blind Mess Room: Inclusive arts company Hi (hearing impaired) Kent
Join our virtual community
on social media

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/creativekent:
Creativity is how we change the world.
Ask big questions, see things differently and spark your imagination with us.
Creative Kent celebrates your creative journey with us.
Whatever you study or wherever you teach, we want to act as a beacon for how creativity can question, astonish and transform - across our campuses and the wider communities in which we live and work.
We'll help new networks flourish and collaboration thrive, helping budding gamers, doctors entrepeneurs and writers access inspiration and make the future real.
How creativity is at the heart of shaping tomorrow's world together
From our labs to our world-class cultural centres, make new connections and experience the power of creativity at events and initiatives across Kent.
Witness the human stories of Austerity Britain in this arresting mixed reality installation.
The play is based on the lived experiences of older LGBT+ people in adult social care.
Join us for unique programme of lectures, workshops, seminars and one-to-one tutorials
Kent's Docking Station has received funding from The National Lottery Heritage Fund.
We are delighted to announce that double-MOBO winning musician and broadcaster YolanDa Brown OBE DL has been appointed to the role of Chancellor, succeeding Gavin Esler who has retired from the position after almost 10 years.
YolanDa’s connection with Kent goes beyond her studies, as she played for the University netball team, taught undergraduate business on the Medway campus and, since graduating, has played at Gulbenkian Arts Centre on numerous occasions.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/sustainability:
Our Sustainability Policy and Strategy which set out a clear vision to become a more sustainable university by 2030.
Find out more about our successes and our many awards for sustainability.
We're proud of the great recognition we receive.
Sustainability is part of working practices and professional development from day one.
You’ll have access to many opportunities to make a meaningful and rewarding impact.
You can make sustainability central to your student experience, taking action and learning about the issues by getting involved.
Our natural spaces are one of our greatest assets.
Find out more about our projects, actions and initiatives to support wildlife and habitats on our campuses.
KentCOG is a partnership project with East Kent Mind supporting wellbeing through food growing, biodiversity action, and nature based activities.
Open to the community, students and staff.
Working collaboratively across the region to help deliver a sustainable future.
Find out where you can find sustainable and affordable food across campus, and learn how we can manage our impacts on the environment with sustainable choices.
Find out more about waste on campus including how we are reducing our impact, maximising reuse opportunities, promoting recycling and adopting circular economy principles
We are committed to achieving net zero emissions across our built estate by 2040 and our wider activities by 2050.
Find out more about our plans and progress so far.
We operate our two main campuses at Canterbury and Medway in an environmentally sustainable manner, creating buildings, spaces and practices that are flexible, resilient and fit for the future.
Ensuring all students learn about sustainability and are equipped with the necessary skills and attributes to face global challenges.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/sports:
Sport, physical activity, and recreation at Kent
Choose the option to suit your activity level and interests.
Open to students, staff, alumni, and the public.
Book and cancel classes, recreational sports, and social activities through your online booking account.
Outdoor tennis courts are currently bookable on the Astro pitch and will be available over the summer while our indoor courts temporarily close for the conference season.
For more information about how to book outdoor courts and changes to our timetabled sessions, see our summer tennis blog item .
Grab a discounted one-month membership this summer!
Kent Sport is home to the huge range of sport and fitness facilities on the Canterbury campus.
Situated across the Sports Centre and The Pavilion, our range of facilities and services include:
Enjoy a range of recreational and competitive sport across campus.
Incredible tennis facilities and coaching service on your doorstep.
Health, fitness, and wellbeing services in our superb campus gym.
A weekly timetable of popular classes from BODYPUMP to Zumba.
Extensive performance, physiotherapy, and rehabilitation services.
Our social sport and activity programme for students and staff.
Dedicated development programme for Kent students in their chosen sport.
View the opening hours for the Sports Centre and The Pavilion facilities.
Kent Sport membership Free student membership Students Staff and Alumni Public Adults and Juniors
Sports Clubs Football and Futsal Tennis ALL Active programme Vice-Chancellor's Cup Children's Holiday Camps Active Campus Routes
Personal Training Fitness appointments Fitness and dance classes Exercise Referral Scheme Menopause Fitness Course Kent Sports Clinic
Online Booking News Events Contact Us Our Policies Opening Hours Work with Us

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/giving:
Together we change lives.
Thank you for believing in me
Your generosity has validated my passion and commitment.
I will strive to honour your support by making meaningful contributions to society.
A life changing moment
I literally screamed out loud when I found out I received the scholarship!
It has truly changed my life, and I’m so grateful to the donors who made this possible.
Making dreams a reality
You have made it possible for me to fulfill a dream that, without your support, might have remained out of reach.
Your generosity extends far beyond just supporting me—it touches the lives of countless others who will benefit from the work I do in the future.
Kent’s lasting impact on my life and career
The University, its teachers and students, broadened my horizons and helped me become a more well-rounded person.
I will always be grateful for that.
A gift that lives on
I hope my legacy will support the study of Arts and Humanities—an area often overlooked—and would be immensely proud to make this possible at my first university
Giving back to a place that gave so much
Those three years at Kent were such a magnificent experience that 45 years on, I am delighted to donate funds for the benefit of the University and its students.
Supporting life-changing therapy
The Walker Construction Trust is delighted to support the Parkinson’s Centre for Integrated Therapy.
The team’s dedication to improving the lives of those living with Parkinson’s is truly inspiring.
Seeing the positive impact our donation is making is something we will all take great pride in.
Development and Alumni Engagement Office
University of Kent, Rutherford Annexe, Canterbury, CT2 7NX
Email: giving@kent.ac.uk
Explore how you can support Kent.
Celebrate our generous supporters.
Learn how we protect your data.
Stay connected at Kent.
Discover how your company can work with Kent
Learn about our engagement & civic mission

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/whats-on:
We have a vibrant community and want to welcome you to our campuses!
Below you can find events that are open to all, from public lectures and exhibitions to volunteering at our Kent Community Oasis Garden.
Use the calendar below to find out what's on.
You can filter by date, campus, category of event and by keyword to narrow your search.
If you would like to get in touch with the Events team, please email us: events@kent.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/kent-business-school:
Building a
Sustainable
Tomorrow
We are Kent Business School
Our passion for education fills diverse, ethically minded and employable students with the determination to make a positive difference.
We focus on transformative education informed by impactful research.
We're solving the challenges facing our communities today and better enabling future generations to meet those yet to come.
What we're about.
Being a member of CABS means that KBS are committed to turning our research into viable business and embedding EDI into our activities.
EQUIS accreditation is a high-level recognition of our high standards, and our aim to keep raising them.
We proud to be in the top 1% in the world, but we want to be higher.
AACSB's process includes 'a rigorous external review of a school’s mission, faculty qualifications, curricula, and ability to provide the highest-quality programs'.
AMBA are a leading association who spearhead excellence and innovation in global postgraduate management education.
Their accreditation puts our MBA programme amongst the best in the world.
Our SBC charter recognises our work in small business support, student entrepreneurship, and local engagement.
We are committed in building better business and our students are key to our mission.
Kent Business School is a signatory member of the UN 'Principles for Responsible Management Education'.
This is a part of our commitment to building sustainble business and a sustainable tomorrow.
Kent Business School is a member of EFMD Global.
EFMD provide the EQUIS accreditation, and as a member we are part of their mission driving quality improvement in the sector across the globe.
Keep up to date on the latest news from KBS
KBS hosts a full calendar of events over the year
Find out more about the leading academics and researchers driving change at KBS
Fast-track your career on our AMBA accredited MBA programme

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/kent-law-school:
Kent Law School
Law at Kent was ranked 17th in the UK in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2025.
Law at Kent was ranked 2nd for research quality in The Complete University Guide 2025.
Law at Kent was ranked 27th out of 102 in The Times Good University Guide 2025.
of final-year Law students were satisfied with the quality of teaching on their course in The Guardian University Guide 2025.
of our Law students were positive about the learning resources for their course.
(NSS 2024).
Discover life at Kent Law School
Get hands-on experience at our on-campus law clinic, either as part of or alongside your studies.
The Kent Law Clinic is a partnership between students, academics, solicitors and barristers and provides an excellent opportunity to work on real cases.
Explore our state-of-the-art facilities such as the Moot Court and award-winning Kent Law Clinic.
Our learning environment is designed to ensure you graduate ready to jump from the classroom to the court room and kick-start your career.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/school-of-arts-and-architecture:
School of Arts and Architecture
Architecture at Kent scored 91% overall in The Complete University Guide 2025.
Art and Design at Kent was ranked 12th overall in The Complete University Guide 2025.
Drama and Cinematics at Kent scored 93% overall in The Complete University Guide 2025.
Film at Kent scored 91% overall in the Complete University Guide 2025.
Alumni spotlight
I absolutely loved the cross-disciplinary nature of the course.
I enjoyed drawing inspiration for my work from all of the arts and I felt more passionate about my work as a result.
I found architecture to be really liberating and it helped me to see the world in a completely different way to how I had looked at it previously.
I took a module on theatre and adaptation and gained some really useful skills which have proved very helpful when I’ve had to adapt material for different mediums.
It’s great to be able to use what I learnt at Kent in my day-to-day work, not only the practical filmmaking skills (and my understanding of the industry lingo!), but also the critical thinking skills I developed which help me to solve work challenges

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/school-of-computing:
Clearing 2025
Call the hotline - it only takes a few minutes to secure your place at Kent.
School of Computing
of our Computer Science and Informatics research was classified as either 'world-leading' or 'internationally excellent' for impact.
(REF2021)
of our Computer Science students were positive about the learning resources for their course.
(NSS 2024)
of graduates were in graduate-level jobs or further study 15 months after graduation.
(The Guardian University Guide 2025)
for research quality in The Complete University Guide 2025.
From penetration testing to digital forensics, you’ll work in both Windows and Linux environments, gaining the skills employers value most.
Our virtual lab gives you access to dedicated machines anytime, anywhere, and on any device - no specialist hardware required.
Whether you’re on campus, at home, or on the move, you’ll have the freedom to learn on your terms, practise real industry techniques, and get career-ready for the fast-moving world of cyber security.
There's never been a better time to study a degree in Computing.
In a world going through technological, economic and cultural change, our graduates are in more and more demand each year.
Don't just take our word for it, hear from our high-flying graduates and get inspired.
From classroom to career.
I learned a lot across various aspects of software development by working on some interesting projects and problems.
As a result of my placement, I improved my problem-solving skills and technical skills, along with my soft skills.
Plantix wins top prize at Business Start-Up Journey finals.
Lorenzo first developed the product as part of an Internet of Things course at the University.
Later, we started seeing the device as a solid business idea, so I developed the application prototype and designed all things branding.
Musish Team win Major League Hackathon.
Four guys managed to outcompete Apple with their own product.
It's a great feeling.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/school-of-economics-politics-and-international-relations:
School of Economics, Politics and International Relations
of our Economics students were positive about the learning resources for their course.
of our Politics students were positive about academic support on their course.
of our Economics students responded that they felt free to express their ideas, opinions and beliefs on their course.
In the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF), 100% of our Politics and International Studies research was classified as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ for environment.
Learn how to think as an economist and apply your skills and knowledge to contemporary issues and the challenges of the future.
Study for your Master's or PhD alongside our leading researchers.
Discover the academic expertise of our inspirational academic staff and meet our supportive team.
Explore our world-class research which has contributed to our outstanding impact and reputation.
Choose your Politics and International Relations degree from our range of course options.
Learn from world-leading experts on our taught and research programmes.
Meet academic and professional staff who make up our dynamic community.
Discover the impact of our internationally recognised work.
The skills have prepared me to support countries undergoing International Conflict
If you meet someone in the industry who is also a Kent alumni, they are happy to network with you.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/school-of-engineering-mathematics-and-physics:
School of Engineering, Mathematics and Physics
of our Biomedical Engineering students were positive about academic support on their course.
of Kent Electronic and Electrical Engineering graduates were in graduate-level jobs or further study 15 months after graduation.
of our Mathematics students were positive about academic support on their course.
of our Engineering research was classified as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ for impact and environment in the most recent Research Excellence Framework.
Choose your Engineering degree course from our range of study options.
Meet the people who make up our dynamic and welcoming academic community.
Our cutting-edge equipment and facilities will support you during your degree, Master's or research.
Excellent teaching across our mathematics, statistics and actuarial science courses.
Study for your Master's or PhD with leading researchers and industry experts.
Connect with the inspirational Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science team.
Discover the wide-ranging impact of our research.
Discover our physics, astronomy, space science and astrophysics degrees.
Find out about our physics and astronomy postgraduate courses.
Meet our team of inspiring and friendly physics and astronomy academics.
Investigate the research taking place at Kent and its wider impact.
Since graduating, I have joined the NHS Scientific Training Program (the STP) in Medical Physics, specialising in Nuclear Medicine, and I hope to complete this later this year.
It is a scheme comprising of hands on clinical work, alongside studying for a masters.
The Year in Industry was particularly crucial, but I also learnt how important clear communication is – the Actuarial Practice module was a great bridge between theoretical topics and a real life career.
All the hands-on projects completed while at University have definitely helped me build my organisational, communication and problem solving skills – essential to be a successful consultant.
The University has bags of opportunities, events and people which helped me prepare for working in industry.
Plus, events where companies visited the University were great to practice networking with professionals, even if I wasn’t interested in that specific company/industry.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/school-of-humanities:
School of Humanities
History at Kent ranked 1st for research quality in The Complete University Guide 2025.
of final-year English students were satisfied with the quality of teaching on their course in The Guardian University Guide 2025.
Classics at Kent ranked 7th for student satisfaction in The Complete University Guide 2025
of our Creative Writing students were positive about academic support on their course.
The university is a great place to study, and Kent itself is in a beautiful part of the country.
So I’d say: go, and enjoy the work, enjoy the campus, and enjoy Canterbury.
Student spotlight
University is not just about our studies.
It also provides us a massive variety of other opportunities.
Please do engage with as many of those as you can.
You never know which one will inspire you, give you a new interest, suggest a career path, or change your world
I loved how open, interdisciplinary, and engaging they were.
I felt in my classes that I was interacting deeply with the literature presented and I relished the avenues of opportunities and feedback my lecturers gave me.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/school-of-natural-sciences:
School of Natural Sciences
In the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021, 100% of our Biological Sciences research was classified as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’ for impact and environment.
Geography and Environmental Studies at Kent was ranked 1st in the UK for research output in the Times Higher Education (REF 2021)
Forensic Science at Kent was ranked 2nd in The Complete University Guide 2025.
of our Sport and Exercise Sciences students were positive about academic support on their course.
I had a fantastic time at the Caño Palma Biological Field Station.
A huge THANK YOU to Jake and Helen for arranging this phenomenal trip.
Now, I’m very eager to travel back to the rainforest when I finish my degree
Originally, I was thinking of studying to become a teacher but then I decided taking a subject-specific degree would give me more options.
My Sport and Exercise Science degree has opened up a lot of opportunities and, if I want to, I can still go into teaching further down the line.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/school-of-psychology:
School of Psychology
Kent is in the top 100 for psychology in the QS World Rankings by Subject 2024.
Following the most recent REF, Psychology at Kent was ranked in the Top 50 in the world and 6th in the UK in the Times Higher Education.
90% of our Psychology students were positive about the learning resources for their course.
We have 25 years’ continuous accreditation by The British Psychological Society.
So when we say we are a leading school, you don't just have to take our word for it!
Psychology at Kent was ranked 33rd out of 118 in The Complete University Guide 2025.
Get a feel for student life studying Psychology at Kent.
The Tizard Centre is at the forefront of research into autism, intellectual disability and community care.
Our pioneering approach dates back to our first Director, Jim Mansell who in 2012 was awarded a CBE.
In 2013, the Centre received a Queen’s Anniversary Prize in recognition of its outstanding work in the field.
We aim to share our expertise via study programmes and research projects.
The Centre has strong links with health and social care organisations and many students come to Tizard thanks to a personal recommendation.
We offer a wide range of postgraduate courses, designed to deepen your knowledge and give you the skills and confidence to make take the next step in your career and make a real change in the field.
From the moment you arrive you will have the opportunity to experience both our laboratory facilities and our world leading research.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/school-of-social-sciences:
School of Social Sciences
Criminology at Kent achieved the highest score for research quality in The Times Good University Guide 2025.
Social Work at Kent was ranked 2nd in The Times Good University Guide 2025.
Over 86% of final-year Sociology students were satisfied with the quality of teaching on their course in The Guardian University Guide 2025.
95% of Kent Social Work graduates were in graduate-level jobs or further study 15 months after graduation.
The Guardian University Guide 2025.
Meet our inspirational staff and support team.
Explore our exciting range of world-leading research.
Keep up to date with all the latest news and events.
We'd love to meet you here's how to visit us.
Get in touch with any queries or questions about our courses.
An interdisciplinary project led by Dr David Garbin, addressing the ubiquity of end-of-life tyres.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/applicants:
You've taken your first step to starting your Kent journey, the next step is making us your firm choice.
We know it's a big decision, so here is everything you need to know so you can be as sure about Kent, as we are about you.
You might have already seen our Canterbury or Medway campus before, but it can't hurt to get a second look - especially as it could be your home in just a few months.
There is so much to see and do, and you'll be guided by students who can show you all the best spots and answer any questions you have.
If you want to find out a little bit more about your course, and really start to picture your life at Kent, our Open Days and campus tours are your chance to make your future that bit clearer.
So you can drop the nerves and start getting excited about studying with us.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/alumni:
Come along to one of the many reunions or lectures we organise - either in Kent or a city near you.
Our international networks allow you to connect with fellow Kent alumni wherever life takes you after graduation.
Find out more about the support and discounts that you are entitled to after graduation.
Contact our Giving team to find out how you can make a difference to the lives of our students and community.
View some of our favourite films of Kent through the years and let us know if you spot yourself or your friends.
Your unique opportunity to commemorate 50 years as a Kent alumnus.
A place to remember the alumni, former staff, and honorary graduates who have passed away.
We extend our heartfelt condolences to all who knew and loved them.
Explore Kent through the decades and re-live your uni days!
An alumnus is a graduate or former student of a particular
school, college, or university.
You, therefore, become a Kent alumnus once you complete your
studies and graduate from University of Kent.
Alumni is the plural of alumnus.
We always want to keep in touch with you after you graduate.
As your kent.ac.uk email will be deactivated shortly after
graduation, you will need to update your contact details and provide us with a
non-Kent email address in order to continue to hear about Kent news and events.
Update your
details now.
The Student Record Administration Office is able to provide Kent
graduates with the following documents:
If you have any
further questions about any of these services, please contact csao@kent.ac.uk .
We always love to welcome our alumni back to Kent!
To facilitate this we hold regular events throughout the year both on campus and internationally.
From lectures and dinners to our annual reunion weekend in September - we hope there will be something for everyone to enjoy.
See our alumni events calendar .
Alumni Relations Office
Email: alumni@kent.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/contact-us:
The University of Kent has its main campus and administration in Canterbury:
University of Kent, Canterbury, Kent, England, CT2 7NZ T: +44 (0)1227 764000
Campus Security staff are on duty 24 hours per day, 365 days per year and can always be contacted at 01227 823300.
One place for all your student questions.
We are committed to improving access to learning and provide a wide range of support.
An unmissable part of your student experience.
Our Advice Service offers free, impartial and confidential advice and guidance on a range of issues you may confront while at university.
Find out more about updating your student record on KentVision, your exams, your KentOne student ID card, Online Module Registration or getting an official document.
Please use the list below to locate contact information for various teams at University of Kent.
The Future Student team deals with all undergraduate and postgraduate applications to the university, for UK, EU and international students.
Information for prospective students about courses, applications and studying at Kent .
Make a general enquiry
Order or download a prospectus
study@kent.ac.uk
T: +44 (0)1227 768896
We're here with you every step of the way to make sure you have a happy and safe time living on campus and are always looking to improve the facilities and services available to you .
How to pay accommodation fees
accomm@kent.ac.uk
T: +44 (0)1227 766660
The Kent alumni community is a global network of more than 190,000 former students from 189 countries.
The Student Record Administration Office are able to provide alumni with official documents such as degree certificates and transcripts.
alumni@kent.ac.uk
Students can contact the appeals team via email at appeals@kent.ac.uk but we do not provide advice and guidance to students as our office is the one assessing the appeals cases.
We are unable to provide advice over the phone.
We direct students to Kent Union for advice and guidance.
Please see our extensive webpages which provide all the necessary information.
We believe in bringing innovative and creative approaches to increasing industry productivity and growth through collaboration with businesses, charities, and public sector organisations locally, nationally and internationally.
Explore how we can work together.
businessrelationships@kent.ac.uk
T: +44 (0)1227 827376
We provide the advice, workshops and tools to prepare Kent students and graduates for employment and further study.
careerhelp@kent.ac.uk
T: +44 (0)1227 823299
Our fantastic location, range of accommodation and extensive facilities make us the perfect choice for groups, conferences, events and holidays .
conferences@kent.ac.uk T: +44 (0)1227 828000
The Student Record Administration Office can help you with:
T: +44 (0)1227 827298
Our Divisional support teams including Programme Admin, Research Programme Admin, Engagement Support and Student Experience teams can advise and help you with a number of queries.
You can contact teams directly via email or phone.
Visit the current students homepage
The Estates Department provides a number of essential services to the University of Kent and is responsible for managing, maintaining and developing the infrastructure and building fabric of the various campuses.
Contact Estates Customer Services for all enquiries:
EstatesCustomerServices@kent.ac.uk
T: +44 (0)1227 816666
You can pay your Accommodation and Tuition Fees online
The Income Office can help with any enquiries about paying your tuition and accommodation fees.
The team are available Monday-Friday 10.00-16.00 via telephone and email.
Virtual appointments are available Monday-Friday, 10.00-15.00 T: +44 (0)1227 824242
financialaid@kent.ac.uk
T: +44 (0)1227 827289 (open 10:00 - 16:00)
Virtual Appointments available Mon - Wed 10:00 - 15:00
Funding for American Students
Loans for Canadian Students
For information about graduation and supporting you through key milestones.
graduations@kent.ac.uk T: +44 (0)1227 824347
The Student Immigration Compliance Team is responsible for monitoring the University's compliance with UK immigration laws to ensure that we maintain our Student (previously known as Tier 4) sponsor status with the Home Office.
Please email us at visacompliance@kent.ac.uk .
We aim to respond within 7-10 working days.
Our International Marketing and Recruitment team are here to support our applicants from outside the UK, whether you need advice on courses, information on how to apply or a query regarding your current application, feel free to get in touch and we can assist you.
Visit our International Student homepage
enquiries@study.kent.ac.uk
T: +44 (0)1227 207636
We've got lots of online support and ways for you to get in touch with us.
Visit the Nexus self-service portal
View the IT support opening hours
helpdesk@kent.ac.uk
T: +44 (0)1227 824888
For queries about working at Kent, applying for a job or for further information about current vacancies, please contact us by emailing jobs@kent.ac.uk
New students getting started at Kent – including enrolment, registration and everything you need to know about Arrivals Visit the new student homepage
Nexus staff can help with any student query, signposting you in the right direction.
Please use the Nexus self-service portal or email nexus@kent.ac.uk
T: +44 (0)1227 827932
We're here to help with general queries and further information about our partner schools and colleges.
Email: outreach@kent.ac.uk
Making a payment
Paying your tuition Fees
Paying your accommodations fees
T: +44 (0)1227 824242
If you work in the media and would like to learn more about any aspect of Kent, including our world-leading research, or speak with any of our academic experts, our team will be happy to help.
Visit the Press Centre homepage
PressOffice@kent.ac.uk
T: +44 (0)1227 823985
Visit the Research homepage
Research and Innovation Services Contacts
For support and advice on the Research Excellence Framework, public engagement with research, partnership opportunities, and maximising the reach and impact of research, contact researchexcellence@kent.ac.uk
To connect you to the individual or team that can meet your needs, contact ris@kent.ac.uk
Kent offers a comprehensive variety of scholarships to students who achieve outstanding academic merits from entry level and beyond in their undergraduate and postgraduate studies.
We also offer scholarships in sport and music that can help you to further develop your talent alongside your studies.
Awarded on merit, by Kent Sport and our Music department, they are open to all students at Kent.
T: +44 (0)1227 824822
The University takes the safety of its students very seriously.
We train our staff to provide practical safety advice and support and we maintain excellent relationships with local police.
Please use the links below to find out about the security facilities available and how the Campus Security department operates.
The Campus Security Service Level Statement provides a comprehensive overview of the services offered.
Campus Security staff are on duty 24 hours per day, 365 days per year.
Campus Security are there to help you, so please help them.
Your information may prevent or solve a crime or incident.
Email us on security@kent.ac.uk
Emergencies: +44 (0)1227 823333
Non-emergencies: +44 (0)1227 823300
The Student Support and Wellbeing team are committed to improving access to learning and provide a wide range of support.
They have expert staff to support students with a Specific Learning Difficulty (SpLD) such as Dyslexia; discuss academic adjustments for people with temporary or permanent disabilities or chronic conditions; support autistic students, and offer support for anyone at Kent experiencing distress arising from psychological, emotional or mental health issues.
24x7 Support information
Canterbury campus
Medway campus
Our friendly staff are happy to help with all your library and IT queries
T: +44 (0)1227 824777
Transport and travel to, from and around campus
TransportTeam@kent.ac.uk
T: +44 (0)1227 823609
Kent Union are led by students, for students.
Our mission is to promote your interests and priorities on campus, locally and globally, empowering you to lead through campaigns, lobbying and activism that you decide.
We're here to help you academically and socially, and strive to be a students' union you can always turn to, whether you are doing great or just need a helping hand.
kentunion@kent.ac.uk
T: +44 (0)1227 824200
You can contact us in British Sign Language using SignLive

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/equality-diversity-inclusivity:
The University of Kent aims to:
Lead the way in the development of an environment that is free from harassment.
Provide a supportive and inclusive culture conducive of good health and wellbeing for all staff and students.
Understand and Interrupt Structural racism within the HE environment.
Continue to raise our profile as an employer and education provider through accreditation and investment in key strategic projects.
Resources and information for Students relating to Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity including training and details on reporting incidents.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity resources for staff members including resources on Discrimination, and information on Staff Networks and Training.
All university reports, statistics and data relating to EDI including the Gender Pay Gap Report, Equal Pay Audit, Equality Analysis and EDI Report.
Protected Characteristics are characteristics which are protected from discrimination under the Equality Act.
Information on different types of discrimination which may impact individuals and groups, as well as support and information on reporting  incidents.
Information and resources relating to harassment at university or in the workplace, including how to report any incidents at the University of Kent.
Ongoing and completed projects at the University of Kent related to Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/graduations:
Read through our quick guides for what to expect on your graduation day in July, from start to finish.
Follow along with the ceremonies as they are happening by watching our live stream on YouTube.
Start here!
Information about ceremony dates, how to register, hiring your gown and much more
Information about what you need to do when you arrive and during your ceremony
So someone you know is graduating from Kent!
This section should provide the information you need so that you can enjoy their big day.
Check the upcoming graduation dates and times.
Register your attendance by Wednesday 7 May.
You must register even if you choose not to attend.
All outstanding payments must be cleared by Wednesday 4 June.
If you  or your guest need a visa letter to attend, please apply by Wednesday 4 June.
If you need to update your legal name, then the deadline is Friday 13 June.
If you would like your name to be taken out of the graduation programme, please let us know by Friday 13 June.
Please hire your gown by Friday 20 June.
The University of Kent confers honorary degrees on distinguished individuals from many walks of life who have made a significant contribution to society.
Read through some of the frequently asked questions about graduations
Get in touch with the Graduations team

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/library:
Explore our extensive range of services and resources
Search with LibrarySearch
High-quality digital resources
Using other libraries
Stay up to date with all things Library
When using our services you agree to follow our regulations .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/it-services:
We offer a comprehensive suite of IT business and support services at Kent.
Get help and find answers with support from our IT Helpdesk
Browse our live service alerts and planned work schedule.
Get started with your digital essentials – from Wi-Fi and printing to software and study support.
Everything you need to succeed at Kent.
See what’s new in Kent IT – updates, improvements, and handy tips to help you make the most of our services.
Packed with staff-specific resources to help you make the most of our IT services — find the tools and guides you need to succeed with your work at Kent.
Browse policies and regulations on provision and use of University IT systems and services.
Learn how to connect to guest Wi-Fi and access essential services during your visit to Kent.
Whether you're a student, staff member, or external partner, we're focused on delivering efficient and people-centred services, making your experience with us as smooth and straightforward as possible.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/about/governance:
Birds-eye view of Canterbury campus
The University has in place robust mechanisms
for ensuring accountability of its processes and decisions and for the
management of risks.
This section of the University website provides links to Policies and Procedures and the records of the key governing bodies of the University including the Council , the Senate , and the Court .
The University of Kent at Canterbury received its Royal Charter in 1965.
The University’s Charter, Statutes, Ordinances and Regulations form the University’s constitutional framework.
The University has ten academic Schools (The School of Computing;  The School of Engineering, Mathematics & Physics;  The School of Arts & Architecture;  The School of Psychology; The School of Economics, Politics & International Relations;  The School of Social Sciences;  The Kent Law School; The School of Humanities; The Kent Business School; and The School of Natural Sciences) each led by a Head of School.
Learn more about Kent's ten academic Schools .
The Vice-Chancellor is the principal academic and administrative officer of the University.
The Vice-Chancellor is assisted by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor(s), the Secretary of the Council and other administrative officers and their staff in the day-to-day management of the University.
Learn more about the University Principal Officers .
The University of Kent is a founding signatory of the Magna Charta Universitatum.
Signed in 1988, the Charta is a commitment to institutional autonomy for universities, the link between teaching and research, academic freedom and the internationalism of higher learning.
The Charta has an associated Observatory that gathers information and forms opinion from signatory institutions to promote fundamental university values.
The University of Kent was established by Royal Charter in 1965.
It is an exempt charity subject to the provisions of the Charities Act 2011 (HMRC reference number XN5452).
The Office for Students is the principal regulator for all higher education institutions (HEIs) in England which are exempt charities.
All HEIs with exempt charity status are required to publish the following information on their websites:
The University of Kent is an exempt charity in accordance with Schedule 3 of the Charities Act 2011.
The Order in Council came into operation on 1 October 1965.
The University’s legal name and correspondence address is:
The University of Kent The Registry Canterbury Kent CT2 7NZ United Kingdom
Queries about the above should be sent to the Director of Governance and Assurance (Jo Wright) at the above address.
To contact us about anything Governance matters please email councilsec@kent.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/locations/canterbury:
Canterbury has the highest student population in the UK.
So you don't just have to take our word for it!
Discover the perfect place for your student journey.
Haven't visited Canterbury before?
Don't worry!
We are easy to find and just as easy to get to.
You can find us in Kent, in the South East of the UK.
London is just an hour away by train, and we are the closest UK city to mainland Europe, so you can get to Paris within just two hours.
Our city is not only well connected to world capitals, we are surrounded by coast and countryside, with plenty of space to clear your head and explore nature.
You get the best of both worlds!
It has never been a better time to study in Canterbury.
Our high student population creates a vibrant, diverse and student-friendly atmosphere.
We are a hub of exciting new ideas emerging from a stunning historic city - join us and get involved!
Canterbury is a historic city with many tales to tell.
As you explore the city, you find yourself surrounded in history.
Explore medieval alleyways and cobbled streets, all before you reach our world-famous Canterbury Cathedral - one of our three UNESCO World Heritage Sites and the venue of your graduation!
Above all else, Canterbury's history is one of stories.
From Marlowe, to Dickens, to Chaucer, Canterbury has inspired stories that have stood the test of time.
Of course, the University of Kent is home to two Nobel Laureates.
What better place to start your journey, and tell your own story?
So many great stories start with Canterbury, why shouldn't yours?
With 250+ societies, there is something for everyone.
Whether your passion is sport or sustainability, you’re a foodie or keen on gaming, Kent is the perfect place to find your community.
Campus is home to 'the Venue' - Canterbury's biggest nightclub with nights covering all genres.
Each college also has its own bar, so a good night out is never too far away.
Our community is made up of people from different backgrounds, of different ages and from over 100 nationalities.
As great as our campus is, nothing beats the people you'll meet here.
Our food reflects our diversity, have a full-English breakfast, Caribbean for lunch and Greek for dinner, all on campus!
Rutherford offers £3 hot meals, so you never have to break the bank.
Our green spaces on campus offer a chance to clear your head.
The blend of campus and nature makes it perfect for studying and socialising.
And we are committed to keeping it that way.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/locations/medway:
Medway is a place steeped in history, yet always looking forward.
Our Medway campus is the ideal place to start your student journey.
Haven't visited Medway before?
London is under an hour away by train, and you have fantastic links to the rest of Kent and mainland Europe.
Medway is rapidly evolving, with the towns of Chatham, Gillingham and Rochester developing exciting arts scenes and cultural districts.
You're also surrounded by countryside and coast, with plenty of space to clear your head and explore nature.
With new developments across the region bringing excitement and opportunities, there is so much to see and do.
Medway is home to three universities, we are creating a hub of new ideas in a historic region full of potential - join us and get involved!
Watch the video
Our Medway campus is a dynamic and exciting community.
Home to us, the University of Greenwich and Canterbury Christ Church University, known collectively as the Universities at Medway.
The social spaces on campus are used by all students so you get to meet an even wider range of people.
As a Kent student at Medway you become a member of The Hub and Kent Union .
Hear from some of our students, and members of our collaborative community about their time at Medway and why Kent was the right choice for them.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/chat-with-a-student:
Chat to some of our current students and find out everything you need to know about life at Kent.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/mature-students:
If you're applying to Kent after the age of 21, we consider you to be a mature student.
You could be applying a few years after leaving school or college, or studying as part of your professional development.
You may want a career change or you may even be retired.
We know that finding information tailored to your needs can be a challenge, so we're here to reassure you and help you to take the next steps in your education.
Applying to university can seem daunting when you’re a mature student, especially if you’re not currently at college, but it may be easier than you expect.
The University of Kent and UCAS, the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service, offer step-by-step advice to help you through the admissions process.
See our How to Apply guide >
UCAS advice for mature undergraduate students >
Kate shares her experience of returning to education at the University of Kent.
The Mature Student Society is for any student who is age 21+ at the start of their degree, has had a working life prior to returning to education, or is part-time or a commuting student, has dependants or caring responsibilities, or identifies as a mature student.
The Society offers a social environment for all members and acts as a forum to discuss the challenges and promote the needs of mature students.
The Society has regular informal drop-in style lunch meets and coffee mornings where students can come along to relax, meet up with others, and chat about university, holidays, hobbies, or indeed anything else.
They also hold an end of term meal or get together at least twice a year, and also regularly attend other events together on campus.
Since the society began, many mature students have met and made new friends, formed small study groups, and enjoyed each other’s company socially.
There are a number of social spaces on our Canterbury and Medway campuses where you can relax and hang out.
Each lounge comes equipped with handy amenities such as soft seating, microwaves, hot water taps, fridges, vending machines, and even printers.
This makes them ideal for meeting your friends, grabbing a snack or catching up on your coursework.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/music:
Whatever you study, make music!
Music Performance Scholarships are awarded each year to talented instrumentalists and singers studying for any degree at Kent.
If you sing or play an instrument, why not join the Chorus, Symphony Orchestra, Concert and Big Bands, Chamber Choir or one of many other ensembles
The Colyer-Fergusson Building has a suite of practice rooms available to all students and staff for music practice/rehearsal, including a band-room
Check out all that's coming up in this year's Summer Music Week festival from 30 May to 7 June.
Getting involved in extra-curricular music-making
Telephone: +44 (0)1227 827335
Email: music@kent.ac.uk
Colyer-Fergusson Building, Giles Lane, University of Kent CT2 7NB

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/international/international-events:
Visit us in-person or virtually at a wide range of events to discover more about studying at Kent.
You can also take a look at our events calendar for information on Open Days and subject specific webinars.
Find your future at Kent.
Get to know our students, courses and campuses from anywhere in the world.
We have In-Country Officers in China, India, Malaysia, Nigeria, Pakistan and the USA.
Discover more about life at Kent as you're led through our campus by an experienced guide.
Our International Officers are available to meet you at in-person and virtual events around the world.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/english-language-requirements:
To study at Kent, you must be able to demonstrate a good level of spoken and written English.
This page gives guidance on the qualifications we accept as an entry requirement onto our courses.
The University of Kent and University of Kent International College benchmark English Language ability against CEFR .
Below is an example using IELTS:
B2
The Level of English required for the course you are applying to can be found in the entry criteria section of the course page.
If British Sign Language (BSL) is your first language and you don't meet the English Language requirements, please get in contact to discuss your specific circumstances.
If you do not meet the English Language requirements, pre-sessional courses are available both in-person and online, to prepare international students for study at Kent.
If you have sat a test more than once, then we strongly encourage you to apply for one of our pre-sessional English Language courses.
The University of Kent accepts a wide range of tests as proof of English Language ability.
Secure English Language Tests or SELTS are accepted by the UKVI for a number of purposes, include academic study, and are conducted in an approved centre.
Non-SELT tests are available at a wider range of locations or are taken online and are also accepted for academic study.
IELTS for UKVI
Achieved no more than 2 years before the start of the course.
IELTS One Skill Retake
We will accept the IELTS One Skill Retake.
Only 1 One Skill Retake permitted per academic year.
LanguageCert International ESOL SELT
ESOL SELT B2
Listening: 33/50; Reading: 35/50; Writing: 35/50; Speaking: 33/50
Listening: 38/50; Reading: 38/50; Writing: 38/50; Speaking: 38/50
ESOL SELT C1
Listening: 33/50; Reading: 33/50; Writing: 33/50; Speaking: 33/50
LanguageCert Academic SELT
Listening: 60; Speaking: 60; Reading: 60; Writing: 60
Listening: 75; Speaking: 75; Reading: 75; Writing: 75
LanguageCert General SELT
Pearson Academic UKVI
Skills for English UKVI
B2 Level: Minimum scores
Listening: Pass
Reading: Pass
Writing: Pass
Speaking: Pass
With either Reading or Listening at Merit.
Listening: Merit
Reading: Merit
C1 Level: Minimum scores
Cambridge B2 First Certificate
Cambridge B2 Business Vantage Certificate
Cambridge C1 Advanced Certificate
Cambridge C1 Business Higher Certificate
Cambridge C2 Proficiency Statement of Results
IELTS Academic
INTO English Language Assessment (IELA)
LanguageCert International ESOL
ESOL B2
Listening: 33/50, Reading: 33/50, Writing: 33/50, Speaking: 33/50
ESOL C1
LanguageCert Academic
LanguageCert General
LRN International English Language Competency Assessment (IELCA) test
NCUK English for Academic Purposes (EAP)
Trinity College GESE with ISE II or SE III
GESE (Graded Examinations in Spoken English Language)
ISE Integrated Skills Reading and Writing (ISE II and ISE III)
Trinity College ISE Integrated Skills (ISE II and ISE III)
KTE (Kaplan Test of English)
Formerly KITE (Kaplan International Tools for English)
KTE (Kaplan Test of English) - An easy-to-access online English Language test that can be taken anywhere at any time .
Use this DISCOUNT CODE to claim a 25% discount : KENTKRS65
Simply enter this code on this booking form to claim the discount.
You’ll receive your KTE certificate within 5 working days of completing the test.
BOOK THE KTE TEST HERE
For more information, read the Student Guide .
LRN Level 3 Certificate in ESOL International (CEFR C1)
ONCAMPUS Test of English Language (OCTOE)
Oxford ELLT Digital
Oxford English Language Level Test (ELLT) discount for Kent applicants
Oxford ELLT is a fully online English Language Level Test, approved by the University of Kent that can be used as evidence of a candidate’s English language proficiency for international admissions.
Register to take the Oxford ELLT
You can also benefit from using our discount code at check out to purchase the test for only £90 : KEN25
Oxford ELLT Global
Oxford Test of English Language
Pearson PTE Academic
Test of English Language for Educational Purposes (TEEP)
TOEFL iBT
TOEFL iBT (Home Edition)
University of Sheffield English Language Proficiency Test (USEPT)
You can also benefit from using our discount code at check out to purchase the test for only £90.00 : KEN25
We accept a number of English Language qualifications studied at High School, Secondary School or College.
If you are studying recognised qualifications in English at a school in the UK or an international school, we will consider the following qualifications:
Grade C or above in English Language or English Literature
Achieved no more than 8 years before the start of the course.
Any qualification taken more than 8 years ago will be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
Grade C or above in English Language
Grade 4 / C or above in English Language
IGCSE (First Language) (syllabus 0500)
IGCSE (First Language) (syllabus 0522)
IGCSE (Second Language) (syllabus 0511)
Achieved no more than 5 years before the start of the course.
Any qualification taken more than 5 years ago will be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
iGCSE (Edexcel)
English Language A or English Language B
iGCSE (LRN)
L1 English or L1A English
L2 English or L2A English
L3 English
A grade of 5 or more at higher level in one of the following:
English A: Language and Literature
English A: Literature
English Language B
A grade of 5 or more at standard level in one of the following:
English Literature and Performance
A grade of 7 at standard level in:
UK Nationals and those who do not require a visa to study in the UK may use grade 4 or higher in the English Language and Literature module of the Middle Years Programme to meet the GCSE requirements for a degree.
Those who require a visa to study in the UK are encouraged to sit the eAssessment for English Language and Literature and achieve a grade of 4 or more.
Applicants who have studied a Foundation Course at a BALEAP Member Institution may use their English Language results to meet our entry criteria.
Unless listed below, the results of the Foundation Course must clearly state scores for each of the four components: Speaking, Listening, Reading and Writing.
INTO Academic English Language course
INTO International Foundation Programme
Kaplan International College English Language
Newcastle University Pre-Masters English Language course
Queen Mary University of London International Foundation Programme
University of Northumbria International Foundation Diploma
If you are a national of one of the countries below, you may use your secondary school, high school, college or university qualifications to meet the CEFR B2 or C1 English Language requirements.
UKVI Majority English-speaking countries
*The following territories are currently identified as British Overseas Territories:
Anguilla, Bermuda, British Antarctic Territory, British Indian Ocean Territory, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands, Gibraltar, Montserrat, Pitcairn Islands, Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, Turks and Caicos Islands.
**The 5 year time limit does not apply to degrees completed in the UK.
The Immigration rules for providing proof of English Language for those wishing to use an MOI has been updated.
If you are not a national of a UKVI recognised majority English speaking country and your degree is not from a UK university, in addition to the degree certificate and a letter confirming medium of instruction, you will also require an English language and academic qualification assessment Statement from Ecctis.
You may apply for this using the Ecctis UKVI website .
If you do not wish to undertake the Ecctis assessment, we would encourage you to undertake one of the discounted tests listed above.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/international/pre-sessional-courses:
Our Pre-sessional courses prepare you for degree study in the UK.
All our courses focus on developing your academic study skills and English language proficiency.
Our courses run between 7-16 weeks, depending on your English language level.
Our Pre-sessional courses are for undergraduate and postgraduate international students who have a conditional offer (CF) to study a degree at Kent but do not have the required level of English to allow them to start their intended degree programme.
If you complete the Pre-sessional course and achieve a final grade that meets your condition of entry, you will not need to take an IELTS examination.
The University of Kent offers a combined CAS for eligible students who have a minimum of IELTS 5.5 in all skills.
Students applying for the 7-week and 11-week courses may meet this requirement (see our FAQs ).
You need to have met all conditions of your offer, except English Language, to be eligible for a combined CAS.
You will need to pay your Pre-CAS Tuition Fee Deposit as part of the CAS assessment process.
Our CAS Team, who will provide full instructions on how to make this payment as part of their request.
We offer on campus accommodation.
You'll need to apply for your Pre-sessional course first.
Once you receive an offer you can then apply for your accommodation.
Our courses are accredited by BALEAP (formerly known as the British Association of Lecturers in English for Academic Purposes).
We also run 'Navigating UK Study'.
Get the essential skills and knowledge to succeed in your core studies and get ahead on settling in the UK.
The course you choose depends on:
To study at Kent, you may need a visa.
Visit Student Immigration Compliance to find out more.
Students who do not have an offer to study a degree at Kent are welcome to attend the online Pre-sessional course but they will need to check with their intended university to see if the Pre-sessional assessments will be accepted as evidence of their current English language level.
Select the entry requirement for your main course of study and check against your current level below.
On-campus delivery
Apply now for ON CAMPUS 16-week course
Apply now for ON CAMPUS 11-week course
Apply now for ON CAMPUS 7-week course
Online delivery
Apply now for ONLINE 16-week course
Apply now for ONLINE 11-week course
Apply now for ONLINE 7-week course
Please note, you will require a laptop for study both on campus and online.
If you are studying your course on campus , you'll receive a minimum of 16 hours face-to-face study each week.
This will include:
If you are studying your course online , we'll allocate you to a class based on your location and time zone, making it easier to interact with fellow students and your teachers.
You'll also be given access to the secure software you need to take part in your course.
Classes will be on Microsoft Teams and materials will be shared through Kent's Virtual Learning System Moodle.
You'll receive a minimum of nine hours live online study each week.
You are expected to complete at least 15 hours of self-study per week, using a range of resources including video and audio lessons and quizzes.
Each week you will submit work and receive regular feedback to help you progress.
Your final assessment has four elements:
Please note that there is no final assessment for the 2-week course as this is for unconditional offer holders only.
As long as you meet the specific entry requirements for your degree course, you'll be able to start your degree at Kent.
We'll be on hand to help you get started and we also provide free support for all international students throughout the year so that you can get the most from your studies.
If you do not meet your language requirements following the Pre-sessional course, a resit examination will be offered to you.
Resit examinations will take place the week after the courses finish - applicable for the 16, 11 and 7 Week courses.
Please do not make travel arrangements until you have received your Pre-sessional results after your course has finished.
Our Pre-sessional Terms and Conditions are available to view here .
You will need a laptop to study both for the on-campus and online courses.
Our on-campus students will be using their laptops in class in order to access a number of the teaching materials and resources.
For studying an online/remote Pre-sessional course, a laptop or desktop computer with a camera and sound, or earphones is required.
A very good internet connection is also vital for accessing your materials and attending your live seminars.
Students are also advised to study in a quiet area, with no background noise.
To support your application, you will need the following:
Please upload colour copies of these to your application via the ‘Documents’ section.
The class size varies according to the total number of students we have applying for the course.
Sizes can range from 12 to 18 students per class.
We try not to allocate more than 18 students to any class.
Yes.
During the student induction you will be given a lot of important information about the course.
Aside from the obvious, an online Pre-sessional course requires more independent self-study and less time in seminars.
You have to be very disciplined to study an online course and manage your time well.
Students studying online have more individual and group tutorials with their teachers.
The Pre-sessional courses are intensive and require a lot of independent study time outside of your live seminars/classes to complete materials and work on assessments.
We strongly advise NOT to work or study another course while studying on a Pre-sessional course.
Students who have done this, have not successfully completed the Pre-sessional course or progressed to their main programme of study.
Yes, as long as you meet the entry requirement of your main programme.
However, a Pre-sessional course does not guarantee automatic progression: you must meet the required exit level in your final assessments on the Pre-sessional.
This level is set by the academic school that provides the course you wish to progress to.
No, you will sit our own exam at the end of the course; this is called the KITE (Kent International Test of English) and it covers reading, writing, speaking and listening.
KITE has been designed to test students’ academic language skills for the purpose of study at the University of Kent.
The accessible format and structure allow candidates to apply their language skills to authentic academic situations.
A warning note on your conditional offer letter means that some components of your English language level are slightly lower than the entry level for a specific Pre-sessional course.
You will need to work harder to raise the level of these  components in order to meet the standard needed to progress to your chosen degree programme at the end of the Pre-sessional course.
A Pre-sessional course does not guarantee automatic progression to a degree programme.
You must meet the required standard in your final assessments on the Pre-sessional course.
This standard is set by the academic school that provides the degree you wish to progress to.
Preferably not.
Each course follows an intensive learning syllabus which means that even the shortest break could affect your chances of passing.
We strongly advise you against missing any of the course.
However, there may be exceptional circumstances, which we will deal with on a case-by-case basis.
If you are privately funded, please use the online store to pay .
This is the most secure and quickest method.
If you are sponsored, you will need to provide a financial support letter from your sponsor, stating your name, the title of the specific pre-sessional course you have applied for, the course dates and the amount awarded to you.
You will need to upload this document with your application.
If you would like on-campus accommodation during your Pre-sessional course, you can book this after you have received your offer for the Pre-sessional.
You will find the accommodation link for each course in our Apply Now section.
To make your offer unconditional, we need to receive your payment or sponsorship letter.
You must email us at globallearning@kent.ac.uk as soon as you know that you will not be attending the course.
A £250 administration fee will be retained from your full payment.
A combined CAS is one document covering both the Pre-sessional course and the main programme of study.
It is available to eligible students on the 7-week course, and in some cases to 11-week course students too, if they have a minimum of IELTS 5.5 in all skills when applying for the Pre-sessional course.
No, you do not need a visa for an online Pre-sessional course as you will be studying the course outside of the UK.
You will receive a CAS after successful completion of your pre-​sessional course and need to apply for a visa from your home country  before coming to the UK for your main programme of study.
No.
If you applied for a visa with a combined CAS and were successful, you should have entry ​clearance in the UK to study both your pre-sessional course and your main programme of study.
The University of Kent offers a combined CAS for eligible students who have applied for the 7-week Pre-Sessional English Programme, and in some cases to 11-week course students too, if they have a minimum of IELTS 5.5 in all skills when applying for the Pre-sessional course.
You must have met all conditions of your offer except English Language to be eligible for a combined CAS.
This means that if you are a Postgraduate student and you have not paid your tuition fee deposit, you will not be eligible for a combined CAS.
Please ensure you pay your tuition fee deposit for your main programme of study if you intend to obtain a combined CAS.
A combined CAS can be withdrawn from a student on the Pre-sessional course if the student fails to meet the English language requirements for their main programme of study
We have a dedicated and trained team in Kent Students' Union who provide bespoke visa workshops and meetings to assist Pre-sessional students studying in person.
Colleagues guide Pre-sessional students on their application for their main course visa.
Guidance is also offered to students studying online.
If you are intending to be in the UK, you must study the Pre-sessional course in-person.
Our courses are accredited by BALEAP (formerly known as the British Association of Lecturers in English for Academic Purposes),
Watch the First Place Winner of our 2024 Pre-Sessional Video Competition, a video made by Nisthanate Sempipat.
Watch the First Place Winner of our 2023 Pre-Sessional Video Competition, a video made by Pornlapat Thopwongsri (Monet).
Watch the First Place Winner of our 2022 Pre-Sessional Video Competition, a video made by Kattaleeya Limvijitwong.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/transport/driving-parking/visitor-parking:
We have a small number of bays dedicated to visitor parking where spaces are pre-booked for parking.
These are for visitors who are visiting the campus for business that will assist the University directly to operate effectively as an academic institution.
Contractors working at the University on a regular basis (more than 4 times a month or 12 times a year) may be eligible to have a permit to park depending on agreements and can only be obtained from the Transport Team by the member of staff managing the contract on behalf of the University.
These permits can only be applied for by members of staff using the appropriate Business visitor permit request process.
For B&B guests and some conferences and events parking may be available.
Please check our How to get here page or with the organiser to find out if there are any agreed special arrangements for parking.
Persons associated with the University by partnership or have a tenancy agreement with the University and require parking on a regular basis may be entitled to an Associate Permit to Park
Government Blue Badge holders can park for free at any time within any marked bay when displaying their blue badge (with the exception of reserved bays).
The Government Blue Badge must be clearly displayed in the windscreen of the vehicle at all times.
If the holder of the blue badge is a member of staff or student then they must apply for a permit and display their blue badge.
Visit our accessibility webpage for more information.
From the 17th September 2022: Our Pay and Display machines will be coinless.
All payments must be via contactless card or by phone using the instructions displayed in the car parks.
Any visitor to Canterbury Campus who has not been issued with a pre-arranged parking permit should use the Pay and Display Car Parks.
There are 5 visitor car parks on campus that accept visitor P&D tickets.
See Canterbury car park map (PDF) for locations of Pay & Display car parks.
Each of these car parks has a P&D machine that accepts contactless cards and pay by phone by calling 0330 400 7275 and pressing * to set up an account.
Visitors may park in marked bays within all P&D and Permit car parks for free
Space is limited and we are unable to offer parking on campus, unless it has been prearranged as described above.
Parking enforcement is in operation at all times.
All persons must adhere to the Regulations for the Management of Traffic when using University of Kent private land.
Please check out our How to Get Here page or the directions page .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/research/eastern-arc:
A partnership of equals
Eastern Arc is a regional research consortium between the universities of Kent, East Anglia, Essex and Sussex built on a shared history of radicalism and interdisciplinarity.
We are known for the quality of our world-leading research, for the emphasis we put on rigorous and creative education, for our regional engagement, and for our global outlook.
Together, the consortium enables strong collaborations in key areas of common strength, and provides a platform for addressing the needs and opportunities of our regional and our global community.
Explore collaborative research opportunities, find out about forthcoming events, celebrate our successes, discover special interest stories, and much more.
Find out about our research themes and champions, how to access shared archives and collections, and catch up with all of our events.
Discover the themes in which our three universities share clear strengths.
Our Thematic Champions work in a diverse range of disciplines across the Eastern Arc.
Find out about our outstanding art collections, rare archives and unique repositories.
Access online debates, discussions and information events that support our research and innovation.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/graduate-researcher-college:
We support and challenge Postgraduate students at Kent
We work with UK Research Councils across all research disciplines at Kent
We provide a wide range of training opportunities for taught and research students at Kent
Come and see Kent for yourself at our Open Events
All the information you need as a postgraduate researcher.
Career development training for postgraduate students and staff who research.
Learn about all PG opportunities available to you while at Kent.
Find out what's going on at the Graduate and Researcher College.
Support and guidance for postgraduate students.
Information and tools to support PhD supervisors during their supervision journey.
View postgraduate courses at Kent.
Want to know more about studying at Kent?
The Graduate and Researcher College has been extremely supportive; from the friendly and helpful staff to the amazing range of workshops and networking opportunities they offer.
Find out how we support and challenge Postgraduate students, and Academic and Research staff
Click on the video to learn more

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/research-phd/find-a-supervisor:
Postgraduate research at Kent can take place in any subject area our academic staff are able to supervise.
Use the button below to search our website by staff member and keyword.
It is also possible to be supervised by an academic belonging to a different school to the one running your programme, if their expertise matches your research interests.
Click the button below to search our website by staff member and keyword.
Click the apply button on the programme you want to study.
There is no fixed deadline for applications to research degrees but we advise you to apply as soon as possible.
For full details on the application process, see our how to apply pages.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/graduate-researcher-college/doctoral-training-partnerships:
The Graduate and Researcher College supports its postgraduate research community with training and development opportunities, assisting with the development of Doctoral Training Partnership applications, negotiating research contracts and supporting students post award.
The University of Kent is proud to be partners with like-minded, research-intensive institutions through several Doctoral Training Partnerships in the Arts, Sciences and Social Sciences.
Advanced Research and Innovation in the Environmental Sciences (ARIES).
Consortium for the Humanities and the Arts South-East England (CHASE).
The Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC).
South Coast Biosciences Doctoral Training Partnership (SoCoBio).
South-East  Doctoral Training Arc in the Social Sciences (COMING SOON)

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global/partnerships:
Kent is proud of its strong international collaborations supporting education, research and innovation
Find out more about how to set up a partnership, access international funding opportunities, or undertake a teaching or training experience abroad
Useful Information and resources for our current partners, as well as support for prospective partners interested in building a relationship with Kent
Explore our range of study abroad and virtual exchange opportunities for Kent students, as well as our support for international short term students
The University’s Internationalisation Strategy focuses on enhancing our global presence, profile and esteem through a wide range of activities which encompass student/staff exchanges, visiting faculty, dual awards, joint research, enterprise activities and progression arrangements.
International Partnerships supports the University in realising its strategic objectives through deepening international partnerships with institutions that share Kent's founding principles and values.
Find out more about us, our strategy, our team and activities.
The University of Kent has partnerships across Africa, Asia Pacific, Europe, North America and South America, supporting student and staff exchange, dual and joint awards, as well as research and enterprise collaboration.
International Partnerships plays a pivotal role in positioning the University of Kent's international impact as it seeks to drive forward to meet its strategic aims and objectives.
Get more from your degree!
Find out how you can internationalise your student experience - including how to go abroad as part of your degree, take part in virtual exchange, participate in the GOLD programme and find support as an international short-term student.
Making the choice to study abroad is something I will never forget, or regret.
The opportunities that have arisen for me have been amazing, socially and academically.
Discover more about International Partnerships' role and strategy
Stay up to date with our latest activities, news and events
Please feel free to contact us with any questions or queries
@UniKentGlobal | Stay connected to internationalisation activity at the University of Kent

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/strategy/engagement-impact-and-civic-mission:
We are determined to build on this to meet local, national and international need.
Our Kent 2025 strategy highlights ours initial aims to ensure that we are a civic university.
We've since published our mid-term review which looks at where we are and what the next steps will be.
Our Centre for Higher and Degree Apprenticeships , is just one of our exemplars of regional contribution and impact.
Contribute actively and substantially to their health, wellbeing, priority and success.
and research and innovation, drawing out synergies and inspiring new perspectives and novel approaches that benefit all our communities.
Communicate an exciting and evidenced narrative of the University’s significant contribution to our community.
including local authorities, NHS Trusts, schools and colleges to deliver an ambitious programme of positive change for the people of Kent and Medway.
through enhanced volunteering opportunities, global experiences – both real and virtual.
This will reflect the fact that these values and this engagement represent lifetime commitments of the University towards our alumni.
The new Institute of Cultural and Creative Industries will bring people together to create the future, putting us at the heart of cultural regeneration in the region.
Professor Catherine Richardson
Kent and Medway Medical School (KMMS) is an exciting collaboration between the University of Kent and Canterbury Christ Church University which will inspire the next generation of medical professionals.
Professor Chris Holland

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/accommodation/offer-guarantee:
Make Kent your home
If you apply for accommodation through Clearing and firmly accept your offer to study at Kent , you'll be guaranteed a room on campus or at Pier Quays*!
*Medway students will only be guaranteed accommodation at Pier Quays.
Finding the right place to live is one of your biggest decisions when starting university.
That’s why we’re proud to offer a guarantee of accommodation for all eligible students who apply for accommodation by the deadline.
Let’s walk you through how it works!
If you're a foundation, undergraduate, postgraduate, or international student, you could be eligible for a guaranteed accommodation offer when you apply to study at Kent and make us your firm choice.
Here's how it works:
*See more information below
***Medway students will only be guaranteed accommodation at Pier Quays.
Download a copy of the eligibility criteria
You'll need to apply for accommodation between 1 November and mid-December ( the deadline will depend on your course ) to ensure you receive a room offer before the University closes in December.
We have extended our guarantee to include all students starting in January.
If you apply by 8 December we will contact you about your room offer before the University closes for the Christmas break on 20 December 2024.
Students who apply after this date are guaranteed a room offer, however, you will not receive an offer until the beginning of January 2024.
We have accommodation set aside for students who will be studying with us for less than 9 months , with contract lengths to match your course dates.
Whether you're applying for accommodation at Canterbury or Medway, it's best to apply for your accommodation early and make Kent your firm choice to secure your preferred room.
The Canterbury campus offers a variety of room types, subject to availability.
Students who apply for accommodation by 31 March, are guaranteed their chosen room type once they have firmly accepted their offer.
Don't worry if you missed this first deadline!
All students who apply to Canterbury or Medway by 30 June 2025 are guaranteed on-campus accommodation (off-site at Pier Quays for Medway students), provided you are a full-time student.
No deposit is required – just choose your room and apply!
As an international student, you are guaranteed accommodation when you make Kent your firm choice and apply by 31 March or 30 June 2025 .
The Canterbury campus offers a variety of room types, subject to availability, but if you apply for accommodation by 31 March, you’ll also be guaranteed your chosen type once you've firmly accepted your offer.
All international students who apply to Canterbury or Medway by 30 June 2025 are guaranteed on-campus accommodation (off-site at Pier Quays for Medway students), provided they are full-time students.
No deposit is required – just choose your room and apply !
Plan ahead for next year without the stress!
All Medway students and the first 1,500 returner applications for Canterbury are guaranteed an accommodation offer of accommodation - just apply by 19 January 2024.
Returning student application pages will open in mid-January, so mark your calendars!
Register your interest in returning student accommodation before Sunday 5 January 2025 to gain 24-hrs early access to our accommodation application pages!
Returning international students are guaranteed accommodation for all years of study, providing they apply for returning student accommodation by the deadline.
For guaranteed returning student accommodation for September 2025, international returning students must apply by 19 January 2025.
Returning student application pages open in mid-January—don’t miss out!
Clearing students who firmly accept their offer to study at Kent and apply for accommodation are guaranteed a room on the Canterbury campus or at Pier Quays .
Students applying to the Medway campus will only be guaranteed accommodation at Pier Quays, a short walk from the Medway campus.
If you're planning to start in September, our accommodation application pages open in mid-January each year.
For courses starting in January , the application pages open in early November .
Meet the relevant criteria and submit your application before the deadline (31 March or 30 June), and you’ll be guaranteed a room offer.
Be sure to check our application timeline to know exactly what to expect and when.
Make sure you tick that box on your Clearing application which says 'I'd like accommodation' .
There is no need to apply for accommodation separately.
Whether you want to cook for yourself or have your meals included, live in a modern flat or in a shared house, we have the right room for your university experience.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/sports/membership/free-membership:
For all first-year Kent students
When you join Kent as a first-year student, you'll automatically be given free Kent Sport membership for use in:
Sport at Kent makes up a huge part of many students' lives.
Hear from some of our students about how they balance university life and the sports they love.
Whether you love keeping fit, or just starting your fitness journey, there are loads of opportunities to get active with Kent Sport, all included within your free membership.
Whether you're a gym bunny or a complete beginner, you can reach your goals with our split-level, fully-equipped gym and fitness spaces.
With over 70 group exercise classes each week during term time, you're bound to find a group exercise class to suit you.
Or try something new and find your next passion!
No experience or equipment needed!
Our ALL Active programme is perfect for those just starting out or looking to try a new sport.
Get discounts on a range of health and fitness services such as Personal Training, Physiotherapy, and Sports Massage with our qualified teams.
Join a student sports club as part of Kent Students' Union.
There's more than 60 clubs on offer and no experience is needed to join.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/news/cyber-security-digital-technology-and-communication/34740/kent-re-recognised-as-academic-centre-of-excellence-in-cyber-security-research-ace-csr:
Kent has been re-recognised by the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC, part of GCHQ) and the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC, part of UKRI) as an Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Research (ACE-CSR).
The recognition extends the University’s previous recognition from 2018 until 2023 and will last until January 2029.
The re-recognition was the result of a competitive process which led to 21 UK universities recognised as ACEs-CSR.
Kent remains the only one in the South East England region covering Kent, Medway, Essex and Sussex.
The new ACE-CSR re-recognition, and the University’s other recognition as an Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Education (ACE-CSE), makes Kent one of only eight UK universities with double ACE recognitions.
This demonstrates Kent’s excellent research profile in cyber security, represented by interdisciplinary research activities led from the university-wider Institute of Cyber Security for Society (iCSS) .
Responding to the re-recognition, Professor Shujun Li , Professor of Cyber Security and Director of iCSS, said: ‘We are very glad to see the University being re-recognised as an ACE-CSR for another five years.
A unique strengthen of our cyber security research is our work being truly interdisciplinary, drawing on the expertise of over 80 academics from computer science and 13 other academic schools covering a wide range of disciplines in engineering, physical sciences, social sciences, arts and humanities.
In the next five years, we will work to ensure that our research will make real-world impacts to benefit people, organisations and the whole society, including fostering next-generation cyber security researchers with an interdisciplinary mindset.’
Professor Shane Weller, Deputy Vice-Chancellor of Research and Innovation, said: ‘I am delighted that the University continues to be acknowledged as an Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Research by the Government and the EPSRC.
The Institute has been building upon its reputation to deliver high-quality research that is impacting very positively on society in a world where the need for cyber security continues to grow.
It is very encouraging both for colleagues in the Institute and for the wider University to see the quality of our research in this area being recognised in this way.’
iCSS was established in January 2021 to coordinate all cyber security related activities of the whole University across all disciplines, with a focus on promoting interdisciplinary research activities.
It is the successor of the former Kent Interdisciplinary Research Centre in Cyber Security (KirCCS) and expands KiCCS’s activities from mainly research into other areas including education, innovation, school outreach, public engagement and wider impact.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/news/right-to-food/34638/5-ways-kent-research-is-revolutionising-our-food-systems:
As a Right to Food university , Kent is committed to supporting food systems that advance human health and environmental sustainability in society.
This starts with Kent research.
Our research community is collaborating with local growers, producers, policymakers and wider industry to achieve real change with global impact, and has partnered with Growing Kent and Medway to support horticultural and plant-based food and drink businesses through our Biotechnology Hub .
Together, we’re making our food systems more:
It’s widely accepted that we need to reduce waste to limit our impact on the environment – but doing so often isn’t financially or practically viable.
To tackle this, Kent researchers are working with local producers to find commercially viable ways to shift towards a more circular economy.
For instance, Senior Lecturer in Chemistry and Forensic Science, Dr Rob Barker and Reader in Molecular and Evolutionary Parasitology, Dr Anastasios Tsaousis, are bringing the ancient technology, biochar, to the 21st Century , in collaboration with Re-Generation Earth , with the ambitions to turn farm waste into a carbon-locking soil fertiliser.
Another issue Dr Barker is helping to address is the economically and environmentally unsustainable import of two million tonnes of soymeal for animal feed into the UK each year.
How?
By optimising the use of black solider fly larvae as an alternative animal feed.
By feeding excess and spoilt fruit and veg to the larvae, producers can cut their waste and upcycle it into a more valuable source of protein that can be used as low carbon feed for animals and create a ‘waste’ product which acts as a bio stimulant for crops.
Meanwhile, in another lab in Kent’s School of Biosciences , Industry Research Fellow in Agri-Biotechnology, Dr Lori Fisher has been working with Sharpak Aylesham to reduce packaging waste.
She conducted tests which informed the development of a recyclable punnet that maintains and extends the quality of raspberries , without the need for the plastic pad that traditionally keeps fruit fresh.
This has the potential to reduce plastic waste by 3.6 meters squared a year!
In the UK, the costs of ill-health, disease and obesity associated with UK dietary habits are enormous, yet a large portion of society don’t follow the UK dietary guidelines for healthy eating.
To tackle this, Head of the School of Social Policy, Sociology and Social Research, Professor Iain Wilkinson , is working with researchers at the University of Reading to develop a blueprint for a set of policy interventions to support more people to transition to healthy and sustainable diets in the UK.
Professor Wilkinson will contribute to the project by designing, delivering and analysing the outcomes of an experiment which examines what people put in their supermarket food baskets from a dietary health and sustainability perspective.
Nutrition is also a major concern amongst older adults in home care, where diet is often not a matter of choice but what is made available.
Malnutrition and dehydration are leading causes of preventable illness and deterioration of quality of life for older adults, and major drivers of health inequalities.
Dr Stacey Rand , Senior Research Fellow in the Personal Social Services Research Unit , has been examining this relationship to inform how social care services meet the needs of older adults living at home.
Responding to growing consumer demand for healthy food, local producers are working with Kent researchers to better understand the nutritional content of their products and identify new market opportunities.
Dr Lori Fisher , for instance, has worked with J L Baxter & Son to explore the bioactive and nutrient compounds in the Asian pear (Nashi pear) to understand its health benefits and market potential.
Another project funded by Growing Kent and Medway saw Rent a Cherry Tree partner with Senior Lecturer in the Biology of Ageing, Dr Marina Escurra , and Reader in Biogerontology, Dr Jennifer Tullet , from the School of Biosciences to determine the health benefits of their cherry products -including those formerly considered ‘waste’- and identify new ways to market them.
The research team are now working with wine-makers, Defined Wine , to explore whether the waste from the wine-making industry can also be used to create new foods that improve health.
Dairy production is one of the biggest methane emitters in the world.
As a result, many people have switched to plant-based alternatives, leading to a huge growth in demand for plant-based milk, but less so for animal-free alternatives to cheese.
One reason for this is that alternative protein companies are not able to offer affordable and scalable solutions to casein -the main cheese protein- production, limiting their ability to mimic dairy taste and textures.
Professor of Systems Biology, Tobias Von Der Haar , and Professor in Fungal Epigenetics, Alessia Buscaino , are working to solve this by taking unconventional microbial species which are naturally more suitable for food production and genetically modifying them with the aim of producing casein in high quantities.
This could give rise to better tasting, more affordable plant-based cheese .
Climate change, disease and invasive species are all putting UK crops under stress.
Combine this with more stringent environmental regulations and the introduction of sustainable farming incentives, and it becomes clear why food-related businesses are increasingly looking to collaborate with researchers to develop new technologies.
One such researcher is Professor of Agri-Environmental Economics in the School of Economics , Iain Fraser , who is joining a world-class consortium of partners, led by agronomist Rob Saunders from H.L.
Hutchinsons , to develop a commercially viable system which can precisely target orchard inputs to specific trees, or parts of a tree.
Specifically, Iain will evaluate the difference between existing technology and new technology, which includes robots, drones and innovative chemical spraying systems.
Researchers in Kent Business School are taking a wider view of the food supply chain to identify opportunities to improve resilience.
In 2022, Professor Maria Paola Scaparra worked with Professor Kathy Kotiadis , Professor Jesse O’Hanley and partner universities to increase the use of operational research in food supply security planning in South East Asia.
Meanwhile, Lecturer in Marketing, Dr Rachel Duffy , has been examining the behavioural dimensions of supply chain relationships in the food industry, in particular, their implications for performance.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/news/sustainability-environment-and-natural-resources/34548/14m-for-kent-led-project-to-advance-recycling-of-rare-metals:
Kent bioscientist Professor Martin Warren is set to lead a national consortia which aims to use biology to recover and recycle rare earth elements after securing funding from UK Research and Innovation (UKRI).
The £14 million Engineering Biology Mission Hub for Environmental Processing and Recovery of Metals (ELEMENTAL) aims to address the growing need for critical minerals and metals in clean energy technologies and promote a circular economy.
Technologically critical metals, such as rare earth elements, cobalt, lithium and indium, pose significant challenges due to their limited availability and the environmental damage caused by their extraction.
Recycling these metals is crucial for reducing the demand for primary mining and minimising environmental impacts.
The ELEMENTAL project will tackle this problem by bringing together specialists from various UK institutions, including the University of Kent, Quadram Institute , University of East Anglia, University of Manchester, Durham University, Natural History Museum, University College London, University of Surrey and the University of York.
The project will see Professor Warren collaborate with partners to establish an open knowledge hub which aims to enhance ongoing projects related to mineral extraction, urban mining, industrial waste, and nuclear waste by leveraging engineering biology tools and approaches.
Examples include the use of microorganisms to extract metals (bioleaching) or break down contaminants in polluted water and land (bioremediation).
The project will also explore the potential of phytomining, where certain plants naturally accumulate metals and rare earth elements from the soil.
Professor Warren, Professor of Biochemistry and Royal Society Industry Fellow at Kent’s School of Biosciences , and Quadram Institute Chief Scientific Officer, said, ‘Our ELEMENTAL engineering biology mission hub focuses on potentially transformative technologies that can help us steward our precious resources and help build a circular economy.
We will take targeted approaches such as bioleaching, bioremediation, and biorecovery to address metal waste, rare earth elements (REE) and radionuclide waste, and metal scarcity.’
Professor Ian Charles, Director of the Quadram Institute, said, ‘We are delighted to be part of this major new collaborative mission hub.
Engineering biology might sound like the science of the future but our scientists are already using biological processes to develop E.
coli strains that are more environmentally friendly.
These are key new technologies we will need for a more sustainable world.’
Professor Shane Weller, Deputy Vice-Chancellor for Research and Innovation at Kent, said, ‘I am absolutely delighted at the success of this major collaborative funding bid to develop a mission hub focused on building a circular economy in the field of engineering biology.
This is a research area of very considerable strength at the University of Kent, and this funding will help us to contribute significantly to cutting-edge research in bioleaching, bioremediation and biorecovery.’

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/news/sustainability-environment-and-natural-resources/34456/world-leading-researchers-at-kent-to-drive-radical-shift-in-conservation-science:
Kent has won a prestigious Research England grant, worth £8.3 million, which will enable the Durrell Institute of Conservation Ecology (DICE) to answer urgent environmental questions of international importance.
The five-year project titled Sharing Space for Nature: enhancing the role of conservation areas in tackling current environmental crises is designed so that the world-leading DICE team can tackle three of the most important issues in conservation science; rewilding, the development of nature recovery networks and the role of community-managed conservation areas in global conservation.
The project comes from the realisation that we need a radical shift in how we imagine, design and implement successful and inclusive conservation solutions at the landscape and seascape level.
The Enabling Excellence in England (E3) grant will let DICE recruit 15 new posts, including three lectureships, over the next five years.
Led by Professor Bob Smith, Director of DICE, the team will build on existing local, national and international partnerships to explore three strands of research.
In collaboration with Kent Wildlife Trust , Canterbury County Council and the Wilder Blean Initiative , the project will deliver the first interdisciplinary research programme in England on new rewilding projects.
This will help restore nature, increase human well-being, support the local economy and link terrestrial and marine conservation areas.
A second strand will see DICE work with the South East Nature Partnership, Natural England and Defra to develop the UK’s first Community of Practice on designing conservation area networks in England using systematic conservation planning.
A third strand will develop a global-level, interdisciplinary research programme on new types of community-managed conservation areas.
For this, the team will work in collaboration with the UN Environment Programme World Conservation Monitoring Centre and a number of government, non-governmental organisations and academic partners from ten countries including Cameroon, England, Guyana, Indonesia, Mozambique and Nepal.
Shane Weller, DVC of Research and Innovation, said: ‘I am absolutely delighted at this major success for the Durrell Institute of Conservation and Ecology.
This award reflects the world-class research that is being undertaken by colleagues in conservation and ecology, and will enable us to build on our profile in this area, which is of vital importance regionally, nationally and internationally.’
Bob Smith added: ‘This E3 funding will be transformative and give DICE the capacity to make a real difference.
We are really looking forward to working with our existing collaborators and building new partnerships, providing the research and evidence we need to develop conservation area networks that benefit wildlife and people.’
The Expanding Excellence in England (E3) fund aims to support small and excellent research units in higher education providers to expand and increase their activity where they have potential to grow.
Founded in 1989, DICE is built on the recognition that interdisciplinary research has the most impact.
Their work breaks down silos between the natural and social sciences and goes beyond to address complex real-world conservation challenges.
The University of Kent was awarded a Queen’s Anniversary Prize in 2019 in recognition of DICE’s ‘pioneering education, capacity building and research in global nature conservation to protect species and ecosystems and benefit people’.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/sanctuary:
We are proud to announce that we have been awarded ‘University of Sanctuary’ status in recognition and celebration of our values and the work we do to exemplify a commitment to welcome people seeking sanctuary.
The Sanctuary Award means Kent joins a list of other prestigious Universities of Sanctuary – including our partners through the Eastern Arc research consortium whose upcoming conference will focus on themes related to migration and movement.
Professor Georgina Randsley de Moura, Acting Vice Chancellor at Kent said: ‘We are honoured by this award and proud to be part of a movement that stands for compassion, dignity, and inclusion.
As a university, we are committed to creating a place of safety and belonging for all."
Photos from when the Sanctuary Awards team visited Kent, where the panel learnt about the various initiatives, scholars and local partnerships that we have been supporting.
Find out how we are celebrating Refugee Week, with a performance from Projekt Encounter and a look at the recent series of workshops for students from Kent Refugee Action Network (KRAN).
Join us at the Canterbury Cathedral to celebrate the power of community with of number of events throughout the week.
After graduating from Kent Law School in 1999, Sian Summers-Rees has worked with refugees and asylum seekers and in her current role as Chief Officer for City of Sanctuary UK.
She champions cities and institutions to become places of welcome and inclusion for those seeking refuge.
We invite residents from Napier Barracks to campus, providing information on accessing higher education, as well as enjoying activities together such as gardening and sports.
We work with CARA (Council for At Risk Academics), who provide urgently-needed help to academics in immediate danger.
The Sanctuary Collective is a group of volunteers from across the University who seek to use their varied skills and work together to make a practical difference.
Student Action for Refugees society is a student-led organisation that advocates for refugee rights and seeks to welcome refugees and asylum seekers on campus.
A fee waiver and maintenance grant allows some refugees and asylum seekers the opportunity to receive a University of Kent education.
Staff and students have been involved in delivering legal information workshops to asylum seekers.
Together with Sussex, Essex, and East Anglia, we are collaborating on joint research projects, events and ideas to bring our communities together.
We collaborate with Kherson State University in Ukraine to support an institution deeply impacted by the ongoing war.
Would you like to collaborate on our Sanctuary initiatives?
Email us to work together, or give us feedback at engagement@kent.ac.uk.
We work with businesses and charitable organisations in the area help us to unite our voices and resources to work towards greater social justice.
Student Refugee Week, from the 17th-21st March is an opportunity for students to galvanise and engage with the issues during term time and immerse themselves in stories of lived experience.
Actors for Human Rights (AFHR) bring Ice and Fire to Kent to perform ‘Asylum Monologues’; first-hand accounts of the people who have experienced the UK’s asylum system.
A free community engagement programme for refugees, asylum seekers, and first-generation migrants in Kent, returning for a second year at the University of Kent.
The Kent Refugee Action Network Oral History Archive at the Templeman Library launched in celebration of the twenty year anniversary of KRAN.
Extracts will be made available online.
Get inspired by Makomborero Haruzivishe , a Zimbabwean refugee, who is a Sanctuary scholar studying law and politics at Kent.
The workshops and performance centred around the theme of change, navigating multiple languages and cultures.
Theatre-makers and Kent alumni, Francisca Stangel & Tom Tegento, led this project with support from the School of Arts’ staff and students.
In the words of Sanctuary Scholar graduate Ky, 'By donating, you’re not just funding education; you’re nurturing resilience, ambition, and hope.
You’re empowering someone to grow into a person who, in turn, will help others in need, creating a ripple effect of positive change.
Your generosity doesn’t just change one life; it inspires countless others to dream, achieve, and give back' .
Anonymous Emeritus Professor John Baldock Colyer-Fergusson Charitable Trust Craig Reader Hardy Family Foundation Mrs Elisabeth Hirons Professor Janet Montefiore Stagecoach Southeast Walker Construction Charitable Trust Peter Willis
And everyone who has ever made a gift to Kent Sanctuary Fund.
These young people have already experienced more challenges than most of us could even imagine.
Supporting them to pursue their ambitions and talents in higher education is a privilege.'

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/right-to-food:
WE STAND FOR THE RIGHT TO FOOD.
All of us have the right to healthy and affordable food.
Being able to eat regular, fresh and nutritious meals each day is fundamental
to our health and wellbeing.
Like others working in this area, we at Kent want to see a
world where no one goes hungry, where we develop sustainable food sources for
all, and where nutrition is accessible to everyone, wherever they are and
whatever their means.
We have committed to become a Right to Food University.
In adopting this basic human right, we commit ourselves to promote food justice, tackle food poverty and transform our food system so that it operates to advance human health and an environmentally sustainable society.
Working in partnership with The Food Foundation , we will adopt measures to protect its students and staff from food insecurity.
Our Canterbury and Medway campuses will be places where the right to food is realised in practice - in student kitchens, canteens, the university estate, the courses on offer and through research collaborations.
We will ensure that the food served on our campus supports
health, wellbeing and environmental sustainability.
We will be devoted to using
food to create a caring university culture and to embed food issues within our
research and teaching.
More than this, we will track our progress carefully so that
we learn as we go and tell our story to our region, the higher education sector
and the rest of the world.
A commitment to realising the right to food entails a
commitment to human wellbeing.
It calls on us to learn together about how to
build a strong and fair society and how to set this in practice.
This will be
our mission for Kent both as a place of learning and as a region committed to
the care of its citizens and their futures.
We won the “Benefitting Society” Award at the 2024 Green Gown Awards in recognition of our work as the world’s first Right to Food University.
This award recognises the powerful and innovative ways that education institutions are realising their purpose in society to benefit the lives of individuals, communities and wider society.
Singling out Kent in this category, the judges said that the Right to Food is: ‘A very well thought out and planned programme, addressing a critical societal issue at present'.
We will deliver on our Right to Food commitment through our four missions:
Putting the Right to Food on the World Stage
Transforming Food Systems through teaching and research
Tackling food insecurity, while promoting a healthy and sustainable food community at the University
Addressing food inequality in our region
The Right to Food launch was covered
by a variety of national, sector and regional outlets, including the Sunday
Times, BBC
Online , BBC South East, BBC Breakfast News, KMTV ,
KMFM, Kent Online, along with various other regional broadcast and print
outlets, focussing on the support systems in place at the university to help
students during the cost-of-living crisis.
Higher education title, Wonkhe ,
also ran an op-ed piece on the wider community and research-led aspects of
Right to Food, which detailed how universities are best positioned to tackle
food insecurity from their place within communities and academic expertise.
Our pioneering work also featured in TUCO Magazine , with a piece exploring our role as the UK's first Right to Food university.
It details our dedication to promoting food justice, tackling food poverty, and creating a sustainable food system on both Canterbury and Medway campuses.
Watch this video from KMTV on Kent's Right to Food Initiative.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/news/engagement/33635/kent-joins-other-local-organisations-in-historic-pledge-to-transform-medway:
Organisations in Medway united on Monday 11 July to sign an agreement that will help drive social and economic change in the area.
The One Medway Charter, signed by eight organisations, including Medway Council, the three universities at Medway, Mid-Kent College, two NHS organisations and the Chatham Historic Dockyard Trust, commits the organisations to work together to exploit opportunities and address challenges in  priority areas including: Business and the Economy, Education and Skills, Health and Wellbeing, Sustainability and the Environment, and Arts and Culture.
It is the first time all these organisations have come together with a shared vision and objectives.
In other parts of the country where similar Civic Agreements have been signed – including Manchester , Exeter , Nottingham , Derby and Leicester – real and tangible benefits are being  delivered for the people of those cities and regions.
Signing the One Medway Charter at a ceremony on board HMS Gannet at the Royal Historic Dockyard Chatham today, the leaders of the organisations also pledged, as one of the first steps, to engage with the people of Medway to understand what they feel the local priorities should be.
Their ideas will inform an action plan that will look to create jobs, drive economic recovery through increased investment in the area, help our communities to flourish, support progression into vocational and higher education, enhance health and wellbeing and address the climate crisis locally.
The One Medway Civic Charter builds on recent successes for Medway including securing funding of £14.5m from central Government under the Levelling Up Fund for projects that will reinforce the area’s growing reputation as a regional creative and cultural hub and one that will attract significant additional investment for the local economy.
Other successes include £4m from the National Lottery Heritage Fund and £3.5m Community Development Funding for the Docking Station, £9.5m from the Future High Street Fund, £3.2m for the Heritage Creative Quarter, £9m for Strood town centre, and £4m Chatham placemaking works.
The Civic Charter looks to build on this success by bringing organisations together to develop a shared programme that will bring direct benefits to the people and communities of Medway.
Other organisations, both private and public sector, will be invited to become involved as the work evolves and priorities emerge.
Kent Vice-Chancellor Professor Karen Cox joined the leaders of the two other Medway universities – Canterbury Christ Church and the University of Greenwich saying: ‘We are proud to have been working together at Medway for 20 years to deliver opportunities to local people to become highly skilled and highly talented graduates to support the local economy.
There’s always more we can do and this agreement gives us a means of hearing directly from the people of Medway about what the next 20 years could look like.
We are delighted to be part of that continuing conversation.’
The new Leader of Medway Council, Cllr Vince Maple, said: ‘This is an important moment when organisations from a range of sectors are saying that they believe in Medway and in their responsibilities towards its people.
Our priority will be to work together, to listen and to take action that will change lives.
This Civic Charter is a strong vote for Medway and I couldn’t be more proud that we have made this pledge today.’
Simon Cook, Principal and Chief Executive of MidKent College and Chair of the Medway Place Board, say: ‘No organisation can solve problems in isolation – we need to work together to find creative and long-lasting solutions to complex challenges.
While there’s plenty of hard work to be done, this Charter is an important first step in reaffirming our commitment to do everything we can in partnership for the good of Medway and its communities.’
Jo Palmer, who chairs the Medway and Swale Health and Care Partnership, representing health and care organisations, said: ‘The NHS and other care services in Medway provide vital services for our citizens, and are also the biggest employers in the area.
I am therefore delighted to support this Civic Charter which I believe will be a powerful tool for transformation.’
To respond to the survey and take part in the open consultation process, please click here

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/kent-business-school/news/15656/as-a-new-business-our-marketing-activity-needs-to-be-exciting:
A typical day in the life of KBS Alum George Edgar, UK Brand Manager for Gorillas
George Edgar studied BSc Marketing, Management and Finance at Kent Business School and now works as UK Brand Manager for delivery supermarket business Gorillas.
Gorillas launched in Germany and is an on-demand supermarket delivery company that promises to deliver within minutes of ordering through their app.
The business has experienced hyper growth over the past 2 years and is the fastest growing unicorn in Europe.
Gorillas has raised over $1.2BN in 2 years and served many millions of customers across 9 markets.
Here, as part of our regular Working Day alumni feature George talks us through a typical 24 hours working for a fast-growing digital business…
“I get up at 6.30am and cycle or get the train straight to the gym in Shoreditch.
Doing cardio and weights gets my brain focused, plus health and fitness is important to me.
After a shower, I head to my office in Shoreditch, a vibrant and lively part of East London and a great place to work.
The first important job is to check daily performance figures.
As an app, we are able to crunch down data into locations and personal attributes of users.
East London and Brixton are current locational hotspots, where there are lots of young professionals or graduates.
In areas like Maida Vale, we get most business from those with young families, particularly around the school run times or after work.
I manage a small team, so mornings involve checking in with my staff.
They might be involved in anything from a content shoot with one of our partners like The Felix Project, (a foodbank we are working with to fight food waste) to coordinating ad-hoc campaigns or putting together presentations on our activity.
As their manager, it’s important that I deal with any concerns and ensure they are prepared and on task.
As a new business, at Gorillas our marketing activity needs to be interesting and exciting.
On a daily basis the team and I will brainstorm unique ways to get noticed.
“We focus a lot on ‘experiential marketing’ ideas that get word of mouth promotion.
One idea we ran with was the printing and delivering of paper door hangers with the words ‘Need a little magic?
Put this outside your door tonight’ to 5,000 houses in Putney.
Anyone who followed the instructions and hung it on their front door got a Gorillas branded goody box!”
I try to take lunch during the day, and I encourage my team to do the same and get away from the desk.
Whitecross food market is close to the offices, so sometimes I will treat myself to some streetfood and a wander round.
Most days it’s leftovers from the night before and some fresh air.
Afternoons are often spent in meetings with media agencies creating and finalising creative campaigns for TV, radio and online and also media buyers to plan and build strategy for advertising.
Shows such as Love Island or Bake Off are great platforms for us to promote on and a recent advertisement during Bake Off saw our baking related orders increase by hundreds of percent.
My role is heavily focused on above the line media and ensuring it is on brand and performing well.
Our growth function is in Berlin and the research team who do all our brand analytics and reports are there, so most days I will work with them to highlight key media channels that have the strongest performance.
I am not one to work a typical nine to five, often there’s a campaign to launch so I will always stay until the finer details are done.
This job is also social and we are lucky to have brand nights on a regular basis where the team get to sample new partners products we sell through the app and have a bit of a party – it’s great team building and a good way to get to know what we are promoting.
Even though we’re a start-up, our MD sets the standard that we need to switch off and have time to ourselves once we’re done.
I love watching sport in the evening and play for a local rugby team once a week, too.
I am lucky that a lot of my friends live close by in London who I often meet up with in the evening to socialise.
Before bed, I listen to podcasts on topics in business and sport, my favourites being How I Built This , Secret Leaders and The High-Performance Podcast.”
Read about Gorillas’ award winning online ad here (you can watch the video above).
Kent Business School Alumni is a globally connected community of 23,000 innovative, entrepreneurial, and ethical students with the foresight to inspire future generations.
This is a repurposed version of a blog post and may differ from the original.
View the original blog post .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/news/sustainability-environment-and-natural-resources/36927/kent-achieves-silver-green-meetings-award:
We are delighted to have achieved a Silver Green Meetings award in recognition of our commitment to sustainability and action to deliver sustainable conferences and events on our Canterbury and Medway campuses.
The silver certification, overseen by Green Tourism , has been awarded to Kent’s event management service and the Darwin Conferencing Suite following action to raise the University’s sustainability standards.
Examples include:
This holistic approach to sustainability is reflected in the award criteria which assesses the three pillars of caring for people, places and the planet.
The criteria takes into account accessibility, inclusion and community engagement alongside operational areas such as energy & water efficiency, waste reduction and sustainable travel.
Following this major achievement, the Conferencing and Events and Sustainability teams will be implementing recommendations from their assessment to further advance their sustainable event offerings with an aspiration to achieve Gold.
The Sustainability team also plan to share their learnings from this award and create sustainable events guidance that can be used for all events across the university.
Sustainability Manager, Catherine Morris, said: ‘This award is a fantastic recognition of the work that’s been going on behind the scenes to make our events, and our university, more sustainable.
It shows how collaboration across departments can create real impact, and it highlights the University’s ongoing commitment to environmental and social responsibility.’
Sandra Heyworth, Sales Manager for the Conferences and Events team, said: ‘It has been a privilege to work through the extensive required actions to provide clients with the sustainable service they have been asking for.
This accreditation will enable us to support a wider range of organisations which prioritise sustainability and a reduction in environmental impact, with whom we are determined to work towards achieving a gold accreditation through further action that benefits our university community, the region, and the planet.’

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/news/kentlife/36949/impactful-individuals-receive-honorary-degrees-in-kents-class-of-2025-graduations:
Singer-songwriter and record producer, PinkPantheress, and renowned author, Sir Michael Morpurgo MBE are amongst eight influential figures who are receiving an honorary degree from Kent this week.
The doctorates are being awarded during Kent’s Class for 2025 graduation ceremonies at Canterbury and Rochester cathedrals.
Those who have received their honorary degrees so far this week for their outstanding contributions to society and within their respective fields are:
Angela Cohen MBE gives her acceptance speech
Prashant Baluja receives his honorary degree from Kent’s Chancellor YolanDa Brown
At the end of his speech, Sir Michael gave a rendition of ‘The Year Turns Round Again’, a song from the national stage production of War Horse
PinkPantheress receives her honorary degree from Kent’s Chancellor YolanDa Brown
Iain Dale gave an encouraging speech to his fellow graduands in Canterbury Cathedral.
Dr Giles Clark listens to the oration before his doctorate is conferred
John Platt gives his acceptance speech after receiving his honorary degree

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/news/education/36732/kent-rises-to-top-50-in-complete-university-guide:
We are delighted to report that the University has been ranked 49th out of 130 UK universities in the Complete University Guide league table 2026 – a rise of three places from last year.
This latest good news comes at the end of a strong academic year for Kent with the University having placed 40th i n The Times/Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025 – one of the biggest risers in the Guide, with a leap of 12 places from the previous year.
Kent was also shortlisted for ‘Higher Education Institution of the Year’ at the National Education Opportunities Network Awards 2025, and University of the Year at the inaugural Academic Employability Awards .
The latter was for our ground breaking work through Education Modernisation 2025 , which is transforming the student experience by placing employability at the heart of academic life.
The University also climbed 11 places to 33rd in RateMyPlacement’s Best Universities for Work Experience table 2025-2026 , reflecting the wide range of opportunities available to Kent students to gain real-world experience, develop key skills, and enhance their employability.
Other recent achievements include a Teaching Innovation Award for microbiologists Dr Emma Hargreaves and Dr Alexandra Moores from the School of Natural Sciences , who were awarded a prestigious 2025 Teaching Innovation Award for their work in supporting students’ transition to university and enhancing numeracy skills through targeted interventions.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/news/community/36996/meet-melissa-browne-leading-a-thriving-campus:
It’s 60 years since Kent was first established ‘on top of the hill’ above the city of Canterbury.
Since then, the university has expanded dramatically, now boasting a wide range of living and catering options, cutting-edge teaching and research facilities, a fully-equipped sports centre and even a cinema.
Together with the Medway campus at Chatham Historic Dockyard, it has a lot to offer Kent students, staff and the local community – and no one understands this better than Interim Director of Commercial Services and Estates (CS&E), Melissa Browne.
At Kent, my team sits at the centre of day-to-day campus life.
We look after everything from student accommodation , space planning, maintenance, sport and wellbeing , catering , housekeeping, transport and security — the essential services that help people live, learn, and work well.
What we do touches everyone on campus, and that’s something I never take for granted and I’m extremely proud of.
We’ve been really focused on making our spaces more welcoming, inclusive, and fit for purpose — so whether someone’s grabbing lunch, finding their way to a lecture, or just looking for a quiet place to sit, they feel like they belong here.
Our job is to create an environment where people can thrive — not just function — and that takes teamwork, care, and a constant eye on what our students and staff actually need.
I love hearing how we can improve things so please do not hesitate to let me know!
One of my favourite spaces on campus is the Kent Community Oasis Garden .
It’s such a welcoming and peaceful place, where students, staff, and the local community come together to grow food, support biodiversity, and look after their wellbeing.
I love how it connects people with nature and creates a sense of belonging and purpose.
Another spot I really treasure is the lawned area where you can see Canterbury Cathedral in the distance.
Every time I pass by, I find myself stopping for a moment to take in the view and think, ‘Wow, I work here.’ It’s such a grounding reminder of how special our campus is.
Melissa gives a speech introducing honorary graduate Pink Pantheress at a 2025 graduation ceremony in Canterbury Cathedral.
We’re working hard to make our services more inclusive and reflective of the students we serve.
That means thinking beyond just what’s on the menu — though we are doing that too, with our partners like Chartwells.
It’s about everything from making sure food options reflect different cultures and dietary needs, to ensuring our residential and academic spaces work for different lifestyles and circumstances.
We’re also improving how we listen.
The student voice has to be at the heart of what we do — and I’m clear with my team that we don’t just collect feedback; we act on it.
We’re starting to see real progress from cross-university groups like our Living Black at University working group, our Accessibility Working Group and Student Shapers, these initiatives which bring together students and staff from across Kent to improve the day-to-day experiences of those who haven’t always felt fully seen.
That collective approach is really powerful and it’s a vital step towards creating an inclusive, user-focused campus
Yes — and it’s one I take personally.
When I joined Kent as Deputy Director I was focused on engaging the team to build their confidence around compliance and culture.
Since then, as an overall department with the support of our Talent and Organisational Development team we have raised our mandatory and statutory training completion to 85%.
For me, safety isn’t just about systems and processes, it’s about creating an environment where people feel that they can share their concerns and risks.
Creating brave spaces and opportunities at work to speak up.
It’s about making sure everyone on campus — from new students to long-serving staff — feel looked after.
It’s about being proactive, not waiting for something to go wrong – we are working closely with the health and safety team to ensure we are aligned.
One saying I love is “care in action” — that’s what safety should feel like.
I love our campus, we have amazing spaces here and we want to share them.
Our campuses are used for so much more than student life: from language schools and summer conferences to local school partnerships, community events and sports hire.
This isn’t just about income generation (though that’s extremely important); it’s about being a good neighbour.
In CS&E we work hard to make sure the way we use and promote our spaces reflects both our commercial goals and our values — pride of place, civic responsibility, and meaningful partnerships with the people/organisations around us.
It’s something I’m really proud of — especially when I see the local community feeling just as at home on campus as our students do.
It’s a real privilege to do my job and work with such an amazing team.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/applicants/policies/access-and-participation-plan:
An access and participation plan sets out a university or college's fee limits and the access measures it intends to put in place, eg outreach work and financial support.
It is a technical, strategic document and so, if you are a student or prospective student, this is not the best place to find out what support you are entitled to or what fees you will be charged.
If you're looking for this kind of information, please look at our student finance site.
Here is the University's access and participation plan for 2024-25 to 2027-28, and our previous access agreements:

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/applicants/policies/transparency:
The information published on these pages shows:
The number of students who attained a particular degree or other academic award, or a particular level of such an award, on completion of their course with us.
It shows these numbers by reference to:
The data contained in the tables have been rounded and suppressed as follows:
Numerators and denominators have been rounded to the nearest 10.
Where the numerator or denominator rounds to 20 or less, the data suppressed with an "N".
Percentages are rounded according to the smallest, unsuppressed denominator in a given mode and characteristics.
If the denominator rounds to:
"N/A" is displayed where there is no provision in a given mode or level
"DP" indicated suppression for data protection reasons.
This is applied where the numerator is two or less, or differs from the denominator by no more than two students.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/working-at-kent:
Visit our careers page to see our latest opportunities or register for job alerts.
Discover who we are as an organisation and the dedication that drives us.
Everything you need to know as a new member of staff, before and after your first day.
Whether you join our research-led community of international academics or our team of talented professional services staff, this is an exciting time to build a career with Kent.
With our beautiful campus grounds, generous annual leave allowance & staff benefits, development opportunities and more, it's no surprise that we believe that Kent is a fantastic place to work.
Learn more about who we are as an organisation, what we do, and what benefits you have as an employee working at Kent.
Understand our Talent & Organisational Development vision and what we can offer you in terms of development opportunities.
Learn more about the wide range of excellent amenities and benefits available to you as a member of Kent staff.
Not sure how to get here?
Get directions to our campuses and how to make the most of your visit.
We have a vision.
To deliver one of the best education and student experiences in the UK, transforming lives and prospects.
How we use your information, ensuring that your data is protected.
Learn more about our Internationalisation Strategy, our global impact on education, engagement and research, and how you can get involved with our internationally-focused activities.
Read about our commitment to creating and supporting a balanced, inclusive and diverse community.
Our civic mission lies at the heart of who we are as a university.
Learn more about our drive for positive impact for our communities, from volunteering to our public events.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/fees-and-funding:
A £3,000 financial support package for eligible students across three stages of full-time study.
Our Sports Scholarship supports student athletes during their degree, through a range of exclusive benefits.
Musicians studying any subject can get a scholarship alongside contributions to instrumental / singing tuition with experienced teachers.
You may be eligible to apply for government funding to help with your tuition fees or the costs of studying.
We're here to support you with managing the cost of living.
Find out how we can help with tailored financial support, affordable meal options and access to essential technology.
For the 2025 cycle, UCAS is waiving the application fee for any student who is or has received free school meals (FSM) during the last six years, up until the end of their final year at school or college.
If you’re an eligible student, you can declare your FSM status in the ‘More about you’ section of your application and choose the ‘Pay Centre’ option when submitting your application.
Your school / college adviser will be able to guide you and they will need to review the application fee payment method in the UCAS Adviser Portal.
The Government announced on 4 November 2024 that tuition fees in England for Home students will increase to £9,535 from £9,250 for the academic year 2025/26.
This increase requires Parliamentary approval, which is expected to be given in early/mid 2025.
Tuition fees may be increased in the second and subsequent years of your course.
Detailed information on possible future increases in tuition fees is contained in the Tuition Fees Increase Policy .
Our tuition fees ensure the continued provision of high-quality teaching and first-class facilities for all our students.
Fees for 2025/26 entry can be found on our course pages.
To find out your tuition fees, simply follow the steps below:
Any university or college that wants to charge higher tuition fees for home/EU undergraduates must have an access and participation plan (formerly known as an access agreement) approved by the Office for Students.
Access and participation plans cover full-time students and (from 2012-13) part-time students studying at an intensity of at least 25% of a full-time course.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/feedback:
If your question is not about the website (eg a question about visiting, working with or applying to the University) please see our Contacts page.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/legal:
The University of Kent makes every effort to keep its web content up to date.
In addition, it asserts its ownership of material on the site (unless otherwise stated) but will consider re-use and re-publication on request.
Read the copyright in full
Read the disclaimer in full
More on linking to our website
We use cookies on our site to see how people use our site and to help provide enhanced services for members of the University and others who choose to sign-up or register for services.
The Freedom of Information Act 2000 gives a general right of public access to all types of ‘recorded’ information held by a public authority, subject to certain classes of exempt information.
The University is obliged to produce, adopt and maintain a publication scheme that sets out: the classes/type of information published, the form in which the information is published and details of any charges to be made for retrieval of information.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/applicants/policies/privacy-notice:
The University of Kent is registered as a Data Controller under registration number Z6847902.
View the full entry on the register
Throughout the notice, “University”, “we”, “our” and “us” refers to the University of Kent and “you” and “your” refers to those expressing an interest in becoming a student at the University either before or after making a formal application.
Your personal data is obtained:
Personal data we may collect about you in connection with your enquiry or application includes the following:
We will use your information in the following ways:
We will process your personal information for the purposes of:
We may also use the information provided for the following reasons:
Your information is used by relevant staff involved in admissions and student recruitment across the University, and may also be shared with other University departments to support the admissions process.
We need your data in order that steps can be taken to potentially create a student contract with you and perform our obligations under that contract.
We would be unable to process your application to the University without it.
It is also required for compliance with legal obligations and for tasks performed in the public interest as part of our role of being a teaching and research institution (such as analysis and research into applications, admissions, underrepresented groups and qualifications).
We need your data in order that we can answer your enquiry or facilitate your event booking, prior to potentially entering into a student contract with you.
We would be unable to process your request to the University without it.
It is also required for tasks performed in the public interest as part of our role of being a teaching and research institution (such as analysis and research into the enquiries we receive and event bookings made).
When you provide the University of Kent with your information, we process that information because:
Sometimes we process your data in the pursuit of the legitimate interests of the University or an external organisation (eg to send promotional information relating to studying at the University).
Where processing relates to special category data we will process based on your explicit consent, or because processing is substantially in the public interest.
The University may pass your data to third party organisations who carry out services under contract.
We will ensure that any data transferred is proportionate and relevant.
We will ensure that contractual agreements exist to ensure compliance with data protection regulations and that data is used solely under our instruction.
In these circumstances personal data shall be deleted after the contract has terminated.
Sometimes it is necessary for your personal information to be shared with third parties for the purpose of providing the service, assessing your application, for research or for statutory reasons.
The University of Kent shares student information with the Electoral Registration Officer at the local council.
The local councils use this information to keep the Electoral Register accurate and up to date and as such it has a positive effect on the numbers of  students engaging in democratic participation.
For more information please see Canterbury City Council’s Privacy Notice or Medway Council’s Privacy Notice .
When it is necessary for us to transfer your personal information across national boundaries to a third party processor, such as one of our service providers, we will ensure this safeguards your personal information by requiring such transfers are made in compliance with all relevant data protection laws.
Please be aware of the following rights, and further information that is necessary to ensure fair and transparent processing.
For further guidance regarding your rights please see the ICO website .
1.
The period for which the personal data will be stored, or if that is not possible, the criteria used to determine that period:
2.
The existence of the right to request from the controller, access to and rectification or erasure of personal data or restriction of processing concerning the data subject or to object to processing as well as the right to data portability:
3.
Where the processing is based on point (a) of Article 6(1) or point (a) of Article 9(2), the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time, without affecting the lawfulness of processing based on consent before its withdrawal:
4.
The right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority:
5.
Whether the provision of personal data is a statutory or contractual requirement, or a requirement necessary to enter into a contract, as well as whether the data subject is obliged to provide the personal data and of the possible consequences of failure to provide such data:
6.
The existence of automated decision-making, including profiling, referred to in Article 22(1) and (4) and, at least in those cases, meaningful information about the logic involved, as well as the significance and the envisaged consequences of such processing for the data subject:
If you have any questions or concerns about the way the University has used your data, or wish to exercise any of your rights, please consult our website .
For further assistance please contact datapro@kent.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/legal/cookies-at-the-university-of-kent:
Cookies are small text files stored on your computer or mobile device as you browse the web.
They allow websites to remember things about you when you move through a website and if you return at a later date.
A cookie is set by a particular website, and only that website will be able to retrieve or read the contents of that cookie - which will be sent by your computer on your return.
For example, if you log into a website, a cookie might store the information that you have logged in so it doesn't ask you on every page to login again.
A cookie might store preferences you have set on a website or tell the website you are someone who has visited the site before.
In addition, a cookie might be set to see how visitors use the site so the site's administrators can notice changes in user behavior and change content appropriately.
If you wish to restrict or block the cookies which are set by websites, you can do this through your browser settings.
The Help function within your browser should tell you how.
Alternatively, you may wish to visit knowcookies.com which contains comprehensive information on how to do this on a wide variety of browsers.
You will also find details on how to delete cookies from your computer as well as more general information about cookies.
For information on how to do this on the browser of your mobile phone you will need to refer to your handset manual.
The University of Kent sets the following cookies on most pages of the website, all of which are designed to make the overall experience of using the site better allowing us to see how users use our site and respond to this.
They allow us to make the University of Kent website easier to use and the content on it more useful.
They are set automatically as you move throughout our site.
The University of Kent sets the following cookies:
Staff, students, alumni and members of the public are sometimes requested to sign-up or log-in in order to use some of our online services.
In most cases when a visitor enters their username and password a cookie may be set identifying them as a logged in user.
This cookie is removed either when they log out, or when they have not visited the site for some time and therefore their login expires.
These systems are typically those that deal explicitly with personal data, transactions, purchasing or borrowing.
Though this cookie will identify the user as a specific person on the system, the University of Kent does not pass any information to market research companies, advertisers or other third parties.
This type of cookie is used in the following type of systems:

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/clearing/student-stories:
Hear from students who applied to Kent through Clearing.
These Kent students had different Clearing experiences.
Hear why they chose Kent and how they found the Clearing process.
Sin used Clearing to get his place at Kent after changing his mind twice!
Jazmine saw Clearing as a chance to shop around and found her place at Kent.
Lily shares her experiences of the Clearing process and how she has settled in.
I explained what grades I had and they were able to make me a verbal offer.
All I had to do after that was complete their online form to make an official application and that was it – my place was confirmed!

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/welcome/early-enrolment-benefits:
Whether you’ve decided to live on or off campus, we know you’ll want to explore around our wonderful campus locations!
You are
eligible if:
How to apply:
You are
eligible if :
How to apply :
We know you’ll be starting to make plans for travelling home.
We understand this can be costly, and wanted to let you know about our £50 travel credit which we’ve introduced to help with travel costs for students who live 100 miles or more from the University.
You are eligible if:
If your application is successful, we’ll transfer the £50 to your bank account in early December.
Complete this application form from Monday 18 August 2025.
Give our team a call on +44 (0)1227 766660 or send them an email at accomm@kent.ac.uk and they’ll be happy to help.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student/cost-of-living-support:
The University has a range of emergency financial support for students who are in financial difficulty.
You don't need to be in an emergency situation to apply for financial support.
Want to heat up leftovers to eat on campus, or make your own hot drink?
Check out all our campus lounges at our campuses.
See our top student tips for how to save money on your food shop.
KSU Campus Pantry provides short-term support to students in need of supplemental food.
The first time you use the service there will be no questions asked, just show your student ID.
The Kent Students' Union Advice Service can help with:
Most of our student events are free, so you don't need to miss out if funds are running low.
These include regular events run by our ResLife Team for students in on-campus accommodation, Kent Students' Union events and many other events from across the uni to help you connect with others and learn new skills.
All first year students and students who live on campus have free Premium Plus gym membership with Kent Sport.
Not eligible for free membership?
Don't worry - we have different gym membership options for every budget.
Financial strain can take a toll on your wellbeing.
See events and support to help boost your wellbeing.
We have a Cost of Living Taskforce who meet regularly to discuss issues around the increasing cost of living and to come up with solutions to benefit our students.
The Taskforce includes all of the Kent Students' Union Student Officer Team.
If you want to provide feedback or ideas about what we can do, please get in touch with your Kent Students' Union Officers.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/fluent-futures:
Our mission to provide free language tuition to step towards a more fluent future, fostering global communication and understanding.
Fluent Futures at the University of Kent is our project to expand the horizons of our community, offering all students the opportunity to learn languages such
as Mandarin, Japanese, Arabic, Spanish, French, Italian, German or Russian alongside their
degrees at no extra cost .
Fluent futures will be delivered by our Language Centre - a premier hub for
language learning and intercultural excellence, building on the University of
Kent’s vibrant international community.
At Kent, we want you to get the most out of your time with us.
We don't just want to inspire you to make the world a better place, we want to give you all the tools you need to make it happen and Fluent Futures is a part of that.
By gaining the skills to communicate across cultures and borders you will be able to graduate into a world full of opportunities and have the talent to take them, effecting change in the places you want to see it.
Ready to start your multilingual future for free?
Check out all your options at: Language Centre - University of Kent
If you have a passion for langauges for you can take it further with a Year in a Language.
Available after your second or third year, the course is run
in French, German, Italian, Japanese, Mandarin, and Spanish.
You will acquire
language skills and intercultural understanding that will open doors to both
local and global career opportunities, making you an true global citizen.
The Year In is an add-on to your degree and it is chosen by
students who want to immerse themselves in language and intercultural learning
without the need to go abroad.
Upon successful completion, your degree title
will showcase your chosen language specialisation, distinguishing you in your own
field of studies and work.
The Year in a Language, which entails an additional year of tuition fees, is a brilliant chance to invest in your future and boost your professional profile with enhanced language proficiency and cultural knowledge.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/clearing/student-stories/meet-lily:
BSc Biology
I was predicted A*, A*, A for my A Levels, so it was pretty big shock when I got BBC on results day!
I was very upset and disappointed.
I didn’t have an insurance choice because I’d convinced myself to apply for medicine and submitted my UCAS application before I realised it wasn’t what I wanted to do.
So, when I didn’t meet the grades, my only option was to use Clearing.
I took some time to go through things and went for coffee with my mum before heading back to my school to go through my options with my Head of Year.
Biology was my main focus but I was also interested in wildlife conservation, so I branched out a bit when it came to Clearing.
One of my favourite offers for biology came from Kent; it was only when I started the course that I realised it was also accredited by the Royal Society of Biology, which wasn’t the case at my firm choice uni!
It wasn’t long after I received my offers that staff in both the biology and wildlife conservation departments called me to ask if I had any questions about the course.
That made me feel as though I’d be studying at a very friendly and supportive uni.
And I wasn’t wrong!
During sixth form, I was diagnosed with several health conditions.
A short time after I'd accepted my place at Kent, their student support and wellbeing team had put together a provisional Individual Learning Plan for me.
Having that in place before I started gave me one less thing to worry about and allowed me to focus on getting ready for starting at uni.
My course is very content-heavy, but I really enjoy it.
The university is surrounded by nature, and near the sea, which were both major draws to my original firm choice.
I also prefer a campus university that’s near a city and the University of Kent is just that!
At the end of the day, a good degree is a good degree and if you enjoy where you study, that’s all that really matters.
Some schools and colleges can make you feel as though you have to go to certain universities because of their prestige, but they aren’t always the best for your course or for you as an individual.
Also, it’s easier said than done, but try not to worry.
Clearing can feel very daunting but there are lots of courses available and more time than you think to make decisions – don’t stress!

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/clearing/student-stories/meet-dora:
BSc Computer Science
‘I missed my firm choice by one grade!
I was predicted AAB but achieved ABB.
I knew my grades were still good, so I was keen to find a decent course in Clearing.
I’m not going to lie, I was a little bit stressed on results day, but then my brother told me that Kent was good for Computer Science; I headed to their website and the course was just what I was looking for.
I also looked into Kent’s Mathematics course, but I chose Computer Science mostly for its job prospects.
So, I called Kent’s Clearing hotline and spoke to an incredibly helpful person who passed me over to a professor in the Computer Science department who was also very reassuring.
Bearing in mind that some universities can't guarantee you a room if you go through Clearing, I put in an accommodation application as soon as I could and I was offered a returner room in Darwin College.
Returner rooms are typically for second or third-year students who'd like to continue living on campus, but as it didn’t matter to me that I wouldn't be with other first-years, I happily took the offer.
Being on campus is really convenient – I can slip out of bed five minutes before my lectures!
I’m coming to the end of my first year at Kent and I’ve had a great experience so far.
I've met really friendly people and there’s always a bunch of stuff happening around campus.
I’m big into the Creative Writing society which is where I've met quite a few of my friends.
I also like how flexible my course is; all my lectures are recorded, so if I can’t make it to one of them, or they’re particularly hard, I can watch them back!
My advice for anyone going through or considering Clearing is to keep an open mind.
Things might feel a bit bleak if you’ve hyped up a certain uni in your head, but at the end of the day, you’re still going to uni and you’ll have a great time.
I’m proof of that!

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/clearing/accepting-your-offer:
You've taken your first step to starting your Kent journey, the next step is accepting your Clearing offer.
You can check the conditions of your offer on your Kent Vision portal or get in touch on 44 (0)1227 768896 if you have any questions.
You might have already seen our Canterbury or Medway campus before, but it can't hurt to get a second look - especially as with our accommodation guarantee it could be your home by September!
If you want to really start to picture your life at Kent, our campus tours are your chance to make your future that bit clearer.
There is so much to get involved with at Kent, and we're here to make sure you have the best time.
Run by students, for students, Kent Students' Union is the
representative voice of all 20,000+ students who
study at Kent.
Leading, inspiring and empowering 
the student body this year is Union President 
Zaid Mahmood.
‘Our main purpose as Kent Students' Union is to provide the best possible student
experience and to prepare every single student for life after Kent.
We’re very active on the Canterbury and Medway campuses, from
supporting student groups and networks to running our big social
spaces such as the on-campus nightclub, The Venue; Woody’s Bar in
Park Wood, great for socials and watching sport; and the Library Café
which is a great little pit stop for nine-to-five studiers!
Above all, Kent students are our main priority.
We work hard to lobby and
campaign for change so that their views are represented at every level'
Follow us on socials and join the Official University of Kent Freshers 2024-25 Facebook group.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/clearing/clearing-visit-days:
We welcome all clearing applicants and enquirers as well as anyone who has not attended a recent open day.
Once our visit days are available to book, they will be published here, so check back!

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/applicants/undergraduate-applicants:
We don't need to tell you this is an incredibly exciting time, but it can also feel quite stressful!
Choosing which University you want to study at is a big decision.
So we want to make sure you have all the information you need to feel confident in making Kent your firm choice.
If you haven't yet made it to campus - or just want to take a second look - our Open Days and campus tours are a perfect chance for you to get a feel for campus life.
If you have a question, get in touch with us through your Kent Vision portal and our friendly team will be on hand to help.
We are sure you'll fit right in and do great things here at Kent, and we want to make sure you feel as confident in us, as we do in you.
Your time at university is about so much more than your degree.
Discover how our students go beyond the classroom and get inspired.
‘Our main purpose as Kent Students' Union is to provide the best possible student
experience and to prepare every single student for life after Kent.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/january-start:
Reach your potential with a postgraduate degree at Kent, a top 40 University in The Times Good University Guide 2025 .
Starting a postgraduate course in January gives you flexibility and a competitive edge in your academic and professional career.
The beginning of a new year gives you a chance to reflect and refine your priorities.
If it’s time to make a change, join us in January to align your studies with those new goals.
When you start in January you're no different to our other students.
You'll get all the support you need to enjoy your time and achieve your goals at Kent.
You'll be eligible for funding, accommodation and study support just as you would if you start in September.
We guarantee accommodation to all our students on January start programmes, visit our accommodation site to explore room options.
Unlike the traditional September intake , January start dates allow you to plan your studies around personal and professional commitments.
This gives you the opportunity to begin your education without waiting for the next academic year.
Starting your studies later could allow you to get a job and refine your career goals with work experience.
Taking a break will help you come back to your studies refreshed and ready.
A short break over the autumn months could help you to just take time out, volunteer or travel.
International students can even use this time to meet visa requirements.
January intakes often feature smaller class sizes, allowing for more personalised attention from faculty and fostering closer connections with peers.
Postgraduate study is a significant investment in your future that enables you to expand your knowledge, skills and career options.
We have devised a range of packages to ensure you have the necessary financial support.
Time is on your side
If you’ve just finished your undergrad studies, a January start programme gives you a little more time to prepare for your postgrad.
The cohort may be smaller too, so you’ll be able to get to know all your course mates and your lecturers really well.
Getting to know Kent
I’d definitely recommend starting your law studies in January.
It’s an adventure, but one that has gone very smoothly for me.
It gave me a chance to spend extra time in Kent, which I’ve really enjoyed.
Everything you need to know about applying for postgraduate study at Kent.
Entry requirements, agents, tuition fees and contact details for your country.
Answers to some of the most frequently asked questions we receive from our applicants.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/taught-masters:
Learn new skills and open up a new career possibilities.
Taking a career break to study?
Starting a postgraduate course in January could be the best option for you.
Gain work experience as part of your Master’s.
Distance and flexible learning allows you to fit studying for a postgraduate qualification around your work or home life.
Our postgraduate community is friendly, international and welcoming.
You’ll soon find your place here.
Alongside your subject-specific facilities, and our brilliant library, there are study spaces exclusively for PG students.
These include a 24/7 hub on the Canterbury campus with PCs, collaborative study zones and a kitchen and lounge.
Taking part in extra-curricular activities is a great way to meet people and to gain new skills.
You’ll be invited to lectures and workshops where you’ll learn about leadership, discuss global challenges and share ideas on possible solutions.
Attendance at the workshops can lead to a Global Skills Award , presented at an awards ceremony on campus.
Our Careers and Employability Service offers support tailored to you whether you’re looking for your first job or want to move on in your profession.
You’ll receive guidance on career planning, interview techniques and assessment centres.
Their support continues for up to three years after you graduate.
Skills for Academic Success offers help with academic writing and advice on techniques to better manage your time and 
meet deadlines.
There are 
also online resources, workshops and personal appointments (either online or face-to-face).
Our Wellbeing team can help if you have a disability or need support with your emotional or mental health.
The students’ union also have an advice service and run Jobshop, a service to help you find part-time or temporary work.
Kent Students’ Union has a Vice-President for Postgraduate Experience whose focus is on making sure PG students get the most out of their time at Kent academically and socially.
With a Postgraduate Network, drop-in coffee mornings, craft days, lots of societies and opportunities to socialise online, it’s definitely worth getting involved.
There are also excellent sports facilities at our Canterbury campus including high-quality gym and fitness suites; indoor and outdoor tennis and netball pitches; and Astro and grass pitches.
The Graduate and Researcher College is dedicated to developing your skills and experience.
They organise workshops and lectures, academic skills and professional development sessions.
They support students to organise the annual PG conference.
They also hold less formal events where PG students can relax and chat.
Find the course that matches your ambitions.
Discover Kent scholarships and other funding options.
Our locations provide the perfect environment for your studies.
We have superb uni accommodation on campus in Canterbury, and just a 10-minute walk from campus in Medway.
We are a diverse, welcoming community with students from 150+ nationalities.
Our international team are here to help.
Here’s all the information you’ll need to apply for your chosen course.
Why wait?

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/research-phd:
Research needs an open mind, resilience, a
willingness to ask, and answer, difficult questions and the ability to
collaborate.
It also needs funding.
That’s why we have a number of funding packages to support you.
Explore our scholarships and discover other options to fund your studies, such as postgraduate loans.
Kent is linked with like-minded research-intensive institutions through several Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs).
Options to start in September, January or May give you more opportunities to apply for funding.
Check to see what’s possible on your course.
Candidates from outside the University may apply to the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy by means of submitting published works.
For dual research awards (or cotutelles), you are jointly supervised by Kent and one of our global partners.
Our external research programme allows you to stay in your home country while studying for a UK qualification.
As a postgraduate researcher, you’ll be working with world-leading researchers, pushing boundaries in an area you’re passionate about.
We encourage interdisciplinary conversations so, as 
you become a specialist, you’ll also be aware of how your area intersects with others.
Our Researcher Development Programme will improve your effectiveness as a researcher and equip you with a full range of skills making you highly employable in a variety of careers.
Our Careers and Employability Service offers support tailored to you as a research student, whether you plan to stay in academia or build your career elsewhere.
The Graduate and Researcher College is dedicated to developing your skills and experience through workshops, lectures, academic skills and professional development sessions.
It supports students to organise the annual PG conference as well as organising less formal events where PG students can relax and chat.
Look out for the Three Minute Thesis (3MT) competition, an exciting and challenging chance for PhD students to distil their thesis into three minutes!
As part of our community, your work can have groundbreaking impact.
Discover how Kent academic Dr Bridget Ng’andu combines her passion for research and teaching with her passion for social justice to help create a culture where the powerless have a voice.
Professor John Dickinson's research has led to major advances in our understanding of the diagnosis and management of asthma in elite athletes.
Find out how his research can help all of us.
The majority of our REF submissions rated world-leading or internationally excellent; 38 in the Times Higher Education ’s ranking for overall quality in the REF.
Working together to improve the sustainability of cherry farming.
Kent researchers are using AI to enhance social connection for those with dementia.
Katy
Bruce fell in love with forensic science as an undergrad, eventually embarking on a PhD.
Now an Associate Lecturer at Kent, she shares her experience of studying here.
Our research and innovation is for everyone.
Learn from our experts.
How did the solar system evolve?
How did life on earth begin?
Kent scientists are looking to unlock those mysteries by examining extra-terrestrial cosmic dust, collected on cathedral rooftops!
Kent PhD student is revolutionising the way Olympic and everyday cyclists assess their performance.
Kent Professor of Social Psychology Karen Douglas is Director of Conspiracy_FX, an ERC-funded research project, examining how and why conspiracy theories affect individuals and societies.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/careers:
With a postgraduate degree from Kent, you’ll move forward faster.
By choosing postgraduate study you’re making an investment in your future.
Our professional advisers are here to help you plan, not just for your first job, but for the career that follows.
As well as personal guidance and advice 
on career planning, interview techniques and assessment centres, there are over 160 lectures, workshops and training events each year to support your development.
We tailor our advice dependent on where you are on your career path and whether you’re a taught or research student.
Add a placement to your degree.
A chance to put theory into practice and gain valuable insight into your chosen profession.
If you have a business idea, our ASPIRE centre can offer practical advice on how to develop your idea into  a viable business.
Apply to become one of Kent’s student ambassadors.
Following training, in these paid roles you’ll work with a range of people, developing valuable skills.
Volunteering in an area you’re passionate about is very rewarding and you’ll develop your communication skills.
You could join our 'gleaners', picking food and redistributing it to those in need.
Fauzia Idrees Abro knows how it feels to be the only woman in the room – she was the first female PhD student to serve in Pakistan’s armed forces.
A trail-blazer, she now runs her own company and is a passionate advocate for women in STEM.
Discover how we support you to achieve your goals.
We're happy to answer any questions, just get in touch.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/why-kent:
Meet us at a PG Open Event
The ability to see the world as it is; the vision to see how it could be; the ambition to drive through change.
That’s what lies at the heart of our postgraduate community.
Join us.
Postgraduate study at Kent expands your mind and your options.
Taught by outstanding academics on courses designed to equip you with the creative, critical and analytical thinking skills employers look for, you’ll graduate in a great position to reach your career goals.
Whether you’re coming straight from your undergraduate degree, or returning to study after a break, studying full-time or part-time, UK-based or from overseas, you’ll thrive at Kent.
We
offer a range of funding options for postgraduate students.
We also list 
details of those offered by external organisations, and information about
postgraduate loans.
With conversion courses, January starts, placement options and
part-time study you’ll find the course for you.
Moronke’s decision to move from banking to a career in the healthcare industry, led to her moving from Nigeria to the UK to pursue an MSc in Healthcare Management at Kent.
She has no regrets.
If
conducting original research with leaders in
your field is your goal, we offer Master’s research courses as well as PhDs.
A diverse group of original thinkers, our postgrads work hard and support each other, and we support them, ensuring they gain the specialist and professional skills to excel in their career.
Our research changes thinking and changes lives regionally, nationally and internationally.
Be inspired.
The GRC provides stimulating opportunities to improve your skills, build your social and academic networks, and prepare you for career development and progression.
If you want to live in uni accommodation, we have great options on campus in Canterbury, and just a 10-minute walk from campus in Medway.
We are a global community with students from more than 150 nationalities!
You’ll find there’s lots of specialist support on hand.
Canterbury is both historic and contemporary.
Its medieval alleyways are home to cafés, pubs, rooftop bars, independent shops, restaurants, a theatre and cinemas.
A great place to study with lots to do in the local towns of Rochester and Chatham.
And just an hour from London.
At our Open Days and Postgraduate Events, you can meet academic staff and see our outstanding facilities.
Ask our students.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/international-college/international-foundation-programme:
The International Foundation Programme (IFP) is a level 3
foundation year and an equivalent qualification to A levels.
It's designed for
international students, and allows you to bridge the gap between your current
knowledge and qualifications, and future study at undergraduate level.
The International Foundation Programme is a foundation year
pathway to give you the best start to your university journey.
This year caters
specifically for the needs of international students to develop
subject-specific knowledge with a strong focus on improving your academic English
language skills in preparation for studying at University of Kent.
We offer guaranteed progression to a range of undergraduate courses
at Kent once you have met the progression requirements for your degree.
Kent's
undergraduate degrees are some of the best in the UK, designed to challenge you,
and take your studies to the highest level.
You'll be a full member of our diverse student community
from day one, with access to all the study, social, sports and support
facilities the University offers.
With accommodation in the student village on
the Canterbury campus, the same location as our International College you are
in the heart of student life.
Duration 4 years: 1 year pathway + 3 years degree Start dates January, September Pathway tuition fee 2025/26 From £18,595 English Language Requirement IELTS 4.5 with no less than 4.0 in each component

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/international-college/course-modules:
Please note: modules are indicative only.
Core module
Maths, Data Analysis and Statistics
Develop your knowledge of how to use mathematical techniques to solve numerical problems.
Apply mathematical knowledge to the collation, evaluation and analysis of quantitative data including its presentation in the form of graphs and spreadsheets.
Subject modules
Introduction to Business Studies
An introduction to the structures and functions of businesses, and the practical considerations of launching a business.
Learn about types, classifications and funding models, and aspects such as HRM, marketing and logistics.
Introduction to Microeconomics
An introduction to topics associated with the study of microeconomics.
Learn about key concepts such as supply and demand, pricing, government economic policy.
Introduction to Macroeconomics
An introduction to topics associated with the study of macroeconomics.
Learn about key concepts such as aggregate supply and demand, fiscal and monetary policy, national and international contexts.
Intercultural Communication
An introduction to theories of intercultural communication including the role played by verbal and non-verbal communication, stereotyping and the media.
Introduction to Creative Arts
An introduction to creative practice,
practitioners and the factors that inform their creative work.
Topics include representation, cultural value, audiences, textual analysis, and the
role played by artistic institutions and media.
Introduction to Architecture
An introduction to topics associated with
the study of architecture.
Learn about key periods of architectural
design, technical drawing through 2D and 3D approaches, and consider the
relationship between technology and creative practice.
Further Architecture
An introduction to topics associated with the further study of architecture and the wider built environment.
Learn about how humans inhabit their environment, form and function, and the skills required to deliver an architectural brief.
Maths, Data Analysis & Statistics
An introduction to the structures and functions of
businesses, and the practical considerations of launching a business.
Learn about types, classifications and funding models, and aspects such as HRM,
marketing and logistics.
Introduction to Computer Sciences
An introduction to computer science, systems and the user experience.
Topics draw on a basic underpinning of binary, algebra, functions and introduces the role of hardware, software, multimedia, processing, memory, operating systems.
Introduction to Programming
An introduction to the purpose of programming and how a programming language makes this achievable, focussing on Python as the key tool for this work.
Digital Design
Explore and develop audio or visual ideas relevant to a selected creative discipline.
Apply a range of digital production skills and learn how to respond to a creative brief.
An introduction to computer science, systems and the
user experience.
Topics draw on a basic underpinning of binary, algebra, functions and introduces the role of hardware, software, multimedia,
processing, memory, operating systems.
An introduction to the purpose of programming
and how a programming language makes this achievable, focussing on Python as
the key tool for this work.
Introduction to Social Sciences
Consider the origins and development of the discipline of sociology.
Investigate a range of approaches, theories and interpretations that seek to explain how society operates, and understand how these explanations inform the broader social science culture and communication.
English Legal System
An introduction to the organisation and purpose of
the English legal system.
Learn about key concepts, principles and personnel involved in the legal process.
Introduction to Criminology
An introduction to the theories and
definitions within the field of criminology Investigate sociological
theories relating to the reasons for crime and the factors influencing those
who undertake criminal activity.
An introduction to creative practice, practitioners and the factors that inform their work.
Topics include representation, cultural value, audiences, textual analysis, and the role played by artistic institutions and media.
Introduction to Politics and IR
An introduction to politics in terms of key ideas, historical perspectives, and structures of government.
Investigate how politics informs and is influenced by international considerations and relations.
Introduction to Psychology
An introduction to the historical development of Psychology drawing on a range of theories and approaches, relevant studies and experiments focussing on cognitive, social and developmental psychology.
An introduction to the organisation and purpose of the English legal system.
Critical Approaches to Law
Take a critical approach to the study of
law.
Interrogate case studies to better understand aspects of the English legal system.
Further Maths
Build on basic mathematical knowledge with
a particular focus on engineering and real-world
application.
Learn about the application of calculus, algebra,
trigonometry to solve engineering and computing problems.
An introduction to creative practice, practitioners and the factors that inform their creative work.
Further Psychology
Study behavioural, cognitive and psychodynamic approaches, and the
ethical considerations related to these research methods.
An introduction to the theories and definitions within the field of criminology Investigate sociological theories relating to the reasons for crime and the factors influencing those who undertake criminal activity.
An introduction to topics associated with the study of architecture.
Learn about key periods of architectural design, technical drawing through 2D and 3D approaches, and consider the relationship between technology and creative practice.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/international-college/how-to-apply:
Applying with us is easy.
You can apply using our online
application form.
To start your application, you will need the following:
We will carefully review your application and check if your
academic qualifications and level of English language are suitable for entry to
the chosen course.
Assuming the application is successful; we will send you a
formal offer of a place.
Once you’ve met all the conditions outlined in your
Conditional Offer we will send you an Unconditional Offer.
To accept a place on the course, you will need to make a
deposit to confirm your offer.
The amount of your deposit will be confirmed in
the Offer Letter.
Upon receipt of the deposit we will request your pre-CAS
documents.
Once the pre-CAS documents have been received, we will issue you a
Certificate of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) number.
You will then need to apply for a visa if necessary.
Advance payment of remaining fees will be required prior to
arrival.
Once you have chosen UK IC as your firm choice, you’ll
receive an invite to book your room and we will provide you with all the
necessary details.
Before your course starts we'll send details of
how to register and a welcome pack.
Our Pre-Arrival Advisors will call you after you’ve received your CAS letter.
They'll use the mobile number from your application so tell us if it's changed.
We will also ask for details of your flight to the UK.
We
can arrange for a taxi transfer upon arrival.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/international-college/fees-and-scholarships:
Outlined below are the fees and scholarships for UK IC.
If
you need more information, please contact us at pathways@oxfordinternational.com
International Foundation Programme - £18,595
International Year Zero
Two Term / Three Term - £18,595
Two Term Intensive (April) - £13,995
International Incorporated Master’s
One term - £10,395
Two term - £12,995
Undergraduate
OIEG offers competitive undergraduate pathway scholarships to both our International Foundation Programme and International Year Zero pathway.
Please contact your OIEG representative for more details.
Postgraduate
OIEG offers competitive postgraduate pathway scholarships to our International Incorporated Master’s Programme.
Undergraduate and Postgraduate
16% progression scholarships per year available for students moving into a degree from all our pathway routes.
These are available for students from all countries and are automatic on application.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/1896/actuarial-science-with-a-foundation-year:
Clearing made easy.
Apply now or call – it only takes a few minutes to secure your spot.
Actuaries evaluate and manage financial risks, particularly in the financial services industry.
Our specialist course is taught by professional actuaries and internationally renowned statisticians to make sure you're fully prepared for your career.
By choosing Actuarial Science BSc at Kent, you’ll develop key skills in maths, business economics, probability, statistics and calculus, all of which are highly sought-after by employers.
Our foundation year course provides an opportunity for you to develop your mathematics skills and start learning some university-level material, fully preparing you for university study before you progress onto the Actuarial Science degree.
We're fully accredited by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, which means that you can achieve up to six exemptions from the 13 professional examinations required to become a qualified actuary.
The following modules are what students typically study, but this may change year to year in response to new developments and innovations.
If your qualifications are not sufficient, for whatever reason, for direct entry onto a degree course, you can apply for this course.
If your first language is not English, the Foundation Year offers additional classes taught by staff who are specialists in teaching English as a foreign language.
Compulsory modules currently include the following
A core part of mathematics concerns calculus – the study of continuous change – which plays an important role in science, engineering and technology.
A central concept in this field is the function of a real variable.
You’ll develop an understanding of the intricacies of functions, and learn how to analyse them by studying their graphs.
In particular, you’ll study differential calculus and its applications, allowing you to accurately quantify and model rates of change mathematically and determine solutions to optimisation problems.
You’ll also become proficient in working with trigonometric functions, logarithms, rational functions, and exponentials, and you’ll gain skills in computing derivatives of functions using the product rule, chain rule, and quotient rule, and learn ways to identify maxima and minima of functions.
Overall the module will equip you with the skills to analyse, and reason with, the core notion of functions.
With this basis in calculus, you’ll be able to further develop your mathematical skill set.
A solid grasp of statistics and programming is essential for modern mathematicians and scientists, in both academic study and the workplace.
You’ll learn the basics of probability, statistics, and hypothesis testing, which are necessary for advanced study.
In particular, you’ll learn to use measures of central tendency such as the mean, median, and mode, and measures of dispersion such as the range, variance, and standard deviation.
You’ll learn how to use quartiles and percentiles, and to interpret and create histograms, box plots, and other graphical representations of data.
By examining probability theory, you’ll develop an understanding of the core probability rules, see how to use conditional probability, and become familiar with the binomial and normal distributions, expectation, and variance.
You’ll also learn how to use basic programming techniques to help solve problems in statistics.
Calculus - and in particular differential equations - is central to real-life applications of mathematics in a wide variety of subject areas, from physics and engineering to biology and finance.
You’ll build on your knowledge of differential calculus by studying anti-derivatives, integral calculus, and differential equations to equip you for entry into Stage 1.
More specifically, you’ll acquire techniques for integrating functions using partial integration and substitution methods, and learn how to integrate rational functions using partial fractions.
You’ll apply the knowledge of integration to solve ordinary differential equations and explore a variety of applications of differential equations in mathematical modelling.
Transferrable and professional skills are key for all students and are just as important as academic subject content for succeeding on a degree by improving as a student, and eventually in the workplace by improving as a professional.
This module will teach you and give you the opportunity to practice many such transferrable skills, such as self-reflection and self-study, to enable you to succeed on your degree and in future employment.
You will also study important topics in discrete maths involving networks, algorithms, and complexity and then put these academic and transferable skills together in an assessment at the end of the module.
To become a scientist, you need to bridge the gap between theoretical concepts and practical demonstrations.
This is your chance to do that through hands-on experience in experimenting, measuring, and analysing physical phenomena, taking your first step towards becoming a scientist.
This experiential learning not only reinforces classroom theories but also fosters critical thinking skills, problem-solving abilities, presentation skills, and a deeper understanding of scientific principles, including measurement errors and uncertainties.
Beyond this, you’ll cultivate a curiosity and a sense of inquiry, essential qualities for aspiring scientists.
By engaging in active experimentation, you’ll set a solid foundation for further exploration in the field, joining the next generation of scientific innovators.
Learn about the interplay of the core concepts physicists and engineers use to describe the behaviour of objects in the world around us.
Establish the relevant quantities, units and dimensions giving you the tools to understand mechanics and materials.
Learn about characterising the motion of objects through distance, velocity and acceleration with time graphs.
You will examine the behaviours of forces through Newtons' Laws and the relationship between those forces and work, power and energy.
You will learn about gravity as a force field, as well as circular and rotational motion.
In the digital age, it is becoming ever easier, and more important, to collect data to predict and inform future decisions in science and society.
Applications range from analysing communities and trends on the internet, researching patients’ responses to new drugs, examining the impact of global events on the stock market, and measuring population sizes of endangered species.
Many professions require skills in extracting useful information from data and managing and presenting data accurately.
You’ll learn the core methods and principles of probability theory and statistics, and gain skills in applying these methods to analyse sample data and draw inferences or generalisations.
You’ll learn how to estimate an unknown parameter’s value, how to construct a confidence interval, and how to do hypothesis testing.
The statistical computing package R is used throughout the module to support your learning and illustrate the methods.
R, Python, Excel, and collaborative platforms like GitHub are essential tools for academic study and professional advancement.
This module equips you with comprehensive skills in working with these platforms through a range of hands-on problems and practical assignments.
As you progress through the module, you'll delve into the intricacies of R, Python, and Excel, mastering their functionalities through real-world applications.
From data analysis to visualisation and interpretation, you'll gain a holistic understanding of how these tools can be harnessed to extract insights from complex datasets and analyse complex problems.
The module has a strong emphasis on collaborative work, providing opportunities for you to engage in group projects that simulate real-world scenarios.
You'll learn how to effectively collaborate with peers, manage version control, and contribute to shared repositories - an invaluable skill set in today's collaborative work environments.
Linear algebra is a core subject in mathematics.
It provides the algebraic foundation for advanced mathematics and has endless practical applications in industry and science, ranging from internet technologies to theoretical physics.
This module in linear algebra prepares you for advanced topics in the fields of algebra, multivariable calculus, differential equations, data analysis, and financial mathematics.
Linear algebra is the study of finding solutions to systems of linear equations using matrices, and corresponding geometric objects such as vectors, lines, planes, and linear transformations of Euclidean space.
It can be used to describe symmetries of space, such as rotations, reflections, and rescaling of distances.
You’ll apply powerful techniques of matrix algebra to solve systems of linear equations, learn how to find the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of a linear transformation and learn the basic concepts and core results in linear algebra.
You’ll also see how these concepts can be used to provide solutions to a variety of real-world problems.
Business Economics explores the constantly evolving economic world within which actuaries work, providing context and developing economic insights that can inform real-world business decisions.
You'll be equipped with the knowledge and tools needed to understand the workings of competitive markets, and the interaction of consumers and suppliers, using a variety of models and examples to investigate decision-making in the economy.
The practical roles of money, capital and labour, and the involvement of government in influencing the big-picture of the economy, will be tied to the interests of business, with a strong foundation of economic theory underpinning real-world examples and illustrations.
Theories are challenged, economic conventions are interrogated, and different viewpoints are considered to ensure a practical and relevant understanding of economic issues.
The module is designed to satisfy the standards of subject CB2 of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries examinations for exemption purposes.
You’ll learn about the mathematics behind the design and operation of popular financial investments.
This enables you to gain an understanding of the key principles of working with interest rates, and of how these can be used to price and value investments such as loans, shares, bonds and property.
You will also receive a practical introduction to financial modelling and learn how models can be used to solve financial problems.
This includes using the application of the above ideas on real data sets using e.g.
Microsoft Excel.
This module together with second-year module Actuarial Mathematics 1 and the final year module Actuarial Mathematics 2 can lead to exemption from the CM1 exam of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries (IFoA).
Calculus serves as the mathematical foundation for many fields, including physics, engineering, economics, computer science, and statistics.
It also plays a crucial role in understanding and solving problems in biology, chemistry, and medicine.
This module delves deep into the fundamental concepts of differentiation and integration.
You’ll explore the properties of core functions including polynomials, exponentials and logarithms, trigonometric functions and their inverses, as well as hyperbolic functions.
You’ll become proficient in the fundamental techniques of differentiation and integration of single-variable functions.
You’ll explore the practical applications of differentiation and integration, such as optimisation problems, curve sketching and solving simple differential equations.
You’ll also demonstrate how calculus can be used to solve real-world problems.
Throughout the module, you’ll develop critical thinking skills, mathematical reasoning, and the ability to apply calculus techniques to solve various problems.
Explanatory and predictive modelling is essential to data-driven decision-making.
Throughout this module, you’ll learn about regression, the cornerstone of versatile statistical analysis and master diagnostics, model specification, selection, and interpretation.
Through hands-on activities and real data analysis, you’ll gain the skills to extract actionable insights and forecast future trends confidently.
The module is designed to equip you with the required tools to navigate complex datasets across different areas of application and practice.
Optimisation techniques play an important role in practically all areas of data science, including data analysis and machine learning.
An understanding of the core principles of optimisation algorithms and their properties is essential for all practitioners in this field.
You'll gain expertise in the theory and applications of optimisation techniques and algorithms, focusing on the methods most relevant to data science.
You'll master how to optimise solutions, analyse and improve the performance of algorithms, and acquire decision-making techniques.
The module will equip you with an understanding of the way many standard problems in data science can be formulated as optimisation problems.
In addition, you’ll gain skills in applying basic optimisation algorithms and techniques, including Newton's and gradient based methods, to solve problems.
Throughout the module computing tools will be used to illustrate how optimisation techniques and algorithms are used to compute solutions to relevant problems in data science.
Mathematical statistics provides the theoretical framework for statistical techniques.
Understanding these mathematical underpinnings allows statisticians to develop and justify various statistical methods, ensuring their validity and reliability.
Mathematical statistics enables practitioners to extract valuable insights from data, make informed decisions, and drive progress in various fields of knowledge and application.
You’ll learn advanced techniques in probability and statistics, including maximum likelihood estimation, advanced hypothesis testing, moments and moment-generating functions.
You’ll also discover bivariate and multivariate discrete and continuous distributions.
By the end of the module, you’ll have a solid foundation in mathematical statistics, enabling you to confidently apply and further develop advanced skills in data analysis.
Mathematics is central to investing.
In this module, you’ll learn about the mathematics behind the design and operation of popular financial investments.
You’ll learn the key principles of working with interest rates, and discover how these can be used to price and value investments such as loans, shares, bonds and property.
This includes the ideas you learn to real data sets using Microsoft Excel and other software packages.
You will also further develop your skills in financial modelling and learn how models can be used to solve actuarial problems.
This includes applying the concepts and techniques of actuarial mathematics on real data sets using e.g.
This module follows on from Financial Mathematics and together with that module and the final year module Actuarial Mathematics 2 can lead to exemption from the CM1 exam of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries (IFoA).
How can we use mathematics to design common life insurance products?
How can we calculate the financial impact of uncertain future events?
In this module, you’ll learn about the key principles of working with mortality rates and interest rates.
This will allow you to value cash flows which are contingent on mortality and/or survival, enabling you to price and value products such as whole-life, temporary and endowment assurances and whole-life and temporary annuities.
You’ll also further develop your skills in financial modelling and learn how models can be used to solve actuarial problems.
You’ll apply the concepts and techniques of actuarial mathematics to real data sets using software such as Microsoft Excel.
This module follows on from Financial Mathematics and together with that module and the final year module Actuarial Mathematics 2, it can lead to exemption from the CM1 exam of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries (IFoA).
From start-ups to established multinationals, businesses need finance at various stages, whether it’s to  fund growth, or just to survive.
In this module, you’ll explore and apply the principles of corporate finance.
You’ll consider a wide variety of sources of finance, from traditional to more contemporary means, and examine the process of selecting an appropriate approach depending on the circumstances.
You’ll also consider the methods businesses use to manage financial risk, and look at how firms evaluate which projects to undertake.
Additionally, you’ll cover important topics such as corporate governance, alternative business forms, and the impact of taxation.
Corporate accounts and financial statements communicate the financial position of a business to various users.
You’ll examine the process of constructing these reports, develop an understanding of the concepts and techniques of financial accounting, and find yourself in a better position to critically interpret and discuss the financial reports of real companies and financial institutions.
Through this module, you’ll gain insights into the needs and concerns of businesses in the commercial world, including those relevant to potential employers and clients.
This module can lead to exemption from the CB1 exam of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries (IFoA).
A strong grasp of statistical modelling and optimisation principles forms the bedrock of machine learning.
This module covers essential and advanced topics of machine learning and deep learning, blending theory with practical computing tools, such as R and Python.
We’ll equip you with the necessary theoretical framework to navigate through complex algorithms and methodologies.
You’ll explore key concepts including classification, prediction, and regression tree-based methods through engaging real-world datasets.
You’ll uncover the power of resampling techniques and support vector machines, and dive into the exciting realm of deep learning.
With applications spanning biomedical statistics, finance, and insurance, this module offers a hands-on learning experience tailored to aspiring data scientists.
What are the commonly used models in actuarial science?
How can we apply these models to tackle the complex problems faced by financial professionals in practical situations?
Modelling is crucial for actuaries as it allows us to assess and manage risks in various circumstances.
This module gives you the valuable practical and theoretical skills needed to navigate these critically relevant issues.
You’ll gain a strong foundation in financial economics modelling techniques and be able to apply them in quantitative risk management situations, including portfolio selection and the pricing and valuation of financial derivatives.
You’ll develop valuable skills to model economic decision making by forecasting potential future scenarios, and apply a range of financial risk measurement tools to evaluate suitable investment opportunities.
In addition, you’ll explore a range of liability valuation modelling tools which can be used to estimate insurance claims.
The modelling techniques that you learn in this module will provide you with the indispensable knowledge and skills needed for a successful career in insurance, finance and related fields.
You will also have the opportunity to gain valuable exemptions from subject CM2 of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries (IFoA, UK).
How is mathematics used to design common life insurance products, including those with profits and unit-linked products?
In this module, you’ll learn how to price and value complex cash flows on various insurance products.
You’ll look at cases where the benefits can vary and where the cash flows are contingent on the mortality, morbidity and/or survival of more than one life.
You’ll also learn how to calculate and analyse the profitability of these products.
You’ll have the opportunity to gain valuable, practical experience working with one of the industry’s leading actuarial modelling software applications, PROPHET.
This is used by insurance and financial services companies to meet reporting responsibilities, improve risk management and develop profitable products.
You’ll do this by applying the concepts and techniques of actuarial mathematics to real data sets using PROPHET and/or Microsoft Excel.
This module follows on from Financial Mathematics and Actuarial Mathematics 1 and together with these modules can lead to exemption from the CM1 exam of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries (IFoA).
Mathematical and statistical modelling techniques are vital tools for those working in the insurance industry.
This module introduces you to these techniques and illustrates their importance to survival analysis and insurance.
You’ll also learn how they are used by actuaries employed by pension schemes and insurance companies.
There are many applications of these techniques including fitting statistical distributions to mortality data and insurance claims data so that the solvency of insurance companies can be assessed and managed.
They can also be used to determine the effect of factors such as age, lifestyle and geographical location on longevity and claims levels.
Modelling techniques can also be used to advise governments on healthcare, state pension provision and regulation of entire industries.
Throughout the module, you’ll study both theory and its application using programming languages such as R and software such as Microsoft Excel to solve real-life problems that actuaries in the pension and insurance sectors may encounter.
This module will cover a number of syllabus items set out in subjects CS1 and CS2 published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
You’re now at the final stages of your undergraduate journey into actuarial practice.
This module brings together your theoretical knowledge, skills and insights where you will apply it to the context of the professional and commercial world.
You’ll survey the wider landscape of financial services and investigate some of the common roles, issues and complexities you’re likely to encounter working as an actuary.
You’ll refine the core skills required to work in this sector and explore the various risks the industry faces, together with effective strategies for managing these risks.
Through insightful discussions on topical industry-shaping issues and collaborative projects, you’ll develop your ability to analyse and address emerging challenges, enhance your teamwork and communications skills.
A core focus of this module is enhancing your employability and preparing you for a career in the commercial and professional world.
You’ll have the opportunity to reflect on your learning, assess how your strengths and competencies align with various industry requirements, and build a foundation for your future in the industry.
Stochastic models and time series techniques are vital tools for actuaries.
This module demonstrates how these concepts are applied by actuaries working for insurance companies and investment firms.
You’ll learn how to use time-series skills to analyse security prices and other economic factors such as interest rates, inflation and foreign exchange rates.
You’ll also learn how stochastic theory is fundamental in designing actuarial models in fields such as population projection.
You’ll use industry-standard software such as R to solve real-life problems encountered in various actuarial sectors.
You’ll also engage with topical actuarial issues by reading and discussing industry-specific articles.
This will give you a competitive edge when it’s time to launch your career.
This module also covers several syllabus items in Subjects CS1 and CS2 published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
A variety of delivery methods will be used to deliver accessible teaching, supplemented by example classes, workshops and practical exercises.
Computer laboratory sessions will focus on developing and applying information technology skills through hands-on exercises.
Information technology skills are developed through the course, including MS Excel, R, Python and PROPHET, the specialist actuarial software used widely in industry, adding value to students’ employability credentials.
Course lecturers and guest speakers include those with significant industry experience, and experience of working with industry on research and commercial innovation.
This practical knowledge and network supports students’ development.
For course aims and learning outcomes please see the course specification .
Here’s a sample timetable from your first term at Kent.
You'll learn through a mix of lectures, seminars and workshops - in both big and small groups with focused teaching blocks and time to work, rest or explore uni life.
Items in green are confirmed, whereas anything marked yellow could be scheduled at a different time or day depending on your group, but this gives a good sense of what to expect.
At Kent, you're more than just your grades.
We consider your full potential and personal circumstances when we look at your application, and we apply the same flexible approach once we receive your results.
Call our Clearing team on +44 (0)1227 768896 to talk through your options with us.
If you already have your results you can apply today to secure your place.
If you are an international student, visit our International Student website for further information about entry requirements for your country, including details of the International Foundation Programmes .
Please note that international fee-paying students who require a Student visa cannot undertake a part-time programme due to visa restrictions.
Please note that meeting the typical offer/minimum requirement does not guarantee that you will receive an offer.
This course requires a Good level of English language, equivalent to B2 on CEFR.
Details on how to meet this requirement can be found on our English language entry requirements web page.
Examples:
IELTS 6.0 with a minimum of 5.5 in each component
GCSE Grade 4/C or above in English Language
IB Standard Level Grade 5 or above in English A: Language and Literature
A Level Grade C or above in English Language or English Literature.
When considering your application, we look at both your qualifications and your potential, as shown, for example, by your personal statement and the comments of your referees.
To take a foundation degree, you need to have an English language standard of 5.5 in IELTS; however please note that these requirements are subject to change.
For the latest details, see www.kent.ac.uk/ems/eng-lang-reqs
The University will consider applications from students holding a wide range of qualifications.
Click below to find out more.
Typical offer levels
All applications are assessed on an individual basis but some of our typical requirements are listed below.
Students offering qualifications not listed are welcome to contact our Admissions Team for further advice.
Please also see our general entry requirements .
CCC including Mathematics at grade C.
Use of Maths A level is not accepted as a required subject.
Grades Merit Merit from the BTEC National Extended Diploma plus A Level Mathematics at C (but excluding Use of Maths).
The University will consider those not taking A Level Maths on a case by case basis.
96 tariff points from your IB Diploma, including HL Maths or HL Mathematics: Analysis and Approaches at 4 or SL Maths or SL Mathematics: Analysis and Approaches at 6, typically H5, H5, H5 or equivalent.
N/A
The University will consider applicants holding T level qualifications in subjects closely aligned to the course.
A typical offer would be to obtain the Access to HE Diploma in a suitable subject with a minimum of 45 credits at Level 3, with 15 credits at Distinction and 15 credits at Merit.
*The Government announced on 4 November 2024 that tuition fees in England for Home students will increase to £9,535 from £9,250 for the academic year 2025/26.
The University will assess your fee status as part of the application process.
If you are uncertain about your fee status you may wish to seek advice from UKCISA before applying.
For details of when and how to pay fees and charges, please see our Student Finance Guide .
Students will require regular access to a desktop computer/laptop with an internet connection to use the University of Kent’s online resources and systems.
Please see information about the minimum computer requirements for study .
Find out more about accommodation and living costs , plus general additional costs that you may pay when studying at Kent.
Kent offers generous financial support schemes to assist eligible undergraduate students during their studies.
See our funding page for more details.
Our Actuarial Science programme gives you exemptions from the professional exams set by the UK actuarial profession, so you'll have a head start when looking to qualify as an actuary.
You can achieve exemptions from six of the thirteen professional examinations required to become a qualified actuary: CB1, CB2, CM1, CM2, CS1 and CS2.
You could then continue your studies with our MSc Applied Actuarial Science to also achieve exemptions in CP1, CP2, CP3, and two SP subjects.
You may also want to consider our 2-year International Master's in Applied Actuarial Science , where you can achieve exemptions from CB1, CB2, CM1, CM2, CS1, CS2, CP1, CP2, CP3, and two SP subjects.
UK Actuarial Science graduate salaries
A degree can boost average lifetime earnings by over
Apply now to secure your place at Kent.
We welcome applications from students all around the world with a wide range of international qualifications.
You can apply directly to Kent if you pay international fees, live outside the UK or Ireland and haven’t previously applied through UCAS and don’t intend on doing so.
If you decide to apply direct to Kent, there will be no application fee.
You can still apply after the main UCAS deadline and we will accept applications for many courses until 30 June 2025.
Apply via UCAS until 30 June, or via UCAS Extra if you have already made an application but aren't holding any offers.
The University of Kent makes every effort to ensure that the information contained in its publicity materials is fair and accurate and to provide educational services as described.
However, the courses, services and other matters may be subject to change.
For more information please read our terms and conditions .
*Where fees are regulated (such as by the Department for Education or Research Council UK) permitted increases are normally inflationary and the University therefore reserves the right to increase tuition fees by inflation (RPI excluding mortgage interest payments) as permitted by law or Government policy in the second and subsequent years of your course.
If we intend to exercise this right to increase tuition fees, we will let you know by the end of June in the academic year before the one in which we intend to exercise that right.
If, in the future, the increases to regulated fees permitted by law or government policy exceed the rate of inflation, we reserve the right to increase fees to the maximum permitted level.
If we intend to exercise this extended right to increase tuition fees, we will let you know by the end of June in the academic year before the one in which we intend to exercise that right.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/6510/architecture-with-foundation-year:
Bring your ideas to life - design and build spaces where people and communities live and thrive.
How can we build spaces that meet the needs of diverse communities, and are sensitive to the global challenges we face today?
Architects are visionary people, who use their creativity and entrepreneurial skills to design new environments that have social, cultural, environmental and financial value.
At Kent, you will learn from practising architects in a creative studio environment.
You will learn about sustainability in the built environment, and how to breathe life into old buildings that weren’t designed for the modern age.
You will consider the needs of people and communities, creating spaces that are friendly and accessible to all people without compromising aesthetics.
The technical skills, design work and professional experience you gain on this course will see you take your first steps to becoming an architect, or pursuing a career in areas such as urban planning, property development, construction or asset management.
A foundation year is a great way to take your first step to becoming a qualified Architect, this programme will help you develop your design skills, technical capability and portfolio in order to enrol on our Architecture BA and realise your ambition.
Study Architecture & Design
What is ‘design’, and how do architects embark on the creative process of designing the spaces and places in which we live, work and play?
Throughout history, the buildings we inhabit have been designed with one thing in common —us!
From the width of doors to the size of steps, from the height of ceilings to the shape of bricks – everything is designed with the human form in mind.
We’ll introduce you to the ‘design project’, where you’ll learn how to conceive and develop your ideas and concepts, translating and collating these into a coherent spatial design.
By the end of the module, you’ll be able to use drawing and model-making as tools to communicate your ideas.
You’ll also become confident in exploring design concepts, and be able to investigate spatial enclosure, scale and function.
How did ancient architectural forms develop?
What is their relationship with building technology and how are they relevant to today’s architects?
Seeking to answer these questions, this module introduces you to some of the most imitated and well-known forms in history, from Ancient Greek Temples to Byzantine Churches.
By sketching and analysing the forms of significant ancient buildings within their historical context, you'll come to understand their design principles.
You'll also gain a better sense of their construction by looking at them forensically.
By exploring post and lintel construction, masonry, vaulting, and timber framing, you will become familiar with technological ideas that are still current.
By the end of this module, you'll have an understanding of some of the most influential forms and structures ever created and be able to visualise and communicate about them.
This will give you a solid foundation in the discipline of architecture.
Where do we develop our first experiences of architectural space?
How do we read, analyse and understand the spaces we inhabit and how do we incorporate ‘successful’ principles into our designs?
By introducing you to the ‘precedent’, this module develops your awareness of the importance and influence that these can have on the process of design.
Through a series of lectures, you’ll also learn about the most ubiquitous building type—the house.
You’ll analyse and integrate architectural precedent design principles into your own designs by studying key examples of housing from the past 100 years.
By the end of the module, you’ll be able to manipulate space in a way that prioritises human comfort and inhabitability, placing the user at the forefront of your designs.
How do we transform spaces - and completely change people’s moods - without touching them?
The answer is through light.
Understanding the power of light in architecture can completely transform the feeling of a space and can help you create building designs that people enjoy.
In this module, you’ll learn about the physical nature of light, how we can reflect and control it, and how to measure the average daylight factor (ADF) of a room, predicting if it will be comfortable to use.
We’ll also introduce you to global environmental issues, such as how passive solar designs allow us to provide comfortable buildings with reduced environmental impact.
Alongside your technical work, you’ll study the aesthetic qualities of light in architecture, learning how to communicate this through a range of traditional and digital tools.
What impact does architecture have on our environment?
In the context of the climate crisis, how can architects design a sustainable future, promote clean energy consumption and support ethical material sourcing?
In this module, you’ll consider how architects and designers can develop sustainable and ethical approaches to their work.
Building on the knowledge, skills and experience you’ve acquired in the autumn and spring terms, you’ll then design a small public building based on sustainable principles.
Through a series of lectures, you’ll discover the ‘building envelope’ and examine key issues such as thermal environment, human comfort, artificial light, and natural ventilation.
You’ll explore these technical and environmental aspects in the context of your design project, which will allow you to gain first-hand experience handling the complexities of technical integration in architecture at a small scale.
The architecture of Canterbury’s World Heritage Sites lies at your doorstep.
But how can we understand its Medieval buildings and spaces, and unlock their secrets?
This module introduces you to methods for decoding and visualising this unique heritage and using it as a source of inspiration throughout your architecture career.
By exploring Medieval architectural and urban forms around the world, you'll learn how some of the world’s greatest cities were shaped, as well as the origins of architectural ideas that still matter today.
This module gives you the essential skill set to engage with a local historic site.
Experimenting with a wide range of methods, from site measurement to 3D digital modelling, you’ll develop the ability to record buildings, visualise their transformations through time and interpret their origins.
How do buildings sit within their landscapes?
How do we perceive the world around us and appreciate its beauty and potential?
And how can we transform particular spaces into landscapes that enhance our lives and contribute to our sense of wellbeing?
In this module, you'll observe and record the existing condition of a site – its orientation, topography, existing structures and natural features, history and seasonal rhythms.
You will respond to a brief that includes building and landscape elements and create an innovative design for groups of people to engage with exterior and interior spaces.
By the end of this module, you’ll develop your skills in hand drawing and model making, and learn to communicate your ideas further using digital software.
What is architectural history, and why does it matter?
Can we use it to become better thinkers, speakers, writers and designers?
This module examines whether architectural history can help us develop critical and interchangeable skills in an ever-changing world.
Concentrating on the ‘Early Modern’ period (15th to 18th centuries), which saw the establishment of the architectural profession as we know it today, you'll explore the development of art and architecture through movements such as the Renaissance, Mannerism, Baroque, Rococo and Neo-classicism.
We’ll explore relevant buildings, objects of art, architectural texts, materials and construction techniques, and discuss how dominant Western narratives have shaped, and limited, our understanding of space and material cultures.
We’ll also look at current debates on issues such as colonialism, postcolonialism, revisionism and un-represented categories.
By the end of the module, you’ll be able to analyse, present, draw and write about the built environment around you, and develop overall critical thinking and communication skills.
How and where shall we live?
Who and what gets to decide?
We’ll address these key themes in a series of weekly lectures and tutorials covering the aesthetic, technical, social, economic and political possibilities of evolving typologies of communal housing.
We’ll also consider how to go about creating sustainable communities in the 21st century.
The process of architectural proposition encourages you to critically engage with current parameters that drive contemporary housing development in the UK.
You’ll also have a chance to explore the balance between commercial reality and idealised possibility when it comes to creating new housing.
How can we design a building that is heated by the sun, but does not over-heat in the summer nor feel cold in the winter, has good air quality but is not draughty, and is made with materials that are non-toxic and more sustainable?
In this module, you’ll learn how to optimise solar shading to avoid excessive solar gain, how to analyse climate data (temperature and humidity) to assess heating/cooling needs, and how to make use of the cooling/heating potential of the ground and night-time cooling.
The module is linked to the Communities module and you will demonstrate your understanding of climate and sustainability by writing a report on the building you design for that.
You’ll also produce a separate report on the building considering how its material specification can support the objectives of ‘climate and sustainability’, while demonstrating a holistic understanding of a material’s appropriateness within a particular design context.
What is the role of heritage sites in regenerating communities, boosting the economy and, crucially, contributing to environmentally sustainable practices?
The adaptive re-use of existing buildings plays a key role in the future of our planet and is a central concern for our region.
In this module, you’ll learn how to combine architectural design with technological and environmental solutions.
You’ll also develop the adaptation of an existing built envelope with extensions to provide a new use.
The practical design project is informed by lectures, seminars, and tutorials dealing with the technical, environmental, ergonomic, regulatory, historical, theoretical and aesthetic considerations of architectural adaptation.
How has the last two hundred years of history shaped and influenced today’s built environment?
What lessons does the architecture of the modern period have for contemporary design?
And how has cultural and social diversity been reflected in the design of buildings and the layout of cities?
You'll learn through a series of detailed thematic and historical investigations how specific events in architectural history have changed the way we experience the built environment.
You’ll also gain an understanding of the responsibility of all architects and designers towards the societies in which they live.
Through lectures and seminars on architectural history in the wake of the Industrial Revolution, you’ll learn how ‘carbon modernity’ arose, what its impact on architecture worldwide has been, and its significance today.
How can we make our cities more liveable and sustainable?
This module introduces you to some of the main ways we can improve our urban environments.
You'll learn how to ‘read’ a city, identify its problems, and resolve them through original urban design strategies.
A master planning project gives you the opportunity to design a framework for new buildings and urban spaces that merge with existing ones, responding to local requirements, character, and regulatory frameworks.
You'll learn how to regenerate existing urban communities, making them more sustainable and liveable.
This work will be supported by lectures exploring theories and methods of urban design, as well as its technical and environmental specifications.
These will help you measure the impact of design on microclimate, vehicular and pedestrian movement, as well as the quality of public and communal open-air spaces.
All this will help you see the streets and squares of modern cities in a new way.
Your new design tools will unlock the hidden potential of the urban environment, helping you to address some of today’s key social, economic, and environmental issues.
What are some of the key debates that have shaped the discipline of architecture over the course of the 20th and early 21st centuries?
This module introduces you to key themes and relevant cultural and theoretical contexts over a wide geographic area.
In Component Two of the Stage Two Modernity module, you’ll discover your general area of interest, and you return in the autumn term having already done preliminary reading.
You’ll learn from a series of lectures which positions architectural history and theory in terms of its effects on the practice today.
By the end of this module you'll have a beautifully produced illustrated essay (or report plus artefact, if you are following option two) taking pride of place in your portfolio, alongside your design and technical work.
How does the social-environmental context influence a building design brief?
And how can new buildings successfully integrate with the existing built environment and improve its identity and liveability?
In this module, you’ll learn to use social and environmental analysis to develop a complex building brief that successfully responds to the context by offering solutions to urban challenges.
You’ll learn to design a new piece of architecture that responds to, adapts or retrofits and extends an existing architecture (Component 1).
Responding to the urban and architectural context, you’ll acquire skills, knowledge and understanding of the relationships and intersections between new building work and existing buildings.
You’ll also learn how to analyse your project and develop an apologia, a written and illustrated defence that locates it within its cultural, social and artistic contexts (Component 2).
What technical knowledge and skills are required to design buildings in detail, integrating technological and environmental factors, and get them built?
You'll learn about structural design and building construction, and how to achieve conditions of thermal, visual and acoustic comfort.
You’ll also explore the principles of sustainable design and be mindful of the climate emergency and fire and life safety.
You’ll apply this knowledge to your individual design project, which serves as a case study subject.
This enables you to understand how design progresses through all work stages, and how concept designs become completed buildings.
The module will improve your employability in the architectural field and the construction and property sectors.
You’ll consider your strengths and weaknesses in the context of the opportunities which the industry currently presents, identifying potential employers and preparing strategies for initial approaches, informal discussions and formal job applications.
Are you a Part One student seeking employment in your year out, and/or trying to secure your place on a good Masters course or find other design-related study or work?
Then you will need to have a fully developed and beautifully presented major design project.
By the end of this module, you'll have created a portfolio of drawings, models and sketches that will help you market your skill when seeking work or further study opportunities.
You’ll build on your work in the two prerequisite modules completed in the spring term, Major Design Project 1 (MDP 1) and Professional Practice and Detailing 1 (PPD 1).
You’ll then bring your nascent design project to a satisfactory conclusion (Component 1), make it environmentally competent (PPD 01) and strategically sound (MDP 1).
You’ll also integrate lessons learned in your other summer term module (Professional Practice and Detailing 2), ensuring your design project meets this module’s professional criteria (Component 1).
Your project will also display and a material construction and aesthetic agenda that relate to your parallel construction studies (Component 2).
How do we do this in the context of legal frameworks and procurement systems, addressing sustainability and fire and life safety?
In this module you’ll learn about professional ethics, planning and building law, project and practice management.
You’ll gain an understanding of the broad principles of the legal system in England and Wales, focusing on contract and tort, as well as an understanding of the diverse priorities and business strategies of private and commercial clients, investors and building users.
You’ll also consider the architect’s role in the context of other professions and project stakeholders.
You’ll apply this knowledge to your individual current design project, which serves as a case study subject.
It will enable you to understand how design progresses through all work stages, and how concept designs become completed buildings.
For course aims and learning outcomes please see the course specification .
DDD
MMP
72 tariff points - typically H4, H4, H4 or equivalent, plus Mathematics 4 at HL or SL
Mathematics grade C
A typical offer would be to obtain an access to HE diploma with 45 Credits at level 3 with 9 credits at Distinction and 6 credits at Merit
The following course-related costs are not included in your tuition fees:
Students will need to provide the material necessary to produce hand-drawn and printed computer drawings/ images, documents, reports and written works.
Students will need to provide the material necessary to produce physical models, either by hand or using available 3D printing and/ or laser cutting machines.
Site visits are essential, and students will need to cover transport costs (local distances only), which will vary, depending on module site location.
Some modules may entail visiting public archives and libraries, requiring regional or national travel and entrance fees.
Annual fieldtrips will be offered during the programme, and students are strongly encouraged to join these and will need to cover the costs of travel, accommodation and subsistence.
IT Equipment
Year Abroad
There will be additional costs associated with the Year Abroad such as travel, accommodation, health and food costs.
Please see Kent’s Go Abroad webpages on Costs and Funding for more information.
Architecture isn’t just about creating beautiful buildings; you'll learn to lead projects, solve complex problems and communicate your ideas - all transferable skills that employers are looking for.
This course is the first step to becoming a qualified architect; however, it can also lead to a variety of relevant careers including urban planning, property development, construction or asset management.
Graduates from this programme have gone on to work at firms including Norman Foster, Allies and Morrison, Purcell, Guy Hollaway and Arup.
Qualifying to become an architect in the UK requires a Masters and Postgraduate Diploma, as well as relevant industry experience.
If this is your goal, the next steps could be:
However, a degree in architecture opens up many career opportunities including:
Impressive prospects
We welcome applications from students all around the world with a wide range of international qualifications.
You can make a direct application to Kent if you pay international tuition fees, live outside the UK or Ireland and do not have or intend to have a UCAS account or application.
There is no application fee for a direct application to Kent.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/5778/biochemistry-with-a-foundation-year:
Will you join the next generation of scientists?
Delve into the intricacies of living organisms at the molecular level, spanning from viruses and bacteria to humans, plants, and other complex organisms.
Utilise your expertise and skills to effect meaningful change.
By learning from inspirational academics who are at the forefront of research, you'll acquire practical experience, scientific knowledge, and transferable skills that can help you achieve your academic and professional objectives.
This Biochemistry BSc at Kent is accredited by the Royal Society of Biology (RSB).
Our foundation year offers you the flexibility to progress to degrees across our Division of Natural Sciences including Biochemistry or another area of Biosciences, Chemistry, Forensic Science or Sport and Exercise Sciences.
Since the dawn of time, humans have explored the natural world that surrounds us.
Questions like, “What is life?” and “How did it all begin?” are essential because they intersect with virtually every aspect of human thought and activity, from the search for knowledge and meaning to the practical implications for science, ethics, and society.
The foundations of biological and chemical sciences are built on a set of fundamental principles and concepts that underpin the structure, behaviour, and interactions of matter and life.
These foundations are vital for understanding the complexity of living organisms and the chemical processes that sustain them.
In this module you’ll begin an exciting journey into these scientific principles, starting from the structure of simple atoms and molecules to the incredible complexity of the human genome.
You’ll investigate the building blocks of matter and examine how atoms form complex molecules, which ultimately give rise to living organisms.
Experiments are the building blocks of scientific enquiry, and in our Scientific Methods and Data Handling module, you will ignite your curiosity while gathering critical practical experience, skills and confidence in conducting scientific experiments.
You will test hypotheses with a series of engaging laboratory classes that investigate the science that surrounds us.
You will analyse your own experimental data, develop your numeracy and data handling skills and use appropriate software to draw meaningful conclusions.
By blending theoretical understanding with practical laboratory investigations within natural science disciplines, you’ll be equipped with the tools necessary to progress in scientific inquiry and analysis.
By the end of the module, you’ll have the competence and confidence in your academic abilities to operate effectively in a professional scientific context.
How and why are molecules fundamental to human life?
What reactions take place in the cells of every organism to make them work?
In this module, you’ll continue your journey into the foundations of scientific theory and method and find answers to questions like these.
You will learn the essential proteins and enzymes that exist in everyday life, the metabolic processes that allow us to create energy, and some of the chemistry that underpins these processes such as equilibria, acids and bases.
Through engaging problem-solving exercises and interactive, thought-provoking lectures, you will deepen your academic knowledge in these areas, and explore the factors that drive chemical and biological processes.
After completing the module, you’ll be familiar with essential scientific principles.
This will help you develop your interests further within your selected degree course and set you up for future success.
What is science, and how does research help advance scientific understanding?
What are the steps to the scientific research process and what are the things to consider when conducting it?
In this module, you’ll outline the essential steps associated with undertaking scientific research, and consider issues related to the experimental process and statistics.
You’ll undertake experiments that develop proficiency in collecting, analysing, and interpreting large data sets.
You’ll also develop your ability to communicate with authority as a scientist and improve your skills in academic writing and referencing, information retrieval and analysis, and effective presentation.
By the end of this module, you’ll be able to think and operate professionally as a scientist, so you can explore the questions that matter to you and get answers.
You’ll build on your scientific abilities and develop the transferable skills needed for both further academic study and future employability.
Do you want to unlock the mysteries of life within us?
Studying human biology and genetics provides insights into the workings of the human body, from fundamental cellular processes to complex physiological systems.
Grounded in fundamental biological principles, you’ll explore the intricate functions of human tissues and organs, gaining insight into their roles in sustaining life.
You’ll examine the essential principles of genetic inheritance and the factors driving genetic variation, laying the groundwork for understanding the diversity of human traits.
By understanding the processes that keep our organs working well, you’ll begin to understand how diseases emerge.
By the end of the module, you’ll have developed a thorough and holistic understanding of the human body, health and disease onset, all of which help to shape out understanding of ourselves and our place in the world.
Optional modules may include the following
Sport science is a multi-faceted discipline, with important applications in performance and clinical settings.
In the health sector, exercise is prescribed for general health and the management of many diseases, but how do the core natural sciences integrate with the study of sport and exercise science?
You will be introduced to fundamental principles and concepts, and examine these in real-life sport and exercise contexts and scenarios.
You will learn to identify human anatomy and physiology, and understand how this relates to sport, exercise, rehabilitation and massage.
You’ll learn how to assess amateur and elite sporting performance via performance testing and scientific analysis.
You’ll also examine the psychology of sport and exercise and the biomechanics of human movement.
Once you complete the module, you’ll recognise the importance of physical activity and exercise for health, and understand how it can be applied to the whole population to enhance public health and wellbeing.
Why do chemical reactions occur?
How do we analyse and understand the composition of substances?
What techniques do we use to uncover the mysteries of chemical reactivity?
In this module, you’ll begin a journey into the fundamentals of organic and inorganic chemistry, and learn to apply spectroscopic methods in analytical chemistry.
You’ll examine the different groups of the periodic table, uncovering the unique properties of each element and the fascinating chemistry exhibited by each distinct group.
You’ll immerse yourself in the captivating world of organic chemistry and the different molecular classes, functional groups, and key reaction mechanisms that compose this discipline.
You’ll discover how spectroscopic and analytical techniques are used to identify, analyse, and quantify different substances.
You’ll also come to understand how chemistry functions as the central natural science, connecting other fields of knowledge like physics, biosciences, sport sciences, and forensics.
What practical skills are essential for success in the field of biosciences?
Through a blend of theoretical knowledge and hands-on experience, you’ll learn to analyse and present biological data using established scientific methods.
By purifying your own protein and analysing its function, you’ll gain experience using a wide range of experimental tools, processes and equipment found in modern laboratories.
You’ll discover how to operate safely, professionally and with good laboratory practice.
You’ll use digital tools to visualise, analyse and interpret scientific data, and apply mathematical and statistical skills to solve biological problems and make evidence-based conclusions.
By the end of this module, you’ll emerge equipped with the knowledge and skills to undertake scientific experiments confidently, safely and effectively.
Biomolecules are the fundamental building blocks of life on Earth, comprising amino acids, monosaccharides, fatty acids, and the bases of DNA and RNA.
These molecules, though basic in structure, form the complex macromolecules—proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and nucleic acids—that underpin the diversity and adaptability of all life forms.
After exploring the intricate structure/function relationship in these building blocks, you’ll then focus on enzymes, remarkable catalysts that accelerate biochemical reactions.
By analysing the kinetics of these enzymes, you will explore how these proteins work and how their activity is controlled, including the mechanisms of enzyme inhibition.
How does your body operate normally, and what happens when health issues arise?
You will explore the anatomy and physiology of healthy tissues, organs, and the major bodily systems.
By reviewing and interpreting engaging case studies, you will connect theoretical knowledge with real-life health conditions that impact these systems.
Through these explorations, you will gain a deeper understanding of the causes of these diseases, the important diagnostic techniques we can use to assess them, and how we might treat them.
The principles of chemistry are an essential foundation for a molecular understanding of life.
This module will take you through the fundamentals of atoms, elements, functional groups, compounds, chemical bonding and chemical reactions, and examine how these underpin biological systems.
You’ll then explore a range of topics including the molecular basis of thermodynamics and chemical equilibria, molecular forces and interactions, molecular shape and isomerism, the use of spin-resonance spectroscopies, amino acid and protein chemistry, and enzyme catalysis, and their relevance to specific biological topics.
By the end of this module, you’ll understand the importance of chemistry, and you’ll be confident in applying fundamental chemical principles in a biochemical context.
How can you leverage the skills you have acquired so far to thrive throughout your academic journey?
This module will allow you to expand your skill set and advance through the scientific process under the guidance of established conventions that define excellence in academia, healthcare, and industry.
You'll apply your practical skills and knowledge to formulate hypotheses, test them effectively, and learn how to analyse and present data for a standard practical laboratory report.
By following a series of progressive steps, you'll evolve towards becoming a confident, independent scientist, culminating in a mini-project where you'll integrate all your acquired skills in an extended investigation.
By the end of this module, you’ll have the groundwork in place to support your success in the later stages of your degree, undertaking and reporting on experimental work in line with professional standards in the life sciences sector.
In today's ever-evolving landscape of science and medicine, understanding the complexities of molecular and cellular biology within the context of evolution and the genetics of human disease is essential.
You’ll explore cell structure and organisation, the intricacies of cell membranes, molecular trafficking, and the orchestration of organelles vital for energy production and metabolism.
In addition, you’ll navigate cells' internal skeleton, chromosome dynamics, and the fascinating processes of cell division and meiosis.
You’ll also study DNA replication, repair, and recombination, uncovering the secrets of chromatin structure and mutation.
Further topics include the intricate pathways of transcription, mRNA processing, and protein production.
You’ll also have a chance to immerse yourself in the world of genetics, from Mendelian inheritance to the complexities of human pedigrees and quantitative genetics.
Finally, you’ll explore the mechanisms underpinning evolution and gain insight into the transformative power of molecular analysis in diagnosing human diseases.
How do genes work and how can we manipulate them?
How can techniques such as whole-genome sequencing and genome editing detect and treat diseases?
This module deals with the flow of genetic information from DNA to RNA to protein in organisms, ranging from viruses to humans.
You’ll learn how genetic information is stored in DNA and RNA, how that information is decoded by the cell, and how the flow of information is controlled in response to changes in the environment or developmental stage.
You’ll compare and contrast mechanisms of gene regulation in prokaryotes and eukaryotes, and explore the latest developments in molecular genetic techniques to analyse and manipulate gene function.
You’ll also explore how these mechanisms can be applied to research on human disease and the biomanufacturing of useful biological products with real-world applications.
Whether it is biology, biochemistry or biomedical sciences, scientists need to understand their subject matter.
But additional skills are also needed to successfully work as a scientist.
These relate to scientific ways of answering questions and the generation of subject-specific knowledge.
In this module, you’ll interpret scientific data generated with experimental methods that are commonly used in the biological sciences.
You’ll develop your understanding of how to generate new scientific knowledge based on such data and apply these skills to create scientific studies that use combinations of methods to answer scientific questions.
Finally, you’ll apply the skills you gain in this module to design a standard operating procedure as is commonly required by clinical and industrial employers of graduates.
The cell is the fundamental structural unit in living organisms.
Eukaryotic cells are compartmentalised structures and, like prokaryotic cells, they must perform several vital functions such as energy production, cell division and DNA replication, and modulate these functions in response to extracellular environmental cues.
This module explores the experimental approaches that have been taken to investigate cell biology and the similarities and differences between cells of complex multicellular organisms and microbial cells.
Initially, you will study the functions of the cytoskeleton and the nucleus, followed by cell signaling, protein synthesis, and how these processes are precisely integrated to specific cellular compartments.
Through exploring these topics, you will develop a deeper understanding of the molecular details underlying cell organisation and function and be able to use this to address fundamental questions in biotechnology and medicine.
Metabolism defines the biology of a species.
Metabolic pathways – the biochemical reactions that take place in cells – provide a molecular framework that dictates the physiology, ecology and pathogenicity of living organisms.
Through the analysis of metabolic processes in humans, plants and microorganisms, you’ll develop a detailed understanding of the machinery that enables the essential processes required for life, as well as of the more exotic adaptations that enable the colonisation of diverse environmental niches.
Furthermore, by exploring pathway mechanisms and their regulation, you’ll gain key insights into the importance of metabolic processes in health and disease, agriculture and biotechnology.
Microorganisms are all around us and form an integral part of us.
Without them, we could not exist.
You will explore the diversity, function and utility of microorganisms around planet Earth – and beyond.
From their role in shaping the environment to their deployment in biotechnology, the microbial world is increasingly coming under the spotlight for its place in our ecosystem and the properties that allow it to operate in different contexts.
You’ll study the origin of microorganisms and the methods — classical and modern — used in their classification, cultivation and manipulation.
Modern molecular tools offer significant benefits to microbiology, and you will learn about their background and the rationale for their use.
At the end of this module, you will have developed new insights into the essential role that microorganisms play in the world and the potential for harnessing and controlling them.
Have you ever wondered how your immune system knows what to respond to?
What is the anatomy of the immune system and how does it function?
Why does an impaired immune system lead to disease?
You’ll explore some of these questions and dive into the world of innate and adaptive immunity, developing an understanding of how the body responds to injury or infection.
You’ll examine immunopathology which involves conditions where the immune system attacks the body, such as autoimmune diseases, allergies, and responses to tumours or transplants.
Finally, you’ll apply your understanding of the immune system to understand how current immunology-based technologies and treatments—such as monoclonal antibodies— combat diseases.
By the end of this module, you'll have a solid grasp of how our immune system works and why it’s so important in maintaining our health as well as the understanding of how to apply this knowledge into treatments and solutions.
The human brain is the most complex living structure in the universe and has enabled humans to achieve breath-taking milestones such as walking on the moon, mapping the human genome, and composing masterpieces of literature, art, and music.
But how does the human brain work?
You will learn about the biology of the mind, and the molecules underpinning these processes, to develop an understanding of how we experience emotions and initiate behaviours.
You will consider the technological advances that have opened new horizons for the scientific study of the brain, and finally, you will apply your learning to the emerging science on brain disorders with wide societal impact, such as depression and addiction.
Have you got a burning question in biosciences you would like to answer?
Do you want to hone your lab skills for a career in academia or industry?
Do you see yourself as a bio-based entrepreneur, or is your passion for communicating biosciences to different audiences?
In this module, you will work directly towards these ambitions by gaining experience in your chosen subject area.
Working closely with your academic supervisor, you’ll select either a lab-based or data-driven project in which you will answer scientific questions that interest you.
These could potentially contribute to new discoveries and expand the frontiers of our current knowledge and understanding.
In a business project, you’ll develop your ideas into a business plan.
In a communications project, you’ll create educational tools for either the general public, specific professional audiences, or school children.
Whatever future career you have in mind, this module will provide you with essential skills to help you achieve your goals.
Proteins are one of the most important biomolecules made by cells.
They carry out a myriad of functions, from catalysis of reactions essential for life to structural scaffolds controlling cell shape and movement.
Proteins are the tools encoded in DNA to create a living system and are fascinating molecules to study.
You’ll explore the structural organisation of proteins and how they fold into unique conformations that determine their functional properties.
You’ll study catalysis, ligand binding and how proteins come together to create molecular machines.
You will also investigate the techniques we use to study proteins.
These methods have developed rapidly over the last 20 years, and continue to do so.
You’ll have access to advanced instrumentation and be able to work with real data sets.
This will enable you to develop problem-solving skills and gain detailed knowledge of this important area of biochemistry.
What are viruses and what can we do to protect ourselves?
The COVID-19 pandemic has brought viruses into the focus of wider public attention.
By analysing scientific research articles in an interactive, collaborative and student-led approach, you will establish an in-depth understanding of these unique pathogens that are not even living organisms.
You will discover how the evolution of viruses is driven by a continuous tug-of-war with the immune system.
This will enable you to appreciate the successes that we have made in protecting ourselves from virus diseases but also highlight open questions and areas of future research.
This knowledge and understanding brings you to the frontier of developments in the field, where you can help drive forward progress and make a real difference.
What is cancer and why is it so difficult to cure?
Cancer is a disease that almost everybody is affected by during their lives, directly and/or indirectly.
You will gain a comprehensive understanding of the disease, including what defines a cancer cell, and the mechanisms underlying cancer cell formation and behaviour.
This will enable you to understand why cancer is particularly difficult to treat successfully, why cancer therapies are associated with significant adverse effects, and how cancer treatments have nevertheless dramatically improved over time and continue to do so.
This knowledge will enable you to become an expert in cancer, who is up-to-date on this important disease and equipped to follow, understand and drive future developments and progress in the field.
We live in an exciting time where we can easily sequence entire genomes.
This, coupled with advances in Artificial Intelligence (AI), has driven significant development in bioinformatics methods - the tools we use to study the sequence information.
You will explore state-of-the-art bioinformatics and genomics tools, with a strong focus on practical application of these tools to answer important biological questions.
You will combine information from multiple tools to gain detailed knowledge and understanding in the interpretation of results from bioinformatics and genomics resources, particularly in understanding how genetic variants are associated with disease.
The skills and experience you gain from applying knowledge through genomics tool gives you everything you need to kickstart your career in genomics.
Biology of Ageing delves into the intricate molecular mechanisms underlying the ageing process.
You will explore the genetic factors, cellular changes, and physiology that influence lifespan and age-related health, as well as how these are influenced by lifestyle such as diet.
Through this, you will be equipped with a wealth of knowledge that you can use to understand the plethora of scientific and general news articles on the topic of ageing and use these to inform your own opinions.
In addition to developing an overview of ageing biology, you will investigate the techniques, systems, and models that have been used to advance the field and learn to analyse real-life data generated by researchers in this field.
Overall, you’ll understand the benefits and challenges underlying recent advances in age-related healthcare and the ethical, economic and societal benefits of these.
This understanding will help you in making new discoveries in the field.
How do we build trust and confidence in science and technology, so that the public are empowered to make the best decisions for themselves and those around them?
Consider key principles in science communication, reflect on specific historic and contemporary case studies, and develop a personal and professional understanding of your social roles and responsibilities as a scientist.
You will explore ways in which scientist construct key messages in the context of professional disciplines such as media, policy makers, private sector and charitable organisations, and understand the role that scientists play outside of the immediate scientific environment.
Finally, you will apply best practice in science communication and public engagement to global challenges for which science and technology provides potential solutions.
Teaching includes lectures, workshops (including problem-solving sessions, literature reviews, etc), laboratory practical classes, research project and related assessment.
You have an Academic Adviser who you meet with at regular intervals to discuss your progress, and most importantly, to identify ways in which you can improve your work further so that you reach your full potential.
There are also visits to local hospital and public health laboratories to observe the way that knowledge and understanding of biomedical science is used in a working environment.
CDD including either a Science subject (i.e.
Biology, Chemistry, Physics), Sport, Psychology or Mathematics at grade D UR CCC including at least two subjects from the following areas: humanities, computing, art and design, English language or literature.
A typical offer would be MMP in Applied Science, Biomedical Science, Medical Science, Forensic and Criminal Investigation, Sport or Sports Coaching.
All other subjects are considered on a case by case basis.
80 Tariff points, typically H5, H4, H4from three HL subjects including HL Science subject, Sport, Psychology or Maths at 4 or SL Science subject, Sport, Psychology or Maths at 6.
Mathematics grade C/4
Pass overall in Science with C or more in the core components.
The University welcomes applications from Access to Higher Education Diploma candidates for consideration.
A typical offer would be to obtain Access to HE Diploma with 45 level 3 credits, including at least 6 at Distinction, 18 at Merit and 21 at Pass.
This will then be reviewed by the School.
Graduate with an excellent grounding in scientific knowledge and extensive laboratory experience.
During your studies, you’ll also develop key transferable skills in research, critical thinking, analytical abilities and problem solving.
Our dedicated Careers and Employability team are here to support you with a range of workshops to develop your skills and confidence at every stage of your degree.
Plus there’s advice and support to prepare you for placements and life after you graduate from Kent.
Graduates entering high-skill roles can earn up to

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/5779/biology-with-a-foundation-year:
Explore the science of life – from cells and genes to ecosystems and global challenges.
Biology at Kent is hands-on, research-informed and globally focused.
You’ll study the complexity and diversity of life, from bacteria and viruses to animals, plants and entire ecosystems.
The course equips you with the analytical, practical and critical thinking skills needed to understand how living systems work – and how they are affected by external forces.
You’ll work alongside leading researchers from your very first year, gaining lab and field skills using the latest techniques and equipment.
You’ll also have the chance to explore the unknown – through final-year research projects and a dedicated module on global challenges in biology.
The course reflects the full breadth of biology.
Whether you’re interested in cell biology, genetics, ecology or conservation, you can shape your degree to suit your strengths and interests.
This is an excellent conversion course for applicants who don't meet the academic requirements for direct entry but have shown academic ability in non-science subjects.
Study Biosciences
What is biodiversity?
How are species distributed on our planet?
In this module, you’ll explore the variety of life on Earth in all its forms, from bacteria to entire ecosystems such as forests or coral reefs.
You will learn about the diversity of species in all kingdoms of life, including prokaryotes, animals and plants.
You’ll explore the processes that led to the evolution of species, and you’ll use ecological concepts to study how species are distributed within communities and across landscapes.
By the end of this module, you’ll be able to apply ecological and evolutionary concepts to understand the diversity of life on our planet.
Plants allow life on Earth as we know it, providing food and oxygen for the entire biosphere.
They also provide essential materials for us such as shelter, fibre, fuel and medicinal compounds.
With the pressing environmental challenges we currently face — such as climate change, biodiversity loss, and issues around food security and sustainability — understanding plant biology has never been more critical.
You’ll learn about plant physiology, genetics, epigenetics, and metabolomics, gaining insights into the mechanisms driving plant growth and development, and their adaptation to the environments around them.
You’ll incorporate the latest discoveries and technologies into your work, and develop the knowledge, skills and critical thinking you’ll need for a future career in a growing area of the life sciences sector.
By the end of the module, you will have deepened your understanding of plant biology and will be better equipped to apply it to the pressing global challenges we face.
Animals represent a significant portion of Earth's biodiversity.
By studying different species and their interactions with each other, we can gain insights into the complexities of ecosystems and the interdependence of living organisms.
In this module, you’ll comprehensively explore animal life across evolutionary history, focusing on key elements of functional anatomy and physiology.
Through comparative physiology and the study of form and function, you’ll examine the diverse physiological systems found in various animal species, gaining insights into their adaptations and variations to changing environments over time.
By exploring these relationships, you’ll understand how animals have evolved in different environments, what challenges current global issues pose to different species, and what they — and we — can do to ensure species continue to thrive.
Discover the ways in which ecological science can be applied to solve some of the crucial conservation problems facing the world today.
You'll consider key ecological principles at the population, community and ecosystem levels, investigating how these principles can help guide management and policy decision-making.
A major theme is how natural resources can be managed and exploited sustainably, drawing on examples from agriculture, urbanisation and forestry in temperate and tropical regions.
Central to the topic is the question of how species and community conservation can be better incorporated into the wider needs of environmental management.
What is the future of biological research?
What are the new horizons for basic scientific enquiry, and how will new biological understanding transform our society in years to come?
This module asks where the current ‘unknowns’ lie in the field of biological science and how we can answer them.
The module is split into two parts: Unsolved Mysteries, where you will develop understanding across a range of topical areas in animal, plant and microbial biology.
You’ll study recently published work addressing the themes of conflict and cooperation at all levels from genes to ecosystems.
Global Challenges, where you will explore the UN Sustainable Development Goals and ask how biological research can contribute to addressing these.
Topics will vary from year to year but may include sustainable food production, solutions to climate change, consumption and production of biological goods, and equitable access to advances in healthcare.
The module is split into two parts:
Unsolved Mysteries, where you will develop understanding across a range of topical areas in animal, plant and microbial biology.
Biology, Chemistry, Physics), Sport, Psychology or Mathematics at grade D OR CCC including at least two subjects from the following areas: humanities, computing, art and design, English language or literature.
The University will consider applicants holding BTEC National Diploma and Extended National Diploma Qualifications (QCF; NQF;OCR) on a case by case basis.
Subjects likely to be acceptable are Applied Science, Biomedical Science and Medical Science.
Typical offers when made are Merit, Merit, Pass.
Please contact us via the enquiries tab for further advice on your individual circumstances.
80 Tariff points, typically H5, H4, H4 from three HL subjects including HL Science subject, Sport, Psychology or Maths at 4 or SL Science subject, Sport, Psychology or Maths at 6
A typical offer may require you to obtain a proportion of Level 3 credits in relevant subjects at merit grade or above.
A Biology degree from Kent opens up a world of opportunity – from scientific research to conservation, health, education and beyond.
Graduates go on to roles in:
Build essential skills

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/3768/biomedical-engineering-foundation:
Gain skills to build the product of the future.
Business and research environments need engineers who can design complete solutions involving complex integrated systems.
This cross-disciplinary programme is designed for students with an equally strong interest in engineering and biology/medicine.
Drawing from our established expertise in engineering technologies and from the research synergies with Biosciences, this degree produces engineers with a solid knowledge in biology and medical science.
If you don’t have the right grades to enrol directly on to our BEng (Hons) Biomedical Engineering degree, you could opt to start your studies with our Foundation year.
The extra year is intended to give you the best possible preparation for success on the degree pathway.
A solid grasp of algebra is a fundamental requirement for advanced study in any STEM subject.
In this module, you'll study the foundational algebra and coordinate geometry required for Stage 1 entry into your chosen degree and explore why they are so vital to your subject area.
Your preparation for an engineering degree starts here.
You'll develop general skills required to underpin your studies as well as beginning to gain knowledge specific to mechanical and electrical engineering.
This will enable you to start using measurement instruments, understand forces, and work with fundamental electric circuits.
Your practical laboratory and reporting skills will also be developed to support you throughout the degree and your professional life.
Experimental skills and an appreciation of how to evaluate experimental errors are  essential to the practice of engineering.
Therefore, in order to support you throughout your studies, you will learn how present and analyse experimental data, how to use experimental error analysis and reach conclusions based on the data.
Modern electronics is very often created around microcontrollers which are computers embedded into hardware.
To bring you into this important area, you'll have a practical and easily accessible introduction to a microcontroller and its programming language.
Finally, as engineers perform most of their work in projects, you'll learn by doing a mini-project that can be either electronic, mechanical or bio-medical in nature depending on your preference.
Bringing together the other things you’ve learnt in the module, you’ll get to build, test, and report on the operation of your project and make suggestions for its future improvement.
Calculus – the study of continuous change – is a pillar of advanced mathematics, with important applications in STEM and financial subjects.
Calculus, and in particular differential equations, are central to real-life applications of mathematics in a wide variety of subject areas, ranging from physics and engineering to biology and finance.
In this module, you’ll develop your knowledge of mathematical functions to give you a solid foundation for understanding calculus and other advanced topics.
You’ll then move on to study differential calculus and its applications, allowing you to quantify and model rates of change mathematically and consistently and find the gradient of any curve.
Finally, you’ll look at integral calculus and differential equations, allowing you to find anti-derivatives and model real-life situations.
Your preparation for an engineering degree continues in this module.
You'll develop further knowledge and new problem-solving skills relevant to both mechanical and electrical engineering.
This will include topics in alternating current (a.c.) circuits, engineering electromagnetism, mechanical oscillations and vibrations and rotating mechanical systems.
Further laboratory work will reinforce this knowledge.
Mathematics is the fundamental language of engineering, allowing complex ideas to be described, formulated and developed.
This module gives you a strong foundation of key mathematical techniques and methods required by most other modules in our engineering courses.
Topics covered include complex numbers, calculus, linear algebra, statistics and probability.
Throughout the module, you’ll tackle real-world engineering problems.
These include the study of mechanical and electrical systems, the use of complex numbers and linear algebra for the analysis of electrical circuits and the use of statistics and probability in the analysis of experimental data.
Electronics underpins all of modern life, from everyday household items to the most sophisticated supercomputers.
It enables devices such as ultra-low power wearable health monitors through to megawatt wind turbines.
You’ll begin your engineering journey by learning fundamental circuit analysis and fabrication skills.
This will enable you to begin engineering project work right from your first year.
You’ll also explore the vital and trusted role that engineers play in supporting and transforming society and infrastructure.
You’ll do this by demonstrating your ability to consider societal issues essential to modern professional engineering.
Programming underpins all facets of modern life, from basic software applications to complex artificial intelligence systems.
It enables everything from simple mobile apps to large-scale enterprise solutions.
You'll embark on your programming journey here, mastering fundamental coding concepts and development skills.
This foundation will empower you to dive into programming projects right from your first year through lectures, workshops and programming challenges.
You’ll also examine the pivotal role of programmers in shaping and advancing society by exploring ethical and societal considerations essential to contemporary professional programming.
The success of an engineering product relies on the combination of careful mechanical design, strategic material selection, and a deep understanding of mechanics.
These elements collectively shape the product's performance, durability, and overall effectiveness, highlighting their essential role in the development of any successful engineering solution.
You'll learn how to develop an engineering drawing of a product using a Computer-Aided Design (CAD) system and choose the best materials from a wide range of available engineering materials for your designed components.
This material selection process depends on the mechanical analysis of a component under various loading scenarios, which you will learn in this module.
This knowledge will enable you to start developing an engineering project from your first year of study and practise it throughout your degree.
What essential practical skills and knowledge do biomedical engineers need to succeed in the field?
This module gives a comprehensive response to that question by focusing on three core components.
Physiological Systems of the Human Body delves into cell structure, organ systems, and prerequisites for understanding physiology and disease.
Biomedical Laboratory Skills, examines techniques such as dilutions, microscopy, bioinformatics, and programming in R for biosciences.
Technical Approach to Medical Electronics covers topics like error analysis, measurement principles, instrumentation, and electronic circuits relevant to medical applications.
This integrated approach gives you a strong foundation in both theoretical understanding and hands-on proficiency, preparing you to tackle complex challenges at the intersection of engineering and healthcare with confidence and expertise.
To bring your engineering education to life, you’ll do a project in each year of study.
In the Stage 1 project, you'll gain hands-on experience, allowing you to apply theoretical knowledge to real-world problems.
It will enhance your understanding of engineering principles and concepts.
Throughout this process, you’ll apply electronic and mechanical design skills and programming/software knowledge to describe and produce a physical solution alongside a technical specification.
You are expected to gain a foundational understanding of engineering hardware and software integration and verification.
The module progresses through lectures, workshops, and labs, tutorials with supervision and technical guidance.
It aims to provide you with hands-on and problem-solving skills in the concepts elucidated in the Term 1 and Term 2 modules.
Engineers work in interdisciplinary teams to overcome the challenges of intelligent engineering systems.
Smart engineering systems are not simple mechanical or electronic components, but the result of synergistic integration between mechanical engineering, electronics, computer science and control.
You’ll learn to apply this interdisciplinary approach to develop innovative solutions that would not be possible with a single-discipline focus.
You’ll gain applied knowledge of sensors, actuators, and data acquisition techniques which are crucial to modern engineering.
After mastering the foundational concepts, you’ll progress to cover transducers, mechanical components and modelling of mechatronic systems.
You’ll further explore microprocessors and data acquisition processes and become familiar with actuator functions within mechatronic systems.
Practical sessions will complement your theoretical learning, allowing you to apply concepts in hands-on scenarios with real-world systems.
Biomechanics is the application of mechanical principles to living organisms.
It comprises the mechanical and physiological aspects of biological (human) bodies and forms a vital part of bioengineering.
Through a blend of theoretical study and practical application, you'll learn the interplay between physics, physiology, and engineering as they relate to the human body.
You’ll acquire the ability to analyse the impact of forces on the human body's structures.
You'll gain first-hand experience through practical mini-projects, computer simulations, and by examining human movement patterns.
Moreover, you’ll develop the ability to apply critical thinking skills to biomechanical principles to solve complex problems in areas such as human movement and rehabilitation devices.
By the end of the module, you’ll have a solid foundation in biomechanics which will prepare you for careers in research, healthcare, sports science, engineering, and beyond.
Image analysis techniques give computers the power to enhance, interpret and understand visual inputs.
These techniques are integral to many applications such as autonomous vehicles, medical diagnosis, document processing, biometric security and surveillance.
You’ll learn the principles of image analysis techniques alongside their practical applications.
Starting from basic image formation and acquisition, you’ll learn core image processing techniques such as how to filter noise, how to extract object outlines, how to identify regions of interest in an image (segmentation), and about image feature descriptors.
You’ll also explore various supervised and unsupervised classification techniques (including neural networks) for object recognition.
You’ll discover several real-world applications of image analysis and learn through lab-based exercises and a mini-project.
Signal processing as well as control systems are vital to ensure stable, safe and optimal operation of many modern devices and systems such as drones, robots and other automated platforms.
This module will provide you the underpinning concepts, knowledge and methodologies in signal processing and control theory to apply to systems from your engineering disciplines.
The control systems part will include both continuous and discrete time systems.
The signal processing part is focused on signals, sampling filters .
and will cover both analogue and digital systems.
Lecture materials, hands-on experiments, computer simulations and case studies are carefully designed to strengthen your learning experience.
After successfully completing this module, you will obtain fundamental and essential knowledge in signal processing and system control required for advanced engineering learning and future professional practice in related fields.
Teamwork lies at the heart of this module, seamlessly blending practical group projects with supporting lectures, emphasising the development of technical proficiency, transferable skills, sustainability, and security awareness.
You will collaborate in teams to explore mechanical and electronic hardware, software development, entrepreneurship, and sustainable practices.
Through hands-on project work, you will gain expertise in sensor data acquisition, programming, hardware design, understanding security protocols, and integrating sustainability principles.
Additionally, you will address crucial topics such as innovation, financial management, intellectual property protection, and commercialisation strategies with a sustainable and security-oriented perspective.
By merging technical knowledge with entrepreneurial insight, sustainability principles, and a focus on security, this module equips you with a comprehensive toolkit for navigating the complexities of modern innovation and enterprise securely and sustainably.
You take all compulsory modules and then choose on from a list of optional modules.
What are the advanced techniques and principles essential for monitoring and analysing physiological parameters in medical contexts?
In this module, you’ll study advanced instrumentation methods, signal processing techniques, and data analysis algorithms tailored for biomedical applications.
Key areas covered include biosensors, bioelectric signals and vital sign monitoring.
Additionally, the module emphasises the importance of accuracy, reliability, and safety in physiological measurements, preparing you to be able to design, develop, and evaluate innovative medical devices and systems.
Through theoretical lectures, hands-on laboratory sessions, and practical projects, you’ll gain the necessary expertise to contribute meaningfully to the field of biomedical engineering by advancing state-of-the-art physiological measurement technologies.
Robotics and artificial intelligence (AI) are currently the most exciting fields in engineering.
We are preparing for a robotics and AI revolution that will change our lives at every level and bring us one step closer to the integration of humans and machines.
You’ll comprehensively explore the key concepts in robotics and artificial intelligence and gain essential subject knowledge.
You’ll learn theoretical tools to describe kinematics and dynamics for industrial robot systems with several degrees of freedom and use cutting-edge AI and machine learning (ML) algorithms in robots.
You’ll also discover software/hardware integration in robot architectures for advanced tasks (e.g.
obstacle avoidance learning), industrial applications and the adoption of AI in robotics.
You’ll progress to cover industrial tests as well as statics and dynamics of robots, dynamic modelling, and industrial control strategies.
By the end of the module, you’ll be equipped with a solid foundation in robotics and AI, and be empowered with essential theoretical knowledge and practical skills for designing, modelling, and controlling robotic systems.
This is an opportunity for independent study on a topic of your own choice.
Working on the project is a major part of your final year of study, taking place in spring and summer terms.
It’s a chance for you to conduct in-depth research on a subject that is relevant to your course, helping you to further develop essential skills.
It will also challenge you to solve problems which involve the critical consideration of engineering and relevant legal, social, ethical and professional issues.
It will enable you to develop and practise a professional approach to delivering written and oral presentations.
You will be allocated a supervisor who will support you through weekly meetings and other communications.
To help you build the required knowledge and skills you’ll need for a successful engineering project, you’ll attend a series of lectures and workshops.
These will cover topics such as design and production techniques; reliability, availability, maintainability and safety (RAMS), quality, safety and electromagnetic compatibility (EMC); as well as ethical, environmental and EDI (equality, diversity and inclusion) issues.
Biomaterials are substances designed to interact with biological systems.
They serve various purposes such as assessment, treatment, support, or replacement of tissues, organs, or bodily functions.
The objective of this module is to give you a comprehensive understanding of biomaterials, emphasising their interactions within the biological environment.
The module begins by examining the mechanics of materials, covering fundamental concepts such as stress, strain, bending, and shear.
You’ll then look at a diverse range of biomaterials and their applications within the human body.
You’ll develop critical thinking skills and apply biomaterial principles to solve complex problems in areas such as the development of human implants.
This module gives you a solid foundation in biomaterials, preparing you for careers in research, healthcare, engineering, and beyond.
Classical and modern manufacturing technologies play a key role in driving product development and innovation across various industrial sectors.
Integrating these technologies into industrial applications promotes sustainable design and manufacturing, minimises waste and resource consumption and boosts the fabrication of new products and materials.
You’ll gain knowledge of state-of-the-art manufacturing technologies and modern techniques such as additive manufacturing.
You’ll then acquire practical skills in using these technologies through several lab sessions and practices.
This module also promotes the principles of sustainable design and green manufacturing, both of which reduce environmental impact and promote long-term viability and resilience.
Medical physics is an essential component of modern healthcare, supporting the diagnosis and treatment of a wide range of diseases.
You’ll learn specialist medical applications of physics, including a focus on the practical aspects relevant to professional practice.
You'll explore a range of topics, offering a well-rounded contemporary overview of the field, with emphasis on the core principles of medical imaging, radiation therapy and radiation safety and their role in dealing with complex clinical challenges.
The growing field of optical techniques in medicine is also covered, linking with Kent’s major research strengths in this area.
Benefit from a significant contribution from a professional medical physicist, giving you insights into how medical physics is practiced and potential careers in hospital physics where can bring your knowledge from learning in a cutting edge research environment to industry.
Embedded systems in conjunction with the Internet of Things (IoT) are used to create systems that can sense in real-time different aspects of their environment, collect and transmit information for a vast number of applications including smart cities, smart agriculture and smart factories (Industry 4.0).
This information can then be used to transform the day-to-day operation of our cities and businesses making them more efficient and less wasteful of resources.
This module introduces the theory and practice of employing computers as the control and organisational centre of embedded systems and examines time-critical systems.
You'll also cover design aspects of embedded systems and IoT through practical work, including real-time operating systems and microcomputer programming.
You will learn how to use the internal peripherals of a microcontroller by working directly at the hardware register level and as such gain a good understanding of the interactions between software and hardware.
Many practical applications of embedded systems require real-time operation under strict deadlines (e.g., in factory automation).
As such, the module also covers the concepts of real-time operating systems and features that are essential for time-critical operation.
IoT can be used as the backbone communication infrastructure in embedded applications and the skills and knowledge you develop will be crucial in your future career.
In today's interconnected world, cyber security is not just important – it is essential.
From businesses to schools, homes, personal devices, and even vehicles, everything is connected!
This module dives deep into the fascinating realm where cyber security – including general topics and specialist areas such as cryptography – take centre stage.
Get ready to explore how these fields shape the modern technology landscape, from fundamental security principles to the intricate dance between risk management, cybercrime, usable security and professional aspects.
You'll unravel the mysteries of ciphers, delve into the world of symmetric and asymmetric cryptography, and even take a critical look at cyber-attacks.
You'll also examine their social and technical dimensions and explore effective risk treatment measures.
This includes robust security controls and the use of upcoming mechanisms such as cyber insurance.
The knowledge you will gain on this module provides a strong foundation to guide and inform security efforts within an organisation.
Prepare to embark on a journey where every click, every byte, and every line of code matters – and where you knowledge can make a real difference.
Lectures; tutorial lectures; demonstrator-led examples classes; tutor-led small group supervisions; project work; laboratory experiments and computer-based assignments.
Case studies on industry hot topics and emerging technologies.
In particular the first, second and third-year projects give hands-on experience of electronic design and project management.
Problem-solving workshops allow you to develop skills in applying biomedical knowledge to solution of problems.
Practical classes teach specific laboratory skills and demonstrate how they can be used to investigate biomedical systems.
Written unseen examinations; assessed coursework in the form of examples, class assignments, laboratory write-ups, assessed project work, assignments and essays and class tests.
Merit, Merit, Pass
72 tariff points from your IB Diploma, including Maths at 4 at HL or SL, typically H4, H4, H4 or equivalent
Mathematics Grade C
Obtain the Access to HE Diploma with a minimum of 45 credits at Level 3, with 9 credits at Distinction and 6 credits at Merit.
There may be additional costs associated with the Year in Professional Practice such as travel or accommodation, which will need to be covered by the student.
Please see Careers and Employability webpages for more information.
You'll develop into a well-rounded graduate, confident of your future opportunities as we support you to recognise and learn the essential skills and attributes needed by industries in the UK and overseas.
This course has been designed in discussion with industrial employers, our Industrial Panel, IET, our graduates, and students.
This allows the latest real-world developments and latest academic research to be included in the curriculum.
Lecturers and guest speakers include those with industry experience and experience working with industry on research and commercial innovation.
We use this industrial knowledge and our networks to support your development.
Our programme is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET), which enables fast-track career progression as a professional engineer.
The Careers and Employability Service supports you when looking for graduate employment, placements, work experience, internships, and volunteering.
They help you to identify career paths, and support you through applications, interviews and assessment centres.
They also provide a programme of events, giving you industry insight and an opportunity to network.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/5780/biomedical-science-with-a-foundation-year:
Turn your curiosity into cures.
Explore the science to treat disease.
Biomedical Science is about understanding how the human body works and what happens when things go wrong.
This course explores the science behind diagnosing and treating disease, with a focus on real-world application and modern research.
You’ll be taught by active researchers, including NHS staff and biomedical science practitioners.
From the start, you’ll gain practical lab experience, and in your final year, you’ll have a whole term dedicated to your own research project – a rare opportunity to focus and build skills that prepare you for work or further study.
The course is accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science and the Royal Society of Biology, while our four-year Biomedical Science with a Year in Professional Practice course has Advanced Accreditation.
Whether you're aiming for a career in the NHS, research, pharmaceuticals or graduate medicine, this course gives you the knowledge, lab skills and confidence to make it happen.
Early in your degree you develop your skills as a bioscientist, covering biological chemistry, genetics, molecular and cellular biology, human physiology and disease, and metabolism.
What roles do biomedical scientists play in patient care?
In a clinical laboratory processing many thousands of patient samples daily, how is quality and safety maintained?
This module will show you what it’s like to work in a clinical laboratory.
You’ll undertake competency training, gaining key knowledge and skills required by the Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS) for practising as a biomedical scientist and entering other clinical careers.
You’ll start building an impactful biomedical CV and learn about interprofessional practice in medicine, exploring different clinical and non-clinical roles and learning how these intersect in a patient’s care pathway.
In the laboratory, you'll practise generating and interpreting clinical data.
By the end of the module, you’ll have a breadth of knowledge about biomedical science and clinical practice, preparing you for further study at Kent and beyond in your career.
Modules go on to include advanced immunology, haematology and blood transfusion, and pathogens.
How is disease diagnosed in the NHS?
How can patient-centred healthcare be achieved in practice?
In this module, you’ll learn key diagnostic techniques currently used in clinical biochemistry, cellular pathology and molecular pathology.
You’ll also learn how these techniques are used within the NHS.
You’ll discover the fundamental principles and concepts of patient-centred care and understand how to apply them in real-world clinical scenarios.
By the end of the module, you’ll be able to make sound, safe, evidence-based decisions about diagnosing disease, solving problems as a biomedical scientist in the clinical laboratory, and recommending treatment for patients.
How do drugs work?
How do we find the right drug to treat not just the disease, but the individual patient?
What drugs are we going to need in the future, and how are they developed?
This module explores those questions.
You’ll learn the principles of pharmacology that underpin the use of drug molecules to treat disease.
You’ll then apply your knowledge to the treatment of some of the most common diseases that affect different physiological systems and cause a substantial burden to physical and mental health around the world.
You’ll gain knowledge of the molecular basis of drug action, the biological basis of disease and the therapeutic approaches to treating them.
By exploring the main methods of monitoring the effects of drugs on their cellular targets through analysis of experimental data and clinical case studies, you’ll understand how drugs function, how they are used in clinical care, and the steps needed to develop new drugs to respond to emerging public health challenges.
This grounding in theory and development of the knowledge and skills on how to apply it are key foundations to your career in biosciences.
In your final year you complete a research project which can be lab or literature based.
You have a broad choice of optional modules including neuroscience, bioinformatics and genomics and cancer biology.
Why are some microbes pathogenic and others not?
How do pathogens cause infection?
What are virulence factors, how have they evolved and what are the similarities and differences between pathogens?
How do microbes become resistant to antimicrobial therapies, and what new therapeutics are in the pipeline?
In this module, focusing on key global infections, you’ll explore the molecular pathogenesis and antimicrobial resistance of a broad range of clinically relevant microbes including viral, bacterial, fungal, and parasitic pathogens.
You’ll explore the epidemiology of key infections, signs and symptoms of infection, and apply diagnostic techniques to clinical case studies.
You’ll combine immunology and microbiology to discover how pathogens evade the actions of the human immune system and examine the links between pathogens to understand how different pathogens have evolved similar infection processes.
You knowledge of pathogens if the first step into being able to combat disease and make the world a safer place.
How is blood used to diagnose disease?
What makes a blood transfusion safe?
This module will demonstrate the composition of healthy blood, how blood cells are formed, and examine a wide variety of blood pathologies.
You’ll learn key techniques for using blood to diagnose, monitor and treat disease.
You’ll critically evaluate the provision of care for key haematological diseases globally, delving into ethical problems and racial inequalities.
In the laboratory, you’ll practise generating and interpreting haematological data.
Through the blood transfusion section of the module, you will learn how to evaluate the quality and safety of blood transfusions.
By the time you complete the module, you’ll be ready to enter the field of blood sciences, with the knowledge to make good clinical decisions and challenge current treatment paradigms to improve haematology practice.
For course aims and learning outcomes please see the course specification .
Please contact the School for more information at studynats@kent.ac.uk .
MMP in Applied Science, Biomedical Science, Medical Science, Sport or Sports Coaching.
Please contact us for further advice on your individual circumstances.
80 Tariff points, typically H5, H4, H4 or 11 points from three HL subjects including HL Science subject, Sport, Psychology or Maths at 4 or SL Science subject, Sport, Psychology or Maths at 6.
Graduate with real-world experience, research expertise and a degree that’s recognised across the healthcare and science sectors.
Our BSc Biomedical Science courses are accredited by the Institute for Biomedical Science (IBMS), meaning our graduates are eligible for Trainee Biomedical Scientist roles directly following graduation.
Our courses are also accredited by the Royal Society of Biology (RSB), while our four-year Biomedical Science with a Year in Professional Practice course has Advanced Accreditation.
Students graduating from RSB recognised courses are eligible for associate membership and are entitled to two years’ membership at half price.
Skills for your future

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/6493/business-analytics-management-foundation-year:
If you have a passion for numbers and want to apply them to real life settings, this course is for you.
Businesses rely on data to make decisions across all their core functions.
Whether it’s data on employee performance, supply chains, or market trends, managers today need to be able to work with numbers.
On our BSc Business Analytics and Management course, you’ll learn the skills to interpret, analyse and present data to influence and facilitate good business decisions while developing your understanding of other key business functions.
You’ll learn from our expert staff who have endless experience working with real companies.
With their help and your passion, you will graduate a confident business leader, ready to make decisions, solve problems and find innovative solutions.
The foundation year is for students whose school-leaving qualifications are below the level required.
It offers one year of full-time study prior to the start of your BSc course.
The Foundation Year aims to extend access to university education to students from a wide variety of educational backgrounds and age groups and prepares these students for our three or four-year degrees.
After successful completion of the foundation year, you can transfer on to the three or four-year Business and Management programmes.
Please refer to the BSc Business Analytics and Management , BSc Business Analytics and Management with a Year Abroad or BSc Business Analytics and Management with a Year in Industry programme for more information about specific modules.
Unlock your potential and gain the essential skills for academic success at university.
You’ll develop effective study habits, learn to manage your time, and gain strategies for independent learning.
You’ll conduct academic research, by learning to find, evaluate, and use academic sources, while avoiding plagiarism.
Your writing skills will be developed through extended writing activities, referencing, proofreading, and editing.
You’ll also improve your communication skills by learning how to structure a presentation and use visual aids.
You’ll develop your critical thinking through analysis, evaluation, and argumentation.
By the end of this module, you’ll be building towards working at Level 4.
How do businesses operate today?
What are their key functions and how are they organised?
Most importantly, what do managers need to know in order to make sound decisions?
You’ll develop a broad understanding of essential business management and accounting models, exploring theories that are integral to how businesses work.
By looking at fundamental business strategies and different tools of analysis – like break-even calculations, ratio analysis, capital appraisal models, and decision trees – you’ll develop your understanding of the basics of business and start building up your skills in Excel.
Throughout the course, students actively engage in discussions and practical applications, preparing them to confront complex global economic challenges armed with a data-driven approach.
By the end of the course, students emerge equipped with the necessary skills to analyse economic data effectively and contribute meaningfully to informed decision-making in the global economic landscape.
How do you effectively manage people in organisations?
In this module, we’ll tackle that question by exploring decision-making processes concerning work design, organisational structure, and accountability.
We'll consider classical management perspectives such as scientific management and human relations theory, as well as contemporary issues like culture management and diverse leadership styles.
Through case studies, you’ll develop critical thinking skills and gain an understanding of contemporary business operations with an emphasis on reflecting on the ethics and fairness of current workplace practices.
How do companies measure, assess and communicate their financial performance?
Managers prepare, read and interpret financial information daily and they use it to communicate company financial results to a variety of stakeholders.
In this module you’ll learn how sole traders and limited companies record accounting transactions using bookkeeping and how they summarise and report their financial results to external stakeholders using financial statements.
You’ll also gain essential knowledge of the regulatory framework of financial reporting which guides the process of preparing annual reports for a variety of companies.
By the end of the module, you will have developed the analytical skills needed to both prepare and analyse financial statements.
This will enable you to holistically assess company financial performance and provide recommendations, an important skill in your future career.
Given the startling pace at which human-driven changes are occurring to our social and ecological systems, what skills do you need to be ready for whatever challenges await you when you graduate?
You’ll look at the biggest challenge facing businesses in every industry today: how to organise themselves in ways that ensure a sustainable future for the global community.
You’ll look at various case studies to examine the impact climate change is having on business.
You’ll also consider the key theories, concepts, and practices of sustainable business, including the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals.
In doing this, you’ll develop the skills you need to succeed as you navigate university and professional life, so that you can make a positive impact — both in your local community and globally during your time at Kent, and in your career afterwards.
Economics are a crucial tool for business to utilise to help make informed decisions that support success and drive growth.
Developing a knowledge of microeconomics will help you understand how millions of consumers and producers make decisions, how they interact and use scarce resources.
You will learn how to apply microeconomic theories and tools to understand consumer and producer behaviour, resource allocation, and pricing policy, including cost and benefit analysis.
The application of microeconomic theory to real-world situations will help you make efficient decisions as a manager and as an entrepreneur.
You ability to both understand and apply microeconomics theories to real business situations is vital to not only launching your career, but making rapid progress and delivering results on a managerial or executive level through informed decision making.
Excel is the industry standard software for data processing and modelling, so if you want to hit the ground running in your career, mastery of Excel is crucial.
You'll learn the techniques of Excel and spreadsheet modelling through realistic problems and extensive exercises, giving you real hands-on experience to make rapid progress.
By the end of the module, you wont only have mastered excel to report, model and forecast for businesses, you'll have also developed the confidence you need to present your insights to managers, stakeholders and business leaders.
This makes you a vital asset for businesses focused on growth, and gives you an extra edge when looking to make progress in expanding industries.
Quantitative methods are becoming increasingly important for successful businesses.
As business data becomes more complex and sophisticated, higher-level mathematical knowledge is required to understand operational problems better and make informed decisions.
Throughout this module, you’ll develop and consolidate your mathematical knowledge and skills, ensuring that you understand core mathematical concepts and how to apply them to business problems.
You’ll also develop knowledge in using Excel to solve mathematical problems and learn about statistical analysis methods and techniques.
You’ll focus on real-world case studies and practise tackling the types of issues that businesses face.
This means you wont only be able to apply quantitative models to businesses, you'll be able to confidently and effectively communicate actions and outcomes from the stories the data reveals.
Operations management is the highly important activity of managing the resources devoted to production and delivery of products and services.
We'll explore conceptual, analytical, and practical aspects of how to effectively manage operations in manufacturing and service companies.
We’ll look at various types of businesses including in the private, public, and third sector as well as start-up organisations.
You’ll develop highly sought after knowledge, understanding, skills and abilities in analysing, judging and decision-making in these areas.
All of these will be very valuable when starting out in your career.
What are the key policies and practices that shape how we manage people in organisations?
You'll learn about all areas of human resource management theory and practice — from planning and recruiting for your human resource requirements through to effective performance and reward management, employee relations and the ethical treatment of staff.
By the end of the module, you will have increased your awareness and developed your knowledge and skills in effective management by looking at practices currently applied within organisations.
This skill set is crucial as you progress in your career in HR management through this module, you should have everything you need to thrive in your career.
Project management has rapidly emerged as an essential discipline for businesses seeking to achieve strategic and sustainable goals.
It can be applied across industries, offering indispensable tools for organisational development.
Whatever field you are working in, project managers are in the driving seat of progress.
This module provides in-depth insights into project management concepts, principles, and applications, giving you essential approaches, tools, and techniques which you can apply to various contexts.
You’ll enhance your analytical, critical and reflective thinking skills.
By integrating project management expertise with discipline-specific knowledge, you’ll have a competitive edge when you finish the module, enabling you to succeed in both project and non-project-oriented careers.
Python has become the most popular general-purpose programming language.
It enables fast development, has great community support, and is an industry-standard tool for visualising and analysing business data.
Developing computer programming skills is an important tool in business analytics.
You’ll explore the fundamentals of programming, covering essential concepts such as flow control and loops, before advancing into the realm of object-oriented programming.
You’ll explore the practical applications of Python packages, focusing on those specifically relevant to business analytics.
These include solving equations, data visualisation, and generating descriptive statistics.
Through hands-on exercises and real-world examples, you’ll develop a robust skill set, making you proficient and confident in using Python for effective business analytics.
In today's business context there is a wealth of data available.
Many businesses currently struggle to transform that data into useable information that they can use to make meaningful decisions.
We'll learn to extract insights from historical data through interactive visual analytics, communicating complex information effectively and gain hands-on experience in using data to drive positive change in business, environment and society.
We'll also explore advanced techniques for pattern recognition and forecasting, providing the ability to foresee future outcomes and trends.
We'll explore real-world case studies from diverse industries, offering a deep understanding of how data analytics is integral to sectors like supply chain management, marketing, healthcare and finance.
By the end of this module, you'll be equipped with the skills and knowledge to transform data into actionable insights and predictions, making an impact on any organisation that you work at.
Making decisions is crucial for managers and businesses, as they shape our lives and impact outcomes at work.
However, making smart decisions in the face of complexity and uncertainty can be challenging.
How can data support our decisions in such uncertain contexts?
Together we’ll explore various quantitative and graphical methods that help identify, represent, and evaluate different options.
These can help us make optimal decisions.
We’ll guide you through the decision-making process in organisations, using an evidence-based approach drawn from research in behavioural psychology, economics, error management, and intuitive judgment.
These tools will help you to make sound decisions in uncertain situations, enabling you to influence and lead effectively.
By the end of the module, you’ll have a deep understanding of informed decision-making methodologies.
You’ll learn how to analyse problems, identify potential solutions, and evaluate outcomes in uncertain conditions.
You'll be able to make decisive decisions supported by data and evidence in order to drive growth and deliver results for businesses.
You take all compuksory modules and then select 80 credits at Level 6 from a list of optional modules.
In the rapidly evolving world of business, developing and implementing effective strategies is vital for success.
This module equips you with the knowledge and skills necessary to excel in the field of strategic management.
You’ll engage in rigorous analysis and critical thinking to explore a range of strategic concepts.
These include the fundamentals of strategic planning, advanced topics in supply chain dynamics,  and issues such as quality management, technology-driven innovation, and project/event management.
Throughout the module, you’ll engage in interactive discussions, group projects, case studies, and hands-on exercises to enhance your problem-solving and decision-making skills.
By the end, you’ll have the ability to analyse and apply critical thinking to evaluate strategic alternatives and make informed recommendations.
Prescriptive analytics goes beyond simply describing past events or predicting future events.
It provides insights into what actions organisations can take to make better decisions.
Together we’ll learn how to formulate complex problems mathematically and solve them using various techniques.
You’ll discover how to turn data into optimal decision-making strategies by creating powerful mathematical models known as Linear Programming (LP).
Through exploring different LP solutions and conducting sensitivity analyses, you’ll be able to inform better decision-making with data.
Additionally, you’ll delve into network models, tackling problems such as transportation, assignment, shortest path, maximum flow, and minimum spanning tree.
You’ll learn how to model these scenarios and explore common approaches to solve them effectively.
You’ll focus on solving optimisation problems using Excel Solver, which will give you practical skills for real-world scenarios.
As digital marketing and social media become increasingly important to business strategy, knowing how to use analytics to drive success has never been more important.
Digital analytics produce a wealth of insights that enable marketing managers to evaluate the success of digital and social media marketing initiatives.
They are also useful for forecasting trends to inform future marketing decisions.
You'll learn how to use a range of analytical tools to interpret and evaluate data on consumer behaviour and preferences and social media engagement.
You’ll also discover how to use key performance indicators (KPIs) - which are specific to digital and social media campaigns -  to help drive improvement and performance.
The module will equip you with the analytical and data skills necessary to interpret digital data, enhancing your employability and preparing your for a range of careers in marketing or business.
Simulation modeling is increasingly important in business, used in industries, consulting and policy-making.
With many software options available for simulation modeling, it's essential for business graduates to understand its philosophy and techniques.
We'll learn how to use simulation modeling as a powerful tool for decision-making in complex systems, with a focus on practical applications, analyzing computer models of real-world processes.
Through this, you'll gain skills in building and analyzing simulation models, empowering you to estimate and compare alternatives in different situations.
Ultimately, you'll be equipped to tackle the challenges of decision-making in complex scenarios through simulation modeling.
Big Data and Machine Learning are making big changes in many industries, affecting how computing and cloud technology function.
We'll study the basics of processing big data and learn to use practical tools through real-world examples and hands-on exercises.
You'll also learn about various machine learning techniques, including supervised, unsupervised and reinforcement learning.
Starting with simple linear regression, you'll progress to advanced topics like neural networks and convolutional neural networks and also explore important concepts like the bias-variance trade-off for model selection.
In addition to model training, you'll also learn how to evaluate model performance using standard metrics, refining your skills in the process.
An introduction to the concept of behavioural science and how its insights can be applied to the workplace.
Behavioural Science is drawing from multiple scientific disciplines (e.g.
psychology, behavioural economics).
It aims to give new insights into how our minds operate in the modern business world.
Applied to the workplace it can help us to shed new light onto a wide range of issues relating to HR.
You'll gain a first insight as to how the developing cross-disciplinary field of behavioural science and provide you with novel tools to overcome organisational challenges.
For example, you'll cover how behavioual sciences can help us to understand how our decision making can be inherently biased and affect selection and assessment processes or equality and inclusivity within the workplace, how humans are motivated, how the workplace environment can be affected by workplace interactions both between individuals and teams, or how stress or wellbeing are influenced by a number of workplace factors.
The law expects businesses to be governed responsibly and individuals within them to be mindful as to how they fulfil their legal obligations to their customers, the environment, their workforce and the public.
You'll study negligence, company, employment and discrimination law, emphasizing responsible business governance and individual accountability.
By analysing current legal issues and applying them to real-world scenarios, you'll enhance problem-solving skills, understanding of diverse impacts and ethical decision-making in business.
Navigating complexities and ambiguities fosters critical thinking and integrity, preparing you for future studies and careers.
Study the different ways in which people operate within organisations.
You're introduced to the strategic use of data in people operations to tackle workplace challenges effectively.
You'll learn various methodologies for analysing and interpreting data to improve organisational performance and employee well-being.
Explore diverse data collection, processing and utilisation techniques.
Through practical exercises and case studies, you'll learn to extract valuable insights, recognise patterns and make informed decisions to optimise human capital management.
Ethical considerations such as privacy and confidentiality are emphasised, ensuring responsible data usage.
You'll leave with a thorough understanding of how data-driven approaches can positively impact organisational culture and productivity.
How do you think creatively for business and startup planning?
You'll address opportunity recognition, product development, business proposal creation and entrepreneurial finance.
Through teamwork, you'll develop leadership, problem-solving, communication and analytical skills.
Analogies from diverse cultures aid personal connections, while the curriculum emphasises sustainability, lifelong learning and systems thinking.
You'll gain entrepreneurial confidence, adaptability, opportunity recognition, risk management, and innovative mindset for diverse career paths.
Understand corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sustainability through ethical theory and stakeholder perspectives.
You'll engage with essential readings and cases to recognise key issues raised by stakeholder groups, including shareholder activism, socially responsible investment, employee discrimination, working conditions, ethical marketing, consumer protection, accountability, collaboration with civil society organisations, and governmental corruption.
We emphasise collaboration with internal and external stakeholders which contributes to understanding contemporary social issues in business.
Designed to ignite your entrepreneurial spirit, inspire you to recognise the potential for international success and equip you with the knowledge and tools to navigate the complexities of the modern industrial age.
Through a combination of theoretical concepts and interaction with entrepreneurs, you'll gain insights into international opportunities, the critical factors contributing to initial success, and strategies for sustained growth.
Interdisciplinary thinking is encouraged, fostering the ability to merge theories from different subjects to solve complex problems.
You'll develop independent study skills and effective communication, both orally and in writing, while honing their critical thinking abilities.
You'll consider teamwork in multicultural settings, preparing you to work efficiently and effectively in diverse, cross-border collaborations.
You'lll emerge with a multifaceted skill set, including the capacity to work across disciplines, plan and study independently, communicate effectively, think critically and understand the intricacies of entrepreneurship on a global scale.
Our enthusiastic team of international teaching staff are all experts in their field of study and are regularly published in leading journals worldwide.
They guide and support your learning, bringing their subject to life and drawing you into the conversation through lectures, seminars, workshops and PC labs.
Your progress is assessed through a mix of coursework – including reports, essays and presentations - and exams.
Undergraduate students can expect around 8 contact hours per week, depending on year of study and optional module choices made.
The remainder of the working week consists of self-guided study
For course aims and learning outcomes, please see the course specification .
CDD
80 Tariff points from your IB Diploma, Typically H5, H4, H4 or equivalent
Mathematics grade 4 / C and English grade 4 / C.
Access to HE Diploma in (subject being taken) with a minimum of 45 Credits at level 3 with 9 credits at Distinction and 12 credits at Merit
The fee for the foundation year is £5,760 for UK students in 2025.
The standard tuition fee will apply for the following years.
Kent Business School students find work in public and private sector management both overseas and in the UK in a wide range of companies and organisations, including:
UK analytics graduate salaries

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/4429/business-and-management-with-a-foundation-year-canterbury:
Become an ethical and entrepreneurial leader with broad business skills.
There are business leaders that generate profit.
And there are business leaders that generate profit while also creating a positive impact on people and the planet.
At Kent Business School, we’re committed to nurturing the latter.
Our BSc Business and Management equips future business leaders with everything you need to become a responsible, ethical and successful business leader or entrepreneur.
You’ll gain a broad understanding of all business and management disciplines from operations to marketing, accounting to management theory.
Employers will value the skills you’ll gain in teamwork, data analysis, communication and real-world problem solving.
And as a graduate of one of just 1% of business schools in the world to hold the coveted triple crown accreditation, your education will stand out from the rest.
The Foundation Year is for students whose school-leaving qualifications are below the level required.
As you progress, you’ll be introduced to the advanced concepts of many business and management disciplines with the flexibility to tailor your course to suit your interests.
Once you graduate you’ll have the skills and confidence to lead and inspire others, be innovative, and manage sustainably.
We have a supportive community, where you’ll work closely with your academic adviser and other academic staff.
They are experts in all areas of business who will expose you to the right mix of detailed theory and hands-on experience.
Why study at Kent Business School?
Foundation Year is a Stage 0 entry point, designed to introduce students to key knowledge areas relevant to their degree and support the development of key academic skills necessary for success in a university context.
After successful completion of the foundation year, you can transfer on to the three or four-year Business and Management courses.
Please refer to the BSc Business and Management , BSc Business and Management with a Year Abroad or BSc Business and Management with a Year in Industry courses for more information about specific modules.
How do businesses function effectively in a global context?
How do they understand their markets and consumers while managing and leading responsibly?
You’ll address these questions by exploring the importance of globalisation to business and finance.
You’ll learn about the dynamic nature of marketing through concepts such as the marketing mix and in the process develop a holistic understanding of what is happening in the rapidly-changing global marketplace.
By taking a case-study based approach, you’ll gain essential insights into the contemporary business world and develop critical skills and confidence to prepare you for the rest of your degree.
Dive into a project that sparks your curiosity and hones your academic skills, as you choose a topic you’re passionate about and transform your research into a compelling essay.
This module allows you to develop and apply the learning from your Autumn term module ‘Academic Skills Development’.
You will improve your research and writing skills further and refine your use of sources.
While you conduct your reading and research, you’ll engage in reflective practices improving your ability to assess and evaluate your learning using various reflective models.
Independence and time management are key skills you’ll develop as you navigate this module.
To maximise your experience, you are expected to prepare and actively participate in our regular tutorials.
These are designed to provide invaluable opportunities to seek guidance and develop your project.
All modules are compulsory.
Marketing is an exciting and dynamic field that offers endless opportunities for innovation, creativity and growth.
With advancements in technology, shifts in consumer behaviour and emerging trends, marketers have the opportunity to explore new strategies and tactics to help firms effectively reach and communicate with their target customers.
Creating brand awareness, engagement, satisfaction and loyalty is vital for sales growth in competitive and dynamic markets.
You'll learn how to develop and implement effective marketing plans and strategies as well as exploring how key elements of the marketing mix can be used to create and communicate a distinctive value proposition that helps a product or service stand out from the competition.
You’ll gain the skills, knowledge and confidence needed to develop, deliver and refine marketing strategies that make employers sit up and take notice.
You take all compulsory modules and then select 20 credits at Level 5 from a list of optional modules.
This module aims to equip you with the knowledge and skills to identify, analyse, and evaluate ethical issues in business.
Through critical reflection and analytical argumentation, you’ll develop the ability to articulate your views and critique opposing perspectives on ethical matters.
The focus of this module is on gaining an in-depth understanding of business ethics and cultivating critical thinking skills, enabling you to emerge as a conscientious leader in your field.
Corporate social responsibility and sustainability are central themes due to the growing interest and expectations from stakeholders on environmental and social performance.
You'll cover essential theories such as utilitarianism, deontological theories, corporate social responsibility, and the triple bottom line, applying these concepts to real-life business situations through case studies.
Are you interested in starting your own business?
What are the tools and skills you need to do so?
Why are startups becoming more popular?
We’ll delve into the social and economic changes that have raised the status of enterprises, small businesses, and entrepreneurial ventures in the global economy.
We’ll consider entrepreneurs, their characteristics and motivations, and the barriers and issues that they face when planning and establishing a new startup venture.
You'll learn what makes new ventures grow and succeed, and evaluate the practical decisions that entrepreneurs need to make to maximise the chances of their business succeeding.
Gain an in-depth and critical understanding of the complex and volatile work environments they may experience in the workplace.
The development of relevant knowledge and skills to thrive and lead in today’s dynamic workplace in an ethical and sustainable way is a vital toolkit for today’s graduate.
In doing so, you will understand the importance of values-driven and inclusive leadership, collaborative working, employee well-being, valuing difference and championing diversity, creativity, innovation, managing change and the role of AI.
This will enable you to develop the knowledge and skills-base needed by business professionals.
Managers use financial controls for daily decision-making, with profit planning being vital for business sustainability and growth globally.
They prepare profit plans by integrating strategic, marketing and financial analysis.
Performance measurement involves utilising management accounting tools like budgeting, variance analysis and KPIs.
Revisions to the profit plan are identified through continuous monitoring, comparing actual results to targets and analysing discrepancies.
Managers leverage data analysis and performance management tools to enhance business performance, provide feedback and suggest improvements, fostering socially responsible and sustainable practices.
International Marketing offers companies the opportunity to expand their business and reach new customers on a global scale.
You’ll learn how to identify and evaluate new market opportunities, assess different ways to enter potential markets and appreciate the range of influences that exist in the international marketing environment that might require adaptations to marketing strategy and programmes.
By taking a problem solving approach to the opportunities and challenges international marketers face, you’ll learn how to apply key international marketing theories and frameworks to help you demonstrate and develop the essential critical thinking and analytical skills needed in today’s workplace to justify your decision-making.
Together we'll explore various quantitative and graphical methods that help identify, represent, and evaluate different possible options and make optimal decisions.
These tools will equip you to make sound decisions in uncertain situations, enabling you to influence and lead effectively.
By the end of the module, you'll have a deep understanding of informed decision-making methodologies.
You'll learn how to analyse problems, identify potential solutions, and evaluate outcomes in uncertain conditions.
You take all compulsory modules and select 80 credits at Level 6 from a list of optional modules.
After finishing the module, you’ll understand the vital corporate strategy tools organisations use to navigate the complex landscape of strategic planning and decision making.
This understanding of these processes and tools makes you an asset to employers and help you stand out in the job market after graduation.
What is the impact of a changing world on cross-border management?
How can culture, organisation, communication, leadership, and ethics be managed effectively in different locations?
The current era offers unprecedented excitement and opportunities for learning.
You'll gain a comprehensive introduction to the latest research on cross-cultural management.
Based on critical analysis of the assumptions underlying various approaches to studying national cultures, you’ll apply frameworks to understand cross-cultural issues managers in international organisations may face.
Some of the topics you’ll study include different approaches to cross-cultural management, cultural frameworks and how to apply them, the role of the global manager, and global management challenges.
Experiential learning and teamwork are integral to the module and the teaching is highly participative.
You’ll participate in various group exercises including an assignment in partnership with Kelley School of Business in the USA.
This active experience working with peers and with another international institution helps you make rapid progress in your understanding of cross-cultural management, giving you an edge in the job market.
Many developed economies are dominated by services, so it’s increasingly important to understand the customer decision making process involved with service encounters, as well as what’s involved in delivering quality service experiences and understanding how to positively influence customer perceptions at key touchpoints in the service delivery process.
You’ll learn how the distinct characteristics of services create challenges for service marketers and explore how theoretical concepts and models of services marketing can be applied to address these challenges by examining the strategies and practices of service based companies.
This will give you the skills and knowledge to formulate marketing strategies and programmes that are customer centric and enhance the service experience for target customers, enabling service organisations to compete more effectively.
Do you have what it takes to be a management consultant?
Do you have the skills to be able to respond to the real-world problems that businesses are facing today?
On this module, we'll work with real businesses who want the help of groups of KBS students to solve the challenges that they currently face.
Through a series of workshops you'll come to understand the consultancy process and develop key consultancy skills as you master the art of responding effectively to a brief from a business.
Working in a group of your peers, you'll bring different skillsets from your studies to bear on solving business problems like designing a marketing strategy, advising on recruitment processes, or support meaningful performance management and financial evaluation etc.
Put a capstone on your studies with a project that has real world impact.
At KBS, your learning experience is built to reflect the world you’ll enter after graduation - collaborative, dynamic, and shaped by real-world challenges.
Our compact, consistent timetable (three 10-week terms per year) offers flexibility, helping you balance study with part-time work, caring responsibilities, entrepreneurship, or extracurricular interests.
Throughout your degree, you’ll learn through interactive lectures, practical workshops, case studies, and real-world business simulations.
Modules are delivered using a mix of individual tasks and collaborative projects, equipping you with essential experience in teamwork, communication, and leadership.
You’ll also have opportunities to engage with guest speakers, consultancy-style business challenges, and company visits.
We assess your learning in ways that reflect modern business practice.
This includes presentations, reflective diaries, business plans, group projects, and traditional assessments.
You’ll receive regular feedback to guide your development, with clear briefs and learning designed to build your confidence and skills.
In addition to your course modules, you can participate in extracurricular competitions, enterprise initiatives such as the ASPIRE Lab, and live consultancy projects.
If you choose, you can spend a year working in industry or studying abroad - embedding real-world experience into your academic journey.
You’ll work on developing business-relevant skills such as data analysis, ethical decision-making, sustainability, entrepreneurship, and creative problem-solving.
With content shaped in consultation with industry partners, this programme helps you graduate with the insight and experience that top employers expect.
Our typical offer levels are listed below and include indicative contextual offers.
If you hold alternative qualifications just get in touch and we'll be glad to discuss these with you.
If you don't meet the academic requirements for direct entry, our Business and Management with a Foundation Year course offers one year of full-time study prior to the start of the BSc degree.
Mathematics grade 4 / C and English grade 4 / C
Don’t wait until you graduate to gain real-world business experience.
Our course embeds business theory into real world practice so that you’re ready now.
Uncapped opportunities await you with a degree that prepares you for many different career paths.
Employers:
Roles:
UK business graduate salaries

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/5768/business-marketing-with-a-foundation-year:
Launch your marketing career with hands-on experience and professional recognition.
How do you launch a successful marketing career in a digital-first world?
At Kent Business School, you’ll explore how to build brands, connect with audiences, and use data to make ethical and strategic decisions.
Our BSc Business and Marketing course combines critical thinking with real-world practice.
Opportunities to work on live briefs, pitch to clients, and analyse consumer data across platforms like TikTok, Instagram and YouTube are examples of learning methods that simulate a real career experience.
You’ll explore topics from digital strategy to consumer behaviour and can tailor your degree through specialist modules or a year in industry.
Accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM), this course helps you graduate career-ready with professional recognition.
Whether you're driven by creativity, curiosity or commercial ambition, you’ll gain the insight and practical skills to thrive in a fast-evolving, digital-first world.
After successful completion of the foundation year, you can transfer on to the three or four-year Accounting and Finance courses.
Please refer to the BSc Business and Marketing , BSc Business and Marketing with a Year Abroad or BSc Business Marketing with a Year in Industry programme for more information about specific modules.
Given the constant changes in business environments, how can financial accounting help managers create budgets, improve efficiency and develop short- and long-term strategies to stay competitive?
You'll study the core principles, concepts and policies in financial accounting and examine the necessary adjustments that underpin the preparation of final financial statements of sole traders, partnerships and limited liability companies.
You'll also gain practical experience with key accounting tools used by industry to prepare, analyse, and interpret financial statements, preparing you for the rest of your degree.
You take all compulsory modules and then select one module from a list of optional modules.
In competitive marketplaces, strategic marketing planning is essential for firms seeking to reach their target customers, foster brand awareness and increase revenue.
In this module, you’ll develop your understanding of marketing strategy and planning by learning how to systematically approach and develop a strategic marketing plan for a commercial or social organisation.
Through this process, you’ll learn the tools marketers use to assess market opportunities and evaluate their competition.
You'll also learn by exploring real-world case studies and hearing directly from guest speakers with industry experience.
These insights will deepen your appreciation of the challenges, issues, and ethical dilemmas marketers face today.
If you're aiming for a career where you lead impactful and successful marketing campaigns, this module is a key step to getting there.
As businesses embrace digital marketing as a tool to reach key audiences and deliver results, they need experts in strategy and planning to give their campaigns an edge and ensure they are successful.
Through collaborative projects and hands-on workshops you'll become the kind of expert businesses are looking for.
You’ll gain the skills, knowledge and confidence needed to develop, deliver and refine digital marketing strategies to drive results and enhance brand visibility in a competitive landscape.
Being a leader in digital marketing gives you the edge that makes employers sit up and take notice, not only ensuring you’ll jump into a successful and exciting career, but you’ll be a driving force in the field.
Consumer behaviour is a critical exploration of how consumers and organisations engage with products and services.
Society, culture, identity, and psychology all influence consumer habits.
So, what can marketers learn from the social and cultural world?
You'll discover why consumers from different backgrounds react uniquely to the same products, what drives these consumption patterns, and how culture shapes our buying decisions.
You’ll explore the social and cultural intricacies of consumer behaviour and gain the insights needed to connect, engage and succeed in a global marketplace.
By embracing a wide spectrum of philosophical and research perspectives, you’ll gain a multifaceted understanding of the subject, alongside critical thinking skills.
This will greatly enhance your employability and prepare you to tackle complex problems as you begin your career.
Marketing research helps businesses to understand their markets and target consumers, and identify opportunities that inform decision-making about the business and customers.
You’ll learn how to use traditional marketing research techniques to gain insights into consumer behaviour before delving into the analysis of digital data from online sources and interactive dashboards.
You’ll gain hands-on experience using analytical software that will give you the skills needed to navigate digital data landscapes, analyse customer behaviour and trends, and extract actionable insights into customers and competitors.
Embracing this data-driven approach to market research ensures that your marketing strategies are grounded in empirical evidence.
This results in meeting customer expectations better, building stronger relationships, and fostering brand loyalty.
How do brands differentiate themselves from their competitors?
How do they create competitive advantage in a crowded marketplace?
This module covers four main areas: developing brand strategy, implementing brand management, evaluating brand performance, and sustaining brand growth.
By studying these four areas, you’ll gain insights into formulating effective strategies, executing brand management practices, assessing brand effectiveness, and fostering long-term brand growth in dynamic market environments.
You'll delve into real world case studies, engaging discussions and collaborative projects, so you'll not only grasp the theoretical foundations but also cultivate practical insights into the dynamic world of branding.
You'll emerge with a profound understanding of how to strategically build and manage brand identities that leave a lasting impact and produce results.
You take all compulsory modules and select at least 60 credits at Level 6 from a list of optional modules.
Marketing communications serve as the voice of a brand.
They create a dialogue that connects businesses with their audiences across various platforms and mediums.
This module will examine how advertising fuses creativity and strategy to influence consumer behaviour and perceptions.
You’ll engage with tools like social media and search engine optimisation (SEO) to create conversations and nurture communities.
Integrated marketing communications (IMC) ensure consistency across all channels, amplifying the resonance of each message.
Ethics and sustainability practices that guide responsible marketing are at the heart of the module: respecting privacy, ensuring transparency and embracing sustainable practices that prioritise long-term well-being over short-term gains.
You’ll enhance your employability by blending practical, applied learning with essential marketing concepts.
By engaging directly with current advertising tools, digital platforms and real-world case studies, you’ll be able to apply your knowledge effectively in a professional setting.
You’ll learn the theory and strategies to navigate digital landscapes and uphold ethical standards.
This hands-on approach, combined with insights into sustainability, prepares you to enter the workforce with the confidence and skills needed to excel in a dynamic industry.
In a world marked by perpetual transformation, how can emerging leaders adeptly navigate the challenges and seize the opportunities that shape corporate strategies?
Through engaging and interactive sessions, students will unravel the complexities inherent in leadership principles and strategic decision-making.
Hands-on applications are used, ensuring that, alongside the theoretical knowledge, you develop the practical skills essential for effective leadership in the contemporary business environment.
You will leave the module with a knowledge of corporate strategy tools that are indispensable resources utilized by organisations to navigate the intricate landscape of strategic decision-making and planning.
We’ve reimagined the learning experience to give you more time for reflection, real-world learning and career planning.
At KBS, you don’t just study marketing - you experience it.
You’ll learn by doing, with assessments and activities that mirror how the industry works.
This course is designed to help you grow with purpose - developing the mindset, skills and experience you’ll need to thrive in today’s marketing landscape.
The world awaits great marketers.
Business and marketing graduates will find career opportunities in all industries around the world.
Your biggest challenge might be in narrowing your focus.
With a degree that combines industry engagement and professional accreditation, you’ll stand out to top employers.
Graduate earning potential

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/388/chemistry-with-a-foundation-year:
Interested in developing chemical compounds?
Curious about the structure of chemicals and the reactions they have with one another?
Enter the fascinating world of Chemistry at Kent to gain the knowledge and practical skills to help tackle the challenges of the 21st century.
From combating climate change and creating energy storage devices, to developing new pharmaceuticals and cosmetics.
This course is designed for students who do not meet the requirements for direct entry to Stage 1 of our degree courses, and is an excellent conversion course for applicants who have shown academic ability in non-science subjects.
Our distinctive course allows you to apply your knowledge to specific case studies - in our state-of-the-art facilities - as well as giving the opportunity to work with our leading research teams on your own project.
You'll also benefit from our expert careers advice – we'll help you to achieve your ambitions.
This course is fully accredited by the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC).
You’ll study mathematics, physics, electronics and computing, and take part in practical classes.
You’ll focus on the broad base on which chemistry is founded and start to build your practical lab skills.
Embark on a fascinating journey into the heart of matter with our Fundamentals of Chemistry module, designed to ignite your curiosity and lay the foundations for your understanding of the chemical world.
Delve into the fundamental principles that govern the behaviour of atoms and molecules, explore the mysteries of chemical reactions, and investigate the endless possibilities that chemistry offers in shaping our world.
From understanding atomic structure to unraveling the complexities of bonding and reactivity, this course serves as a vital gateway, equipping you with indispensable knowledge essential for both forensic analysis and broader chemistry applications.
How do chemical and technological processes shape and influence the natural world?
What can we as chemists do to tackle environmental challenges?
As a burgeoning chemist, you will explore how chemical processes shape and influence the world around us.
By fostering an understanding of environmental chemistry alongside essential skills in scientific communication, data analysis, and ethical conduct, this module equips you with the tools you need to tackle pressing environmental challenges and contribute to a sustainable future.
Why do we make molecules?
Why does nature make molecules?
What do these molecules do?
What makes carbon so vital to life?
What makes one molecule a medicine and another a poison?
You'll start your journey in organic chemistry by answering some of these questions.
We'll introduce you to the basics of fundamental organic chemistry, looking at the structures of carbon-based molecules and how they can be put together in millions of different ways.
We'll see how they bond with other elements to give complex compounds and how they can be made, synthetically and biologically.
This module equips you with all you need to know about organic chemistry leading into your later studies in Chemistry or Forensic Science, laying the foundations for your degree and your career.
How do the elements vary across the periodic table?
How can we utilise these variation to optimise the reactivity of compounds and their physical properties as is required by modern society?
This module gives you an understanding of how the variation in bonding across the periodic table leads to predictable and useful trends in structure and properties.
The key properties of the transition metals are explored; this will enable you to understand how their fascinating and versatile properties arise, laying the groundwork for their application in diverse and distinctive settings.
You'll develop your ability to understand and apply the key underpinning principles of inorganic chemistry supported by associated mathematical methods.
This is key to the mastery of chemical structure, reactivity and functional properties required by chemists.
What drives a chemical reaction?
How can we control chemical reactions?
And why is it important to control chemical reactions?
We discuss the key ideas of thermodynamics and kinetics in a chemical context.
It shows how the universe may be understood in terms of the flow of energy, allowing us to understand what transformations are possible and how fast they will occur.
These essential physical principles are then applied to real world phenomena, showing that even the most fundamental theories have direct and important applications in the modern world.
This understanding is key to you  not only become a successful chemist, but an ethical and responsible one, which is crucial when looking for a professional role following graduation.
Practising chemists are respected for their ability to understand complex theory, and test it experimentally.
This module guides you through the introductory stages of your journey to competency in applied experimental chemistry.
Comprising a rigorous set of practical experiences, you'll gain a robust understanding of core practical chemistry skills, from working hands-on skillfully in the wet laboratory, to venturing into the modern world of coding and computation.
Along the way you'll explore organic and inorganic synthesis, physical and analytical chemistry, and the use of computational techniques in experimental chemistry, while developing key skills in data manipulation, data presentation and scientific report writing.
This sets up up for an exciting and successful career as a chemist, or in a wider range of fields, putting you in the driving seat of your career.
You’ll further develop your knowledge of organic, inorganic and physical chemistry and continue to develop your lab skills.
Why is analytical chemistry important within the chemical and forensic industries?
What approaches should we take when considering the chemical analysis of an unknown sample?
Analytical chemistry is essential throughout the chemical and forensic world - covering not only how we design experiments to understand the composition of unknown samples, but also how we confirm and quantify results and assign a level of confidence to our findings.
This module takes a pragmatic, application-driven approach to sample preparation, analysis, and data validation, providing key foundations for the modern analytical chemist - and the key skills needed for a number of careers in chemical and forensic industries.
Do you want to know more about the structure of DNA and how its structure has evolved to provide the building blocks of life?
Have you wondered why different drugs behave in different ways inside our bodies?
How do we create new treatments and therapies to tackle disease?
This module introduces you to the key ideas and fundamental molecular components of biochemistry.
You'll look at simple biomolecules and non-covalent interactions, building up to biological oligomers before you are introduced to key concepts in pharmacology and pharmacokinetics, illustrated with medicinal chemistry case studies.
This application of theory into practice through examining case studies prepares you for a career where you can get hands-on and make a real difference.
Organic Chemistry is the science of making molecules.
Understanding organic reactions helps scientists invent new drugs, discover eco-friendly materials, and decode the language of life.
This module builds upon your knowledge of structure and reactivity and applies it in the context organic synthesis, molecular design, reaction mechanisms.
You'll dive deeper into learning about creating more challenging target molecules from simple ones; along with industry-standard techniques to identify and follow the progress of any organic reaction.
Upon completion, you'll be able to identify the most important concepts in the rational design of synthetic routes for useful complex organic molecules such as drugs, pesticides, dyestuffs, and perfumes.
So you have the knowledge to launch a career in chemistry in a industry you are passionate about.
Explore the fascinating interplay between transition metals, organic molecules, and main group elements, unlocking the secrets behind some of the most pivotal chemical transformations shaping our world.
From unraveling the intricate mechanisms of catalysis to harnessing the catalytic power of transition metal complexes, you'll delve deep into the frontiers of chemical innovation.
You'll also gain an understanding of the rich structural and chemical diversity of inorganic solid-state compounds that enable their applications as functional materials.
This further builds on your knowledge of inorganic chemistry and gives you the tools you need for a successful and exciting career as a chemist.
Why do atoms and molecules behave the way they do?
How can we understand the intricate dance of electrons and nuclei at the quantum level?
What impact do these insights have on shaping the molecules of the future?
In this module, you'll explore the core principles of quantum chemistry and molecular spectroscopy, two pillars of modern chemistry that illuminate the intricacies of matter at its most fundamental level.
Starting with the foundational postulates of quantum mechanics and the wavefunction, you'll explore how these principles govern the electronic structure of atoms and molecules.
You'll discover how spectroscopy reveals the identity and properties of molecules.
Mastering these concepts will equip you with the tools to design the molecular systems of tomorrow.
Whether it is developing new catalysts, or discovering novel pharmaceutical compounds, you'll be positioned at the forefront of innovation through the far-reaching applications of these disciplines.
The modern practical chemist must operate successfully across the range of chemical disciplines, applying core chemical knowledge to a range of unfamiliar problems.
You'll venture through a diverse and challenging range of practical and theoretical experiences, conducting experiments across many disciplines to illustrate the multi-faceted, versatile, and employable characteristics of a practising chemist.
By the end of this module you'll be more confident working alone and in groups to carry out, understand, analyse, evaluate, improve, and report on your chemistry.
The range of skills you'll develop will critically underpin success in the remainder of your studies and beyond.
In your final year, alongside your modules, you complete an independent research project.
Modern Chemistry and Forensic Science rely heavily on a suite of chromatographic and spectroscopic techniques.
But which of these should we apply for our particular cutting-edge chemical research, or to obtain the specific, precise and robust forensic evidence we require?
This module builds upon your knowledge of fundamental concepts and methods to understand the specificity, advantages and limitations of these more advanced techniques, and explore approaches to best apply them across a broad range of applications.
Using this knowledge, you'll strategically choose and expertly apply advanced analytical methods across a range of scenarios explored elsewhere within your course.
Beyond this course, you can apply these interdisciplinary skills and technologies to pioneering research and in support of impacting real world issues in fields including environmental chemistry, forensic trace analysis and pharmaceutical development and detection.
What types of functional properties do solids exhibit?
How can these be harnessed to address key global challenges, such as enabling the ongoing data revolution and reducing our dependance on polluting energy sources in the future?
Gain an understanding of how such functional properties work, the types of inorganic materials that can be used for them and how these can be made and characterised.
We'll give you the knowledge needed to synthesise and optimise new functional materials for a wide range of useful applications through a systematic understanding of key classes of functional solids, this knowledge will be the basis for any career in chemistry where you want to tackle challenges and answer pressing questions.
What’s the importance of organic synthesis?
Why should we learn about different organic processes?
Organic synthesis is key to the success of multiple industries such as medical and pharmaceutical.
In this module, we'll explore advanced complex methods for different organic transformations bringing together the beauty and complexity of organic chemistry.
You'll also broaden and extend your knowledge of organic chemistry to standards used in modern chemistry research, academia, pharmaceutical science, and other related industries.
You'll study the principles to master various bond formations and functional group transformations at an advanced level, gaining the essential skills you need to pursue a career in organic chemistry.
Why have rare elements become such a valuable commodity in recent years?
What makes them unique for underpinning the latest chemical processes on which our modern society relies?
This module offers a comprehensive journey through the principles governing the behaviour of both main group elements and transition metals, unlocking the secrets behind their diverse reactivity and profound impact on the world of chemistry.
You'll explore the deeper mechanistic explanations for their unique reactivity and electronic properties that enables the efficient synthesis of the wide variety of compounds needed to address global challenges across areas as diverse as healthcare, the green economy and quantum technologies.
How is computational modelling used in modern society and industry?
Can computer modelling replace experimental work?
Computational modelling and simulations are increasingly used by industry to complement experimental work and can be used to provide unique insight, especially when experiments are expensive, dangerous or prohibited.
In this module you'll be introduced to a range of cutting-edge modelling and simulation approaches that chemistry practitioners may encounter through their career in aid of solving complex chemical problems and in driving the design processes for new biomolecules, photovoltaic cells and bio-degradable polymers, supporting a range of topical global challenges.
How can we apply our chemical knowledge and problem solving techniques to original chemistry challenges?
How can we innovate within the chemical sciences to build on the knowledge base within our scientific and global communities?
You'll undertake a comprehensive research project, selected from a range of chemical disciplines.
You will also gain skills in conducting and directing scientific research, data analysis and interpretation, problem solving and communication of results, culminating in the writing of your dissertation.
This isn't just your chance to hone you skills and develop as a chemist, your dissertation itself is a real piece of scientific research you can use to demonstrate your knowledge and skills to employers following graduation.
Assessment is by a combination of written examinations, continuous assessment and other assignments.
Coursework assessments include practical laboratory skills, presentation skills as well as essay and report writing.
Please note that you must pass all modules of the foundation year in order to progress onto stage 1.
For those with a relevant science qualification our standard offer is CDD with one of these to be Chemistry or Biology, for those without a relevant science qualification our standard offer is BB, OR CCC including at least two subjects from the following areas: humanities, computing, art and design, English language or literature.
80 Tariff points, Typically H5, H4, H4 at HL including HL Science Subject, Sport, Psychology or Maths at 4 or SL Science Subject, Sport, Psychology or Maths at 5
You'll graduate with an excellent grounding in scientific knowledge and
extensive laboratory experience, as well as a toolbox of transferable skills highly sought after by employers.
These include excellent communication and problem-solving skills; the ability to work independently or as part of a team; analytical thinking; and effective time management.
Typical graduate destinations include:

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/5799/economics-foundation-year:
Empower yourself to thrive in a rapidly changing world.
Explore the big economic and social challenges shaping our future.
Our BSc Economics degree is built for ambition, whatever your background or A level subjects.
Whether you've studied Maths and Economics or not, you'll be supported, challenged and inspired.
We'll give you the tools to unlock your potential and turn your passion into purpose.
The economy is increasingly complex and everchanging.
Employers want problem-solvers who think clearly, learn fast and explain their ideas well.
An Economics degree at Kent prepares you for this.
Each year, you’ll build new skills and grow your knowledge, until you can “speak economics” and use your insight to solve real-world problems.
You can even sharpen these skills with the option for a Year Abroad or a Year in Industry.
This course shapes itself around your ambitions.
You’ll learn in a close-knit campus with one-to-one support from expert lecturers and researchers.
You can also get real-world experience with a year in industry.
As you progress, you’ll choose topics that interest you - like financial markets, the environment, the economics of development.
You can follow your passion deeper in a specific area, perhaps developing your technical skills, or explore a broad range of ideas.
Economics explores big and wide-ranging questions.
How can we fight climate change?
What causes financial crises?
Why is there inequality These will provide the material and context for you to learn core economic principles; how to break up large problems into manageable parts, and how and why individual actions can shape the economy and impact everyone.
If you want to build a strong career and better understand the world around you, this course gives you the tools.
You take one of Mathematics for Economics Mode A or Mathematics for Economics Mode B, depending on your mathematics level, you then take all remaining compulsory modules.
Economics is the study of how we make choices about what to produce and consume, given our limited resources.
Microeconomics explores the decisions made by individuals and firms, offering a fascinating lens through which to understand the world around us.
In this module, you'll learn to think like an economist, building and using models to answer economic questions.
You'll develop critical thinking skills and learn how to evaluate models and integrate empirical evidence into your analyses.
This is why microeconomics training, even at an introductory level, is useful in many jobs and walks of life.
The emphasis in this module will be on how economics can help us understand the society we live in.
The module covers fundamental topics, such as demand, supply, and equilibrium.
It also covers other topics related to real-world problems which are relevant to understanding human behaviour and society, including labour markets, strategic choices and inequality.
Macroeconomics is the study of the economy as a whole.
It aims to explain topics such as inflation, unemployment, short-term fluctuations in GDP, and long-term economic growth.
It analyses the aggregate behaviour of households, firms, and the government to understand how they collectively influence economic outcomes.
This module starts by introducing you to the measurement of GDP, inflation, and unemployment in an economy.
It explains equilibrium in the market for consumer and investment goods and in financial markets.
It then uses this knowledge to apply macroeconomic models to analyse the effects of government and central bank policy on outcomes like consumption, inflation, and unemployment.
The macroeconomic analysis in this module uses mathematical and graphical representations of economic relationships which will support the narrative arguments.
You’ll learn to appreciate the close relationship between an economic argument and the underlying economic theory.
You’ll also learn how different assumptions and theories can lead to different economic predictions.
This module builds the foundation for macroeconomics in the second year and later macroeconomics-related optional modules.
Economists face a fundamental problem: we aim to describe in simple terms complex interactions that involve millions of very different actors such as households, businesses and policymakers.
How can we make sense of what is happening and help others understand how the economy works?
More importantly, what can we do about those aspects of the economy that aren’t working well?
The answer is to use mathematics, which helps us comprehend complex problems.
This module has two aims.
The first is to build your confidence and ability to understand the mathematical tools that economists use, such as linear algebra, differentiation, logarithms and exponentials.
The second is to use economic applications to illustrate how mathematical economics differs from the textbook mathematics you will have studied at school.
These applications will also show that even the simplest mathematical tools are powerful at explaining economic behaviour.
Mode A of this module is designed for students who already have a background in mathematics.
It therefore focuses more on the applied part to develop your ability to think like an economist.
Mode B of this module is designed for students who have not studied much mathematics at school.
It therefore focuses on helping you build a solid foundation in mathematical methods.
One of the most important skills of an economist is the ability to routinely work with data and be the ‘numbers person’ for their team.
By extracting the information that exists in the correlations between variables, we can test our theoretical models and identify the most useful ones, or make forecasts that can be used to help decision makers.
All these important components of the economist’s toolkit are rooted in statistics, a field that is becoming increasingly relevant and valuable in a world characterised by Big Data and machine learning.
This module introduces you to some of the fundamental concepts in statistics, such as probability distributions, sampling and inference, correlation and regression, all of which will form the foundation for other modules later in your degree.
Most importantly, it gives you an insight into the practical questions and problems that statistics can solve.
It will also teach you how to detect and understand the common ways in which statistics are misused and misinterpreted in everyday situations.
In today's data-driven world, mastering data analysis is vital for economists who want to gain meaningful insights and to inform decision making, both in government and the private sector.
This module provides you with a comprehensive toolkit of analytical techniques, tailored specifically for undergraduate economists, using the industry-standard software Excel.
Embark on a hands-on learning experience from day one.
Through exercises and real-world case studies, you’ll harness Excel's functionalities to manipulate, analyse, and visualise economic data accurately.
From mastering statistical techniques to crafting compelling graphics, this module empowers you to navigate economic analysis confidently.
You can apply the practical skills you learn in this module to both your professional and academic endeavours.
Regardless of your background in Excel, this module is your gateway to driving impactful decisions in economics and will elevate your expertise in data-driven economics.
This is a hands-on module utilising experimental activities to interactively demonstrate how game theory and behavioural economics can shed light on significant economic and social issues.
You'll explore the exciting fields of game theory, experimental economics, and behavioural economics, gaining the essential tools to analyse individual and organisational interactions in economics, politics, and other social sciences.
The module is structured to offer you strategic insights into the processes of decision-making and interaction within these areas.
By integrating theoretical implications with experimental exercises, the module provides a comprehensive and engaging understanding of fundamental economic concepts, rendering these concepts accessible and applicable to real-life situations.
You'll delve into key topics such as the dynamics of market interactions, the common problems of principal-agent relationships, and the challenges of collective actions within economic contexts.
Through this, you'll enhance your abilities and critical reflection to effectively tackle these challenges, particularly in the context of strategic decision-making in the real world.
Why are some economies rich and others poor?
How do investment and new ideas affect our living standards?
Why do some occupations earn so much more than others?
And why can’t the market find work for every jobseeker?
This intermediate module in macroeconomics focuses on medium to long-term economic outcomes including economic growth, employment, and inequality.
Economic growth is the most important determinant of living standards in the long run, but it alone doesn’t necessarily improve living standards for all.
Income distribution is also crucially important for ensuring widespread progress in living standards.
This module first analyses the long-term determinants of economic growth, including the role of investment in new capital, education, and new ideas.
You’ll then analyse the labour market, exploring issues such as why some people who want to work are unemployed, and how different skills or occupations drive changes in economic inequality.
The study of economics is the study of human behaviour and decision-making.
How do people make decisions regarding what to buy, how much to work, how much to save, or who to marry?
What happens when people’s decisions depend on what they think other people will do?
What happens when the outcomes of people’s actions are uncertain, or when people don’t have full information about the decisions in front of them?
These types of decisions are important for the individuals making them – but also for the society as a whole because they affect overall wealth, inequality, and the environment.
In this module – which comprises the first half of an intermediate course on microeconomic theory – you’ll develop an analytical framework and toolkit for thinking about questions such as the ones above.
The module introduces the fundamental theoretical foundations of microeconomics and provide examples of their application.
In addition to consumer theory, other typical topics include game theory, choice under uncertainty, contract theory, altruism, and irrationality.
Are markets always the best method for delivering products and services?
Are there scenarios in which government intervention can improve welfare?
This module builds on and extends what you have learnt in previous microeconomics modules.
You’ll develop a deeper understanding of how companies make decisions and analyse how this behaviour is impacted by available production technologies, the level of competition in the market, the existence of externalities, and the characteristics of the goods to be produced.
You’ll examine market characteristics and the strategic aspects of individual decision making which may lead to market failures.
This will provide insights into the types of government intervention that can improve market outcomes in real-world situations.
These can include the reduction of anti-competitive behaviour, tackling environmental externalities, and ensuring efficient provision of public goods.
We’ll explore policy interventions which can move individual decisions towards more efficient outcomes, such as competition policy, taxes, and tradable permits.
Additionally, we'll explore how societies, rather than individuals, can make collective decisions over resource allocation when preferences differ across the population, which is particularly relevant in the case of public goods.
What does an additional year of education bring in terms of future wages?
Is the demand for trainers elastic or inelastic?
In this module you will learn how to answer these and many other questions using economic data.
Econometrics is a powerful tool that is employed to test economic theories, evaluate public policies or business strategies and forecast future outcomes.
Econometric techniques have proved crucial in business, allowing companies to evaluate their marketing and sales strategies and providing valuable forecasts for strategic planning.
Rigorous data analysis often helps firms to make better-informed decisions and gain a competitive advantage.
Throughout this module you will learn how to conduct regression analysis, interpret the results and draw conclusions for business or public policy, therefore gauging the power of data for economic decision making.
Additionally, you will be trained to use econometric software to perform your analytical work.
Macroeconomics II builds on the previous macroeconomics module and provides a comprehensive framework for understanding short-run fluctuations in economic activity.
You’ll explore theoretical concepts and real-world examples, focusing on emergent policy implications.
Through broadening your analytical skills, you'll be able to assess the key determinants of economic fluctuations and evaluate the range of policy responses to stabilise the economy when shocks happen.
You'll begin by examining business cycles.
You’ll look at the alternating phases of expansion and contraction in economic activity, fluctuations in output, employment, and inflation.
You’ll also learn about the regularity of business cycles, the asymmetry between recessions and expansions, and the variability of fluctuations across different economic indicators.
A key part of your development is learning how and whether policymakers should respond to these fluctuations using monetary and fiscal policy.
You’ll learn how to distinguish between demand and supply drivers of these fluctuations, and how the appropriate policy response differs in these two cases.
By the end of the module, you’ll discover how important it is to understand the behaviour of exchange rates in open economics, and how they both affect and are affected by macroeconomic policy.
You’ll also examine in detail macroeconomic research on how to model economic agents’ expectations about the economy and the crucial contribution this has made in allowing us to understand how macroeconomic policy affects wages, prices and employment.
Economists invariably need to make assumptions to try to understand how the economy works.
We can use mathematics to understand the link between these economic assumptions and their implications.
Without using a clear mathematical framework, our assumptions can imply things we did not expect.
We see this in some of the labour market examples we analyse such as monopsony power and efficiency wages.
The module is split into two parts, optimisation and dynamics.
In optimisation, you'll use Lagrangians to solve problems with equality and inequality constraints.
You'll consider the relationship between production functions, returns to scale and firm profitability, and also cover the duality theory of cost minimisation, and consumer theory.
With dynamic systems, you learn to solve second-order difference equations, and, in so doing, learn about complex numbers.
You can use this analysis to generate insights about monetary policy.
Both dynamic systems and optimisation draw on matrix algebra when analysing multiple-equation dynamic systems or working out when you have found a genuinely desired optimum.
This understanding of matrix algebra also provides an important foundation for future studies in economics.
Economists have an abiding interest in providing an answer to what causes some countries to be poor and others rich.
Is it the case that deep-rooted factors such as geographical endowments, institutions, culture, and human diversity are pivotal in determining long-run economic development?
Do these factors interact with each other in furthering development?
Can history be used as a medium through which to analyse the effect of these factors, and their interactions, on economic development?
You’ll study some of the answers that have been proposed to these fundamental questions.
In doing so you will engage with cutting-edge research in comparative development that examines the historical roots of contemporary economic performance.
You’ll also gain an understanding of the empirical methods and data sources that such research employs.
Ultimately, the module is designed to immerse you in an ‘inclusive approach’ to teaching economic history that encompasses diverse growth experiences from across the world, with particular emphasis on the Global South.
What kind of questions are economics researchers currently interested in?
How do we tackle these questions?
How does economic research feed into policy.
What are the upsides and downsides of different approaches used?
How can contradictory findings be reconciled?
The eight teaching weeks will be split into four topics, each will start with a non-technical introduction to the paper(s) and their findings.
Then knowledge and understanding of the paper and the skills to evaluate it will come from both lectures and interactive workshops.
Understanding and evaluative skills will be assessed through moodle quizzes and group presentations.
The final piece of assessment will be an individual project based on a topic of choice.
How do cognitive biases influence economic decision-making and outcomes?
What role do emotions and heuristics (mental shortcuts) play in economic decision-making?
How do they sometimes lead to sub-optimal choices?
How can behavioural economics principles be used to improve the design of programmes and policies?
You're introduced to behavioural economics, which combines economic analysis with insights from psychology, to understand human behaviour.
Begin with a brief presentation of the classical model of rational, selfish economic agents, outlining limitations of this model in predicting and explaining behaviour.
You'll move on to models which relax assumptions of the classical model, incorporating insights from psychology instead and cover evidence on the power of these behavioural models in explaining human behaviour.
Finally, you'll cover the implications of these models for the design of public policy.
Alongside formal lectures, workshops and the assessments are designed to develop academic research skills and the ability to communicate ideas verbally and in writing.
Building on the second-year econometrics module, this module emphasises the wider application of econometric estimation and model-building, guided by real economic empirical situations.
You’ll get an introduction to time series and panel data econometrics and the challenges that present themselves when analysing economic data.
Traditional econometric techniques such as Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) are poorly suited for the estimation of economic models or data which exhibit time and cross-sectional processes.
This module introduces you to new econometric methods that are suitable for analysing such data.
You’ll be exposed to current applied examples from various empirical situations from macroeconomics, finance, health and labour economics, where time series and panel data are widely used.
Through this you'll make rapid progress in understanding how to apply econometrics, a valuable skill  that makes you stand out to employers.
What are the essential practical skills you need to succeed in the world of finance?
This module explores this question in three sections.
Investors’ Optimisation: This section serves as a foundational element in macro-finance models.
You’ll analyse asset pricing and aggregate variables within a unified framework, and explore investors’ optimisation problems to introduce the concept of risk-neutral probability.
Risk-Neutral Asset Pricing: This is a powerful tool for the valuation of financial derivatives.
Widely used in the financial industry, this method covers a broad spectrum of financial derivatives.
You’ll explore how to construct tree models based on risk-neutral probability.
Option Greeks and Option Strategies: We discuss the practical application of the Black-Scholes-Merton (BSM) option pricing formula and its applications.
This section also examines key trading strategies and hedging techniques involving financial options.
To successfully complete this module, you’ll be expected to demonstrate theoretical knowledge as well as be able to apply the concepts you learn to actual data.
Time-series econometrics is an important tool for economists, with vital applications in empirical macroeconomics and finance.
The central objective of this module is to equip you with essential skills in effective forecasting, which is crucial for policymakers in institutions like central banks.
The Bank of England, for example, relies on accurate forecasting to maintain a 2% inflation target for price stability.
You’ll learn forecasting principles and techniques, including ad hoc forecasting, autoregressive moving average (ARMA) models, ARCH/GARCH volatility modelling, and advanced methods like big data and machine learning.
Additionally, you’ll explore state-space and VAR models.
Teaching includes hands-on practical exercises using specialised software for pseudo-out-of-sample forecasting, with no prior knowledge of such software required.
The curriculum addresses real-time macroeconomic data release, providing insights for policymakers.
After completing the module, you’ll be well-prepared to independently conduct forecasting and empirical research in both macroeconomics and finance, using your skills in real-world economic analysis and policymaking.
What advanced tools do economists use to estimate causal effects and deal with endogeneity and spurious regressions in leading economic applications?
This module equips you with the latest econometric tools and explores topics such as micro-econometrics, empirical macroeconomics, and simulation-based methods.
You’ll learn to choose an appropriate methodology for your economic question as well as to critically evaluate existing empirical findings from recent economics literature.
You’ll be exposed to econometric methods such as instrumental variables, pooled-OLS, fixed and random effects models, cointegration methods, difference-in-differences and simulation-based methods.
You’ll discuss the technical aspects of each method and evaluate them alongside examples from empirical economics including seminal research papers stemming from demand and supply estimation, health economics, macroeconomics and labour economics.
Practical sessions and hands-on exercises using specialised software will provide you with the necessary skills to apply advanced econometric techniques.
After completing the module, you’ll be prepared to investigate important and intriguing empirical questions that are relevant to current economic policy.
What are the causes and effects of booms and recessions in economic activity?
How can policy respond to fluctuations in the macroeconomy to stabilise the economy?
What can we learn from past recessions for future economic policy?
This specialist macroeconomics topic focuses on the short-run behaviour of the macroeconomy, as opposed to economic growth or international macroeconomics.
You’ll study inflation, unemployment and short-run output fluctuations.
You’ll analyse macroeconomic policy tools to control short-run economic outcomes.
Gain an understanding of short-run macroeconomic issues and available policy tools and how to use macroeconomic models in order to rationalise observed macroeconomic data.
This set of skills is crucial and gives you a real edge in the job market where your ability to contextualise economic policy changes and interpret data is in high demand.
Through combining aspects of environmental economic and green finance with knowledge of mathematical and statistical methods,  you’ll be on your way to understanding the link between theory and policy application.
You’ll be introduced to fundamental key skills used by environmental economists in the application of economics to real world environmental issues and will understand  how economic theory can be translated into practical policy advice.
To demonstrate the link between theory and applied settings you’ll use appropriate software such as Excel and R, continuing your development in using  information technology within a structured environment.
You’ll consider a variety of practical environmental economic and green finance issues.
Alongside formal lectures, computer workshops and seminars are designed to develop academic research skills and the ability to communicate ideas both verbally and in writing.
This gives you the full toolset you need to stand out to employers and make informed decisions in environmental economics.
This is your opportunity to conduct, document, and convey an original piece of economic research.
The focus of this module, which is worth 20 credits, is to use either primary or secondary data to test a hypothesis and subsequently interpret the findings.
Previous students have explored diverse research questions, such as gender inequality, shrinkflation, growth patterns within and across countries, child development, and whether or not people are willing to pay for environmental public goods.
This is an excellent way to prepare for further studies in economics and equips you for workplace projects where solving specific problems is a requirement.
Your work is not only a way to see how far you have come during your degree programme, it is a fantastic example of your knowledge, skills and confidence to show employers after graduation.
Economics is more interconnected than ever before.
So an understanding of international economics is crucial to operate across borders in both business and government, Focused topics in international trade include the analysis of the effects of trade on economic development, policy debates, and the role of international trade in shaping economic outcomes at both the micro and macro levels.
Through consideration of the key concepts of international finance, such as the balance of payments, exchange rates, and the impact of globalisation on current account and macroeconomic policies, you’ll gain a solid understanding in the theoretical underpinnings and practical aspects of monetary and financial relations between countries and enhance their abilities to analyse trade-related issues.
By studying trade and finance topics, you’ll gain a comprehensive overview of the global economic environment.
You’ll be equipped with the analytical frameworks and institutional knowledge necessary to engage effectively with international economic issues, preparing you for careers with an international outlook.
So an understanding of international economics is crucial to operate across borders in both business and government,
Focused topics in international trade include the analysis of the effects of trade on economic development, policy debates, and the role of international trade in shaping economic outcomes at both the micro and macro levels.
Understand a variety of economic growth issues from both empirical and theoretical perspectives.
After exploring historical and modern statistics you’ll learn about the core theories of economic growth.
Building on the insights from the core theories of growth and empirical observations, You’ll consider key growth questions.
What are the determinants of economic growth?
Can we sustain long-run economic growth by just investing in machines and why is it essential to have productivity growth to sustain long-run growth in the standards of living?
Why are some countries more productive than others?
Can the lack of knowledge of modern production processes be the whole answer?
What roles do management practices and allocation of economic resources to different uses play in productivity differences across countries?
Through exploring these key questions, you'll come to understand economic growth from all angles, meaning you are able to suggest policy and improvements to help drive economic growth.
Game theory is a theoretical framework for conceiving social, economics and business situations among competing players.
It is the science of strategy, or at least the optimal decision-making of independent and competing actors in a strategic setting.
The curriculum is enriched with Game theory and is used in various fields to lay out various situations and predict their most likely outcomes.
Businesses may use it, for example, to set prices, decide whether to acquire another firm, and determine how to handle a lawsuit.
You’ll study the main equilibrium concept, the Nash equilibrium, and it’s several refinements under different types of games, guiding students thorough the analysis of strategic choices in a variety of game structures, from cooperative engagement to competitive stand offs.
A number of different scenarios and examples will be considered to explain how strategic decision making plays a role in solving every-day problems.
The strategic interaction between firms and the dynamics of competition between them in different markets are both interesting from a theoretical point of view and important from an applied policy perspective.
What competitive weapons do firms use?
Which strategies can firms use to soften competition To what extent are mergers driven by efficiency or by market power considerations?
You’ll be encouraged to ask the question of when, and how, the government should intervene to facilitate the competitive process.
Study the theories that are key to understanding firm strategies and the basis for regulatory intervention.
You’ll approach issues that are present in everyday news such as anti-competitive practices, the effect of market power on consumer welfare and the incentives for product innovation, private and public effects of mergers.
You will have the chance to discuss and understand many of these topics in a more structured and economically informed way, so you can suggest new approaches and improvements to industrial economics and government intervention.
Why are living standards in some countries so much higher than in others?
How did they get that way, and what can be done to promote growth and improve livelihoods in poorer countries?
We will engage with these questions as well as some of the answers that have been proposed.
You'll study the structure of poor economies and the behaviour of individuals, firms and governments within them.
Focus will be placed on providing a strong theoretical background for understanding these issues and engaging with data and modern empirical techniques that are commonly used by development economists when conducting research.
This knowledge of development economics will help you in looking to drive growth to developing countries in a sustainable way, in order to improve living conditions for those in the countries.
This is your introduction to the topic of political economy using microeconomic analytical tools.
The idea that economic policy in any country or even internationally is a product of not just economic rationale but also of ambient political realities will be explored in a variety of settings.
You’ll gain an overview of microeconomic theories and current empirical methods that have been used to bring new insights to issues related to political economy.
There will be an emphasis on connecting theoretical models to observed empirical findings and evaluating the analytical rigour of both aspects in different contexts.
You’ll also explore how these issues relate to themes in development, public and environmental economics.
By understanding political economics, you will be better able to evaluate different global approaches to economics from different nations, allowing you to operate more effectively in a global marketplace and across borders.
Public expenditure accounts for a large fraction of the economy and has a major impact on its functioning.
You’ll be introduced to the theories that allow us to analyse the economic role played by the state.
Use the tools of microeconomics and empirical analysis to study the impact of government policies on individual behaviour and the distribution of resources in the economy.
You’ll explore the economic arguments for and against government intervention in the economy and take on insights from behavioural economics into the analysis and design of public policies.
You’ll also review literatures on relevant and timely policy issues.
This will allow you to find your own views within the debate and effectively suggest improvements to theory or policy in order to drive economic growth and stability.
Delve into how decisions by individuals, families, and households impact and are impacted by the distribution of wages, employment, and opportunities.
Scrutinize inequalities among men and women, social classes, and ethnic groups, considering the role of policies and institutions in shaping these dynamics.
The field also explores the intricate relationship between the world of work and the macroeconomic performance of the economy, providing insights into trends in the distribution of welfare within and across countries.
You’ll explore areas of topical interest and importance that will cover the main insights of and approaches taken by researchers in the field.
Theoretical issues, empirical evidence and questions of policy are considered, drawing on research covering a range of OECD countries.
A key focus will be on the discussion and evaluation of data and research.
You will gain an understanding of how the world of work effects households and families as well as the tools to help you evaluate both research and policy.
You will be able to synthesise information from various sources and present findings to diverse audiences, giving you the skills, knowledge and confidence you need to launch a career in economics.
For course aims and learning outcomes please see the course specification .
Visit our International Student website for further information about entry requirements for your country.
International fee-paying students who require a Student visa cannot undertake a part-time programme due to visa restrictions.
All European and Overseas applicants who are not from a majority English speaking country are required to show that their English language ability meets our minimum standard, equivalent to IELTS 5.5 with a minimum of 5.5 in all skills.
Acceptable SELTs are:
Please see our English language entry requirements web page.
Please note that if you do not meet our English language requirements, we offer a number of 'pre-sessional' courses in English for Academic Purposes .
You attend these courses before starting your degree programme.
72 Tariff points from your IB Diploma, Typically H4, H4, H4 or equivalent
The University welcomes applications from Access to Higher Education Diploma candidates will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Understanding the power of policy
Employers recruit Kent economics graduates because of their strong understanding of how the wider economy works, and how policy can be designed to solve pressing issues.
Our students graduate with a strong understanding of how markets work and the impact of policy decisions, which prepares them for roles such as:
Graduates have progressed to roles in diverse organisations such as Deloitte, Accenture, HMRC, the Institute for Economic Affairs, Goldman Sachs, and Barclays.
Earning potential

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/6500/electrical-and-electronic-engineering-including-foundation-year-beng:
Electrical and electronic engineering touches on almost every aspect of modern life, and with sustainability so important for the world right now, there’s never been a better time to study this area.
From renewable energy generation to smart power distribution and the development of low powered embedded devices, Kent will provide you with the specialist knowledge and broad skills in both disciplines; making you career ready for the future direction of engineering.
If you don’t have the right grades to enrol directly on to our BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering degree, you could opt to start your studies with our Foundation year.
Electronic Engineers need a knowledge of both analogue and digital electronic circuits and electronic devices to effectively design future products.
This module introduces you to analysis and design techniques and electronic component properties.
You’ll learn using circuit analysis software, commonly used in industry and practical work using industrial standard measurement equipment.
Microcomputer technology is widely used in the design and development of modern computer systems.
Many of us use such applications every day, in devices such as smartphones, washing machines, microwaves and cars.
In this module, you’ll learn general principles of computer architecture and understand how the microprocessor executes instructions, interacts with hardware components and communicates with memory and I/O devices.
The most common microprocessors and microcontrollers will be to compare their architectures and processing resources.
You’ll also learn a programming language that can be used on a number of microcontrollers and discover how to program and compile on a given microcontroller through a series of practical sessions.
As part of a mini-project, you’ll then design and develop a microcontroller-based system using its I/O features and different communication protocols (such as RS232, SPI and I2C).
Power electronics is the study and application of electronic devices and circuits for efficient control and conversion of electrical power.
This module gives you an overview of the fundamental principles of power electronic devices and their applications in various electrical systems.
First, we’ll introduce you to power semiconductor devices, including power diodes, thyristors, and insulated gate bipolar transistors (IGBTs), uncovering their unique characteristics and operational intricacies.
This will then lead to rectifier circuits such as half-wave and full-wave rectifiers converting AC to DC power as well as exploring the intricacies of Buck, Boost, and Buck-Boost converters, and their role in transforming DC power.
You will then unravel the mysteries of inverter circuits for DC-AC conversion.
Finally, you’ll explore the diverse landscape of power supplies, from linear to switch-mode designs, giving you insight into their design principles and practical implementation.
Power electronics forms the backbone of modern electrical systems, including renewable energy systems, electric vehicles, consumer electronics, industrial automation, and many more.
Understanding power electronics will provide a strong foundation for working with these advanced technologies.
What are the principles and applications of various electrical machines that are commonly used in engineering and industrial settings?
Through theoretical lectures, workshops, and hands-on laboratory sessions, you’ll delve into the fundamental concepts underlying the functioning of electrical machines.
These include motors, generators, and transformers, and you’ll also gain the knowledge and skills necessary to analyse, design, and optimise electrical machines for diverse engineering applications.
This will prepare you for careers in electrical engineering, power systems, renewable energy and related fields.
You take all compulsory modules and choose one from a list of optional modules.
Programmable logic devices are an essential element of modern digital design.
Unlike a microcontroller that is software programmable (but otherwise comprises a fixed set of hardware resources), programmable logic devices such as Field-Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs) entail re-programming of the hardware itself.
As such they allow fast prototyping and flexibility in the hardware design of modern digital systems (ranging from telecoms to control systems) due to their ability to be reprogrammed in the field.
In this module, you'll learn to program in a hardware-description language (VHDL) to model and simulate digital electronic circuits.
Through a series of practical sessions, you will learn the necessary electronic design automation tools and how they are used to compile and simulate VHDL code but also “synthesise” VHDL code for placement onto actual physical hardware.
You'll also learn the fundamental operational principles of programmable logic devices, FPGAs and their main processing elements, and also how modern FPGAs are used to build system-on-chips (SoCs).
You will be introduced to the concepts of boundary scan testing and learn about the JTAG protocol (IEEE standard 1149.1).
You'll apply knowledge gained in mini projects that will involve designing complete digital systems implemented onto FPGA, deepening your understanding and building your experience.
Want to learn the fundamentals of how power systems create and distribute energy?
This module covers the concept of power generation and transmission using interconnected grid systems, overhead and underground power transmission and distribution systems.
You’ll learn the fundamentals of designing, operating, and analysing modern electrical power transmission and distribution networks.
You’ll do this by concentrating on models and techniques used to describe and analyse the behaviour of such systems as well as the specification of major equipment used in such systems.
You’ll then consider the stability of power grids and identify the techniques for their protection.
What sources of renewable energy are there?
How are technological developments improving electrical generation and meeting the global rise in demand for clean energy?
After exploring the impact of fossil fuels on our environment, you’ll get an overview of various renewable energy sources and their associated challenges and opportunities.
We’ll then focus on some major sources – like solar energy and wind power technologies – in more detail.
You’ll also briefly look at other renewable energy sources such as wave and tidal, hydropower and geothermal and get a brief overview of energy storage.
By the end of the module, you’ll have a strong sense of which technologies are being proposed to meet the world's growing demand for green energy.
Building on the material from Stage 1, in this module you will delve further into electronic engineering topics covering the principles and operation of essential electronic components and systems.
You will learn about different passive and active electronic components (e.g., passive and active filters) focusing on both theoretical and practical aspects pertaining to the design of modern analogue and digital systems including frequency response characteristics, power-consumption and noise.
You will learn about modern digital Integrated Circuit (IC) design at the circuit, chip/silicon and board level, through an introduction to the metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistor (MOSFET) and Complementary MOS (CMOS) logic.
You will also learn the principles of microwave technology, including the design of microwave filters and transmission lines.
The module proceeds via a sequence of lectures supported by example classes, exercises and workshops designed to give practical experience of the concepts introduced in the lectures.
Most modules consist of a mixture of lectures, seminars, practicals, workshops and computer sessions.
Project work throughout all three years gives students experience of a wide range of practical design, manufacturing and testing skills; laboratory experiments and computer-based assignments.
The hands-on experience of hardware and software design you receive replicates industrial practice to maximise your employability when you graduate.
Mathematics grade C
Obtain the Access to HE Diploma with a minimum of 45 credits at Level 3, with 9 credits at Distinction and 6 credits at Merit.
You may be eligible for government finance to help pay for the costs of studying.
See the Government's student finance website .
Scholarships are available for excellence in academic performance, sport and music and are awarded on merit.
For further information on the range of awards available and to make an application see our scholarships website.
This course is accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology, which enables you to satisfy the partial educational requirements of the IET for Chartered Engineer (CEng) registration upon successful completion of the course.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/4426/electronic-and-computer-engineering-including-foundation-year-beng:
Advancements in electronics and computing are transforming the way we live, and see the world.
With this BEng in Electronic and Computer Engineering, you’ll be immersed in both - empowering you to understand, design and create the systems of the future.
This combination of electronic engineering, software, and advanced electronic hardware knowledge will give you an all-round perspective on core and emerging fields, from robotics and AI, to microcomputer technology, Internet of Things (IoT), industrial automation and sensor technologies.
At Kent, we understand that technology is always evolving.
So our course prioritises hands-on, practical learning that will empower you to enter the workplace with confidence.
You will apply your knowledge to real-world systems, from autonomous vehicles to IoT devices.
You’ll also work on live projects, using advanced tools and technologies as part of research or industry partnerships.
With practical, problem-solving experience, you’ll understand the factors that influence pioneering modern projects - from the importance of sustainability to the social and economic impacts of systems.
You’ll also develop the teamwork and communication skills required to be part of a team that gets things done.
If you don’t have the right grades to enrol directly on to our BEng (Hons) Electronic and Computer Engineering degree, you could opt to start your studies with our Foundation year.
Why study Engineering at Kent?
You’ll gain the skills that will lay the foundation for the rest of your studies – subjects include programming, engineering design and electronics.
Develop your understanding and techniques of the field.
You'll further sharpen your knowledge with specialist modules.
You take all compulsory modules and then choose one from a list of optional modules.
Communications systems and networks form the backbone of our interconnected world.
What fundamental principles can we use to efficiently exchange information?
What essential techniques do we need to operate communication systems and networks in real-world scenarios?
In this module you’ll thoroughly explore communication systems and networks, examining the principles and methodologies that underpin them.
You’ll develop specialist knowledge of topics such as electromagnetic wave propagation, RF circuit design, antenna principles and design, communication system models, digital modulation/demodulation techniques, network topologies, and network architecture and protocols.
You’ll also learn through extensive workshops designed to provide hands-on experience and reinforce theoretical concepts.
Example classes will also boost your understanding of essential topics.
By the end of the module, you’ll have gained both knowledge and practical skills that are essential for navigating the dynamic landscape of communication systems and networks.
This will give you the expertise to tackle real-world challenges and contribute meaningfully to the field of communications.
You’ll also understand the context in which these systems operate, which is essential to achieving success in this rapidly evolving domain.
Mathematics grade C/4
You can use the skills and knowledge gained during this course to pursue a range of diverse roles in engineering, technology and research and development.
Previous graduates have secured roles at companies including BAE Systems, Megger, Southeastern and Rolls-Royce .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/4420/finance-and-investment-foundation-year:
For students who want to shape markets, not just understand them.
Ready to make markets move?
Financial markets shape our world.
From the value of your morning coffee to global stock exchanges, finance drives decisions and defines futures.
If you’re curious about how money works on a global scale and want to create the strategies that influence investment and growth, this course is for you.
Our BSc Finance and Investment degree equips you with the analytical skills, ethical grounding, and real-world experience to thrive in this fast-paced industry.
At Kent, you’ll explore the power of financial data, the art of decision-making under uncertainty, and the technologies reshaping global markets.
Taught by active researchers and informed by industry practice, this course helps you become not just a participant in financial systems, but a future leader within them.
The foundation year is for students whose school-leaving qualifications are below the level required.
We are updating all of our modules on this course to ensure we provide you with the tools you need to make a real impact after you graduate.
We are currently working with the CFA to make sure these modules meet industry standards and retain this course's accreditations.
With the increasing complexity of financial securities and investment strategies in the financial market, quantitative skills are essential for people working in the Big Four accounting firms, global banks and hedge funds.
You’ll develop a broad understanding of basic mathematical and statistical concepts, from probability distributions to basic calculus, and develop analytical skills that are vital for accountants and financial professionals.
You’ll gain quantitative skills and practical skills in Excel to help you progress in your studies.
Finance is at the centre of everyone's decisions.
In a world of tricky economic conditions and volatile financial markets, how can companies and investors apply the main principles of finance when undertaking investment and funding decisions?
You'll gain the knowledge and skills needed to evaluate various financial decisions, such as raising capital in financial markets or from financial institutions, investing in real assets or financial assets, and selling and trading securities.
You'll become proficient in using the Bloomberg terminal to gain a better understanding of financial market operations and you'll learn how companies and investors use this information and the main principles of finance to take funding and investment decisions to deliver profits and sustainable growth.
One of the elements of decision making involves performing and interpreting statistical analysis.
This module dives into the world of descriptive and inferential statistics, probability distributions, and hypothesis testing, all through the lens of financial applications.
Explore the dynamic realm of basic time-series analysis and risk assessment techniques that will become the bedrock of your financial skills.
You'll learn to not just to interpret data but to make it tell the story of how market participants are behaving.
Practitioners in accounting and finance fields currently face many challenges around environmental, social, and governance (ESG) decisions.
Ethical conduct is essential to maintaining the integrity of financial information, promoting investors' confidence and upholding the standards of the profession.
Your professional ethics will determine how you behave when doing your job and help you act responsibility.
You will examine codes of conduct issued by several professional organisations (ACCA, ICAEW, CFA, etc) and explore various factors influencing professional judgement in accounting and finance decisions.
You will also develop the knowledge and skills necessary to navigate ethical dilemmas and make sound ethical decisions in your professional career.
Almost all listed companies in the European Union and the United Kingdom have to prepare financial statements that comply with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs).
With a thorough understanding of how financial statements are prepared under IFRSs, managers of mid-sized companies will have the skills needed to identify trends and potential threats, and actively track their financial performance in real-time.
In this module you’ll develop the knowledge and skills to understand and apply IFRSs.
You’ll also learn the theoretical framework for preparing and analysing financial statements.
Learning how to apply IFRSs will give you the necessary skills to become a successful accounting and finance professional.
The world of fixed-income markets is becoming increasingly complex.
Debt instruments have various payoff structures and fixed-income derivatives products are becoming extremely important in managing multiple financial risks.
We'll explore a range of fixed-income securities, and explore in great detail their characteristics, as well as the main players and their roles in the debt markets.
You'll learn various analytical techniques to price these instruments, to construct a range of important yield curves used in the valuation of financial assets.
You’ll sharpen your quantitative skills, which will considerably increase your employability within various financial sectors.
These include investment banks, pension funds and any other financial institution that deals with the pricing of old and new financial instruments.
Corporate finance is concerned with the way companies can efficiently manage financial resources.
Managers are concerned about provision of resources (capital funding decisions) and allocation of scarce resources (investment decisions).
What factors do they consider when deciding how to fund their operations and where to invest?
In this module, you’ll examine the underlying financial economic theories and concepts that help managers to run sustainable businesses.
You’ll develop analytical and problem-solving skills to advise managers on investment opportunities, capital structure decisions, dividend policies, and merger and acquisitions activities.
Data-driven analysis is at the heart of the financial industry.
In this financial econometrics module, you’ll develop a robust grasp of the fundamental econometric tools commonly used in empirical finance.
You’ll explore these tools for modelling, analysing, and forecasting financial data and examine the practical applications of industry-standard software such as E-views.
You’ll also develop the critical ability to evaluate the application of econometrics within the empirical finance literature.
By the time you complete the module, you’ll be empowered to contribute meaningfully to data-driven decision-making in the financial sector- which is a vital first step towards an exciting and successful career.
Effectively assessing and managing risk is essential for corporate survival and growth.
The risk management module provides a comprehensive overview of effective oversight and value generation principles, focusing on financial risk dynamics.
You’ll rigorously examine advancements in risk governance, regulatory frameworks, and industry risk management practices, focusing on in-depth evaluations of financial risk.
You’ll gain a detailed understanding of financial risk types through real-world examples and emerge with specialised insights into managing these financial risks in a professional context.
The module empowers you to explain complex risk management concepts, think critically in uncertain situations, and systematically approach risk-related problems.
In an ever-changing financial world offering a wide variety of investment opportunities, investors and portfolio managers face the challenging task of identifying securities and allocating assets optimally to earn risk-adjusted returns.
This module addresses these issues by covering various contemporary asset pricing and security valuation models, as well as modern portfolio construction techniques.
You’ll build on your knowledge of market and industry analysis and use real-world securities market data to construct optimal portfolios.
You’ll also use a range of methods to evaluate their performance.
This module will present you with the opportunity to explore current issues in financial markets including responsible, ethical, and sustainable investing.
It will prepare you for a variety of roles in the investment industry such as financial analysis, investment advice, and portfolio management.
At the crossroads of technology and finance, a new language of success is being written in code.
By learning how to program with Python, you are not just learning the syntax of a powerful programming language, you are unlocking the potential to innovate in the world of finance.
You’ll learn to implement forecasting techniques on market trends, construct robust investment portfolios, and simulate economic scenarios with the precision and logic that only Python can provide.
This module is designed for the bold, the curious, and future finance leaders who are ready to embrace the digital revolution.
The module is not just about grasping theories.
It is about applying knowledge to real-world challenges.
The module equips you with the skills to drive financial dialogue.
It will enable you to redefine the boundaries of finance, with Python as your tool and innovation as your goal.
Do not just calculate the future.
Code it.
What are derivatives markets and how do they work?
We will delve into the intricacies of these fascinating securities and markets, equipping you with the knowledge and skills required to make sound financial decisions.
You will learn about primary derivative securities and how they are used for hedging, arbitrage, and investment purposes.
You’ll use market data from diverse underlying financial and physical assets such as stocks, currencies, bonds, and commodities in pricing, trading, and valuing derivatives.
By the time you complete this module, you’ll be equipped with the skills, knowledge and confidence you need to launch careers in investment, treasuries, and risk management.
More businesses are incorporating sustainability as a core corporate strategy.
Sustainability issues are becoming increasingly important to customers and investors.
Navigate through ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) regulation and industry initiatives which are designed to improve transparency and accountability, encourage companies to adopt sustainable practices and protect investors from greenwashing.
You will gain analytical skills that will help you integrate sustainability into financial decisions taken by both corporate managers and professional investors.
For centuries taxation has been an important fact of national life.
Without tax it would be impossible to pay for the country's defence services, its health, welfare and social services, it schools and universitites and its transport systems.
In addition , taxaion is a means for government to influence our everyday activites.
In this module you will be introduced to how the taxation system operates in the UK, providing a core knowledge of the underlying principles and major technical areas of taxation as they impact the activities of individuals and businesses.
Through case studies, practical examples and discussions, you will gain a core understanding of the various UK taxes.
We will explore the areas of tax compliance, reporiting obligations and develop effective tax planning strategies.
In this module, you will gain a deeper appreciation of how taxation impacts on every area of our personal and business lives.
Gain the knowledge and skills required for meeting the strategic needs of businesses in the digital age.
You will develop competences in the application of management accounting techniques to complex organisational problems, learn how to analyse data, solve problems related to cost, pricing, variances and performance management and convey your solutions in a succinct and impressionable manner for the purpose of planning, controlling, evaluation and decision-making.
Apply your learning, experience, skills and curiosity to varied contemporary accounting and finance issues.
Under the guidance of academics, alumni and businesses, you'll be given the autonomy to select, investigate, report on and defend a contemporary accounting and finance problem or topic leading to the development of a business case or dissertation.
Gain a comprehensive understanding of the rapidly evolving financial technology landscape.
You'll delve into the core concepts and emerging trends in the fintech industry, equipping you with the knowledge and skills necessary to navigate this dynamic field.
You'll explore contemporary market developments, evaluate challenges and opportunities and immerse students in the innovative world of fintech.
Topics may include but are not limited to: decentralized finance, disruptors in the industry, blockchain, cryptocurrencies and cybersecurity.
Students will gain a comprehensive understanding of fintech, making them the prime candidates for roles in financial innovation-driven companies.
Your academic year is structured into three terms, each focusing on a pair of intensive modules.
These explore the real-time pulse of the financial world - giving you room to dive deep into live data, market simulations, and global investment trends.
You’ll work hands-on with industry-standard platforms like Bloomberg and Python, applying classroom theory to current financial problems.
From forecasting trends to pitching investment strategies, each module sharpens your ability to make evidence-based decisions under pressure.
Forget generic testing.
Your progress will be measured through practical challenges: building portfolios, analysing market events, and preparing professional-standard reports and presentations.
Every task mirrors the kind of work you’ll do in a financial career.
Our compact timetable and embedded feedback cycle mean you can plan ahead, balance commitments, and grow with confidence.
Your academic adviser will be with you every step of the way.
80 Tariff points from your IB Diploma, Typically H5, H4, H4 or equivalent.
Mathematics grade 4 / C and English grade 4 / C
Access to HE Diploma in (subject being taken) with a minimum of 45 Credits at level 3 with 9 credits at Distinction and 12 credits at Merit.
Whether you want to advise global clients, manage investment portfolios, or lead in corporate finance, this course prepares you to move confidently into a dynamic career.
High starting salaries

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/76/forensic-science-with-a-foundation-year:
Uncover evidence and understand the science behind crime.
Discover how science plays a vital role in solving crimes and delivering justice.
You’ll study areas such as trace evidence, ballistics, and DNA analysis.
Alongside this, you’ll train in delivering expert witness testimony and explore the legal and ethical dimensions of your work.
Our course stands out for its unique facilities and hands-on approach.
You’ll investigate simulated crime scenes in our dedicated house and vehicles, practise techniques in specialist labs, and access cutting-edge equipment including our VisionX Comparison Microscope.
With options to take a year in industry, study abroad, or complete an integrated Master’s, you’ll graduate with the scientific and analytical skills to thrive in careers from policing and counter-terrorism to public health and research.
Why study Forensic Science at Kent?
What is a crime scene?
What happens at a crime scene?
What is forensic science and what role does it play in legal proceedings?
In this module, you'll explore how scientific techniques are utilised and applied to gathering and analysing evidence in criminal investigations.
Gain an insight into how a range of scientific disciplines can be used to uncover mysteries and bring justice to light.
You'll consider numerous types of evidence that make up the 'toolkit' of a forensic scientist, and their evidential value.
You'll develop an understanding of the role that forensic scientists play in crime scene investigation, the legal process, and crime scene management.
Finally, you'll apply best practice to a series of fascinating case studies - gaining a core understanding of the importance of forensic science and the significance it holds in the administration and serving of justice.
What happens when someone pulls the trigger?
How do bullets remain stable during flight?
What makes one bullet more lethal than another?
In this module you'll look at how ammunition is constructed, how different classes of firearm function and develop skills in fundamental maths and physics that underpin basic bullet trajectories and impact phenomena.
You'll develop a strong understanding in the fundamental principles upon which the field of ballistics relies and begin to apply this knowledge to forensic scenarios involving firearms to uncover truths and trace evidence to solve questions.
Inorganic and physical chemistry play a key role in underpinning broad areas of the forensic and analytical sciences, including identification of unknown substances, key biological processes and the chemical analysis of trace evidence.
This module provides you with an understanding of the core range of inorganic and physical chemistry that underpins forensic analysis, including the states, stability and reactivity of matter and the patterns amongst the elements across the periodic table that are responsible for properties such as colour.
You'll also be equipped with the key mathematical concepts necessary to understand and solve problems in these areas of chemistry and apply this to forensic science to uncover secrets, solve cases and answer questions.
Knowing how to approach a crime scene is imperative for all forensic practitioners to maintain integrity and ensure the delivery of justice.
You'll will develop the toolkit of core practical skills that are employed to process an incident scene and prepare for crime scene investigation.
Alongside this, you'll work through a range of exciting laboratory sessions to teach you the fundamental chemical techniques that a forensic scientist needs to excel in all areas of the profession, from chemical synthesis to forensic chemical analysis.
Through hands-on practical sessions, you'll learn the core techniques needed to collect evidence, and begin to develop the problem solving skills needed to identify, interpret and evaluate several evidence types, including firearms ammunition and fingermarks.
Following this, you'll learn how to map out a crime scene, search a series of varied crime scenes and learn the best practices for documenting and acquiring photographs.
This practical skill set is crucial for you making further progress in your degree, and later, your career.
As a forensic scientist, what would you do if someone comes across buried human remains?
How do we collect evidence from a scene, document it and ensure we maintain a clear legal chain of custody?
Why should we care about this?
This module will develop your appreciation of a range of physical techniques applied to the collection of bulk and trace evidence materials in forensic science.
You'll look deeply into aspects of physical evidence, practical issues of item examination, legal process and general procedures associated with the collection and submission of a range of forensically-relevant materials.
You'll also look at the processes that underpin the recovery of buried remains and how you being to analyse these to build a biological profile.
This provides you with a broad understanding of scene and evidence processing to take forward into a future roles in practical forensic science.
What happens when the police seize computers during an investigation?
How do we use cutting edge technologies to identify criminals?
This module introduces you to a broad range of established, and emerging, computer based forensic methods that involve consideration of key digital forensic techniques, use of facial identification, and the construction of facial composites (eFITs) to aid criminal investigations.
Your awareness of modern digital image processing and photo forensics investigation methods will be developed during this module.
You'll develop the ability to appreciate and engage with the current digital revolution and its appropriate application in policing and forensic investigation.
How do we investigate a shooting?
What happens when someone gets shot?
Why do different human tissues react differently under different impact conditions?
You'll be introduced to a wide range of experimental and theoretical processes that may be undertaken in aid of understanding what happened in a shooting incident.
You'll also develop a deep understanding of the science that underpins high energy trauma and how scientists measure and interpret this to draw valid forensic conclusions in the specialist field of wound ballistics.
The field of ballistics is used as a shining example of the importance of interdisciplinarity and the role this plays in modern forensic science.
The careful and considered collection of evidence from an incident scene along with the accurate and robust analysis of this evidence are the cornerstone of forensic science.
But how do you decide upon the best ways to collect evidence, and which techniques to use, to assemble the best case with the evidence you have?
In this practical and laboratory based module, you'll develop advanced scene investigation and evidence collection skills before applying previously developed core chemical and forensic practical skills to broader and more real-life investigative scenarios.
This involves consideration ballistic, digital and chemical evidence, using new and complementary analytical tools, techniques and instrumentation.
You'll also gain valuable experience in concisely summarising and reporting multiple types of data in styles appropriate to different disciplines within forensic science.
What properties of a material define its value as trace evidence?
How can we use this understanding to shape our approach to collecting and analysing these evidence types?
Understanding trace evidence is of fundamental importance to Forensic Science, providing links between people and locations or objects.
In this advanced module you will delve into the analytical techniques and chemical principles critical for examining trace materials.
From fibres and hair to glass fragments and makeup, you'll uncover the stories hidden in the smallest samples.
Through discussion of real-world case studies and studying cutting edge approaches to analysing complex and inconsistent samples, you'll build the expertise to enable you to interpret this vital evidence type.
What causes a fire to rage out of control?
What makes an explosion so destructive?
How do we gather and analyse evidence we normally rely upon from a scene that may have been compromised by a powerful blaze or destructive explosion?
This advanced module develops your understanding of the chemical and physical processes that drive fires and explosions.
You'll learn how to identify accelerants, detonators and types of explosives, reconstruct fire scenes and develop insights as to the nature of fires and explosions, allowing you to formulate expert opinions based on your findings.
You’ll also learn about how best to apply specialist analytical techniques for the analysis of fire and explosive evidence.
Forensic science and DNA have been inseparable topics for decades, but what role does DNA play in forensic science?
You'll look at the structure of DNA and the powerful techniques we use to analyse this important evidence type within a forensic context.
You'll gain a critical understanding of practical considerations in genetic analysis, the challenges associated with results interpretation and how best to report on complex samples.
You'll not only gain mastery of DNA analysis techniques but also investigate profound insights into their application in the captivating field of forensic science, all while exploring the intriguing ethical quandaries connected with deciphering genetic information.
How can we apply our forensic science knowledge and problem solving techniques to original forensic challenges?
How can we innovate within forensic science to build on the knowledge base within our scientific and global communities?
You'll undertake a comprehensive group research project, selected from a range of forensic science disciplines.
You'll gain skills in conducting and directing scientific research, data analysis and interpretation, problem solving and communication of results, culminating in the writing of your dissertation.
This isn't just your chance to hone you skills and develop as a forensic scientist, your dissertation itself is a real piece of scientific research you can use to demonstrate your knowledge and skills to employers following graduation.
Why is it important to understand the influence of bias within forensic science?
What are the expected professional standard for a practicing forensic scientists?
How do forensic laboratories adhere to the strict standards the legal system expects of them?
What is it like to give evidence in a court of law?
This module illustrates a range of contemporary topics in forensic science that underpin professional practice for those students wishing to enter the forensic science profession.
The module content draws upon guidance published by the UK Forensic Science Regulator, UKAS, ENFSI, CSFS as well as academic and professional commentary, with a particular emphasise on evaluative reporting, case assessment and interpretation (CAI), quality standards, ethics in forensic science and bias.
You will be provided training in writing expert witness court reports before undergoing a mock courtroom exercise during which you will deliver expert testimony in a courtroom environment, developing essential skills for future case reporting forensic scientists.
For those with a relevant science qualification our standard offer is CDD with one of these to be a Science subject, for those without a relevant science qualification our standard offer is BB, OR CCC including at least two subjects from the following areas: humanities, computing, art and design, English language or literature.
80 tariff points - typically H5, H4, H4 including HL Science Subject, Sport, Psychology or Maths at 4 or SL Science Subject, Sport, Psychology or Maths at 6.
You will require regular access to a desktop computer/laptop with an internet connection to use the University of Kent’s online resources and systems.
Our graduates have gone on to work for employers such as:
This course is fully accredited by The Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences.
Forensic science roles expected to grow by

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/5767/international-business-with-a-foundation-year:
If you're excited by the global nature of business and are motivated by the cultural context of enterprise, then our BSc International Business is the course for you.
You’ll study broad topics such as management, marketing, entrepreneurship, and finance with a focus on how they operate in a global context.
You’ll build an understanding of international markets and trade and develop your awareness of global business opportunities.
You’ll also cultivate the communication, teamworking, and data-analysis skills that will allow you to succeed, no matter your chosen career path.
Be inspired and challenged by teaching staff in immersive seminars and workshops where you can put theory into practice using real business data.
As a Kent Business School graduate, you’ll be equipped with the industry-relevant skills and essential knowledge to equip you for the challenges and opportunities faced by global businesses in a rapidly evolving world.
The following modules are offered to our current students.
This listing is based on the current curriculum and may change year to year in response to new curriculum developments and innovation.
The Foundation Year aims to extend access to university education to 
students from a wide variety of educational backgrounds and age groups 
and prepares these students for our three or four-year degrees.
After successful completion of the foundation year, you can transfer 
on to the three or four-year Accounting and Finance courses.
Please 
refer to the BSc International Business , BSc International Business with a Year Abroad or BSc International Business with a Year in Industry programme for more information about specific modules.
What knowledge and skills you need to succeed in a globalised economy?
You'll learn about the key drivers of the global economy, the global sustainability, social, cultural, economic, international trade, investment and political environments, and how to identify and mitigate the risks associated with operating in unpredictable environment.
You'll gain important insights into the social, political, economic and technological issues related to business that are essential to pursuing a career in multinational corporations and understanding the world around you.
Your understanding of the global business world will help you develop analytical skills to turn data into valuable information for business decisions and position yourself for success in international business.
International business is vital for companies around the globe.
In a dynamic and interconnected world, how can managers explore the opportunities and ensure a successful international expansion?
You’ll master the theories and skills you need to analyse the external environment and conduct international business successfully.
Through exploring these theories, you'll understand how to implement the most effective human resource management, marketing, supply chain management or financial management strategies.
You’ll gain the skills and knowledge to scan international expansion opportunities, decide on a new target market and design a strategy for a successful expansion abroad.
This is key for you to launch a successful, global career in business.
The globalisation of markets and deepening economic integration have significant effects upon both the strategy and operations of international business.
This module will widen your knowledge and understanding of the global business environment and develop your analytical skills with respect to current geopolitics.
Global trading blocs have developed with the aim of increasing regional economic growth through advancing international trade.
They include the European Union, USMCA (North America), Mercosur (South America), ASEAN (Asia) and AfCFTA (Africa).
You’ll analyse global patterns of trade and the history and development of these blocs to gain a clear insight into their impact and importance for international business.
You’ll examine and evaluate the regional integration experience of the EU and the challenges and complexities of doing business across a diverse single market.
Using case-studies and research papers you'll explore how businesses can seek to operate across different countries and regions while you gain the key skills you need for a career in international commerce.
Emerging markets are a dynamic and rapidly growing part of the international business environment.
Gain solid theoretical foundations and examine up-to-date case studies that will help you analyse foreign firms' strategic behaviour in emerging markets.
Drawing on material from Latin America, the Middle East and across Asia, You'll understand why multinational firms internationalise and expand into Emerging Markets, the key characteristics of emerging markets and how to grow sustainable business there.
You'll analyse emerging markets in detail and develop your capacity to evaluate risks and rewards to investing in them.
If you want to start a global career and do business across borders, this is the module for you.
To manage operations globally, you need the ability to critically evaluate how supply chains function and how the operations of individual organisations that operate across borders are managed and can create value for them and other firm- and non-firm actors.
You'll learn to adopt a global perspective on supply chain management and assess the complex systems of operations through the angle of global value chains management.
You will further discover the ways such systems are managing so that they lead to various types of upgrading - economic, social, environmental and technological.
Collaborate with other students on your course to analyse the value chains of real-world multinational companies and report on them, developing the skills and experience you need to kickstart a career in operations management.
How do multinational organisations make big-picture decisions about managing their global portfolios?
How do they gain sustained advantage over their competitors?
You will learn about how multinational enterprises design and manage their operations across borders handling the tensions between their headquarters and their subsidiaries to get results on a global scale.
Gain insight into strategic decision-making by looking at internationalisation strategies, managing strategic alliances and mergers and acquisitions, as well as diving into risk management, knowledge creation, divestment, and corporate social responsibility on a global scale.
You’ll round out your learning by understanding international business in a strategic way while mastering sought after communication skills through the support provided for assessments on the module.
This will give you an extra edge in the job market after graduation and set yourself up for an exciting and successful career in international business.
Global trade and finance are rapidly growing fields, with increasing demand for skilled professionals.
This is your chance to join these in demand professionals and kick start your career.
You’ll learn to think critically about complex issues in global trade and finance gain the knowledge and skills you need to navigate the global markets and make informed and sustainable business decisions.
You’ll explore different types of global trade and how to finance them, including exports, imports, and cross-border investments.
You won’t only make rapid process in expanding your knowledge, you’ll be able to apply this knowledge to solve real-world problems.
By completing this module, you demonstrate to potential employers that you have a deep understanding of the global economy and the financial markets, making you a more attractive candidate for roles in international business, trade finance, and investment banking.
What are the innovations, technological advancements, and changes to global business operations that are shaping the future of international business?
You’ll explore the origins, types, and outcomes of innovation in a global business context, including digital technologies like cloud computing, artificial intelligence and big data.
You'll develop an understanding of innovative digital technologies and information systems, how they operate within organisations and society, and their transformational impact on product markets, services, business models, and customer interactions.
Through this, you’ll gain the skills, knowledge and confidence needed to succeed in the global business landscape, enhancing your employability in a rapidly evolving digital and business world.
They guide and support your learning, bringing their subject to life and drawing you into the conversation through lectures, seminars, presentations and computer-based simulations.
If you don't meet the academic requirements for direct entry, our International Business with a Foundation Year course offers one year of full-time study prior to the start of the BSc degree.
Kent Business School students find work in public and
private sector management both overseas and in the UK in a wide range of
companies and organisations, including:
UK international business graduate salaries

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/5086/law-with-foundation-year:
Think critically.
Understand, question and apply the law.
Our research-led teaching encourages you to take a critical view of the law, engaging with the latest research undertaken by expert academics.
Our diverse, international community of staff and students provides a dynamic and engaging environment to gain the professional legal skills and knowledge you need to change the world we live in.
Law with a Foundation Year extends access to the degree to students from a wide variety of qualifications and educational backgrounds.
It is the ideal course if you have completed a university entry level qualification but have grades below the level required for entry to the degree directly.
The course structure below gives a flavour of the modules that will be available to you and provides details of the content of this course.
Have you ever wondered how a case ends up in court, or what the role of the judge is?
Have you heard the terms criminal and civil law but don’t really understand the difference?
Maybe you know that Parliament can pass laws but aren’t familiar with how statutes are created or the importance of statutory law.
In addition to learning the answer to these questions and many more, you will build a solid understanding of the basic structure, history and workings of the English Legal System.
You will gain practical skills such as how to conduct legal research, and how to read cases and statutes.
This module covers the foundational knowledge needed for the study of law at university.
The concepts and ideas covered are of continued importance throughout your law degree.
To enhance your learning experience, there are opportunities to see law in action through court related activities.
Argument and law go hand in hand.
Have you observed that TV legal dramas focus on the adversarial nature of law, the arguments presented by counsel in a court room?
Have you chosen to study law because you enjoy arguing?
Maybe you tend to win arguments?
You will develop the understanding and skills needed to be able to recognise and evaluate arguments, both legal and non-legal, including written, oral and visual arguments.
You will engage with philosophical perspectives and methods that focus on the nature of argument to better understand legal argument and law.
This will equip you with skills and knowledge needed for your final term modules, which engage with important legal debates and contemporary issues in law.
The module builds on the foundational learning undertaken in the first term, and develops your understanding of law’s argumentative nature and of argument in general.
Using the work of philosophers to examine the nature of argument and to build the skills to evaluate arguments will set you up for success in your studies.
Through the practical activities in workshops and seminars you will develop strong skills of argument, an attribute often looked for by future employers.
Using effective research methods is an essential skill for success at university and beyond.
But what exactly is research?
How do we do it and why?
Exploring key aspects such as conducting research, ethical implications, understanding and interpreting data, and detecting bias, you’ll master the fundamentals of research methods and develop your skills in analysis.
Have you noticed how often law and legal issues are in the media?
How changes to the law and legal system are often at the centre of heated debates in society?
You will develop the understanding and skills needed to be able to engage in important debates such as diversity in the legal profession, legal aid funding, and the use of juries in criminal trials.
You will better understand the strengths and weaknesses of our legal system and laws, enhancing your critical thinking skills.
Using examples from current affairs and weekly film screenings to explore societal attitudes towards our laws and legal system, you will enhance your current awareness, boosting employability and preparing you for the later stages of your degree.
You'll build on the foundational learning undertaken in the first two terms regarding the structure of our legal system, the nature of laws and legal argument and the academic skills required for success at university.
You'll harnesses these skills and knowledge and apply them to an examination of law and legal systems in action, helping you understand law’s enduring importance and role in society.
What are the institutions that make up the English legal system?
Who are the participants in these institutions, and what are their roles?
Do these institutions ensure that justice is done in individual cases?
You'll engage with a critical introduction to the main institutions of the English legal system.
Explore how these structures and institutions are the result of historically contingent events, and what their limitations are.
You'll also learn about legal method.
Law, like other disciplines, has its own method which its practitioners apply in their working lives, for example constructing legal arguments based on the reading and interpretation of key texts and sources.
Throughout the module, you'll see how law is an interpretative exercise, and you'll be provided with key skills needed for your legal studies.
This includes how to read, understand and summarise a legal case and Acts of Parliament, and how to conduct legal research.
You'll complete the module with the fundamentals in legal method and legal skills you will be expected to know and build on for the rest of your degree.
What is law?
What is its relationship with society?
How does it operate?
What is the source of its authority?
The ‘common sense’ or ‘liberal’ view of law, often represented by legal institutions and legal actors, is that law is neutral, rational, objective, fair, and independent of political, economic or social imperatives.
In this module you'll learn about this fundamental liberal account of the nature of law.
But you'll also learn about alternative ‘critical’ claims about law, which challenge this legal ‘common sense’ by highlighting its contexts, contradictions, omissions and limitations.
These critical arguments step outside law’s own, internal viewpoint in order to reveal how its rules, procedures and enforcement are informed and shaped by relationships of power.
The module introduces you to the critical legal approach, its methods and the foundational conceptual tools that will underpin your study of law at Kent.
What is the legal structure of the state in the United Kingdom?
How is the power of the state encoded?
What is the authority of government to act and what are the legal limits on those powers?
You'll gain an understanding of the fundamentals of public law, the key legal concepts deployed in this field and an insight into the procedural requirements that deliver accountability.
Engaging in a critical introduction to the key features of the state, you'll learn about the legal powers government exercises.
You'll also develop your ability to identify the key concepts of the constitution through your study and analysis of major constitutional cases, academic literature and parliamentary documents.
Learning to interpret the open-ended nature of constitutional reasoning in an uncodified constitution, you'll also enhance your ability to critique the reasoning and conclusions of judgments in the cases that you analyse.
This will equip you with an understanding of the mechanisms of legal accountability of public bodies and provide you with a repertoire of key legal concepts in the public law domain.
From commonplace, simple transactions, such as purchasing a bus ticket or a chocolate bar from a vending machine, to high-stakes commercial agreements, contracts govern countless interactions.
You'll undertake a comprehensive study of the law of contract and its pervasive and essential role in our daily lives.
You'll develop knowledge and understanding of the principles and theory of contract law and their application.
This module begins by introducing you to the law of contract, locating it within private law and looking at the historical development and its functions in the modern world.
Thereafter, you'll explore the doctrine and problem-solving in contract law by considering the lifecycle of contracts, e.g., the formation of a contract, requirements for its enforceability, its terms and policing of bargaining behaviour, potential performance issues, its subsequent discharge, and remedies.
You'll then focus on contract theory (e.g.
freedom of contract and its limits), overlaying the doctrine studied with a basic theoretical framework and ground your understanding of contract law and contractual relationships.
Crime.
It’s in the news.
It’s on our screens.
It’s happening all around us, sometimes to us, and sometimes by us.
But what makes a crime a crime?
As one of the foundations of legal knowledge, you'll master the core principles of criminal law and explore a range of offences tried in our courts on a daily basis.
You'll be able to break down offences such as murder and theft into their constituent parts and apply them to an array of factual scenarios.
You'll form the analytical skills necessary to advise parties on criminal liability and defences.
While applying statutes and case law, you'll effectively communicate cogent arguments both orally and in writing.
At the end of this module, you'll be able to evaluate the effectiveness of criminal law in the context of our criminal justice system as a whole and be equipped with the building blocks to analyse and evaluate any criminal offence.
How can insights from other disciplines inform our understanding of law?
Building on the knowledge you have gained from Institutions of Justice and Critical Introduction to Law, this module poses different questions about the meanings, presumptions and histories of law, from the perspective of disciplines such as philosophy, psychology, sociology and politics.
Legal theories are systems of ideas or general principles intended to explain something.
You'll be introduced to theoretical tools from other disciplines, for example decolonial thought, which attempt to explain aspects of human existence and action, including law.
These theories, however, do not take law as their starting point but place it in a broader context.
To harness these interdisciplinary theoretical tools, expect a constant engagement with film, poetry, literature and music.
We will explore theoretical issues using stories across the world from ancient to modern times and use these insights to consider how law shapes people’s lives.
The module aims to stimulate your intellectual curiosity and lay foundations for your study of optional modules in Stages 2 and 3.
What is property?
What is the distinct character and effect of property rights compared to contractual and other personal rights?
You'll be introduced to the nature of property generally, and then go on to focus on one particular form of property - ‘real’ property, or land, as distinguished from personal property.
You'll examine the system of land registration in English law, and how this shapes the ability to enforce interests in land against others.
Various types of interests in land will be studied, to enable you to develop an in-depth understanding of English land law and an ability to apply your knowledge to legal problems relating to interests in land.
You'll be encouraged to consider the politics of real property law and the impact of economic logics in this area of law.
Exploring how property and land law shape relationships between people, you'll consider challenging subjects such as squatting, leases, and the financing of the family home.
What does it mean to say that someone is ‘negligent’?
How do you know when liability for negligence arises?
You'll explore in depth tort law’s most important tort: the tort of negligence, looking at its specific elements and legal concepts related to it.
You'll develop proficiency in the use of case law-based arguments as a way of determining liability in tort.
Through an in-depth focus on modern decided cases you will: Become familiar with the idea that cases can be read in different ways; Improve your legal argument skills; Identify some contested boundaries of tort law.
You'll also consider the role played by statutes in tortious liability, including in defences to tort claims, and the liability of occupiers of land, manufacturers and/or publishers.
You'll learn how tort protects interests in land and the person.
Explore the relationship between tort law and its social context to explain its shape and contemporary debates about its scope.
By observing where the lines of liability are currently drawn, you'll consider what this reveals about private rights and obligations, the balance between responsibility for harm and freedom of action, and access to justice.
Through an in-depth focus on modern decided cases you will:
What is equity?
Does equity still have a role in modern law?
What is a trust?
How have trusts changed to meet changing social and economic needs?
Do equitable doctrines and remedies and trusts law protect the vulnerable or protect the powerful?
Equity is a distinctive legal tradition in common law systems, with its own concepts, techniques, doctrines and remedies.
You'll learn about the historical emergence of ‘equity’ rooted in the concept of ‘conscience’ and examine the fate of equity in the English legal system and other common law jurisdictions.
You'll discover developments in equitable remedies concerned with remedying unconscionable conduct and abuses of power in private transactions, and the social, political and economic contexts of these developments.
Arguably equity’s most important contribution is the trust.
You'll learn the anatomy of the trust, how to create valid trusts, the obligations that trustees are subject to, and how these have changed to meet the evolving needs and desires of property owners and markets.
In considering these transformations, you'll develop your ability to understand and critically assess the role of equity and trusts in contemporary law and society and reflect on the nature of private law.
How much power does the EU really have over its member states?
When national interests and EU law clash, who should ultimately have the final say?
You'll be introduced to EU law, by examining its foundational principles, key doctrines, and the institutions that shape its operation.
In exploring the core aspects of EU law, you will gain a deeper understanding of: How the EU balances the interests of member states with individual rights.
The role of the customs union in facilitating trade within the EU.
The power of judicial interpretation in shaping EU law.
The principle of supremacy of EU law and its impact on national legal systems.
Through analysing these substantive areas, you'll develop essential skills in applying legal principles, presenting complex arguments effectively, and evaluating the broader social, economic, and legal implications of EU law.
In exploring the core aspects of EU law, you will gain a deeper understanding of:
Approximately 75 percent of the world’s legal systems do not belong to the common law tradition but to the civil law tradition, which means that they were shaped not by English law but by Roman law, either directly (e.g.: France, Germany, Spain) or through colonisation (e.g.: Brazil, Indonesia, Mexico).
Students aiming to operate on the international scene in whatever capacity are bound to come into contact with the civil law tradition.
You're introduced to the very different ways in which civil law governments, judges, lawyers and law professors think about the law.
The materials and coursework are designed for those destined to spend time in a civil law jurisdiction, whether during a year abroad as part of your studies or in your future working life.
It is also intended for students enrolling in the module out of an interest in foreign and/or comparative law.
When atrocities occur, for example during wars or other conflicts, how can the perpetrators be held to account?
How does international law seek to do so?
What kind of justice does international criminal law deliver, and for whom?
By introducing you to key debates about the principles and practices of international criminal law, this module develops your ability to understand and critically assess the response of international law to crimes that are widely understood to touch on the interests of all humankind.
You will gain knowledge about the core crimes in international criminal law (genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity and aggression) and the operation of key institutions, such as the International Criminal Court, and their relationships with national processes.
You will gain understanding of the roles of key parties and participants in international criminal processes.
By considering the theories that underpin the principles and practices of international criminal law, and the politics that constrain them, you will develop the ability to critically reflect upon international criminal law and its effects in a range of contexts.
Through understanding the historical, political, economic and social contexts of international criminal law you will be able to evaluate the promise of international criminal law as well as its limitations in delivering justice after atrocity.
You do not need to have studied the earlier International Law: Principles and Sources in order to take this module, but you may find it useful to do so.
How are work relationships regulated?
You will gain a solid understanding of the principles of individual labour law as well as the importance of the employment relationship and the employment contract in the current social, political and economic context.
As well as developing a detailed knowledge of fundamental aspects of labour law, you will be introduced to broader conceptual, critical and evaluative perspectives on the labour market and workplace regulation.
You will integrate legal analysis and practical legal skills with a contextual and interdisciplinary understanding of debates around labour regulation.
Key aspects of the modern employment relationship covered in the module will include the contract of employment (for example, its formation and its content, and the importance of employment status) and statutory employment protections (for example, unfair dismissal and redundancy protection regulations).
How is medical practice and decision-making influenced by bioethics, law and health policy?
This module considers the legal regulation of medical practice in its ethical, socio-economic, and historical contexts.
It draws on a range of critical, contextual, and interdisciplinary perspectives.
You’ll learn about dominant traditions of bioethical theory and the major principles of medical law.
Your knowledge and critical legal abilities will develop through discussions of ethical concepts and theories like consequentialism, virtue ethics, altruism, care ethics, deontology, justice, autonomy, beneficence, and non-maleficence.
You’ll learn to critically analyse legal, social, and ethical tensions found in issues such as medical malpractice, consent to treatment and capacity, confidentiality, and clinical research.
Module content will respond to changes in law, health policy and bioethics and to changes in health care services resulting from, for example, pandemics, NHS resourcing issues, national inquiries, and emerging clinical developments.
What is a coroner?
What is their role in the English legal system?
The role of the coroner is a unique one in the judicial process.
They have an obligation to investigate sudden and unnatural deaths, holding formal inquests when necessary.
You will explore Coronial Law (the law regulating coronial inquiries) and its historical and current influences in English law.
You will examine the role of the coroner and their powers and duties within the process, including inquests.
You will explore the principles and current issues of Coronial Law including issues of justice for families and access to justice.
You will acquire the necessary skills to complete the module by examining the procedural process, examining critical issues through case studies, and participating in and reviewing a mock coroner’s inquest.
Addressing KLS in November 2021, the President of the UK Supreme Court, Lord Reed, identified jurisprudence as one of only three modules necessary for a future-proof law degree.
Why?
Because jurisprudence is immensely practical.
It seeks to understand and consider the internal point of view of judges, practitioners and other legal actors, who want not predictions of the legal claims they will make, but arguments about what the law requires them to do and why.
The subject matter is therefore not tort law, or contract, or crime, but law itself, seen from the inside, and located critically in historical and cultural context.
In this way, Jurisprudence builds on and draws together all of the core modules, exploring the philosophical reasons why judges disagree within and across judgments.
The grasp of the strikingly different and often hidden commitments jurisprudence reveals will benefit you in deeper understanding of your discipline and degree, in your ability to better comprehend legal materials, and in your production of more persuasive legal arguments in education and practice.
What is the role of the police in the investigation of criminal offences?
What powers do the police have to perform this role?
And what happens when the police act in a way which does not align with legal and social expectations?
In seeking out the answers to these questions you will learn about police powers and how they are governed within the law.
You will have the opportunity to put yourself in the role of the police and consider their relationship with both legal representatives and suspects.
You will examine whether and how the law can address power disparities between the individual and the police.
In developing your understanding of the police you will be asked to consider contemporary debates and draw insights from historical, social, political, and legal perspectives to critique police practice.
How are conflicts in and challenges affecting the world of sport being or not being resolved?
To what extent are the welfare of athletes and the governance of sport being effectively addressed?
In this module you will receive a foundational exposition and appreciation of the nature and extent to which the law relating to sport is able to address these and other important questions and issues.
In addition to considering key elements of the relevant legal and institutional framework, you will explore a broad spectrum of legal and other influences on the development of contemporary governance of sport at national and international levels.
This will include considering the development of lex sportiva (the legal regime specifically attuned to addressing sports-related legal conflicts as developed, in particular, by the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) based in Lausanne, Switzerland) as well as appraising the influence that other legal sources (such as national and international law) may have in shaping and defining sports law.
If people are unable to support themselves financially should the state step in?
Is poverty a social fact or a social problem that the law can alleviate?
The UK spends in excess of £250 billion per year on benefits and pensions.
Some consider this to be both unaffordable and unjustified.
But for many claimants the financial support is inadequate and the claim process is impersonal and demeaning.
You'll examine the law and structure of the UK’s welfare state through the lens of welfare rights and the perspective of claimants.
You will develop knowledge of benefits law: the eligibility rules around ill-health, disability and immigration status, the obligations the state requires of claimants and their legal rights to challenge/appeal benefit decisions.
You'll become familiar with the UK’s benefits system and will be able to identify the interrelationships between welfare law and other areas of law such as: public law, housing law, criminal law, immigration law.
You will also critically engage with the ongoing debates as to the future of welfare and whether welfare rights are human rights.
Justice is one of the most important concepts in legal and political thought, but what is justice and why does it matter?
Is there just one type of justice?
Is going to court the only or best option for achieving justice?
You will tackle these questions and many more through an in-depth examination of the concept justice, exploring law’s ability and suitability to respond to issues of justice and reflecting on alternative ways of responding to injustice.
You will start by exploring theoretical accounts of justice, such as those by Rawls, Nielsen, Sandel and Nussbaum and different approaches such as corrective, distributive and restorative justice.
You will then apply this theoretical foundation to a series of case studies that identify examples of injustice; critically evaluating possible responses such as court-based action, social justice movements, and restorative justice projects.
You'll build on the critical examination of law and legal systems undertaken in your earlier studies and take these ideas further, offering a new method of critical study.
Focusing on one concept, justice, allows a more detailed and in-depth examination of this fundamental legal concept, creating space for engagement with a wider variety of theoretical approaches to justice and the opportunity to develop stronger skills of critique essential for success in your degree.
Devoted entirely to developing your practical skill in argument, your engagement and practice in this module builds ability and understanding that will benefit you in successful legal professional practice - and across many other areas of employment and everyday activity.
Despite frequent mention in educational and employment contexts (where the skill is often tested as part of an interview process), few graduates have received the formal training needed to present knowledgeable, winning argument consistently and with self-belief.
You gain a critical edge, empowering you to engage in argument effectively in any situation, both by developing the skill of presenting a compelling case and by sharpening your awareness of when poor or underhand arguments are being used against you, enabling you to call these out wherever they arise.
Requiring no previous knowledge of any area of law, you will develop expertise in strategy, logic, fallacy identification and rhetoric from the ground up, in the only pure skills module in the law curriculum.
How do different legal cultures address environmental problems?
Is environmental quality a human right?
Are market-orientated approaches the future of environmental law?
Should human health or environmental health constitute the priority of law and policy?
How can the pursuit of environmental justice inform environmental law and policy?
By introducing you to examples and case studies from different jurisdictions and historical periods, your studies develop your ability to understand and critically evaluate environmental measures and policies in varied social, political and economic contexts.
Each week you'll explore a legal response to a particular environmental problem.
You will gain knowledge of the key principles, norms and regulatory approaches that underpin efforts to address environmental problems around the world.
You will also develop the ability to critically reflect on the very idea of nature and on broader debates regarding precaution, prevention, adaptation that underpin environmental law.
From war, poverty and genocide to decolonisation, trade and climate change, an understanding of the fundamentals of international law is essential to anyone wishing to make sense of the biggest challenges our world is facing.
You'll be led step-by-step through international law’s foundational principles, sources and institutions, as developed, demanded, violated and enforced by states and various non-state actors.
The aim is to familiarise you with the distinctive logic of international law – a logic that underpins every one of its specific regimes (such as international humanitarian law, the law of the sea or international investment law) and conditions the response of states, international courts and multilateral institutions to the problems these regimes address.
You’ll learn how to apply this logic, bringing international law to bear on real-world politics, economics and history.
But we’ll also reverse this relationship, bringing politics, economics and history to bear on international law in order to contextualise and think more critically about a discipline whose benevolence often goes unquestioned.
Is international law always ‘part of the solution’, or might it be implicated in the very problems it is called upon to solve?
Why study Animal Law?
Animal Law is a fast-developing field of study, scholarship and practice.
Studying one of only a few courses if its type currently offered at a UK law school, you'll be introduced to important domestic, European and international legal instruments governing the treatment of non-human animals.
You are encouraged to critically assess key theories developed in moral philosophy and ethics that have been a source of inspiration for many animal rights lawyers.
You will explore and discuss, through a range of concrete examples, the extent to which ethical, historical, socio-economic, political, religious and other factors have shaped the development of Animal Law in the UK and around the world.
Can justice only be delivered in a court room?
Is justice delayed, justice denied?
What is the alternative?
With an increasing demand on our civil justice system to deliver timely and cost-effective justice, you will evaluate whether there is a more appropriate way of resolving disputes to limit some of the damage caused by choosing only to litigate.
You will master the core principles of appropriate dispute resolution (ADR) and using case law, identify how shifting judicial attitudes have led to an alternative to the court room.
You will explore how ADR informs our understanding of broader themes of justice and learn how to advise a client as to the merits of ADR.
By the end of this module, you will also develop the necessary practical skills to analyse and resolve a dispute through an understanding of various alternative dispute resolution processes such as mediation and negotiation before learning how to conduct a successful arbitration.
Can juries understand complex scientific evidence?
A new technique for matching ear prints is developed - who decides when this new technique is sufficiently reliable to be used in court – scientists or judges?
Does the CSI Effect really exist?
You will be examining these questions and more during the term, considering how criminal law makes use of science during the trial process.
Forensic evidence is a rapidly developing area, new techniques such as digital biometric data are increasingly presented as evidence.
This rapid expansion from fingerprints to DNA through to digital data has resulted in forensic evidence becoming increasingly debated in both the media and by the courts – from articles hailing DNA profiling as uncovering miscarriages of justice to those questioning a jury’s ability to understand highly complex scientific evidence.
You will critically investigate how different forms of forensic evidence are used, the reliability of scientific techniques, and their value and place within the criminal justice system.
We will develop these ideas through engaging with contemporary issues of forensic evidence, placing them within the wider social and transnational context.
This has included studies of the use of facial recognition technology, the idea of the CSI Effect, probabilities in a legal context, and sharing evidence across jurisdictions.
International humanitarian law is the body of law developed to regulate armed conflict.
It was historically envisioned as a legal means of restricting the excesses of war between states.
Over time, doctrinal developments have extended the law governing armed conflict to non-international armed conflicts and non-state actors, and forms of accountability have arisen through the related field of international criminal law.
This module is not restricted to a study of law alone; it places international humanitarian law in broader social, political, and historical contexts, including its close relationship to the law concerning the use of force.
Doctrinally, you will address select concepts, principles and rules governing the recourse to force as well as the conduct of hostilities in armed conflict.
Thematically, you will consider topics such as: the relationship between international law and international relations; problems of classifying and categorizing, such as the distinction between civilians and combatants and the distinction between international and non-international armed conflicts; challenges brought by new means and methods of warfare, such as unmanned aerial vehicles (drones), the move toward developing lethal autonomous weapons systems (‘LAWS’), and the practice of ‘targeted killing’; and accountability for breaches of international humanitarian law.
Thematically, you will consider topics such as:
How does property law respond to new forms and conceptions of property in contemporary society?
What do those responses say about property as a legal institution, and the role of power?
Building on Property Law you'll look at property in its many different forms.
You will be encouraged to question the common-sense understanding of property as privately owned 'things’, which the law merely recognises and protects.
You will explore the active, constructive and political role of law in constituting the relationships which make up property in particular historical, philosophical and/or cultural contexts.
Each week, you will engage with case studies and theoretical readings from a wide range of topics, such as: claims of ownership of human bodies and bodily materials; the contribution of property law to racialisation and the formation of social identities; the role of property interests in both exacerbating and responding to climate change; and emerging categories of property, including data derived from social media use.
By examining how property law responds to developments and innovations in contemporary society, you'll will provide you with the critical thinking skills required for reflective and creative professional practice.
Your lecturers go on strike.
Junior doctors stage a walkout.
Do they have a legal right to do so?
You'll focus on the legal framework on collective bargaining and the right to strike.
The Equality Act 2010 provides a legal framework that seeks to protect people from discrimination, including in the workplace.
You'll consider how anti-discrimination legislation shapes the employment relationship.
You will develop a detailed knowledge of key aspects of collective labour law and anti-discrimination legislation.
Develop your capacity to integrate legal analysis and practical legal skills with a contextual and interdisciplinary understanding of human rights and equality regulation at work.
You will examine freedom of association, a central feature of human rights and selected aspects of collective labour law such as the role and status of trade unions, the legal regulation of collective bargaining and the regulation of industrial conflict.
You will study anti-discrimination legislation, particularly the Equality Act 2010, related to areas such as sex, ethnic origin, disability, sexual orientation, religion or belief and age, as well as provisions for reconciling work and family life, such as pregnancy protection and parental leave.
Experiencing the law in action is a unique learning opportunity.
By engaging in live casework in the Clinic, you will develop a deep understanding of the law, acquire practical legal skills and learn to reflect on the law in its wider sociological and political context.
You will participate in real life legal work under the supervision of experienced legal practitioners to assist clients of Kent Law Clinic.
Helping to solve problems that impact upon the everyday lives of people who live with disadvantage will enable you to develop a sense of professional responsibility and will provide you with a rewarding experience.
You'll develop a range of legal skills through actively participating in tasks such as interviewing clients and drafting legal documents whilst also learning important practical skills including time management and empathy towards clients.
You will be assessed on your ability to carry out casework tasks and independent legal research throughout the term.
Using your distinct casework experience you will then critically reflect on the relationship between your client’s legal problem and broader socio-legal issues.
Your learning will be supported by a holistic combination of seminars, small group supervision, one to one meetings and feedback sessions.
You will also benefit from peer support and become part of the vibrant Kent Law Clinic community.
To what extent should the validity of laws be judged by their ethical standing?
Is there a threshold beyond which laws deemed immoral should be considered invalid?
You will explore how the relationship between morality and law has been understood and theorised and how this relationship has been often conflictual.
The methodology used will be historical and contextual as well as theoretical and analytical.
You will look at how jurisprudence has conceptualised the existential link between morality and law, with specific reference to the moral concept of individual rights, the main theories of morality developed in Western culture and history, the difference between natural and positive law, and the idea of “modern subjectivity”.
You will then move onto focus on the conflicts between morality and law in the context of modern legal and political theory and contemporary history.
For the modern mind, the concepts of morality and the function of law are deceptively simple.
However, when examined closely, in their operational connection, they give rise to all sorts of questions and problems, for example: is evil law still law?
To what extent and for what reasons can rights be suspended in times of emergency?
To what extent is disobedience justified when the law is considered to be morally wrong?
What is the purpose of banking law?
Why are banks subject to distinct forms of regulatory supervision?
You will learn about UK banking law and about the broader social, economic, and political issues and controversies that have surrounded banking in the years since the Global Financial Crisis of 2008.
You will appraise and analyse the role of banks in money creation.
You will explore the relationship between banks and the UK’s banking regulators, including the Bank of England.
You will learn about the bank-customer relationship, the role of banks in the payments system and the anti-money laundering regime with which banks must comply.
You will explore the lending of money by banks to their customers and the security taken for the loans granted.
Throughout this module, you will be encouraged to consider and evaluate the tensions and controversies that banks and banking regulators face as they pursue their sometimes complementary, sometimes conflicting objectives.
How are human rights protected in the law of England and Wales?
To what extent does the European Convention on Human Rights and its case law affect our law?
How is parliamentary sovereignty affected by the courts of England and Wales’ ability to follow the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights when interpreting UK legislation?
You’ll examine these and other related questions as you navigate issues such as the right to freedom of expression and the right to protest, the right to life, the right to liberty and security and the right to a fair trial.
You’ll consider developments such as new and proposed legislation and assess the extent to which they either respect or undermine human rights in England and Wales.
You’ll consider relevant developments at the level of the Council of Europe, and the impact these might have on law and policy in the UK.
This is an exciting and ever-evolving area of law, and one which attracts a lot of, often very inaccurate, attention in the media.
You’ll be able to make a much more detailed and accurate assessment of human rights law as a result of examining these questions and issues in the module.
How and why do states use law to regulate international trade and investment?
How can international economic disputes be resolved?
What are the implications for corporations and individuals?
How have the answers to these questions changed over time?
You'll use a critical sociolegal approach to systematically explore the legal texts, social contexts and moral subtexts that make up international economic law.
Focus is on trade and investment as two core economic activities, on multinational corporations and states as key actors and on regulatory systems such as contracts and treaties, including treaty-based international organisations such as the World Trade Organisation.
You will explore the interplay between economic principles and international law principles, in times of calm and in times of crisis.
You will engage with podcasts and films to bring to life multiple perspectives from, for example, the public, private, and third sectors; the relatively poor and relatively rich; and from local, national, regional and global levels.
When you bake a cake, you need a list of ingredients and a recipe.
Imagine the adversarial trial is a cake.
If the substantive law provides the ingredients, then it is the law of evidence that provides the recipe and teaches you how to bake.
You will be asked to think like a lawyer.
You will develop skills in inferential reasoning and apply them to various scenarios.
You will be able to assess whether certain pieces of evidence have relevance, sufficient weight and probative value that outweighs prejudicial effect.
You will be able to apply various exclusionary rules and discretions, whilst also critically examining these rules in their social and political contexts.
Armed with the knowledge and skills obtained in this module, you will be in a great position not only to undertake the first steps towards qualifying as a barrister or solicitor, but also have the skills to be able logically and coherently analyse, reason and argue in all sorts of other contexts.
The law of evidence is a compulsory subject for both the SQE and BSB (Bar Standards Board) Central examinations.
What is the role of law in identifying and addressing human suffering on a global scale?
You will confront this question by examining the evolution, principles, institutions and functions of international human rights law in their political, social, economic and especially, cultural contexts.
You will gain a detailed knowledge and understanding of the origins and development of human rights law through critical study and analysis of key theoretical perspectives and debates.
Through this module you will consider the relevance, or otherwise, of international human rights law to historical and/or contemporary challenges and critically assess its limitations and effects.
In particular, you will focus on how international human rights issues (especially as they concern the ‘victims’, ‘perpetrators’, and ‘beneficiaries’ of human rights abuses) are represented in the broader popular culture and how they can be critically identified and analysed.
How does international law impact on matters we read or hear about in our daily news?
Does it have any relevance, for example, to issues such as violence against women, climate change, inequality, or the so-called migration crisis?
These are the sorts of issues you will consider, in seeking to understand the role of international law in holding states accountable for their actions or omissions in these fields.
You will also consider the nature of international law, viewing it through several theoretical lenses, such as Third World Approaches to International Law (TWAIL scholarship), or feminist approaches to international law.
You’ll assess the extent to which international law takes account of the views, interests and concerns of the peoples of the Global South and those of women from across the world.
Through this, you’ll be able to assess the extent to which international law is a useful tool for regulating states’ actions in the 21st Century.
Have you ever considered teaching law in schools?
Do you want to bring law to life for younger students?
This is a one-term placement opportunity that allows you to teach on a unique programme in selected primary schools within the local community.
Using the format of the hit TV show, Taskmaster, this exciting outreach project enables you to teach young people interesting aspects of the law through fun and interactive tasks.
You will work with Year Five classes for approximately six hours over a period of four weeks in a Spring Term (excluding travel to and from the school and preparation and debrief time with the teacher).
You will deliver each session with a team, on selected topics of the law, such as the operation of law, statutory interpretation, Tort Law and Human Rights.
You will be supported in developing the skills needed for this project and provided guidance on the requirements for logging your activities and experiences, including a consultation and reflection on the sessions.
This module will enable you to apply your legal knowledge, whilst teaching skills that are transferable to other professions.
What other topic in the study of law can boast of being as inevitable as death?
Tax law pervades the world of business and also has a major impact on decisions taken in the private sphere.
It is highly political, having vastly greater redistributive effects than almost any other direct exercise of the power of the state.
But it is not about numbers or computations.
It is about questions of legal doctrine, the structure and meaning of people's dealings with each other and (putting the two together, as with other areas of law) the application of the law to the facts.
You will become familiar with several major topics in tax law, such as the taxation of business profits, the taxation of employment income, the taxation of capital gains and VAT.
You will explore important questions of principle and you will consider the policy debates that arise from them.
Underpinning it all it, you will acquire some of the insights that the study of tax law provides into the seemingly unending three-way struggle between human populations, privately held wealth and the coercive power of the state.
How does law institute and regulate material spaces?
How do spatial configurations intersect with law?
In this interdisciplinary module you will examine how the understanding of law, regulation and policy can be improved by studying the spaces and spatial orders that the law institutes and regulates, as well as the ways in which spatial configurations generate materialisations of and resistances to law.
You'll draw from urban planning, urban law, architecture, urban governance, socio-legal and critical legal studies, legal geography, and spatial approaches across disciplines.
Case studies may include: prisons, ghettos, slums, social housing, homelessness, refugee camps, immigration detention facilities, modern, future, utopian cities, street art, activism and occupations, digital and virtual spaces, ecocide and the protection of oceans, coastlines, and forests, the availability and uses of public spaces and non-western cultures of spatial relations.
Drawing on contemporary events and examples and methods from the social sciences and the humanities you will be introduced to dominant paradigms of understanding the intersection of law, space and power, and consider ways in which they can be challenged.
What theoretical frameworks can help us to understand the concepts of race, religion, gender and sexuality?
How do these concepts intersect with each other and with other social relations?
You will engage with the issue of social justice from a range of different perspectives and consider legal and policy responses to contemporary social issues, such as gender and race pay gaps, unequal access to healthcare, and the limits of anti-discrimination frameworks.
In doing so, you will discuss, debate, ask questions and consider diverse perspectives on the concepts being studied and relate them to specific case studies.
You will have the opportunity to choose your own essay question or research project on a topic concerning race, religion, sexuality and/or gender justice.
In preparation for this assessment, you will be introduced to and guided through key legal and interdisciplinary texts, debate and engage with these texts, develop your skills of analysis and argumentation and consider a range of sometimes conflicting perspectives on social justice issues.
The ability of a country to control access to its territory is a major topic of national and international debate.
Should a state have the absolute ability to control its borders?
Or should states give priority to the human rights of individuals seeking entrance or resisting removal – such as the right not to face torture or the right to family life?
What role should Parliament or the courts play in deciding who should be allowed to enter and reside in the UK?
You will be introduced to immigration law in the United Kingdom including its historical development and the wider political context.
In particular, you will cover topics such as: family migration and human rights, labour migration and trafficking, deportation law and foreign national offenders, long-term residence rights and “illegal” migration.
Drawing on policy documents, case law and critical analysis of developments at the national and international level, the module will enable you to acquire both sound knowledge of the law and critical awareness of the biases, gaps and challenges in the current immigration system.
Lectures will introduce you to key contemporary policy debates in the UK.
Seminars will discuss key caselaw and involve practical case studies, allowing you to apply your knowledge to real-life scenarios.
In the current context of transnationalism, decolonialism and globalization, every law student in the UK or abroad will almost inevitably encounter foreign law during his or her professional life.
For one thing, international organizations regularly undertake cross-country comparisons to evaluate the efficiency of domestic laws.
Also, law makers show themselves more and more open to the influence of foreign legal ideas in the legislative process.
Further, appellate judges increasingly refer to foreign law in the course of their opinions.
Moreover, private parties often enter into legal arrangements, such as contracts or wills, presenting an international dimension.
In sum, nowadays, foreign law is everywhere and cannot be avoided.
In this module you will gain the necessary knowledge and methods to approach and compare any foreign law in a meaningful way.
In particular, the module will heighten your sensitivity to the specificity of foreign legal cultures and encourage you to reflect in depth upon the possibilities and limits of cross-border interaction in the law.
Another feature of this module will be a critical introduction to hermeneutics, deconstruction and translation studies as they relate to law.
The module will develop concrete examples from a range of different national laws.
You do not require any prior knowledge of foreign law or a foreign language.
We live in an era when legal decision-making seems both increasingly influenced and increasingly challenged, by science and technology.
How can we make sense of the relationships between law and the fast-changing world of science and technology?
How do we pay attention to the risks, inequalities, and injustices that may be produced when states uncritically use new technologies, or fail to acknowledge the inherent limitations, or blind spots, of global scientific knowledge?
You'll be introduced to several interrelated fields including law, socio-legal studies, Science and Technology Studies (STS), anthropology and sociology, to think about these questions.
You will critically engage with contemporary examples such as public health regulations; climate change; law and scientific expertise; the regulation of reproductive technologies; science in the courtroom; and the use of technologies in legal decision-making.
You will use the literature to not only frame debates but to find ways of challenging the dominant paradigms through which the relationship between law and scientific knowledge tends to be understood.
Cross-cutting themes for the module will include: legal decision-making and scientific uncertainty; the role of expertise in legal decision-making; the interface between law, power and technoscience; notions of objectivity and truth both in law and science; global science, postcolonialism and global inequalities.
Societies change constantly.
Many cultural norms, moral values, and social attitudes in our contemporary societies have changed and continue to change.
The emergence of liberal democracy, globalisation, scientific advances, neoliberalism, political conflicts, and climate change have significantly transformed people’s behaviour and lived experience in societies around the world.
But what does the law have to do with all these contemporary instances and patterns of social change?
How is the law affected when society changes?
How do legal institutions respond to those changes?
To what extent has the law contributed to, facilitated, or even opposed certain kinds of social change?
How can social movements use the law to create positive change and pursue social justice?
These are the main questions that you will explore  as you develop an in-depth, critical understanding of the complex relationship between law and social change in contemporary societies, and explore the political, economic, and social dynamics that affect this relationship.
You will learn about the ideas of several key social theorists, explore some of the important drivers of social change in recent times, and develop advanced skills to research and critically analyse a case study of your choice for the final research project.
The day you have been dreading for two years has arrived.
You always knew that you would have to go to court and tell them what happened.
You’re scared, you’re young, you have a disability and you can’t communicate well.
You are vulnerable.
How will the court hear your evidence?
Will the cross-examination be ‘like a wounded animal being tortured in court’?
Who are you?
Are you the victim or are you the defendant?
You will examine what it means to be a vulnerable person in the criminal trial.
You will critically evaluate the laws and processes that exist to help vulnerable witnesses give the best evidence they can.
You will appraise the role of different stakeholders, whether that be the defence advocate cross-examining, the judge ruling in a ‘ground rules’ hearing or an intermediary advising the court on what measures a witness or defendant needs.
You will consider the debates surrounding rape myths and sexual offence trial reforms.
You will gain an understanding of how young offenders are treated in the criminal justice system, and whether their vulnerabilities are taken into account.
You will examine these debates from a range of different perspectives.
What is privacy?
Why does it matter and how can we protect it?
How can data be protected in a digital era where everything seems to be shared?
You will focus on answering these questions and more through looking at the way the law defines and constructs privacy, cybersecurity threats, and digital surveillance in the UK, EU and elsewhere and how the law regulates data protection, freedom of information, and consent for digital and personal information collection.
This will allow you to explore rapidly changing privacy and data protection issues including the ‘right to be forgotten’, the Internet of Things (IoT),  AI, cybersecurity law post-Snowden and how we approach developments in digital surveillance such as facial recognition technology (FRT) and the use of AI.
You will be asked to critically examine whether privacy protection laws, consent, and confidentiality measures are fit for purpose.
You will engage in critical analysis of how personal, health, and economic transactional data are managed, who has access to this information, and for what purposes.
This is placed within the broader context of the digital and cyber landscape, considering hacking and transnational cybercrimes.
You will be required to assess emerging legal, regulatory, data protection and personal privacy issues raised by widespread access to personal information, responding to changes in data protection law and changes in the cyber landscape.
Privacy, Data Protection and Cyber Law raised detailed questions which you have the opportunity to explore.
These may include questions such as: Is privacy furthered or reduced by developments in AI and the metaverse?
Who benefits from data generated in smart homes and how and where is it regulated?
You will build on the understanding developed in Privacy, Data Protection and Cybersecurity Law, which introduces you to the key concepts and issues in the regulatory framework governing privacy, data protection and developments in cyber-crime and cyber security.
You will engage in far more in-depth, critical enquiry and insight in the subject area using current issues and case studies as a platform for developing more specialist knowledge and ideas.
You will be adopting a research and scholarship led approach allowing you to make a more tightly focused analysis of emerging current issues in the area of data and cyber law than is possible in the earlier Privacy, Data Protection and Cybersecurity Law module.
The specific topics considered will be revised annually to engage with current issues in data protection and cyber law, for example transnational cyber crime, developments in AI and data in a world of constantly emerging technology.
What is the interrelationship between political theory and law in our times?
Drawing upon a broad range of political theory, you will explore key concepts of political relevance to law, such as: sovereignty, power, community, the subject and resistance.
You will build a solid understanding of political theory in relation to these key concepts and then use this understanding to examine contemporary political and juridical questions, such as those of: democracy and citizenship, multiculturalism, bio-politics, secularism, terrorism, post-colonialism and contemporary formations of Empire.
In so doing, you will gain the intellectual tools necessary to apply insights from political theory and philosophy to the study of law and its relevant problems.
Multinational corporations (MNCs) have the power to shape the lives of communities across the globe.
At times, this power can be used to prioritise profit over people, create laws or even cause wars.
This module asks, what is the role of MNCs in shaping global governance?
how can we hold MNCs accountable when they cause harm to communities across the globe?
Is such accountability possible?
In the first part of the module,  you will examine the history of the rise of corporate power from colonialisation to neoliberalism, observing the growing accountability gap along the way.
With these premises in mind, in the second part of the module you will study the regulations governing corporate conduct affecting communities across the globe.
You will engage with different international legal regimes, focusing on the emerging field of business and human rights.
You will also discuss investment and trade laws, among others.
Finally, in the third part of the module you will engage with the practice of global corporate accountability through case studies, exploring the potentialities and limitations of both civil and criminal litigation.
Why is music as an art form controlled and occasionally criminalised by the state?
What are the potential implications for artistic expression and cultural freedom within society?
You will approach the relationship between music and law from two main points of view: one theoretical, and the other critical and sociological.
You will first explore how music and the soundscape have been theorised as a specific legal and political problem in the field of Law and the Humanities.
Drawing on these theoretical principles, you will go on to examine state intervention in censoring or controlling music and the attempt at criminalising specific genres of music.
A specific focus will be the use of rap music in criminal trials in the UK and US, and the use of lawsuits as a weapon to criminalise heavy metal bands.
Millions of people have been forced to cross the borders of their home state and seek asylum.
How do legal systems (national and international) provide or deny protection to asylum seekers and refugees and why?
In this module you will engage critically with the matter of asylum and refugeehood in both a national and international context.
You will be introduced to the sources of asylum and refugee law and a critical consideration of the relevant case law in the UK and internationally.
You will employ interdisciplinary material to aid understanding and reflection on the historical and socio-cultural evolution of the governance and regulation of asylum and refugee subjects.
In addition, you will devote critical attention to key contemporary problems in asylum and refugee law, and refugee studies more broadly, including current national and international developments and scholarly and practitioner reflections in the field.
What are the limits of protection that tort law offers?
Whose interests does tort law prioritise and who does it fail?
When does tort law intersect with human rights issues?
You will focus on various contentious areas of tort law from a critical perspective.
You will consider where such issues arise (using your prior knowledge and understanding of the foundational levels of tort law taught in the earlier Tort Law module) in areas such as: reproductive harms, wrongful birth/life, ‘toxic torts’, invasion of privacy and/or autonomy, feminist perspectives on/critiques of torts, tort law and sexual violence, negligent policing (and negligence of other public bodies), tort law and human rights, transnational torts, access to justice and conceptions of justice in tort, and philosophy of tort.
Various themes will be identified as existing within and threading through the topics covered, such as (non-exhaustively) ‘gender’, ‘autonomy’, ‘power’, ‘money’, ‘justice’, ‘environment’.
Teaching of each specific topic is undertaken by an ‘expert’; resultantly the coverage of topics may vary on an annual basis according to staff availability.
You'll have already considered questions about the applicability of bioethical theories and concepts to legal decision-making and health care policy in your studies.
Now you have the opportunity to explore and deepen your knowledge and critical legal abilities by exploring further questions such as how advances in genetic medicine challenge assisted reproductive regulation and the delivery of personalised medicine and whether social and ethical values about assisted dying, abortion, and public versus private medicine should be drivers for legal and regulatory change.
You will build on the understanding developed in Law and Medical Ethics.
You will engage in more in-depth and critical enquiry and will gain greater insight into bioethical, clinical, and legal tensions by examining current issues, regulatory developments, and case studies as a platform for developing specialist knowledge, ideas, and awareness.
You will be adopting a research and scholarship led approach allowing you to make a more sustained, critical, and directed analysis of emerging issues in bioethics, health policy and medical law, such as pandemics, developments in genetics, xenotransplantation and the effects of ableism and structural racism.
Do lawyers have moral duties as well as legal duties?
Should they be required to defend someone they know is guilty?
Or to do something they believe to be morally questionable, even if legally permissible, just because it’s their client’s instructions?
Can, in fact, a good lawyer be a good person?
You will tackle these questions and more through an in-depth examination of the moral and ethical questions surrounding legal practice; interrogating the idea that there might be something specific to law and legal practice that warrants a specific set of ethics – and what that should contain.
You will begin with an exploration of the moral reasoning and arguments that justify the notion of legal ethics.
Equipped with these theoretical foundations, you will move to examine the practice of lawyers and lawyering; using a series of case studies and real-world examples to explore issues like conflict of interest, integrity, confidentiality and complicity.
Through these case studies you will challenge your understanding of legal ethics and the notion of professional ethics more broadly.
You'll gain an intellectually demanding introduction to the academic study of legal ethics, and the ethics of lawyering more broadly, which will push you to hone your skills of argumentation, analysis and critique.
When is a wedding a legal marriage?
How does the law define domestic abuse?
When can the state remove children from their parents’ care?
Why is someone considered a legal parent in the first place?
You will consider these questions and more by learning about how law interacts with important aspects of personal life in the legal construction of families and responses to family problems.
English family law is an exciting and fast-paced area of law.
Many issues have undergone significant reform in recent years (marriage, civil partnerships, domestic abuse, child protection, adoption, divorce, child arrangements) and/or are currently the subject of major debates or reform proposals (cohabitation, weddings law, surrogacy, financial separation, child arrangements – again!).
You will not only learn about what the law is, but also examine its underpinning policies and the socio-political context in which it operates.
Recurring themes and concepts will run throughout, such as the role of state intervention versus private ordering; individual or family autonomy; equality, rights and responsibilities within families; the priority and meaning given to child welfare; and strong norms and expectations attaching to gender, biology and heterosexual relationships.
The extent to which English family law is inclusive of minority or disadvantaged groups in society will also be examined.
A safe and secure home is vital for a person's social and psychological wellbeing, yet homelessness continues to be a huge problem in the UK today.
Is homelessness inevitable or is it the result of social, political and economic choices?
What protection does the law provide for those without shelter or living in precarious housing?
Gain detailed knowledge of homelessness law and a comprehensive understanding of contemporary policy debates.
You will focus initially on key legal concepts and duties of local authorities towards people experiencing homelessness.
You will then consider the wider sociological and political context.
You will explore how differing values, including judgments about who is deserving and undeserving, pervade homelessness law and policies.
You will examine whether neoliberal policies promoting reliance on the market have been effective, or have weakened protections, thereby exacerbating inequalities.
Your learning will be supported by a combination of lectures, seminars and workshops.
You will develop the ability to critically evaluate homelessness law and policies.
You will gain a critical understanding of how responses to homelessness intersect with contemporary understandings of citizenship and the relationship between the individual and the state.
You will be able to evaluate creative and innovative solutions to homelessness.
Kent Law School emphasises research-led teaching, which means that the modules taught are at the leading edge of new legal and policy developments.
Through diverse and timely assessments tailored to each course level, we aim to support the development and demonstration of legal knowledge, critical approaches, and both general and legal skills.
Our progressive assessment approach builds and connects knowledge, providing constructive and timely feedback to enhance student learning throughout the course.
For course aims and learning outcomes, including for Joint Honours courses and for Law with a Foundation Year, please see the course specification .
If you are an international student, you may also be interested in the University’s International Foundation Programmes .
Please note that international fee-paying students who require a Student visa cannot undertake a part-time course due to visa restrictions.
Details on how to meet this requirement can be found on our English Language requirements webpage.
A Level Grade C or above in English Language or English Literature
Details on how to meet this requirement can be found on our English language entry requirements page.
Find answers to many common queries about the application process on our website.
Law with an Foundation Year is designed to accommodate students who have completed a level 3 qualification (such as A levels) but have not met the requirements to entry the degree directly, including students with comparable international qualifications.
We consider applicants taking a wide variety of qualifications, and encourage you to contact us if you have any questions about whether the qualification you are taking, or the grades you have achieved, are acceptable for entry.
Law with a Foundation Year is an excellent conversion course for applicants who don't meet the academic requirements for direct entry but have shown academic ability in non-science subjects.
CCC
MMM
96 Tariff points from your IB Diploma, Typically H5, H5, H5 or equivalent.
English Language at grade C/4
Obtain Access to HE Diploma with 45 Credits at level 3 with 15 credits at Distinction and 15 credits at Merit and 15 credits at Pass.
Students may be required to visit a local court as part of their studies.
Costs (if any) would relate to travel to and from a local court.
Find your voice.
Influence the future of law.
At Kent, we don’t just teach you what law is – we prepare you to shape where it’s going.
You’ll graduate with the confidence, skills and legal understanding to stand out – whether you’re pursuing legal practice, policy, research or something altogether different.
Our graduates go on to roles in:
Skills that set you apart

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/166/mathematics-with-a-foundation-year:
Learn how to apply mathematical principles to cutting-edge careers.
Maths isn’t just numbers and theory.
It’s a key to unlocking your future.
The skills and ideas you’ll learn on this course are in demand in many exciting careers – from finance to computing, engineering, science and media.
At Kent, we focus on application as well as theory.
We’ll give you a firm grounding in core principles such as algebra, probability and statistics.
But you’ll also learn how you can solve real-world challenges with machine learning, data analysis, cryptography, numerical methods and optimisation techniques.
Through experiential learning and industry-led projects, we’ll challenge you to apply what you learn - and help you develop in-demand skills such as programming, technical writing, communication, and problem-solving.
Mathematicians today are playing pivotal roles in tackling huge global challenges, from addressing inequality and climate change, to advancing AI and quantum technologies.
You’ll be taught by research experts, who will help you discover the many opportunities you have to make a real impact.
It covers the mathematical skills you need to enter Stage 1 of the degree.
Understanding mathematical structures and proofs is crucial not only for mathematicians but also for scientists and engineers who use mathematical reasoning in their work.
These concepts form the foundation of mathematical thought and provide the tools necessary for rigorous analysis and problem-solving.
You'll learn about the logical structures underpinning proofs and common types of proofs.
You’ll acquire strategies for devising your own proofs and learn to identify key ideas and steps by analysing numerous classic proofs in different areas of mathematics.
You'll also enhance your skills in working and reasoning with abstract mathematical structures and strengthen your ability to formulate and communicate rigorous solutions to mathematical problems concisely.
Mathematics is an exact science with special conventions for notation and communication that allow you to present solutions and ideas in a straightforward way.
To support your learning, lectures are complemented with small group tutorials where you’ll discuss and work on problems with one of our academics.
After completing the module, you’ll be able to accurately present and communicate your mathematical findings.
Prepare for a detailed exploration of analysis and mathematical modelling, where the fascinating world of difference equations and the power of the fixed point method await you.
Get to the core of mathematical theory and unleash its transformative potential on real-world problems.
Analysis is a vital tool in mathematics.
This module addresses concepts at the heart of the subject, including continuity, convergence of sequences and series, as well as fundamental results from calculus, such as the mean value theorem.
The module examines difference equations, exploring their functions and thereby helping you gain clear insight into their applications.
From deciphering dynamical systems to predicting future trends, you'll become adept at using the tools of mathematical analysis.
This is where the potent mathematical techniques underpinned by fixed point theorems come into their own, amplifying your problem-solving abilities and allowing you to conquer challenges you once found insurmountable.
Understanding numerical methods and differential equations is essential for modelling real-world phenomena.
Knowledge of these subjects equips you with the capability to forecast system behaviours, design control strategies, and contribute to technological advancements across diverse fields.
You’ll learn to use analytical and numerical tools for resolving differential equations, which is essential explicit solutions of differential equations are often not known.
You’ll explore numerical approximation methods, such as Euler's method and Runge-Kutta's method, and learn about stability analysis and error estimation to gauge the reliability of these techniques.
The module also covers a spectrum of topics including methods for solving ordinary differential equations (ODE), linear ODE systems, and qualitative techniques for nonlinear ODE systems such as linearisation, examination of stationary points and their stability, as well as phase portraits.
The curriculum integrates hands-on exercises aimed at developing proficient numerical programming skills, enhancing comprehension, and practical application.
Multivariable and vector calculus provide powerful tools for understanding and analysing functions and phenomena in multiple dimensions.
Mastery of these concepts is essential for numerous fields and applications, providing deeper insights into complex systems and problems.
Multivariable calculus extends the concepts of calculus to functions of several variables.
Vector calculus focuses on the algebraic and geometric aspects of vectors and vector-valued functions.
Both are crucial for understanding and solving problems in fields such as physics, engineering, economics, and computing.
In the module, you'll learn how to differentiate and integrate functions of several variables and how to work with curves, surfaces and volumes.
You’ll also examine core concepts including partial derivatives, gradients, multiple integrals, line and surface integrals, vector algebra, and vector fields.
You’ll see analogues of core theorems of calculus in the setting of multivariable functions and learn how to use vector algebra and vector calculus to analyse and solve problems in multiple dimensions.
In addition, you’ll gain an understanding of how the methods and concepts of multivariable and vector calculus can be applied in other fields.
Numbers are one of the most fundamental concepts in mathematics and indeed in everyday life.
Their study dates back thousands of years to Chinese, Babylonian, Greek, Indian, and Persian thinkers.
In the second half of the twentieth century, amazing and far-reaching applications to the emerging information technology industry were found.
Nowadays their theory provides the basis for all security on the internet and other communication channels, keeping your messages and bank details safe, for example.
Surprising new applications continue to be discovered!
In the first half of the module you’ll learn the core results of number theory such as the Chinese Remainder Theorem and Fermat’s Little Theorem and gain technical skills in working with prime numbers, modular arithmetic, and Diophantine equations.
In the second half of the module you’ll see how these core results and techniques are applied in cryptography, the science of protecting information.
More specifically, you’ll learn about: classical cryptosystems and their weak point, the “key distribution problem”, the public key ciphers and computational security, and the challenge coming from quantum computing.
Gaining work experience is vital to improving your chances of finding employment once you graduate.
This module is designed to simulate real-world work experiences, where you will work in groups on open-ended projects requiring a combination of diverse skills and knowledge.
You’ll collaborate with others within set time frames to tackle authentic mathematical and data science challenges using real-world data sets, honing your ability to learn new material, combine your skills, and work effectively as a team.
Topics covered involve data sets relating to current industry, societal or scientific challenges, preparing you for the complexities of working with authentic data.
You’ll present your findings in various formats including presentations, posters, blog posts, and reports, allowing you to develop skills essential for your future career.
In short, you’ll have an exciting opportunity to apply your mathematics and data science skills and work in a team on practical problems from industry or science to help you develop crucial professional competencies.
You’ll delve into the fascinating realm of mathematics through immersive experiences tailored to your interests and aspirations.
Under the guidance of expert academics, embark on a journey of intellectual discovery, culminating in a dissertation that delves deep into the core of your chosen mathematical domain.
You can forge connections and expand your horizons by doing a research internship, where you'll tackle a mathematical research challenge in a team led by one of our scholars.
Experience the rewarding path of mathematics education by venturing into teaching within our extensive network of local schools, and inspire the next generation of mathematical minds.
You can broaden your perspective by applying your mathematical prowess to problems from industry.
As you navigate these challenges, you'll develop practical expertise and cultivate a deeper understanding of the role mathematics plays in shaping our modern world.
You can embrace the power of communication by crafting engaging and informative content that brings mathematics to life.
Whether through blog posts, video essays, podcasts, or magazine articles, you'll have the opportunity to share your passion for mathematics with diverse audiences, exploring current trends and topics with creativity and clarity.
Groups are the basic building blocks of modern algebra.
They provide the abstract framework for analysing symmetry.
Understanding the theory of groups yields insights not only in the abstract structures underpinning mathematics, but also into the fundamental laws of nature.
Chemists, for example, study symmetry groups of molecules, while physicists use symmetry to develop theories to describe physical phenomena.
Field theory extends this to more complex algebraic structures that are foundational in modern mathematics and are used in a variety of modern technologies.
For example, finite fields have sophisticated applications in error-correcting codes which are used to control errors in the transition of digital data over an unreliable communication channel.
You’ll develop a versatile toolkit in studying groups and fields, extending your ability to think abstractly and reason logically.
You’ll cultivate a deep understanding of the abstract theory that allows you to see inside the algorithms and processes that underpin a variety of applications.
Complex analysis is a classic branch of mathematics with a long and rich history.
It plays a role in many areas of modern mathematics, including geometry, number theory, and dynamical systems, but is also widely used in engineering and physics.
Complex analysis extends the fundamental concepts of calculus to complex numbers.
You'll explore in detail the intricate relationships between the functions of a complex variable and the geometry and algebra of the complex plane.
This provides many striking results including Cauchy's integral formula, Laurent's theorem, and the residue theorem.
You'll master new techniques to compute integrals of functions of a real variable using contour integration, see how complex analysis can be used to prove the Fundamental Theorem of Algebra and gain an appreciation of its wide-ranging applications.
By the end of the module, you will have expanded your mathematical toolkit and gained a deeper appreciation of the unity of mathematics.
Embark on an exciting journey into the world of partial differential equations (PDEs) - the backbone of applied mathematics.
Discover the realm of modelling fundamental processes in physics, engineering, and finance as you learn analytical techniques for solving PDEs.
From fluid motion to heat conduction, sound waves to traffic flow and models of climate change, this module will equip you with the tools to tackle a myriad of real-world problems.
Explore the art of Fourier analysis and series methods, unravel the intricacies of characteristics for quasilinear PDEs, and discover the beauty of deriving similarity solutions like travelling waves.
Get ready to sharpen your expertise in specific techniques as you examine both linear and nonlinear PDEs, gaining qualitative understanding using graphical and phase space methods.
CDD including a C in Mathematics.
80 tariff points from your IB Diploma, including HL Maths or HL Mathematics: Analysis and Approaches at 4 or SL Maths or SL Mathematics: Analysis and Approaches at 6, typically H4, H5, H5 or equivalent.
A typical offer would be to obtain the Access to HE Diploma in a suitable subject with a minimum of 45 credits at Level 3, with 9 credits at Distinction and 12 credits at Merit.
Our course is focused on experience and application, which means that you’ll graduate with the confidence to apply maths to real issues.
Our graduates move on to a range of exciting careers, including:
We prepare graduates for employment with placements and opportunities to take a year in industry.
Alumni have previously secured opportunities at companies from Sainsbury’s to The Walt Disney Company.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/3769/mechanical-engineering-beng-foundation:
Get ready to build a career in this pioneering, innovative field of engineering.
Are you fascinated by how things work, and driven to make a difference?
Our Mechanical Engineering course has been created to give you the experience and skills to design, build and optimise truly impactful innovations.
This fast-growing course is for the doers.
The problem-solvers.
The creators, and innovators.
You’ll explore many fascinating elements of engineering, from manufacturing to robotics, advanced materials and AI, and test what you’ve learned through experiments and prototype-builds.
Everything we do is with your employment in mind.
You’ll learn what you need to succeed in your career, from real-industry software to soft skills such as teamwork, critical thinking and problem-solving.
You’ll be guided by experienced lecturers and guests from industry, as well as our dedicated employability team.
Kent has built strong links with leading employers in the region and beyond, with its expertise in fields such as renewable energy and advanced materials.
These partners ensure our course is at the forefront of engineering innovation.
You can also apply to extend your learning with a Year in Industry option, giving you a chance to secure a paid role with an exciting employer.
If you don’t have the right grades to enrol directly on to our BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering degree, you could opt to start your studies with our Foundation year.
In the Stage 1 project, you’ll gain hands-on experience, allowing you to apply theoretical knowledge to real-world problems.
This will enhance your understanding of engineering principles and concepts.
Throughout this process, you will apply electronic and mechanical design skills and programming/software knowledge to describe and produce a physical solution in alignment with a technical specification.
You are expected to acquire a foundational understanding of engineering hardware and software integration and verification.
The module progresses through lectures, workshops, labs, and tutorials with supervision and technical guidance.
It aims to provide you with hands-on and problem-solving skills in the concepts introduced in the Term 1 and Term 2 modules.
Understanding the mechanics of materials and structures, including the relationship between stress and strain, is fundamental to engineering design.
You will use this knowledge as a foundation for predicting and preventing failure mechanisms in materials and structures, ensuring the integrity and safety of engineered systems.
In the complex world of engineering, a thorough grasp of these principles is essential for crafting robust and reliable structures.
You will learn about the definition of internal loads in a structure which will generate stress and strain in a material.
You will then learn about the relationship between stress and strain under various loading scenarios and how this relationship would work in designing a mechanical component or structure.
Furthermore, you will learn how to use various characterisation tests to measure various properties of materials as and predict the failure of a material.
A comprehensive understanding of fluid mechanics is essential to the discipline of engineering.
In this module, you’ll be introduced to core concepts such as fluid properties, hydrostatics, mass, momentum and energy conservation principles, viscous flow behaviours, dimensional analysis, and drag/lift forces.
You’ll learn analytical techniques to quantify these phenomena and solve complex fluid mechanics problems that are integral to engineering systems and components.
These include internal flows like pipe flow as well as external flows over immersed bodies and aerodynamic surfaces.
You’ll learn to evaluate forces, energy requirements, power consumption, and performance parameters for systems involving fluids such as pumps, turbines, aerodynamic vehicles and more.
These concepts are reinforced through hands-on laboratory experiments as well as computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulations that are employed to model and visualise complex flows.
Overall, the module will help you develop essential knowledge and skills for analysing and solving fluid flow problems in engineering practice.
A strong understanding of dynamics and mechanism analysis is essential for crafting mechanical components with dynamic motion.
This proficiency enables a comprehensive evaluation of forces, accelerations, velocities, and interactions, ensuring optimal performance across various applications.
It’s at the core of high-value industries such as automotive or aerospace.
You’ll gain essential knowledge of kinematics and kinetics of particles and rigid bodies that you’ll apply to models and evaluate the velocity, acceleration, forces, and moment of rigid components.
You’ll also learn about mechanisms and machine design and how to analyse the dynamics of mechanisms before applying them to applications.
You’ll also apply your skills and knowledge from this module in your projects.
Vibration is a common mechanical phenomenon and changes in vibration pattern may indicate likely wear, fault or failure of devices.
Understanding vibration characteristics and their manipulation is therefore critical to ensuring the stability, safety and optimal operation of modern devices.
In this module, you’ll learn the principles of vibration theory, which will enable you to carry out critical analysis and design appropriate damping mechanisms.
Vibration analysis includes damped vibration, free and forced vibration, MDOF systems, modelling of a tuned vibration absorber and vibration testing techniques.
Additionally, your study of control systems will include system modelling in general, stability analysis, and PID controllers, and will include both continuous and discrete time systems.
After successfully completing this module, you’ll have essential knowledge in vibration analysis and system control that is required for advanced engineering and working professionally in the field.
Finite element analysis (FEA) plays a crucial role in engineering by allowing a detailed examination of industrial components, offering insights into their structural behaviour under different conditions.
You’ll learn about the principles of finite element methods and how to formulate and solve a physical example through this numerical method by identifying the boundary conditions, element types, loading scenarios, etc.
Through simulations of real-world industrial cases, FEA enables cost-effective and efficient design optimisation, reducing the necessity for extensive physical prototypes.
This computational tool will enable you to improve the accuracy of predicting stress, strain, and deformation, ensuring that industrial components are engineered with precision and reliability, ultimately optimising performance and durability.
Furthermore, you’ll learn about the sources of inaccuracies and errors in finite element analysis, postprocessing approaches and how to critically evaluate the FEA results.
Thermodynamics is the foundation for heat engines, power plants, refrigerators, and many more important inventions that the modern world relies on.
In this module, you’ll develop a thorough understanding of the laws of thermodynamics, energy analyses, and the modes of heat transfer.
You’ll learn how to analyse and apply these concepts to practical engineering systems and processes including power generation, refrigeration systems, heat exchangers, and thermal management solutions across various industries.
You’ll discover how to critically evaluate system performance, optimise designs, and propose integrated engineering solutions.
The module also incorporates hands-on laboratory experiments and computer simulations to reinforce theoretical learning and cultivate practical skills.
72 tariff points from your IB Diploma, including Maths at 4 at HL or SL, typically H4, H4, H4 or equivalent.
Choose your path
Graduating from Kent’s Mechanical Engineering degree gives you the platform to explore roles in industries such as automotive, aerospace, renewable energy, transport, materials and manufacturing.
This course prepares you for a variety of roles that will help shape the future, including:
Graduates have progressed to jobs at leading companies including Airbus, BAE Systems, Siemens, BP, EDF Energy, the UK Ministry of Defence, and AWE .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/24/physics-with-a-foundation-year:
Unlock your future with physics.
Open up exciting career options in cyber security, medical physics or the space industry.
Physics gives you the tools to understand our world at a fundamental level, from the smallest sub-atomic particles to the large-scale structure of the universe.
Our dedicated foundation year will give you the knowledge and skills needed for entry to any of our physics, astrophysics, astronomy or space science degrees.
This course is designed for science students who do not meet the requirements for direct entry to Stage 1 of our degree courses.
It is also an excellent conversion course for applicants who have shown academic ability in non-science subjects.
We consider applicants without traditional academic qualifications who have relevant professional experience.
Successful completion of the foundation year allows you to move on  to any of our physics, astrophysics, astronomy or space science degrees , including the four-year integrated Master's (MPhys).
You'll also develop the transferable skills to open up a world of job opportunities, leading to careers in research, aeronautics, engineering, medical physics, defence, teaching, finance and data analytics.
This course is fully accredited by the Institute of Physics.
You’ll focus on the foundations of physics and develop your mathematical, experimental and programming skills.
The principles of matter and waves are important topics underpinning much of physics.
So, to start your journey into physics, you will cover general wave behaviour as applied to several physical phenomena, including water waves, sounds waves and electromagnetic waves.
After this, we will elaborate upon electromagnetics, covering principles of electrostatics and magnetism, as well introducing the topics of atomic, molecular and nuclear physics.
After finishing this module, you’ll be equipped with the elementary components of these topics appropriate for further study within your chosen degree.
To ensure you make rapid progress in physics, you need to understand mathematics.
You’ll undertake an in-depth study of calculus, complex numbers and vector mathematics, as well as statistical methods for data analysis.
Through the calculus component, you will delve into the fundamental principles of differentiation and integration, emphasising their relevance in physics applications.
This foundation will pave the way for mastering key techniques directly applicable to physics problems and scenarios.
Additionally, you will be introduced to scientific programming in Python, expanding your horizons in the application of computer and IT packages used to build mathematical models of physical behaviour.
This gives you the skills, knowledge and confidence you need to go on in your degree and produce your best work both now, and later in your career.
You’ll dive into all the important topics in astronomy, optics and special relativity using straightforward mathematics to help you master the concepts.
You’ll study light focussing on the key principles of geometrical optics, and how they allow us to design and understand instruments including astronomical telescopes.
This will lead into an exploration of important topics in modern astronomy, such as determining distances and observational properties of stars, beginning with our own solar system and extending to objects at the very limits of the observable universe.
You’ll also receive an introduction to the fascinating subject of special relativity, encountering concepts such as space-time, time dilation and the relativity of simultaneity.
After completing this module, you’ll be well-prepared for more advanced topics in astrophysics, optics and theoretical physics.
Building on your knowledge developed through ‘Mathematics I’ you’ll explore key mathematical techniques involving multiple independent variables.
These include the topics of differential equations, multivariate calculus, non-Cartesian coordinates, and vector calculus that are needed for further study in physics.
Use of numerical approaches towards mathematical problem-solving is also introduced, demonstrating use of computational algorithms and techniques to solve diverse problems and graphically present and interpret data.
This further exploration of mathematics gives you the skills you need to explore pressing questions throughout the universe and sets you up for further study, and later, your career.
This is your chance to get hands-on through a series of experiments giving you experience in using laboratory apparatus and equipment.
This will also teach you how to accurately record and analyse data in laboratory notebooks and write scientific laboratory reports.
You’ll carry out experiments covering subjects found in the Physics degree program and are run parallel with Computing Skills workshops in which you will be introduced to the fundamentals of using programming/scripting, and its application to analyse and report data from their experiments.
By completing this module, you’ll become a competent user of experimental, computational and communication tools, understanding the inherent uncertainties of empirical science and what this means in relation to scientific findings, and knowing the standards expected of you in reporting scientific results, in readiness for more advanced laboratory work.
Embark on an exciting and comprehensive journey into the intricate world of motion, energy, and momenta and thoroughly understand the fundamental laws of motion, including the mathematical principles underpinning them.
Explore concepts such as momentum, energy, rotational motion, angular momentum, and gravitational forces, and gain an appreciation of the mathematical description of harmonic oscillations and learn how to apply them to real-world scenarios.
In addition to these core topics, you’ll cover a range of related subjects essential for understanding key concepts in physics and how they underpin natural phenomena.
Through delving into associated areas such as static equilibrium, elastic properties of objects, and fluid mechanics, you’ll gain a deeper understanding of the physical world and make connections between seemingly disparate phenomena.
With a solid foundation in these concepts, you’ll be well-equipped to launch careers in engineering, technology, and other fields that require a strong understanding of fundamental physics principles.
You’ll explore waves, fields and the quantum world through two parts, giving you the chance to make rapid progress and get the knowledge you need for further investigation and exploration.
The first part of the module introduces you to electric fields, magnetic fields, and electro-magnetic phenomena including the behaviour of electric circuits and electromagnetic radiation.
This will culminate in a fundamental, classical understanding of light as an electromagnetic wave, connecting what you have learned about optics with your knowledge of waves from earlier modules.
The second part of the module breaks out of the mould of Classical Physics to introduce its successor, Quantum Physics, according to which light can behave as discrete units.
You’ll also explore how a new type of wave, called a "wave function", can be used to describe the behaviour not of light, but of particles.
This is what will set you up for a fuller exploration of the quantum world later in your studies, opening up a whole universe of possibilities.
You take all compulsory modules and select 20 credits at Level 5 from a list of optional modules.
Mathematical techniques are essential for solving problems in physics and related fields.
You will gain comprehensive grounding in the mathematical methods necessary for solving differential equations, understanding special functions, and conducting harmonic analysis.
You’ll also get a grounding in numerical methods and asymptotic analysis, preparing students for the analytical challenges they will encounter in their studies and professional lives.
Building on a strong mathematical foundation for further study and research, the skills you develop will not only benefit you academically but also enhance your employability, preparing you for technical roles in research, engineering, data analysis, and beyond, where rigorous mathematical reasoning and problem-solving abilities are highly valued by employers.
Modern science is a collaborative effort, requiring physicists to work in teams of varying sizes, and to communicate their results to a wide range of audiences.
We ensure you will develop your ability to conduct complex investigations as a team, and to disseminate your outcomes.
You’ll do this through producing more comprehensive written reports and using computational scripts to analyse and visualise data.
A key focus is on analysis of experimental uncertainties and comparison with underlying physical theories.
Your team-working skills will be developed through a group project focused on a real, open-ended research topic, with problems chosen from a list drawn from the research interests of academics, problems set by industry, and areas such as physics education and outreach.
The skills developed in this module will help prepare you for more in-depth investigations later in your degree and for collaborative working in your future career.
Dive into the fascinating world of quantum mechanics, where you will develop a comprehensive understanding of wave functions, the Schrödinger equation, and quantum numbers, essential for describing the properties of key physical systems.
This module introduces you to critical terminology and mathematical concepts fundamental to quantum mechanics, such as eigenstates, eigenvalues, and expectation values .
You will explore the Schrödinger equation through various important systems, including two-state systems, particles in simple potentials, and the simple harmonic oscillator.
You will also learn how to use the Schrödinger equation in different coordinate systems to understand the concept of angular momentum in quantum mechanics.
In the realm of atomic physics, you will investigate solutions for atoms, with a particular focus on the hydrogen atom, and study their interactions with electromagnetic radiation.
These methods extend to the study of molecules and nuclei, providing a robust framework for understanding a wide range of physical phenomena.
This module offers a detailed and accurate portrayal of atomic structures, which are the fundamental building blocks of numerous physical processes and phenomena.
Electromagnetism and Relativity are two fundamental classical theories in Physics.
You'll be introduced to a range of important laws and principles that lay the foundation for studies in these fields.
You'll develop an understanding of magnetic and electric fields and how to apply Maxwell’s laws to describe all phenomena involving electromagnetic waves (from radio waves to visible light, X-rays and gamma rays).
Once the propagation of light has been discussed and understood in the context of Electromagnetism, you will study the consequences of the constant velocity of light in the context of Einstein’s theory of Special Relativity.
The theory will be applied to understanding concepts such as time dilation and event horizon.
You'll acquire a deeper understanding of highly formalised theories, and how these are powerful tools to solve a diverse range of problems.
You'll also develop your skills for formal reasoning and fundamental mathematical tools (vector fields in particular), applying these to solve problems in the context of the systems studied in the module and will contribute to the skills set of a physicist for your future career.
Machine learning expertise is a critical need in fields ranging from medicine and biology to chemistry and physics.
You'll benefit from hands-on learning to meet the demands of industries that increasingly rely on machine learning for data analysis, forecasting and classification tasks.
Building on key Python programming skills, you'll manipulate authentic datasets, preprocess data for analysis, select suitable algorithms, and interpret outcomes.
This involves formulating hypotheses, devising experimental setups to validate hypotheses, and employing statistical and machine learning techniques to analyse results.
You'll be introduced to essential concepts including model training/validation/testing, underfitting and overfitting.
Upon completion of the module, you'll have the practical skills necessary to apply modern machine learning techniques across various natural science disciplines.
Build on the introduction to astronomy taught in earlier stages.
You will enhance your knowledge of astrophysics through the study of the theory, formalism and fundamental principles, developing a rigorous grounding in observational, computational and theoretical aspects of astrophysics.
In particular, you will study topics such as properties of galaxies and stars, the detection of planets outside the solar system, and CCD cameras.
There is the opportunity to take part in observations with the Beacon Observatory.
This deepening of your knowledge and practical, hands-on experience in astronomy is valuable for you to kick-start a career in the field.
How can we use space to benefit our society on Earth and to explore our solar system and beyond?
On this module you'll discuss the design and operations of spacecraft, including satellites, to explore answers to these questions.
We'll introduce the harsh environment of space, the hazards posed to spacecraft, and how we design spacecraft to overcome these challenges.
You'll also develop your understanding of the major subsystems of a spacecraft through the study of the theory, formalism and fundamental principles, as well as the framework to understand spacecraft trajectories and orbits.
As humanity seeks to both explore and establish bases beyond Earth you'll consider the additional scientific and technical challenges of crewed space flight and establishing extraterrestrial habitats.
The course also discusses how space missions are designed, funded and managed.
Join the next generation of physicists looking to journey further into the cosmos and unlock the secrets of the universe.
You take all compulsory moudles and select 20 credits at Level 6 or 8 from a list of optional modules.
All modern technologies rely on the use of light in some way or another, which makes understanding light absolutely essential.
This module provides you with an immersive experience, allowing you to discover fundamental and contemporary concepts that shape our understanding of how light interacts with matter.
You'll explore the practical applications of optics and photonics in various fields, such as telecommunications, medicine, manufacturing, and computing, giving you experience aligned with a range of potential careers.
Throughout the module, you'll acquire knowledge and skills in designing and analysing optical systems, becoming proficient in using tools such as lasers and fibre optics and enhancing  your problem-solving skills.
In doing so, you'll understand how your developing expertise can be applied in practice, including in multi-disciplinary or multi-professional contexts, to make a positive difference to the world around you.
Explore the classic theory of thermodynamics and how the thermal properties of physical objects can be described in terms of their microscopic properties through the application of statistical mechanics.
You'll learn the three laws of thermodynamics and how to use them to understand physical phenomena, such as the conversion of heat into work in an engine or the cooling cycle in a refrigerator.
You'll learn how to derive measurable, bulk properties such as temperature, heat capacity, entropy or magnetisation from the behaviour of the microscopic components in a gas or a paramagnet.
Statistical mechanics bridges the gap between the microscopic and macroscopic description of the physical world; you'll apply theoretical principles, alongside a range of mathematical skills, to contemporary issues such as how heat pumps work, the effect of temperature on defects in a crystalline solid, heat capacity due to electrons in a metal, to address real-world problems and potential solutions.
Explore the constituents of matter and how the structured arrangement of atoms in a solid gives rise to their properties.
You'll start by looking at the structure and properties of the nucleus, as well as its stability and fission and fusion processes.
You'll then study how the regular arrangement of atoms in a lattice gives rise to crystalline solids and proceed to investigate how the behaviour of electrons in crystals is responsible for many of the properties we find in the materials driving technology (such as metals, semiconductors, magnetic materials).
The theoretical principles taught in the lectures, as well as a range of mathematical skills, will be applied to solving problems, including those related to electronics and optoelectronic devices.
Become more fluent and adept at solving and discussing general problems in Physics (and its related disciplines of mathematics and engineering).
This includes the use of numerical approximations to solve problems, building on the programming skills already gained , complementing the analytical methods that students have been trained to use in earlier stages.
There is no formal curriculum for this course, which uses and demands only physical and mathematical concepts with which students at this level are already familiar.
Problems are presented and solutions discussed in small seminar groups, covering topics spanning several areas in the undergraduate physics curriculum (Mechanics and statics, thermodynamics, and optics, etc), as well as those involving the application of formal logic and reasoning, simple probability, statistics, estimation and linear mathematics.
You'll develop your ability to think flexibily, enhancing your readiness to find analytical or computational solutions to many professional challenges and contemporary issues.
Gain skills in planning, executing, and analysing laboratory experiments.
There will be extensive use of laboratory notebooks, comprehensive data analysis and a greater emphasis on understanding the relation to theory.
In addition, the module enhances students’ ability to prepare the more detailed laboratory reports.
The module will include a number of small experiments plus a longer (project) experiment.
The experiments might use apparatus or be theoretical.
Quantum technologies are currently being developed that will have a significant impact on the world we live in.
You’ll study two particularly promising quantum technologies: quantum computation, and quantum cryptography.
You’ll gain an overview of the mathematical and theoretical knowledge required to tackle these more specialised and advanced topics, before learning the basic principles of quantum algorithms and quantum cryptography.
You’ll gain an understanding of what these technologies can and cannot do, where these technologies are heading, and what the extent of their impact on our society may be.
Teaching is by lectures, practical classes, tutorials and workshops.
A mix of approaches will be employed to measure accomplishment in subject knowledge, problem-solving, practical and communications skills.
Please note that you must pass all modules of the foundation year in order to progress onto Stage 1 of a degree course.
For those with a relevant science qualification our standard offer is CDD with one of these to be Maths or Physics.
For those without a relevant science qualification, our standard offer is BCC.
The University will consider applicants holding/studying BTEC National Diploma and Extended National Diploma Qualifications (QCF; NQF;OCR) in Applied Science, including Merit in Physics and Further Maths at MMP.
80 tariff points - typically H5, H4, H4 at HL including HL Maths/Maths Method, HL Mathematics: Analysis and Approaches or HL Physics at 4 or HL Maths Studies at 5 or SL Maths or Physics at 5
You’ll graduate with an excellent grounding in scientific knowledge and extensive laboratory experience, as well as a toolbox of transferable skills highly sought after by employers.
These include excellent communication and problem-solving skills; analytical thinking; effective time management; and the ability to work independently or as part of a team.
Read some of their stories, and find out about the range of support and extra opportunities available to further your career potential .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/6506/physics-astrophysics-with-foundation-year:
You take all compulsory modules.
Building on your studies in observational astronomy, this module provides a balanced and rigorous course in astrophysics for BSc students.
You'll develop and enhance your knowledge of astrophysics through the study of the theory, formalism, and fundamental principles.
You'll also delve into the equations describing the internal structure of stars, energy transport mechanisms, nuclear fusion processes, and the evolution of stars off the main sequence.
The second half of the module explores topics such as high-redshift galaxies, galaxy clusters, and active galactic nuclei (AGN), general relativity, cosmological principles, the age and stages of the universe, dark matter, dark energy, and the cosmic microwave background.
You'll finish the module having embarked on a thrilling journey through the cosmos, equipped with essential skills and understanding needed for astronomy at a professional level and be on a firm footing should you wish to pursue further studies in astrophysics at MPhys level and beyond.
This computational Astrophysics and Machine Learning laboratory provides an overview and practical experience in several distinct topics of astrophysics research and builds on earlier skills development in programming.
The topics of experimental and project work include data reduction, virtual observatories, big data, machine learning techniques, Astrometry, Photometry and Spectroscopy.
Students are expected to take part in at least two observing nights with our Beacon Observatory.
This on-campus facility offers hands-on astronomical experience with a research-grade dome and telescope, enhancing the quality of your degree experience and better preparing you for a career in the space and astronomy sector.
You'll gain a practical underpinning to your theoretical astrophysics work.
Working through the experiments provided, using authentic data, will leave you with a richer appreciation and understanding of the subject matter, equipping you with skills to succeed as working astronomers, which are also transferable to many other professional disciplines.
The University will consider applicants holding/studying BTEC National Diploma and Extended National Diploma Qualifications (QCF; NQF;OCR) in a relevant Science or Engineering subject at 120 credits or more, on a case by case basis.
80 tariff points - typically H5, H4, H4 at HL including HL Maths/Maths Method, HL Mathematics: Analysis and Approaches or HL Physics at 4 or HL Maths Studies at 5, or SL Maths or Physics at 5.
A typical offer would be to Obtain Access to HE Diploma with 45 Credits at Level 3 with 9 Credits at Distinction and 12 Credits at Merit.
A Science Access programme including Maths and Physics at Level 3 would be required.
You graduate with an excellent grounding in
scientific knowledge and extensive laboratory experience.
In addition, you also
develop the key transferable skills sought by employers, such as: excellent
communication and analytical skills; problem-solving and the ability to work
independently or as part of a team.
This means you’re well equipped for careers
in a range of fields.
Our graduates have gone on to work for
companies such as:
Read some of their stories and find out about the range of support and extra opportunities available to further your career potential .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/5800/psychology-foundation-year:
Explore the big questions and develop an understanding of human behaviour from world-leading experts.
Kent is one of the top 100 universities for Psychology in the world, with special expertise in facial recognition, social (in)equality, child development, and morality.
Our British Psychological Society (BPS) accredited course will give you the foundations for a career in psychology addressing a current shortage of psychologists in the UK, particularly in mental health.
You will have the opportunity to learn from world renowned experts specialising in topics such as moral psychology and trust in artificial intelligence, consequences of conspiracy theories, language development in children, imagination, and cognitive neuroscience.
You will explore the big questions around psychology, such as ‘Why do people commit crime?’, ‘What are the origins of mental health problems?’, ‘Is professional successes the result of nature or nurture?’.
You will also be introduced to fundamentals of data and statistics – essential for understanding psychology – and you will develop the skills to plan, conduct and analyse your own research.
After successful completion of the foundation year, you progress to the three or four-year Psychology courses.
Why study Psychology at Kent?
Statistical techniques are fundamental tools in being able to measure, analyse and communicate information about sets of data.
You will develop an understanding of the core concepts of probability and statistics and apply these in various contexts.
You will consolidate basic mathematical skills and develop your analytical and problem-solving skills.
You will master a range of techniques and methods and will be able to communicate statistical ideas clearly using appropriate notation.
The module will give you the statistical and probability skills and calculational fluency to continue with your chosen subject area at stage 1.
Learn about key areas of psychology including mental health, memory, and perception, and how both biological and social factors have an essential role to play in our understanding of these fascinating ideas.
In workshops, you will continue to develop essential skills around constructing arguments and writing in ways suited to psychological work.
In seminars, you will develop your understanding of the complexities of debates in psychology, and your understanding of how different theories can work together to build our understanding of complex human behaviours.
Learn about the history of psychology, and how it has developed.
Explore key research methods used in psychological research, and cover some of the foundational studies that helped to develop the field.
You will be introduced to key topics including child development, attitudes, group processes, and motivation.
By considering both classic and modern studies in this area, you will learn more about how the science of psychology has changed over time.
There is a particular focus on how studies can be designed and evaluated which will help you to develop your scientific understanding and critical thinking skills, essential for studying psychology at Foundation level and beyond.
How do psychologists generate knowledge?
How can we use scientific methods to better understand human behaviour?
In this module, you will learn the essentials of the scientific method, and how we can use this to design psychology experiments effectively.
Through a critical examination of classic studies in psychology and seeing how they can be updated with modern methods, you will develop essential critical thinking skills that will help you understand the history and future of the study of psychology.
This module will help you understand how to operationalise and measure variables, and how different types of data can be analysed.
You'll start on an in-depth journey into cognitive and biological psychology, introducing you to the foundational theories, methodologies, and critical issues within these fields.
Starting with the history and development of psychology as a science, you'll navigate through the complexities of the brain and nervous system, delving into the cognitive processes behind learning, memory, and decision-making, and explores the realms of sensation, perception, and multisensory integration.
Students will also examine the nuances of psychopathology, including the nature and treatment of psychological disorders, and the psychological aspects of social cognition, sleep, and dreaming.
Through a blend of historical context and contemporary research, you'll be equipped with a thorough understanding of the mechanisms underlying human behaviour and mental processes, laying a solid foundation for further study in psychology.
Each lecture within the module is designed to not only impart theoretical knowledge but also to encourage you to critically engage with current research, methodologies, and debates in the field of psychology.
Through this comprehensive programme, you are equipped with a deep understanding of the cognitive and biological bases of human behaviour, preparing you for further study or careers in psychology and related disciplines.
A fundamental part of being a psychologist is using data to get answers to questions about how people think and behave.
You'll build on what you have learned about psychology and science in Research Methods – Science and Psychology, exploring how to use generic and specialist software to produce descriptive statistics and test hypotheses.
You'll also learn how to present your findings in graphical and written form in line with professional requirements to allow you to communicate your findings to a range of audiences.
You'll develop an understanding of which types of tests can be used on which types of data, and what conclusions can be drawn from these tests.
These essential skills will help you to think and communicate like a psychologist.
Why are some people attracted to each other?
Why are some of your friends more open to persuasion than others?
What motivates people to help or harm others?
Learn how people think, feel and act in relation to themselves, others, and the world around them.
From personal choices to group conflicts, you'll gain a solid understanding of people and groups, and learn about the psychological underpinnings of the brighter and darker sides of human nature.
Using fascinating real-life examples, we'll introduce you to classic concepts and research as well as emerging areas in personality and social psychology.
You'll learn about their relevance to everyday life, and inevitably, you'll learn something about yourself, as you develop the ability to critically reflect upon psychological ideas and research findings and identify some of the most pressing questions related to human behaviour and the social world.
Psychology allows us to ask and answer fundamental questions about what it means to be human.
This is why it is one of the most exciting subjects you can study.
You'll be introduced to some essential debates in the field of psychology which may include things like, 'Why do people commit crime?', 'What are the origins of mental health problems?', 'Is professional success the result of nature or nurture?'.
By considering essential research from different areas of psychology, you'll develop your ability to use psychological evidence to build a convincing argument, and to see things from different perspectives.
These key skills will set you up for success throughout the rest of your degree and beyond.
You take all compulsory modules and select 20 credits in the Autumn term from a list of optional modules.
How do our early experiences shape us into the people we are today?
Are we simply a product of our genetics or does the environment we grow up in impact the way we think and behave?
You'll gain knowledge of the crucial factors that influence us from before birth, through infancy and childhood, and into adolescence.
Through engaging with key theories and methods you'll gain an in-depth understanding of how biological and cultural factors impact every child’s development, alongside developing key skills for a career in Psychology or further afield.
Gain experience of the research process from data collection through to the production of professional-standard research reports.
You will have the opportunity to work on both qualitative and quantitative data, and to understand the different ways in which these can be used to answer fundamental questions about human behaviour.
Building on Making Sense of Psychological Data, you will continue to learn how to apply and interpret statistical tests that will allow you to ask and answer more complex and interesting questions.
You will also develop essential skills around the critical reading of scientific research to help you write your practical reports.
How do we study the brain and how it relates to cognition and behaviour?
This module gives you grounding in methods, techniques and issues in cognitive neuroscience.
It will focus on the biological bases of human behaviour (neural development and plasticity; anatomy and physiology of the nervous system), and on key cognitive processes such as perception, memory and higher levels of cognition with a particular focus on how these processes are instantiated in the brain.
You'll learn about the methods used to study and modulate these processes, such as the recording of physiological signals, brain-imaging, brain stimulation and psychopharmacology.
During the seminars you'll gain familiarity with key contemporary research topics and methods in Cognitive and Biological Psychology and develop fundamental critical reflection skills through the discussion of scientific research articles.
You'll have the opportunity to train in verbal presentation, a core skill to learn not only in academia but in almost all graduate careers.
How do we come to be who we are?
Why do we show such a sheer variety in the ways we relate to ourselves, each other, and the social world?
And why does this matter in everday life?
You'll be introduced to the major scientific discoveries in personality and social psychology, and learn what personality is, why it differs between people, and how social situations and intergroup dynamics can bring out the best and worst in people.
You'll develop the ability to ask and discuss clever scientific questions about human nature and social phenomena, as well as the skills to design bulletproof scientific studies to find answers to these questions and test your research ideas.
We spend 90,000 hours at work over the course of a lifetime, so one thing we all want is a happy, healthy and productive workplace!
Business Psychology (sometimes called Organisational, Work or Occupational Psychology) is becoming increasingly important in supporting workplaces in achieving this.
You'll be introduced to important concepts in Business Psychology, such as Positive Psychology, Nudge Psychology, Decision-Making in Teams, Navigating Diverse Work-groups, Ethical Leadership and AI/Automation in the workplace.
Skills development (e.g.
building your personal brand, reflective practice, writing for a non-academic audience) is also an important part of this module.
Teaching takes the form of lectures, covering key concepts; and workshops, where you work in groups to read and critique an empirical article on a ‘hot’ topic in Business Psychology, and lead a short in-class discussion with your fellow students.
This module develops your understanding of Business Psychology, taking you beyond the ‘buzz words’, to develop your understanding of key business psychology concepts and the practical skills you will need as an aspiring business psychologist.
How did we get to the current model of ‘mental health’ that we have today?
How do we understand distress and intervene to improve the lives of those we work with?
What are some of the strengths and pitfalls of our current practice?
Examine the origins and identification of different forms of atypical cognitions and behaviours and investigate the psychological and social impact for clients.
This will give you theoretical instruction and opportunities for critical evaluation in clinical psychology.
You'll also cover some of the major mental health disorders, focusing primarily on what research has to say about their social/cognitive/biological bases and the implications they have for treatment.
You'll explore several methodological approaches, and ask fundamental questions about the meaning of normality.
The historical developments in the field will be examined and current interventions and treatments will feature highly in this module.
You're encouraged to think reflectively about the teaching you receive and how you might apply this new-found knowledge in the future.
Psychological tests from diagnostic measures, to personality tests, to tests of cognitive function have wide-ranging applications in areas including business, health, education and the law.
They can be used to inform interventions at the individual, group, organisational and social levels, and are among the most important tools used by professional psychologists.
We'll introduce you to some key psychological tests and how they can be used in real-world situations.
You'll gain an understanding of how they are administered and scored, as well as developing a critical perspective on their use, learning how to make recommendations based on the results of these tests and to propose interventions related to them.
You'll learn how to apply psychological concepts and tests, gaining this essential employability skill for anyone looking to work within the field of psychology.
You take all compulsory modules and select 60 credits from a list of optional modules , 20 credits in spring term and 40 credits in summer term.
You'll be introduced to some key psychological tests and learn how they can be used in real-world situations.
You'll gain an understanding of how they are administered and scored, as well as developing a critical perspective on their use.
You'll also learn how to make recommendations based on the results of these tests, and to propose interventions related to them.
Learning how to apply psychological concepts and tests is an essential employability skill for anyone looking to work within the field of psychology.
The Clinical Psychology Project is the capstone of your degree, as you bring together what you have learned in the first two years of your studies to produce a thorough, professional research report relevant to clinical psychology.
You'll evaluate existing evidence in your chosen area, develop your hypotheses and research questions, and select and run appropriate statistical tests to answer these questions.
You'll then present your findings in an accessible and professional style, and discuss how they fit within and build on psychological knowledge relevant to the field of clinical psychology.
Research reports are the fundamental tool of communication in the sciences, and producing your own is an exciting opportunity to join the scientific community in making valuable contributions to key discussions in the field of clinical psychology.
On average you'll spend 1/3 of our life at work - yet 80% of workers admit to hating their jobs!
Business Psychology (sometimes called Organisational, Work or Occupational psychology) is the study of how to apply psychology to create better workplaces and happier workers.
It is one of the fastest growing fields in Psychology today.
You'll be introduced you to theories of psychology and their application to a range of workplace challenges, including recruitment/talent management; workplace motivation; mental health and well-being; leadership and teams; and Equality & Diversity.
Teaching takes the form of lectures, introducing you to key theories and workshops, where you will be able to apply your learning to solving practical real world business challenges.
You'll gain a sound introduction to business psychology, focusing on key theories and research (including methods), and help you begin to understand the role and importance of business psychology in creating happy, fulfilled and productive workplaces and workers.
Dive deep into the theories and real-world applications of forensic psychology.
You’ll explore how forensic psychology is used extensively within the Criminal Justice System, examining how it sheds light on criminal behaviour, aids in victim recovery, and informs court decisions.
You explore and critically analyse the latest research methods and findings in forensic psychology.
You’ll consider research on the policies and practices that inform the Criminal Justice System, focusing on how psychology impacts the professionals, victims, and people who offend.
Develop the skills to effectively critique this research, gaining a strong grasp of core forensic psychology issues.
By the end of the module, you will be equipped to critically evaluate this ever-evolving field and its impact on all parties involved, making you better placed to succeed within it.
To what extent are our thoughts and actions shaped by processes outside our awareness?
Are we wrong to believe that we can act out of free will?
You'll explore these questions to tackle a variety of current and/or critical topics in cognitive psychology/neuroscience.
The overarching theme focuses on free will and metacognition, looking in particular at the extent to which we control, or feel we control, our thoughts and behaviour.
You’ll discuss research that has used a variety of methods, including behavioural, animal and neuroimaging techniques.
Practical applications and relevance to everyday understanding of behaviour is emphasised throughout.
You will learn how to evaluate pieces of original research in terms of their findings, conceptual underpinnings and/or methodological choices.
This will enable you to gain a deep understanding of the topic areas as well as important communication and critical analysis skills.
We are all unique, so why do we assume our experience and understanding of distress would be the same?
How do factors like culture, religion or gender influence people’s perceptions of distress?
What do cultures around the world have to say about the causes of distress and how we treat it?
Clinical Psychology practice and research have been criticised for being Eurocentric, individualist and focusing heavily on intra-psychic intervention.
Research tells us that our current practice doesn’t work for everyone, so what are some of the alternatives?
You’ll explore understandings of distress from other countries, other psychological perspectives (e.g.
social justice approaches) and how individual factors such as religion, sexuality and culture may influence people’s perceptions of distress.
This holistic approach and widened understanding makes you a better practitioner, able to serve more people and offer them more relevant and effective support.
For students interested in further study, or a research career, this module offers an opportunity for you to get experience of data collection at an advanced level.
You will work in a research team under the supervision of an academic to collect data for your psychology project.
Working as part of a research team will allow you to develop professional and research skills ideal for further study.
The exact nature of the research you undertake will vary depending on the project, but will likely require lab-based data collection.
You will undertake supervision as a group, and work together to identify and evaluate evidence relevant to your project.
This skills you develop through working in a research team help you stand out to employers, in whichever field or career you want to explore.
80 tariff points - typically H5, H4, H4 or equivalent
Obtain the Access to HE Diploma in (subject being taken) with a minimum of 45 Credits at level 3 with 9 credits at Distinction and 12 credits at Merit
Join one of the fastest growing professions in the NHS or apply your skills for a range of careers.
An undergraduate psychology degree is the first step to becoming a clinical psychologist.
You could go on to work as an assistant psychologist or continue to a master's programme to specialise in clinical, forensic or occupational psychology.
The skills you develop in this programme will also prepare you for a variety of careers such as:
Our BPS accredited programme means you’re eligible for graduate membership of the British Psychological Society - essential if you want to become a Chartered Psychologist.
A growing profession

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/5782/sport-and-exercise-science-with-a-foundation-year:
Master the science behind sport and exercise to make a real difference in health, fitness and performance.
This degree explores how sport, exercise and physical activity affect the human body and its abilities – and how this knowledge can be used to improve lives, from enhancing elite sporting performance to managing chronic disease.
You’ll study core scientific areas such as physiology, biomechanics and psychology, while developing practical skills through lab sessions, applied projects and real-world tasks.
Whether you’re interested in working with elite athletes, supporting recovery through exercise, or promoting public health, the course helps you build the scientific understanding and transferable skills needed to succeed in your future career.
You’ll learn to gather and analyse data, solve problems, and communicate your findings effectively - core skills required in the fields of healthcare, professional sport, research, and education.
You’ll study in outstanding facilities including our biomechanics lab with state-of-the-art 3D motion capture systems, and our respiratory clinic for exercise-related breathing problems.
You’ll be supported by expert staff with experience working in elite sport, health, education and research – and benefit from strong connections with industry.
With opportunities to take a year in industry, study abroad or complete a placement, this degree helps you build confidence and experience.
You’ll graduate with the scientific insight and practical skills to make a real difference in performance, fitness and health.
Exercise physiology is the study of the physiological responses and adaptations that occur in the body in response to acute or chronic exercise.
In this introductory module, you’ll deepen your understanding of the core principles of anatomy and physiology, including the structure and function of different physiological systems, and how the body maintains homeostasis and adapts to exercise.
You'll also develop your understanding of exercise metabolism and consider how the nutritional composition of the diet can influence sport and exercise performance.
Once you complete the module, you’ll have the essential knowledge to progress to other modules in your degree.
Ever wondered how you can work out the force generated when performing a bench press?
Or how much force is generated by an athlete at the start of a 100m sprint?
This module will introduce you to the ways sports scientists can use maths and physics to better understand sport and exercise performance.
Through a mixture of lectures, seminars and practical lab classes, you’ll discover the basic mechanical principles of human movement and their applications to sports performance and exercise.
You'll be able to apply theoretical biomechanical concepts to sporting scenarios, which will help you gain the foundational knowledge you’ll need for a career as a sport and exercise scientist, whether in an applied setting or in teaching or coaching.
Why do some athletes thrive under pressure, while others crumble?
Why does motivation change across differing environments like sport, school or work?
And what separates elite from novice performance?
Sport and exercise psychology is an exciting discipline which seeks to understand what factors influence how individuals think, feel and behave.
You’ll consider key psychological theories and how they relate to sport and exercise contexts.
Furthermore, you’ll also develop a personal and professional understanding of how cognitive and social factors impact group and individual behaviour.
This knowledge will help you support athletes to get to the next level in their game and achieve new heights.
The extensive benefits of living an active life are well understood, so why do so many people still choose not to participate in sport and exercise?
Lots of us enjoy either playing or watching performance sports and prioritise exercise for health, or incorporate functional physical activities into daily life.
These activities all fall within the framework of physical activity and sports participation, but why is the intersection and alignment of physical activity (in terms of health and performance) so important?
This module will cover the fundamentals of training principles, consider how to tailor these to meet individual needs, and look at barriers and enablers that affect participation.
You’ll consider how to support the population to be more active by examining real-world examples of activity promotion campaigns.
You’ll examine national and international sporting initiatives and you’ll have the chance to design creative approaches which address unmet needs in sport and physical activity access to promote wider engagement and remove barriers to sport participation.
What does it mean to be at the cutting edge of science?
Evidence-based practice is the idea of making professional decisions based on what is proven to be effective.
But how do we know if something is really ‘effective’?
The answer is through scientific research.
Using examples of contemporary scientific research across the fields of sports performance, therapy and rehabilitation, and health, you’ll compare different methods of scientific testing.
You’ll also determine what we consider ‘best practice’ and examine the challenges and limitations associated with conducting research with human participants.
You’ll get to grips with research terminology, start to understand how research studies are designed, and discover how data can be analysed.
You’ll learn to dissect information, determine what is credible evidence and gain an understanding of the implications and impact of research findings in an applied context.
Practical and seminar sessions will provide hands-on experience in conducting applied research and effectively communicating scientific information and results to drive improvements in sport and exercise science as a field.
Understanding how the human body responds to exercise is fundamental when striving to improve performance.
Building on your knowledge of human physiology, you’ll explore the body’s responses to both acute and chronic exercise, learning concepts relating to both aerobic and anaerobic performance, and the impact of fatigue on physiological processes.
You’ll discover the key physiological factors that determine and limit exercise performance in humans, and examine approaches to improve performance.
Practical and seminar sessions will support and reinforce your understanding of the theoretical concepts, enabling you to apply your knowledge and master a range of laboratory techniques and methods that can be used to evaluate physiological responses to exercise.
You’ll learn how to handle, process and interpret the data you collect to inform your understanding of physiological determinants and approaches to improve exercise performance.
This will help you develop the ability to apply physiological principles to practical situations.
How can sport and exercise professionals apply psychological theories and concepts to understand their athletes and clients?
In this module, you’ll learn how to bridge the gap between theory and practice, using real-world scenarios to tackle sport and exercise participants' issues.
Based on supporting literature, you’ll design an appropriate intervention strategy to enhance performance or encourage behavioural change.
You’ll also gain a critical understanding of the strengths and limitations associated with psychological research and theory, and learn to appreciate the link between theory and applied sport and exercise behaviours.
This will allow you to act professionally and effectively in the field of sports psychology, helping athletes break down mental barrier to performance.
What does it take to be a well-rounded scientist in the fields of sport and exercise performance, therapy and rehabilitation, and health?
How would you go about designing a study, collecting the data, and analysing the results?
How will the knowledge you develop improve our understanding?
In this module, you’ll gain an understanding of research methods typically used in a sport and exercise and/or a therapy and rehabilitation setting.
You’ll develop the ability to select, employ and interpret statistics in your research.
This knowledge is central to being an effective sports scientist, sports therapist or rehabilitator.
By the end of this module, you’ll understand the fundamentals of forming a feasible and appropriate study.
You’ll also have the tools and techniques you’ll need to conduct independent research in the final year of your degree.
The way an athlete moves is fundamental to how they perform in their chosen sport.
As a result, the analysis of biomechanics is a key part of a sport scientist's toolkit as it allows athletes to improve performance and remain injury-free.
In this module, you’ll apply biomechanics to sporting performance.
You’ll learn biomechanistic principles in practical settings using a range of specialised equipment, such as a force plate and computer-based motion analysis.
This will help you understand and compute angular kinematics and kinetics.
You’ll become proficient in understanding and using specialised biomechanical hardware and software to process and analyse a typical human movement task.
By the end of the module, you’ll be able to demonstrate the work of a sport and exercise biomechanist and you’ll have the practical and analytical skills used across a wide range of sporting disciplines and sports industries.
Global healthcare systems are increasingly challenged by populations living longer and living in poor health.
What if some health conditions could be easily prevented before they were diagnosed?
You’ll attempt to answer this question and provide solutions, deepening your understanding of the role physical activity and other lifestyle factors play in the prevention of a range of chronic cardiovascular, respiratory, metabolic and mental health conditions.
You will be able to identify key risk factors, explain the physiological underpinning for how conditions develop, and explore how physical activity can be employed in the prevention and pre-clinical management of these conditions.
Using evidence-based practice, you’ll tailor physical activity for the benefit of different conditions, whilst considering some of the key contraindications and concurrent health challenges that pre-clinical populations may face.
Finally, you will evaluate current public health messaging and guidance for target audiences, and apply your own knowledge and the latest research to develop guidance, resources and solutions of your own.
With the ever-growing advancements in sports performance and technology, the importance of delivering feedback to athletes is paramount.
But in a sport science environment, what is this feedback based on, and how is it used to support athletes?
You’ll explore the rapidly emerging discipline of sport performance analysis, learning about how the limitations of human memory can cloud feedback processes, and how performance analysts can bridge the gap between coach and athlete memory and performance.
You’ll master the fundamentals of notational analysis (focusing on technical and tactical performance) and work-rate analysis in sport, whilst considering the reliability of your feedback processes and data, and in doing so you’ll gain valuable and transferable skills in data presentation and analysis and become proficient in sector-standard performance analysis software.
Through this, you’ll be able to recreate the work of an analyst in a sport-science environment and discover what it takes to become a proficient performance analyst in a professional and elite sport setting.
Athletes, coaches, and the general population engaging in physical activity, need to be aware of the importance of sport and exercise nutrition for supporting their health and training needs.
You’ll develop an advanced knowledge of the nutritional needs of individuals engaged in different modes of physical activity and exercise.
Using evidence based nutritional guidelines, interventions, and strategies, you will consider the theory and practical application of sports nutrition evidence, and how it should be tailored to the individual rather than one size fits all.
You'll also gain a critical awareness of evidence-based sources when considering the applicability of sports foods, supplements and ergogenic aids in an individual's diet.
You'll develop understanding, applied knowledge and skills that are essential to both the sports scientist and practitioners, setting you up for an exciting and successful career in sports and exercise nutrition.
Sport and physical activity is for everyone, and the way we choose to participate and perform changes through our life course.
When it comes to physical activity and sport, there is no ‘one size fits all’, and diverse guidelines exist to meet the specific needs of children, youth, females, pregnancy, disability, adults and older adults.
Each week you will examine a different life course stage, and you will consider specific physical activity and training modifications that can be applied to maximise health, fitness and performance potential according to individual goals and needs.
You’ll explore the physiological, biological and psychosocial changes we all experience throughout our lives and learn how to consider these when we are working with people from all stages of their own lives.
Upon completion, you'll be equipped to provide relevant and tailored recommendations to individuals to support health improvement, training for performance, and lifelong participation.
Improving your ability as a practitioner and supporting more people getting involved in sport for health.
The culmination of your undergraduate degree, your dissertation allows you to showcase the skills you have developed during your studies, and comprehensively engage with a topic you’re interested in and passionate about.
You’ll design, conduct and complete an extended piece of independent research in the specialist area of sport, exercise and/or health.
After identifying an appropriate research question, you’ll develop your knowledge by forming a search strategy, reviewing the literature and critically evaluating the current body of research.
You’ll apply your understanding of research methods to design an experimental approach and collect data.
You’ll then analyse, present and report using scientific communication methods.
Our lecturers will support you to plan, manage and disseminate the project.
However, you’ll lead the majority of the project, guided by a project supervisor.
Your supervisor will advise you on methodology, analysis and presentation, and will create an environment which will cultivate independent work and thinking.
During your dissertation, you’ll develop skills that will benefit you in various settings including postgraduate study, research or other career pathways.
- and your dissertation itself is a fantastic example of your knowledge and skills to show employers.
Motion capture technology and the techniques of quantitative analysis are relatively new and still evolving.
How can we use mathematical modelling to determine whether an individual has recovered well from an injury, improved functionality post-surgery, or improved in their technique or overall health?
How can you then relay this information in an academic manner?
You will develop an understanding of theoretical and experimental approaches to biomechanical analyses underpinned by the relationships between forces, motion, and the human musculoskeletal system during dynamic activities.
You will be confident in collecting your own data within a typical biomechanics laboratory setting and report your study’s design and findings in the form of a viva-style poster presentation.
The skills and knowledge you develop through this module will prepare you for an exciting and successful career in the world of biomechanics; whether that be in academia, research, applied settings, and/or working with relevant technology industries, the choice is up to you.
The limits to human physical performance are multifaceted and often depend on the individual, the exercise they are doing, and the environment in which the performance takes place.
Understanding what these limits are, how they might be overcome, and then being able to communicate this information in an accessible way is a crucial element in supporting athletes to optimise their performance.
Drawing on the research and practice from internationally recognised experts in the School of Sport and Exercise Sciences, you will develop your knowledge of physiological systems that limit human performance, practice using the tools and techniques that can identify these limitations and be challenged on how to communicate this information to a non-specialist audience.
Join the next generation of experts in understanding limits to human performance, and how best to manage performance across all levels.
Sport and exercise psychologists play a pivotal role in supporting wellbeing and performance.
Indeed, many elite athletes have stated that their Sport and Exercise Psychologist is one of the most important members of their team.
Throughout this module, you will discover why that is.
You’ll consider the roles and responsibilities of applied practitioners, and the ethical and professional dilemmas that emerge.
You will understand and appraise evidence-based approaches to practice.
Ultimately you will design your own intervention to address a specific client need, applying best practice within the profession models of best practice.
Through conducting intake interviews, you’ll establish an understanding of the client, the issue they are facing, their sport or physical activity aspirations, and other relevant history, to formulate and plan appropriate intervention strategies.
Through this process, you will gain an understanding of the importance of building rapport and establishing working alliances with clients, as well as developing insight into how a sport and exercise psychologist may work – how they may work most effectively.
Physical activity has an important function in the management of many clinical conditions.
You’ll learn how the health, wellbeing and quality of life benefits of being active can help to manage, treat and even reverse some chronic conditions.
What kind of activities can clinical populations take part in?
How can activities be adapted to make them safe and manageable?
You’ll discover how to safely perform appropriate exercise tests, how to interpret test results and use them to develop suitable physical activity prescription based on disease specific guidelines and research evidence.
You will explore innovative approaches to therapeutic exercise training for cardiovascular diseases, type-2 diabetes, cancer, and neurological disorders.
Building on your prior knowledge, you’ll develop tailored exercise prescription which utilises principles of training, accommodates disease limitations and medications, and expand your thinking to address the bio-psychosocial and adherence challenges in clinical groups.
Sports Performance Analysis is a rapidly developing area of Sport and Exercise Science and is used to examine the tactical, technical and/or physical aspects of performance, collected during training or match competition.
From an applied perspective, Sports Performance Analysis is used to support a variety of different processes within amateur and professional sports.
This may include: opposition analysis, individual player development, post-match analysis, recruitment analysis, amongst others.
As a consequence of the growth and prominence of Sports Performance Analysis there has been a significant increase in performance analysis-related job opportunities within the sport sector.
Subsequently, the content you learn is designed to reflect industry needs, extending the Stage 2 Performance Analysis in Sport module by developing core practical competencies and skills required for effective performance analysis at both an individual and team level.
You’ll develop your knowledge within a theory-to-practice context, centred around practical skill development and informing these practices through academic and applied evidence.
These skills include developing performance analysis systems, sport-specific knowledge and understanding, video and data analysis, the coach-analyst relationship as well as effective presentation and communication of information.
An industry placement is the perfect opportunity for you to explore a future career pathway in an applied field.
Utilising the theoretical knowledge gained from your studies to real-world scenarios, you will gain professional experience which will enhance your employability skills as well as deepen your understanding and application of theoretical concepts in the workplace.
You will become integrated into the work environment, shadowing and interacting with professionals in their field, and taking on core responsibilities with the support of an experienced supervisor who will provide continued mentorship and support.
In this work environment, you will utilise concepts and competencies gained during your degree to address regular organisational challenges and solve problems and reflect on your personal and professional strengths and areas for development.
After your placement, you will have boosted your employability through developing important transferable skills such as communication, teamwork, time management, and problem-solving.
The experience and network gained from this opportunity will make you stand out to employers and kick-start your career.
The role of an applied practitioner in sport and exercise science draws together key aspects of physiology, nutrition, biomechanics and psychology to improve sporting performance.
You will explore advanced topics and professionalised concepts for applied practitioners in sport and exercise science.
Through critique of recent applied research and practical laboratory work, you will examine issues related to athlete sports and exercise performance and methods to enhance performance through intervention.
The knowledge you gain will enable you to evaluate the role of an accredited applied sport and exercise scientist and develop the practical skills required to work with a range of athletes across different sports.
Where that is, is up to you.
80 tariff points - typically H5, H4, H4 from three HL subjects including HL Science subject, Sport, Psychology or Maths at 4 or SL Science subject, Sport, Psychology or Maths at 6.
Maths and English Language at grade 4/C
A degree that opens doors – to elite sport, the NHS, health and beyond.
Graduate destinations include:
Our degree is endorsed by the Chartered Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (CASES).

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/5784/sports-therapy-rehabilitation-with-a-foundation-year:
This course is for people who want to understand how injuries occur and how to diagnose, treat and rehabilitate them.
You'll explore everything from anatomy, and physiology to rehabilitation, soft tissue techniques and clinical skills.
Our course is accredited by The British Association of Sport Rehabilitators (BASRaT), the professional body for Sport Rehabilitators.
You will complete a minimum of 400 hours placement to gain important hands-on clinical practice and experience.
Students can choose where to do placements, these maybe be at local sports clubs, private injury clinics, in the University of Kent student led clinic, working pitch-side with the University of Kent Sports teams (before, during and after matches).
Students can also gain placement hours conducting pre-season testing with local clubs and volunteering at community events such as marathons, triathlons and cycle rides.
Our expert staff have worked with professional, semi-professional and grass roots sports teams, the NHS, and private clinics, and bring real-world insight to your learning.
You’ll use specialist equipment in our teaching clinics, the Strength and Conditioning Lab and the University student led sports injury clinic, and you can work towards extra qualifications like the UK Strength and Conditioning Association (UKSCA) Strength and Conditioning Trainer Award and industry recognised Pre Hospital Immediate Care Trauma qualification.
You’ll graduate with clinical skills, experience, and confidence – ready to support people in returning to sport, activity and good health.
Our foundation year offers you the flexibility to progress to degrees across our Division of Natural Sciences.
You may choose a degree in Sports Therapy and Rehabilitation , but equally you could opt for a degree within another area of Sport and Exercise Sciences , or Biosciences , Chemistry or Forensic Science .
In your foundation year, you study modules in biology, chemistry and scientific methods.
On successful completion of the foundation year, you will have reached a standard above A level and so you'll be fully equipped to tackle a BSc degree course.
Understanding human anatomy and movement is key to injury rehabilitation.
Your study of anatomy will focus on the key regions of the lower limbs, upper limbs, spine and thorax, and you’ll learn to identify the associated bones, joints, soft tissue structures, muscles and nerves of each of these regions.
Through the practice of palpation, you’ll also be able to identify key anatomical landmarks in the body.
Throughout the module, your lecturers will emphasise functional anatomy through sporting movement and injury.
After finishing the module, you’ll be able to apply your knowledge of human anatomy to your role as a sports therapy and rehabilitation practitioner.
Have you ever wondered why your ankle throbs after injury, or why we're told to ‘ice and elevate’?
Have you ever asked yourself which injuries are most common, and why?
In this module, you'll learn about what goes on beneath the skin, the physiology of the human healing process, and the body’s response to musculoskeletal injury.
You'll look at ways we can enhance healing using evidence-based therapeutic interventions such as electrotherapy, ice or heat, and you will learn to treat and manage different injuries based on their location and tissue type.
You'll discover the latest evidence in this field, and examine data to understand why certain injuries may be more common in some sports than others and how they can be prevented or treated.
The skills you learn in this module will give you the knowledge to identify musculoskeletal injuries and initiate the patient treatment process, which is essential for a career in sports therapy and rehabilitation.
Do you want to learn how to give an effective sports massage?
Start a journey that could change your life by applying the fundamentals of sports massage.
You will learn about the dos and don'ts of setting up a sports massage practice, how to communicate with your client, how to ask the right questions and plan and carry out a full-body sports massage.
Additionally, you will explore how to adapt massage techniques for various needs and health conditions.
You’ll get plenty of practical, hands-on experience and learn how to combine several different massage and stretching techniques.
You’ll also integrate what you have learned about anatomy and physiology, and physical assessment skills, which you can then apply in a professional context to treat individual clients throughout your career in sports massage therapy.
How do you know what injury an athlete has sustained?
As part of this module, one of your first tasks will be to perform a clinical assessment, which is a carefully structured examination of the body to gain information about what could potentially be wrong.
You'll learn how to conduct this logically and methodically, concentrating on the main joints of the upper and lower limbs as well as the spine.
You'll find out how to assess joint range of movement, strength, and ligamentous stability and learn how and when to apply tests to help identify the structure(s) at fault.
Throughout the module, you'll develop skills in problem-solving and clinical reasoning, through the process of asking questions which will help guide your subsequent clinical assessment.
This will give you the professional tools to assess clients with a variety of needs and help them on the first step towards recovery.
Do you want to know how your body's physiological systems work, and how your body responds and adapts to exercise?
And do you want to be to plan and deliver effective exercise sessions to help other people understand their own body's physiological systems?
In this module, you’ll learn and discuss exercise physiology, human movement and training principles.
The teaching is based on a practical approach to movement analysis, common exercises and movement patterns.
You’ll develop your practical skills and build confidence in delivering, designing and planning effective exercise sessions.
The knowledge you gain will provide the foundation for the remainder of your degree, as well as setting you up for an exciting and successful career.
Once you have identified an injury and the bodily structure(s) involved, a sports therapy and rehabilitation practitioner needs to deliver appropriate treatment to restore normal movement and function.
Manual therapy is the art and science of skilled hand movements and mobilisations for therapeutic effect.
You’ll learn the key concepts and theories that underpin manual therapy techniques and put them into practice alongside other complementary therapeutic modalities such as taping.
One of the most common presentations that you are likely to see as a qualified practitioner is injury to the spine.
You’ll therefore focus on the spine and associated spinal pathology so that you are confident in managing common spiral injuries.
You’ll also acquire essential skills in relevant manual therapy interventions.
These skills are essential to you in starting a career in sports therapy.
Rehabilitation is an essential and highly effective skill for any sports therapy practitioner.
You will learn the core principles of rehabilitation such as how to improve strength, range of motion, flexibility, power, speed and agility.
These are all principles that are applied when evaluating every athlete and individual you work with, whether the aim is reducing pain or return to sport after injury.
You’ll implement the principles of rehabilitation in each stage of injury and discover how you can adapt exercises according to the specific injury, its stage in the healing process, and the nature of the sport involved.
After finishing the module, you’ll have the fundamental tools to make appropriate and evidence-based judgements to support injury recovery.
You’ll be able to use these in future modules, within practical and work placement opportunities and your future career.
What are the steps needed to take an athlete from the moment of injury to a return to their sport?
This module will show you how to apply your knowledge of anatomy, physiology, clinical evaluation and rehabilitation to specific injuries.
You’ll consider the structures of injuries you’re likely to frequently encounter, assess and manage in rehabilitation when working with injured individuals.
You’ll formulate sport-specific rehabilitation programmes for athletes and individuals for the duration of their injury journey, from the first day of initial injury and acute management through to key rehabilitation stages.
By the time you finish this module, you’ll be able to develop evidence-based and end-to-end rehabilitation plans for an athlete, supporting their ongoing care and minimising re-injury by assessing when they are physically and mentally ready to return to sport.
Clinical practice is key to becoming a confident and competent sports therapy and rehabilitation practitioner.
This module will integrate your academic knowledge and skills into professional patient-facing experience.
Under supervision from staff, you’ll encounter real-life patients in our in-house student-led injury clinic, where you can put your clinical and rehabilitation skills into authentic practice, helping clients recover from injury and preventing future injuries.
You’ll have the opportunity to develop both professionally and personally as you build your skills.
Accompanying lectures will focus on personal reflection and development, building your profile so that you have all the necessary professional tools to succeed in the industry after you graduate.
Research into sports therapy and rehabilitation shapes current and future practice, and this module allows you to conduct research of your own by designing, conducting and completing an extended project on a specialist topic of sports therapy and rehabilitation.
You’ll put the skills you’ve developed during your studies into practice, and comprehensively engage in a topic that you’re interested in and passionate about.
After identifying an appropriate research question, you’ll expand your knowledge by forming a search strategy, reviewing the literature and critically evaluating the current body of research.
You’ll apply your understanding of research methods to designing an experimental approach and collecting data which you can analyse, present and report in scientific communications.
You’ll be supported by lectures that cover the planning, management and dissemination of the project.
However, a majority of the learning experience will be led by you, with support from a project supervisor.
The qualities and skills that you develop during your dissertation will set you up for postgraduate study or a career as an evidence-based sports rehabilitation practitioner.
A critical role for sports therapy and rehabilitation professionals is reducing the likelihood of injury for the athletes they support.
In this module, you’ll cover risk factors for specific injuries and learn how to apply this knowledge to help reduce the risk of injury in different sports.
As well as learning to analyse injury incidence data across different sports and injury types.
You’ll evaluate injury prevention models and injury prevention programmes using best practice and emerging research, including strategies for athletes to recover from training, matches and competitions.
This will help you minimise injury risk for your clients and enhance their recovery so that they can perform at their best for longer.
Building on the experiences gained during the Clinical Practice and Professional Development module, you will integrate clinical reasoning and critical analysis skills to address more complex spinal and peripheral joint injuries within the in-house student-led injury clinic.
You will begin to master your skills in clinical assessment and patient handling whilst using more specialised and advanced rehabilitation equipment and techniques based upon the latest evidence-based research.
Throughout the module, emphasis will be placed on critical evaluation and reflection of your skills and your patient's rehabilitation journey, with a view to transforming you into a confident and competent autonomous practitioner ready to succeed in industry upon graduation.
Why is strength and conditioning of key importance for athletic development and in maximising physical performance?
Drawing on contemporary and traditional research, you will critically analyse the scientific principles of strength and conditioning, then apply those principles into practical coaching delivery.
You will consider and evaluate a range of contemporary and traditional training approaches, to determine best practice for a range of athletes across different sports.
Finally, you will consider how coaching skills and delivery styles could impact athlete development and reflect on your coaching delivery to optimise effectiveness and develop sector-wide professional skills.
How do we prepare athletes to succeed at the very top level of sport?
You will evaluate and integrate various testing and monitoring approaches with different populations and interpret that data to determine an optimal programming approach.
You will consider the technical models for compound and Olympic lifting modalities, and critically analyse the effects of biomechanical deviations on performance.
Programming and coaching adjustments for a range of different populations will be considered.
Finally, you will apply best practice in coaching delivery, and reflect on your own delivery of training programme, in an applied setting, to build transferable professional skills to help you launch your career.
Why do some athletes bounce back faster from injury and rehabilitation compared to others?
Why is mental health and wellbeing talked about so much in sport?
Why is it important for sports rehabilitators to understand and be aware of the psychological responses to injury and rehabilitation?
You will learn about psychological and emotional responses to sports injuries and chronic conditions.
You will also learn about implementing psychological interventions to support athletes and clients with psychological responses to injury and rehabilitation.
The psychological skills you will practice and learn about are important, as these will help you to develop into a fully-rounded practitioner using multi-dimensional approaches to rehabilitation, so you can step into your career ready to succeed and make a real different to people’s lives.
Do you want to take your massage skills to the next level?
You will build on your sports massage skills and learn to adapt soft tissue techniques to a wide range of people with injuries or life-long conditions.
You master a range of advanced techniques such as Myofascial Release, Soft Tissue Release, Neuromuscular Techniques, Kinesio Taping, Trigger point techniques, tool-assisted massage and Scar tissue techniques.
You will learn how to apply these soft tissue approaches in an integrated and effective manner, to support your client's recovery, to improve movement and reduce pain, and promote return to an active life, exercise and training.
You’ll learn through a blend of practical experience, academic teaching and workplace learning.
Graduate with professional skills, placement experience and a BASRaT-accredited degree that prepares you for a wide range of roles in sport and health.
Graduates go on to careers in:
This course is accredited by the British Association of Sport Rehabilitators (BASRaT).

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships/news:
Sign up to our apprenticeship newsletter for updates on all thing’s apprenticeships at the University of Kent.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships/employing-an-apprentice:
Recruiting apprentices and upskilling current employees provide a strategic solution for various company needs.
Here’s why partnering with Kent can be a game-changer for business.
Apprenticeships help attract high-caliber staff from a diverse talent pool, including individuals with unique experiences.
These candidates are committed to their education and career growth, bringing dedication and a future-focused mindset to your business, enhancing overall value and productivity.
Upskilling current employees ensures they stay updated with the latest industry practices.
This targeted development leads to a more competent and adaptable workforce, capable of meeting evolving business needs.
Take advantage of apprenticeship funding to cover training and assessment costs.
Whether you are a levy-paying employer or not, there are significant financial benefits, including government co-investment.
Higher and Degree Level Apprenticeships offer a unique combination of practical work experience and academic learning, setting them apart from other apprenticeship levels.
These programs range from Level 4 to Level 7.
Equivalent to the first year of a University degree or a Foundation degree.
They allow employees to continue their education and gain valuable work experience at the same time.
The highest level of apprenticeships, equivalent to Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees.
These programs span three to six years and combine work-based learning with academic studies.
Key Requirements:
Take a look at what some of our employers had to say about the value of apprenticeships.
Categories & Winners
Use Apprenticeships to Enhance Your Team – We're Here to Help
Four Kent apprentices received nominations at the prestigious Multicultural Apprenticeship Awards
''Senior leaders and managers have forged extremely effective partnerships with employers involved in the pharmaceutical industry''.
Second issue of the Kent Economics Degree Apprentice Research Journal features outstanding contributions from final year apprentices.
If you have any questions about Kent programmes, need help selecting the right apprenticeship or require information on funding, timelines and more, please don't hesitate to reach out.
We're always here to help you navigate through the process.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships/become-an-apprentice:
Apprenticeships are real jobs, which means the candidate applies directly to the employer for acceptance into their scheme.
The University of Kent provides the training, ensuring apprentices gain both practical work experience and academic knowledge.
The application process and criteria vary depending on whether the candidate is already employed or seeking employment.
These programs are designed for those who wish to continue their education while gaining valuable work experience.
They range from Level 4 to Level 7 , equivalent to the first year of an undergraduate degree up to a Master’s degree.
Cost-Free Education: Apprentices benefit from an education free of tuition fees.
The costs for training and assessment are covered by the employer and the government, enabling apprentices to earn a salary while gaining valuable qualifications.
If you are already employed and interested in an apprenticeship, discuss your interest with your employer.
They can facilitate the application process by partnering with Kent as the training provider.
Your employer may need to create an apprenticeship service account to manage the funding and administration of the apprenticeship.
The University of Kent will support them throughout this process, ensuring a smooth and efficient experience.
If you are currently unemployed, you can still become an apprentice.
Explore our section with apprenticeship vacancies at Kent or register with the Government's Find an Apprenticeship service to search for current vacancies.
As an apprentice, you will receive a salary and be entitled to the National Minimum Wage.
You will have allocated time for training or study as part of your apprenticeship, along with holiday pay and other employee rights.
Apply directly to the employer offering the apprenticeship.
Typically, this involves submitting a resume, cover letter and sometimes completing assessments or interviews.
If you secure employment and your employer is willing to support your apprenticeship, but is not currently working with a provider, review our list of current programmes .
We can also arrange a meeting with your employer to discuss the apprenticeship process and the benefits of participating in one.
As an apprentice, you benefit from various funding opportunities that cover training and assessment costs, ensuring you can focus on learning and gaining practical experience without financial stress.
How our apprenticeships have transformed careers and empowered businesses
'The next generation of scientific talent', - Jessie Stow shares her apprenticeship journey from Level 5 to Level 7.
Rebecca Burford shares her apprenticeship journey from Level 5 Technician Apprentice to Level 6 Laboratory Scientist.
Matthew Nash is a Professional Economist apprentice working for the Department for Levelling up, Housing and Communities.
'The final business proposal that I am submitting for the MBA course is based on augmented reality in clinical training – an exciting area that I really want to explore'.
Max completed the Level 6 Chartered Manager apprenticeship.
Now he works as an Operations Manager for Transport for London (TfL).
Hear about his experience after graduating.
Have questions or need more information about our apprenticeship programmes?
Our team is ready to assist you with any questions or guidance you need.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships/programmes:
Our team is here to help you apply for the apprenticeship programme, whether you’re ready to join or need guidance on the process.
We’re ready to assist you in getting started.
Feel free to contact us for support.
Apprenticeships are available to those already employed in a relevant position and require the support of an employer to take part.
If you are not already employed in a relevant role, please visit our please visit our Becoming an Apprentice page.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships/vacancies:
If you are currently looking for a job and want to become an apprentice at Kent, this page is for you.
If you are already employed, please visit our Apprenticeships page for more information.
To become a Kent apprentice, you'll need to find a vacancy you're interested in with one of our partner employers.
We recommend the following steps:
If you find an employer willing to take you on as an apprentice but they are not working with any training provider, we can arrange a meeting with them to discuss how apprenticeships work from an employer's point of view and the benefits of taking on an apprentice.
Contact us for more information about how we can support both you and your potential employer in setting up an apprenticeship.
Apprenticeship at Innospec Limited, a global specialty chemicals company dedicated to bringing innovative new technologies to market with fast and responsive service.
Apprenticeship at IQVIA LTD (leading global provider of advanced analytics, technology solutions, and clinical research services to the life sciences industry).
Apprenticeship at Syngenta Limited, a leading science-based agtech company dedicated to innovative agricultural solutions
Apprenticeship at Protak Scientific, the world exclusive manufacturer of Enzymatic Biological Indicators for rapid decontamination process validation.
Have questions or need more information about vacancies or our apprenticeship programmes?

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships/funding:
Employers can get help from the government to pay for apprenticeship training.
The amount of funding depends on whether they pay the apprenticeship levy.
The Apprenticeship Levy is a UK tax introduced in April 2017.
It mandates employers with annual payrolls over £3 million to contribute 0.5% of their total payroll.
These funds are allocated for apprenticeship training within the company or can be transferred to other businesses for similar purpose.
Funding can be used to upskill both new apprentices and current employees, making it a flexible solution for various training needs.
Employers can manage apprenticeship funding through their Apprenticeship Service Account , an online government service that simplifies the process.
Apprentices do not have to bear the costs of their training and assessment, as these are covered through employer funding or government support.
Additionally, apprentices are entitled to receive a wage, ensuring they earn while they learn.
This support enables apprentices to focus on their studies and practical experience without the burden of tuition fees.
There are 30 funding bands, each with an upper limit of funding available for each apprenticeship.
These bands range from £1,500 to £27,000, depending on the level and complexity of the apprenticeship.
The minimum duration for an apprenticeship is 12 months.
Funding is only available for apprenticeships meeting this requirement.
At least 20% of an apprentice’s working hours must be spent on off-the-job training.
This training must be directly relevant to the apprenticeship standard and can include learning that takes place at work, at home, or at a training provider’s site.
For more detailed guidance on how to apply for funding, manage funds, and understand the specific rules that apply, please get in touch.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships/onboarding-process-for-apprentices:
Onboarding Guidance
Check out this 9 stage guide to onboarding.
This process involves contributions from three key participants: the university, your employer, and the applicant.
This is a self-assessment tool designed to evaluate your current knowledge, skills, and behaviours in your chosen subject area.
Applicants must complete this as part of the application process.
Provides the key terms surrounding onboarding.
See if you are eligible for funding.
Chartered Manager & Senior Journalist
Senior Leader & Chartered Manager
Chartered Manager & Operational Research Specialist
Chartered Manager & Policy Officer & Senior Leader
Operational Research Specialist
Pro Econ & Social Researcher
Professional Economist
Pro Econ & Social Researcher & Architect
Science & Chartered Manager
Science
Senior Leader & Social Worker
Senior Journalist
Social Worker

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships/faq:
Higher and Degree apprenticeships are a partnership between the University of Kent and employers, combining work with tailored university programmes to equip apprentices with both theoretical and practical knowledge.
Benefits include upskilling the existing workforce, attracting talented people, boosting workplace diversity, and filling skills gaps using the apprenticeship levy or government funding through co-investment.
Apprentices must be employed in a real job, work towards an approved apprenticeship standard, complete training that lasts at least 12 months, and spend a proportion of their working week on off-the-job training.
Employers must pay apprentices at least the National Minimum Wage, provide a contract of employment, ensure time off for training, and offer the same conditions as other employees, including paid holidays and sick pay.
Employers can get government help to pay for training.
The amount depends on whether they pay the apprenticeship levy.
Non-levy payers contribute 5% towards training costs, while the government pays 95%.
Levy payers get funds with a 10% government top-up.
Employers can get an additional £1,000 for apprentices who are 16 to 18 years old, 19 to 25 with an education, health and care plan, or 19 to 25 and previously in care.
The University of Kent has extensive experience in providing apprenticeships, having partnered with leading employers since 2011.
We deliver apprenticeships across various sectors including business, finance, hospitality, retail, and health and science.
The University has been rated as a ‘Good Provider’ of Higher Apprenticeships by Ofsted.
Browse our list of available apprenticeships to find the one that best fits your business needs.
Each apprenticeship comes with specific entry requirements and durations, allowing you to choose the most suitable option.
Higher apprenticeships lead to a certificate or foundation degree (Level 4).
Degree apprenticeships lead to a Bachelor’s degree (Level 6) or a Master’s degree (Level 7).
If you still have questions or need further assistance, contact us .
We can help and advise you every step of the way, from an initial discussion about your needs through to quality assurance and fully managed apprenticeships.
The University of Kent's apprenticeship programmes are for those who are already employed and those seeking employment.
If you are already employed, you can apply for a Higher or Degree apprenticeship through your current employer, allowing you to gain new skills and qualifications while continuing your job.
If you are seeking employment, check our current vacancies or the find an Apprenticeship service on the gov.uk website for available opportunities.
You can apply directly to employers offering apprenticeship positions.
You earn while you learn: gain valuable skills, work for a great employer, and earn a wage.
There are no university tuition fees, so you may graduate with lower or no debt.
You can achieve a higher-level qualification, such as a degree, from a leading UK university and enhance your CV with practical experience and a recognised qualification, positioning you ahead in the job market.
Apprenticeships combine practical training in a job with university study, spending around one day per week on coursework.
They last between one and five years, depending on the level and your employer.
At the University of Kent you can gain a qualification at Level 4 to Level 7, depending on the apprenticeship.
If you are currently employed, you should find a suitable Higher or Degree apprenticeship that aligns with your career goals.
Discuss this opportunity with your employer and ask them to initiate the process.
All apprenticeships in England must be managed through the apprenticeship service, and your employer will need to create an apprenticeship service account to recruit and manage your apprenticeship.
For more details, our specialists are available to help .
If you are seeking employment, you can search for current apprenticeship vacancies on our website or use the Find an Apprenticeship service on the gov.uk website.
Apprentices are entitled to at least the National Minimum Wage.
You will be paid for normal working hours and any training or study time.
Apprentices also enjoy paid holidays, sick pay, and other employee rights.
Check out our available apprenticeship programmes , entry requirements and modules details.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships/contact:
Monday to Friday (09.00-16.30)
recruitapprenticeships@kent.ac.uk
Directions
Our Global and Lifelong Learning (GLL) Team is a welcoming community of full-time and part-time staff based at our Medway and Canterbury campuses.
Get to know our team and see how we can support you in unlocking your potential in both your working and academic life.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships/programmes/technician-scientist:
Higher Level (4 - 5)
This programme is an ideal starting point for anyone looking to work in the chemical or bioscience industry.
Working as part of a wider scientific team, Technician Apprentices develop the knowledge, skills and behaviours needed to become a qualified technician.
Many of our Technician Scientists have progressed onto further studies such as Laboratory Scientist .
During the programme, apprentices learn how to work safely in a laboratory while following appropriate safety, environmental and risk management systems.
Apprentices will gain skills in using instrumentation and laboratory equipment and become competent in analysing, interpreting, and evaluating data.
Apprentices will cover a range of different modules in Chemical Science or Bioscience, and all apprentices will cover modules in GXP and Business Improvement, in addition to taking part in a workplace problem-solving project for their end-point assessment.
We offer start dates in September and January.
The cut-off for applications is normally one month prior to the start of the course.
Maximum funding for this apprenticeship is £21,000.
For Levy employers, 100% of training costs are covered by the Apprenticeship Levy .
For smaller employers, up to 95% of the costs can be covered by government co-investment .
This apprenticeship will last for three years and three months, including the end-point assessment.
This course is delivered remotely, with face-to-face teaching during yearly summer schools.
Participants will receive academic support and have meetings with a dedicated Apprenticeship Advisor every 8-12 weeks throughout the course.
Apprentices are expected to take one study day each week to complete their off-the-job training.
The remaining time will be spent in the workplace.
Each year includes compulsory modules to build foundational knowledge and skills.
Apprentices can choose optional modules and complete company-based projects to apply their learning in practical settings.
Apprentices take the following compulsory modules:
Research Methods, Drug Discovery and Development, Company Based Laboratory Research Project.
They then choose three optional modules from the list below:
Nanomedicine, Biopharmaceuticals & Gene Therapy, Clinical Pharmacology, Advanced Immunology & Microbiology, Advanced Therapeutic Agents.
Company Based Laboratory Research Project.
Compulsory Module: Introduction to Polymer Chemistry.
Company Based Project.
Choose 3 of 4 Module Blocks:
Separation Science, Spectroscopic Methods in Organic Chemistry, Introduction to Drug Synthesis, Pharmacology.
Compulsory Modules: Research Methods, Organic Chemistry.
Choose 3 of 4 Module Blocks: Computational Chemistry, Analytical Chemistry, Nanomedicine, Advanced Therapeutic Agents.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships/programmes/laboratory-scientist:
Degree Level (4 - 6)
We currently have three Laboratory Scientist apprenticeship vacancies available.
Use the buttons below to explore the opportunities at each company.
These are fantastic routes to kickstart your career in science – don’t miss out!
The Laboratory Scientist apprenticeship is an innovative program that helps individuals progress their careers within SME and global organizations, covering relevant roles in the life science supply chain from research through development and into manufacturing.
The program is offered via blended learning — a mixture of online and face-to-face learning.
The online component is delivered using the virtual learning environment (VLE) Moodle.
Moodle contains detailed content for each module and is well-organized.
Much of the program is centered around work-based learning and projects, which means, as an apprentice, you will be adding value to your organization as you work through your BSc.
In addition to on- and off-the-job training, apprentices will be supported by a dedicated Apprenticeship Advisor.
The Laboratory Scientist apprenticeship spans 54 months, with an additional 6 months dedicated to the End-Point Assessment (EPA).
Apprentices participate in face-to-face teaching at our ‘Summer Schools’ for practical assessments and examinations.
Held.
in August or September, these occur twice during the programme.
Line managers support apprentices daily and join progress reviews with the Apprenticeship Advisor every 8-12 weeks.
These reviews are crucial for end-point assessment preparation.
Upon successful completion, the apprentice will have achieved a Bachelor of Science degree (BSc) in either chemical or bioscience.
This apprenticeship also maps well to Registered Scientist(RSci) or RSci Technician (RSciTech) status, which is a measure of excellence for practising scientists and those working in higher technical roles.
Therefore, you can use your apprenticeship certificate to apply for RSci through a shortened application method through the Royal Society of Biology (RSB), Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) or Science Council.
The cut-off for applications is normally one month prior to the course starting.
At least five GCSE passes (or equivalent), including English Language and Mathematics at Grade 4 or above.
Applicants are also required to have achieved at least two subjects at A Level (or equivalent), including Chemistry/Biology.
Alternatively, candidates must have completed a Level 3 Laboratory Technical Apprenticeship in a relevant science discipline.
The cost of the programme is £27,000 per apprentice, and this can be paid for from the apprenticeship levy or by government co-investment funding, which covers up to 95% of the fees.
There is also the cost of accommodation and travel for Summer Schools.
This should be funded by the employer and is not payable from apprenticeship levy or government funding.
Discover our diverse Apprenticeship Pathways in Biology and Chemistry, featuring a mix of foundational and advanced modules designed to equip apprentices with essential skills and industry-relevant knowledge.
Stage 1: Compulsory Modules (120 Credits) - Level 4
Stage 2: Compulsory Modules (80 Credits) - Level 5
Optional Modules - Apprentices must select 40 credits at Level 5 from the from the HDA catalogue**
Stage 3: Compulsory Modules (75 Credits) - Level 6
Optional Modules - Apprentices must select 45 credits at Level 6 from the from the HDA catalogue**
Year 1:
Organic Chemistry, Physical Chemistry, General and Inorganic Chemistry, Basic Analytical Chemistry, Basic Laboratory/Industry Skills (Summer School).
Year 2:
Introduction to Polymer Chemistry, 1 out of 2 Optional Modules (Biochemistry, Microbiology), Business Improvement, GxP, Advanced Laboratory/Industry Skills (Summer School).
Year 3:
3 out of 4 Optional Modules (Separation Science, Spectroscopic Methods in Organic Chemistry, Introduction to Drug Synthesis, Pharmacology), Company Based Project.
Year 4:
Research Methods, Drug Discovery and Development, 3 out of 4 Optional Modules (Computational Chemistry, Analytical Chemistry, Nanomedicine, Advanced Therapeutic Agents).
Year 5:
Next Steps

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships/programmes/chartered-manager:
A Chartered Manager is someone who can take responsibility for people, projects, operations and/or services to deliver long-term organisational success.
They may work in the private, public or third sector.
A professional manager will be capable of managing complexity and will obtain leadership responsibility for setting and delivering organisational objectives through a wide range of functions.
They will develop in full all aspects of their management and leadership skills, knowledge, self-awareness and behaviours.
Programme is available with face-to-face teaching one day per week ( Friday) in central London, providing a more traditional classroom experience supported by online resources.
Join us in for an information session on Chartered Manager Programme.
We will delve into course content, entry requirements and answer any questions about the course.
Apprentices must be employed.
The University requires applicants to hold GCSE English and Mathematics at Grade C (or equivalent) and have achieved ABB at A level, or 34 points (16 at Higher Level) in the International Baccalaureate (IB).
Applicants without traditional qualifications will be considered on an individual basis.
These apprenticeships start in September.
The maximum funding for this apprenticeship is £22,000, which can be covered by the Apprenticeship Levy or by government co-investment .
Our team are there to offer support with developing apprenticeships in your organisation, be it upskilling existing employees or recruiting for new roles.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships/programmes/senior-leader:
A Senior Leader is someone who has senior management responsibility, and this can include formal governance/director responsibilities.
They are responsible for direction and vision, providing a clear sense of purpose and driving strategic intent.
The Senior Leader apprenticeship is an innovative programme that helps managers take their next step into senior leadership roles.
During the apprenticeship, the learner develops knowledge, skills and behaviours needed to become transformational leaders and develop an innovative mindset.
This apprenticeship follows the Level 7 Senior Leader Apprenticeship Standard and offers two distinct qualification pathways:
- MSc in Senior Leadership in Healthcare
- MSc in Senior Leadership in Management
These programmes start in September.
£14,000, covered by the Apprenticeship Levy or government co-investment .
MBA top-up fee of £6,000, MSc top-up fee of £3,900, not covered by the levy.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships/programmes/professional-economist:
15th July at 1-2pm
Join our specialist academic team and business development to explore the Professional Economist Apprenticeship.
What we'll cover:
The apprenticeship is underpinned by the BSc (Hons) Professional Economics.
On successful completion of the end-point assessment, apprentices will hold an honours degree and the apprenticeship qualification.
The University of Kent have been delivering the Level 6 Professional Economist Degree Apprenticeship since 2018 to employers including the Government Economics Service.
The University of Kent’s School of Economics advised the trailblazer group for this standard and is the sole supplier for the Government Economic Service.
We also work with high-profile regulators, commercial firms, and local authorities.
Kent’s School of Economics is currently the exclusive provider of the educational component for this apprenticeship and is recognised as the leader in apprenticeship delivery in the field of Economics.
We work with employers of all sizes across the nation to address skills gaps in their businesses.
Additionally, we can create custom modules to deepen the knowledge of standards related to your specific work.
The University requires applicants to hold at least five GCSE passes (or equivalent), including Mathematics at grade B or 6 or above and English at grade 4 or above.
They are also required to have achieved at least 120 UCAS points at A level (equivalent to three Bs).
We can also advise you on which entry requirements to set to fulfil your needs.
The overall fee is £23,000 and this is payable from the Apprenticeship Levy or by Government сo-investment funding .
This apprenticeship starts in September each year.
The course spans 4 years with apprentices spending 80% of their time on-the-job and 20% on off-the-job training.
Each year has three 12-week trimesters starting in September, including 10 weeks of teaching and an exam period.
Trimester 2 and 3 feature two face-to-face seminars in London and Leeds, with the remaining content delivered via distance learning.
Weekly online learning includes lecture recordings and assignments released on Monday, with a live webinar every Friday.
Regular workplace visits support both the apprentice and the employer.
We also provide guidance on funding, advertising, screening, recruitment, and workplace competency monitoring.
The following modules are typically studied each year.
For the award of a BSc (Hons) degree, students must accrue 360 credits which includes the end-point assessment.
Apprentices take the following compulsory modules: Working with Economic Data on Digital Platforms, Principles of Microeconomics, Principles of Macroeconomics, Applied Statistical Analysis for Economics, Economic Policy Analysis, Mathematics for Economics.
Apprentices take the following compulsory modules: Microeconomic Analysis, Macroeconomic Analysis, Applied Econometrics.
Apprentices take the following compulsory modules: Economic Policy Analysis and Evaluation, International Economics, Modern Economic History, Economic Debates, Economic Growth, Public Economics.
Apprentices take two optional modules from the list below:
Choice of either:
Additionally, they undertake an End-point Assessment which includes: Economics Research Dissertation, Economics Technical Assessment, Competency-Based Interview.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships/programmes/policy-officer:
Upon successful completion, the apprentice will have achieved a Certificate of Higher Education in Policy Making.
Available across England, the programme includes high-quality tuition from academics with internationally recognised experience and expertise.
It is designed to ensure that apprentices rapidly acquire key skills that can be easily applied in the context of their organisation.
As students at the University of Kent, apprentices benefit from the added value of a higher education experience, which includes being part of a vibrant student and alumni community, both physical and online.
The Policy Officer apprenticeship helps employers to utilise their apprenticeship levy fund, secure their apprenticeship target, and build a diverse and loyal workforce.
It is structured to combine work and study, supporting employees to put theory into practice.
Since this apprenticeship exists to both diversify the workforce and up-skill aspiring policy professionals at all stages of their career, a broad range of entry routes can be considered.
As a guide, the minimum prior qualifications needed to successfully complete the certificate are five GCSEs (including English and mathematics) at Grade C/4 or above, or an equivalent qualification.
All apprentices must have the right to work in the UK to be eligible for the apprenticeship.
The cost of the Policy Officer apprenticeship is £6,000.
This can be paid from the Apprenticeship Levy or by Government Co-investment .
Other costs to consider that are not covered by the Levy of Co-investment include travel to the intensive teaching sessions (if applicable).
Apprentices receive a salary, have an employment contract, spend a minimum of 20% of their work time on off-the-job learning and pay no tuition fees.
This programme starts in September each year.
Please contact us for application cut-off dates.
The duration of this apprenticeship is 24 months, including the end-point assessment.
The programme can be completed entirely online or through a blend of online learning and in-person teaching at three day-long intensive sessions.
Intensive sessions are available in central London and various locations in England, based on demand.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships/programmes/clinical-trials-specialist:
Our Clinical Trials Specialist degree apprenticeship (Level 6) works in collaboration with Clinical Professionals Ltd and aims to advance the skills of those in the field and attract new staff.
It is suitable for people who work as part of a team focused on the delivery and execution of Phase I-IV clinical trials.
This apprenticeship is designed for individuals working in multidisciplinary teams within private or public clinical research organisations in the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries.
Typically office-based, apprentices may also travel to various sites, such as hospitals, pharmacology units, and General Practitioners, to conduct monitoring activities.
Potential roles for apprentices include:
Our Clinical Trials Apprenticeship is accredited by the Royal Society of Biology (RSB), recognising the programme’s quality, relevance, and alignment with industry standards.
This accreditation assures employers and apprentices that our programme meets the criteria set by a leading professional body in the biosciences.
Clinical trials are centred around testing the safety and efficacy of new drugs and medical devices, and the programme is built around three core pillars:
Understanding health sciences, the building blocks of life, and genetic or environmental changes affecting human health.
Navigating the approval and auditing processes, participant protection, pharmacovigilance, and licensing.
Covering health economics, the business environment, and project management.
At Kent, we have an experienced team with a wealth of expertise in apprenticeships in health and science.
We provide advice and support on all aspects of the process, from advertising the vacancy and funding, to workplace monitoring and end-point assessment requirements.
Our award-winning blended learning method, combining e-learning and block teaching, allows apprentices to thrive in the workplace while gaining a degree.
The curriculum is carefully planned and sequenced to ensure that learners acquire the Knowledge, Skills, and Behaviour defined by the Clinical Trials Specialist standards, published by the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education (IfATE).
The cost of the programme is £26,000 per apprentice and this can be paid for from the Apprenticeship levy or by government co-investment funding .
Upon successful completion, the apprentice will have achieved a BSc (Hons) Applied Science (Clinical Trials Specialist).
There is a 54-month delivery with 6 months for End-Point Assessment (EPA).
They are also required to have achieved at least two subjects at A Level (or equivalent), including Chemistry / Biology.
Alternatively, applicants must have completed a Level 3 Laboratory Technical Apprenticeship in a relevant science discipline.
Applicants who do not meet these criteria but have relevant workplace experience will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
We offer start dates in September and January for this programme.
Discover how Amy Kirkby transitioned from A levels to a Degree Apprenticeship.
As the first in her cohort to complete the End-point Assessment for the Clinical Trials Specialist apprenticeship, Amy shares her experiences and insights, highlighting the benefits and challenges of combining work with academic study.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships/programmes/social-worker:
Join our academic and business development teams to explore our Social Worker apprenticeship programme.
This session is tailored for both employers looking to hire apprentices and individuals interested in becoming apprentices.
Thursday 15th May at 11am
Please complete the Microsoft form to register your interest
This programme is regulated by Social Work England and supports learning to meet professional standards on qualification via application of education and training standards .
.
Upon successful completion, the apprentice will have achieved a BA (Hons) in Social Work.
The duration of the Social Work Degree Apprenticeship (SWDA) is 3 years, plus 6 months for the apprentice to complete the end-point assessment.
This course offers a blended-delivery model.
Apprentices can start in September or March.
Please contact us to find out cut-off dates for applications.
The eligibility criteria for apprentices joining the SWDA are as follows:
The cost of the SWDA is £24,000.
Additional costs not covered by the Levy or Co-investment include travel expenses for the block teaching weeks and the cost of a Practice Educator to support the apprentice during their placement.
If you are not already employed in a relevant role, please visit our Becoming an Apprentice page.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships/programmes/research-scientist:
Due to popular demand and changes in government funding we are running a second cohort, starting in December.
This could be the last opportunity for employers to access fully funded training for new starters over the age of 22 – don’t miss out!
Join us for a session to learn more about the apprenticeship.
We will be covering:
At the University of Kent, we recognise the importance of employers being at the centre of apprenticeships.
For that reason, we’ve worked hard to build our apprenticeship offer around employer need and preferences.
Our delivery models have been built in partnership with employers to meet national upskilling needs.
Our Level 7 Research Scientist Apprenticeship offers three routes.
All apprentices will follow the Level 7 Research Scientist Apprenticeship Standard, with the option to 'top-up' to an MSc qualification upon completion of the Apprenticeship End-point Assessment:
Route 1 – Level 7 Research Scientist Apprenticeship
Route 2 – Level 7 Research Scientist Apprenticeship and MSc in Applied Drug Discovery and Development
Route 3 – Level 7 Research Scientist Apprenticeship and MSc in Applied Drug Discovery and Development (Advanced Research)
Please note, there is currently no option to study the MSc routes without entering the Level 7 Research Scientist Apprenticeship.
Apprentices enrolling on this programme are expected to have a good undergraduate degree (2:2 or above) in a relevant biological science discipline.
You need to hold a GCSE in English and Maths (or equivalent qualification).
However, applicants without these qualifications will be looked at on a case-by-case basis and any evidence of previous study and work-placed experience will be taken into consideration.
Route 1
Level 7 Research Scientist Apprenticeship is studied part-time over 104 weeks, plus 3 months for End-point Assessment.
It is divided into 3 stages and comprises of 5 modules and EPA.
Route 2
MSc in Applied Drug Discovery and Development is studied part-time over 104 weeks plus 3 months for End-point Assessment.
Learners following this route will typically require an additional 12 weeks for additional MSc.
It is divided into 4 stages of 6 modules and EPA.
Route 3
MSc in Applied Drug Discovery and Development (Advanced Research) is studied part-time over 104 weeks plus 3 months for End-point Assessment.
It is divided into 4 stages of 4 modules and EPA.
The course is delivered online using a platform called Moodle.
There are not set days for lectures, but apprentices will need 1 day per week (or 8 hours) to complete online study.
The Level 7 Research Scientists have face to face teaching each year at two ‘Intensive Weeks’.
The Intensive Weeks usually run Monday – Thursday in late July.
Stage 1
Stage 2
Optional modules (apprentices must select one of the following optional modules):
Stage 3
Stage 4
Apprentices take the following compulsory module:
We offer start dates in September and December.
The cost of the apprenticeship is £18,000 per apprentice and this can be paid for from the Apprenticeship levy or by government co-investment funding which covers up to 95% of the fees.
There is also the cost of accommodation and travel for Intensive Weeks.
There is an additional fee for those following routes 2 and 3 who wish to achieve an MSc alongside their apprenticeship.
The top up fee cost is £1250 per learner and can be paid by the employer or the apprentice.
Payment plans may be available to help spread the cost of this, please speak to us about this when enquiring.
The Royal Society of Biology, the Institute of Physics, and the Royal Society of Chemistry offer an expedited route to achieve Chartered status (Chartered Biologist, Chartered Chemist, or Chartered Physicist) through this apprenticeship.
This is because the apprenticeship closely aligns with many of the competencies required for Chartered status.
To be considered for Chartered status, individuals must have a relevant degree or equivalent at the start of the apprenticeship.
During the apprenticeship, you can become a member of the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) or the Royal Society of Biology (RSB).
After completing the apprenticeship, you can upgrade your membership to Chartered Chemist (CChem) status through the professional development plan (PDP) route.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships/programmes/operational-research-specialist:
Join us on the 17th September at 12pm to find out more information about our Operational Research Specialist Degree apprenticeship.
Operational Research Specialists start by diagnosing and analysing a problem and end with recommendations for change and supporting implementation.
They structure complex, non-routine problems, formulate specific research questions, and evaluate and implement solutions, interacting with a variety of stakeholders.
An employee in this occupation will be responsible for understanding and resolving complex, non-routine problems to meet their clients’ requirements.
The Operational Research Specialist has a high level of autonomy and accountability for their work, although they may not have detailed subject matter expertise.
The University of Kent is a Top 50 university, offering impeccable teaching and industry-standard facilities across two diverse and vibrant campuses in Medway and Canterbury.
Kent Business School, a thriving division of the University, prides itself on championing sustainable innovation through high-quality research and education impacting business and society.
The focus of the apprenticeship is to equip individuals with the skills and knowledge for specific job roles.
At Kent Business School, we have an experienced team of academic teaching staff who hold a wealth of expertise, allowing apprentices to thrive in the workplace while gaining a degree.
Kent Business School is the sole supplier of the education component of this apprenticeship to HMRC.
The Business School holds the ‘Triple Crown’ of accreditation from three major industry awarding bodies: EQUIS, AMBA, and AACSB.
The apprenticeship is underpinned by Kent Business School’s MSc in Business Analytics.
On successful completion of the end-point assessment, apprentices will hold an apprenticeship qualification and (subject to the work-based project report meeting requirements of a dissertation research project) an MSc Business Analytics degree.
The duration of the apprenticeship will be two and a half years, including the end-point assessment.
This course is delivered online with two 2-day residentials across the two years.
In addition to online learning and residentials, Apprentices are also expected to attend meetings with a dedicated Apprenticeship Advisor every 8-12 weeks.
This programme usually starts in January, however, this year it will begin in December.
Apprentices enrolling on this programme are expected to have a good Honours Degree from the UK or an equivalent internationally recognised qualification.
Consideration will be given for those applicants who hold relevant work experience in place of a formal First-Class Honours Degree.
Applicants also need to hold a GCSE in English and Maths at grade 4 (C grade) or equivalent.
The cost of this course is £14,000 which can be covered by the Apprenticeship levy or by government co-investment .
In order to obtain an MSc in Business Analytics, there will be an additional top-up fee of £2,925 which cannot be paid from the levy or government co-investment.
Our Apprenticeship programme will combine on-the-job training and off-the-job training to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and behaviours needed to become competent in their job role.
Apprentices will spend 80% of their time learning in their current job role with the support of an Apprenticeships Advisor and their line manager.
Apprentices will spend 20% of their time studying towards their academic qualification with the triple accredited Kent Business School via blended learning.
In order to achieve the MSc in Business Analytics, the following module will need to be completed:
· BUSN9860 Business Analytics Research Project*
*Please note that MSc in Business Analytics does not form part of the apprenticeship and will occur additional costs outside of the levy or co-investment funding.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships/programmes/architect:
The Level 7 Architect Apprenticeship offers a unique and direct route for ambitious Part 1 graduates working in the industry to achieve professional registration.
Launched by the School of Architecture, Design and Planning (ADP), this apprenticeship provides a new practical route for Part 1 graduates to obtain the qualifications necessary to become registered architects.
Architects must meet the standards set by the Architects Registration Board (ARB) and the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA).
Only those qualified and registered with the ARB can use the title ‘Architect’ in the UK.
Kent’s Level 7 Architect Apprenticeship is accredited by the ARB at Part 2 and Part 3.
Kent’s apprenticeship model acknowledges that technical and organisational skills are best learned in practice.
This programme merges employability with aspiration, removing barriers and offering an ideal platform to start a career in architecture.
Building on Kent’s established MArch and Postgraduate Diploma courses, the apprenticeship combines on-the-job learning with advanced academic research and experimentation, reflecting the complexity of architectural theory and practice.
Apprentices leverage their professional maturity and technical skills from daily work to tackle academic challenges, drawing on the University’s diverse resources to enhance their practice.
Apprentices are expected to hold an ARB-prescribed Part 1 qualification or Part 1 equivalent as prescribed by the ARB.
The apprenticeship lasts three and a half years, including the end-point assessment.
This programme combines intensive on-campus study sessions (typically 5 per year, each lasting 2-5 days) with online tutorial support.
Apprentices meet online with a dedicated Apprenticeship Advisor every 10-12 weeks.
The Level 7 Architect Apprenticeship program includes a variety of modules.
All modules, except for the End-Point Assessment (EPA), are based on previously validated modules.
Towards the end of the programme, time is allocated for progression formalities, including employer confirmation that students are ready for the EPA and agreement on Design Challenge synopses.
Resit opportunities may be offered for any failed modules within this period.
The cost of this course is £21,000 which can be covered by the apprenticeship levy or by government co-investment.
Other costs to consider that are not covered by funding include travel and accommodation at block teaching (if required).
The start date for this programme is September.
Contact us to find out the cut off date for applications.
ARCH8360 - Design 4a
ARCH8370 - Design 4B
ARCH5380 - Cultural Context
ARCH5460 - Technology 4
ARCH8380 - Design 5a
ARCH8390 - Design 5b
ARCH6470 - Technology 5
ARCH6020 - Dissertation
ARCH8570 - Ethics*
ARCH8580 - Law*
ARCH8590 - Management *
ARCH8600 - Procurement*
ARCH8960 - Case Study Context*
End-point Assessment - Case Study and Design Challenge.
Read about Holly's experience on the L7 Architect apprenticeship.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning/apprenticeships/programmes/social-researcher:
This programme is for organisations that use social research to inform and support policymakers.
It suits public, private, and third-sector entities, including government and charities.
For employees who use research methods, advise on designs, evaluate methodologies, and assess evidence quality to address problems critically.
For those new to social research and those upskilling.
Welcomes school leavers, career changers, and skill enhancers, focusing on aspiring social researchers.
The University of Kent welcomes applications from candidates of all backgrounds and ages.
Applicants must demonstrate effective English communication skills and Level 2 mathematics proficiency before the course begins.
This typically includes at least five GCSEs (grade 4 or above in Maths and English) or equivalent qualifications.
Applicants usually need at least 96 UCAS points (three Cs at A level/T level core pass C) or an equivalent academic or professional qualification.
For all higher-level apprenticeships in England, an approved Level 2 qualification in mathematics and English is required before completion of the apprenticeship.
Evidence can include GCSE grade C/4 or higher.
We value diverse academic and career paths.
If unsure about suitability, we provide feedback before formal application and advise on entry requirements to meet your business needs.
This apprenticeship aligns with The Market Research Society for Member Level.
Our blended learning approach, combining online and face-to-face learning, allows apprentices to thrive in the workplace while gaining a degree.
At least 6 hours per week of the apprentice’s normal paid working time should be spent on off-the-job learning away from their usual work tasks.
Apprentices participate in the following off-the-job learning:
Online learning
Face-to-face learning
Apprentices will engage with a broad range of assessments focused on problem-based learning and applied project work.
Examples of these assessments are:
·       Individual and group projects
·       Presentations
·       Practical assessments
·       Reflective portfolios
The end-point assessment consists of:
A written project report of 6,000 words with a presentation and questioning
A professional discussion
The tuition fee is £24,000 and this is payable from the Apprenticeship Levy or by Government Co-investment funding.
The next start date is 15 September 2025 .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global-lifelong-learning:
Study that works for you
Kent’s Global & Lifelong Learning (GLL) Directorate provides high quality learning and bespoke training delivered in dynamic and innovative ways.
Our academic and professional courses and partnerships meet the diverse needs of students, apprentices, employers, professionals and organisations.
Find out more about our International Foundation Programme, Pre-sessional Courses, Academic Skills Training and Short Courses.
Kent has an established reputation of working in partnership with leading employers to deliver apprenticeships since 2011.
We design, develop and deliver bespoke professional development training for companies and individuals.
Explore our range of flexible, part-time work-related academic programmes for working professionals.
The perfect way to learn more about a range of topics before advancing your academic studies or professional development training.
Martin Domville BSc (Hons) Applied Bioscience
A higher or degree apprenticeship allows you to combine university study with a real, paid job.
Based at our Medway and Canterbury campuses, we are here to help you in your academic and professional life.
Wei Eyu, Computer Science BSc (Hons)
...it is not a question of whether one form of learning will outlive another, but how we can develop and position different approaches alongside each other for the benefit of different groups of students who need them.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/access:
The University of Kent welcomes applications from students with Access to Higher Education Diplomas.
If you are interested in returning to study via Access to Higher Education in our region, please use the link below to find out more about options available at our local providers.
When applying to Kent, Access to Higher Education students may qualify for a reduced offer via our contextual admissions policy.
Studying at Kent after completing your Access to HE Diploma?
Explore our scholarship options and the Kent Financial Support Package.
Explore this support package for students completing an Access to HE Diploma at the University of Kent or one of our partner colleges.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/part-time/general-interest:
The Language Centre offers Kent students the opportunity to study a variety of language modules as part of your existing degree programme or as an additional extracurricular module.
Choose from Arabic, Catalan, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Mandarin, Russian and Spanish - all offered at different levels to suit you.
Fluent Futures at the University of Kent is our project to expand the horizons of our community, offering all students the opportunity to learn languages such as Mandarin, Japanese, Arabic, Spanish, French, Italian or German alongside their degrees at no extra cost .
We offer faculty-led short courses and summer schools tailored directly to the needs of your students and staff.
On our short courses, your students and staff will enjoy studying at a globally recognised university either on the outskirts of the historic city of Canterbury, or on our vibrant Medway campus.
The University also provides a wide range of popular Open Lectures .
Our programme includes a variety of interesting speakers covering diverse subject matters.
Open Lectures are free to all and no booking is required.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/part-time/international:
The International Foundation Programme (IFP) prepares international students for academic study on a range of undergraduate degree programmes.
If you complete your IFP course successfully and meet the progression rules, you are guaranteed a place on an undergraduate degree course.
IFP students are full members of the University with access to University accommodation and all academic, welfare, social and sport facilities on campus.
These specially designed courses prepare international students for study at Kent.
As well as improving your English, you develop skills in:
Summer schools can be studied for personal interest, professional training or as preparation for further learning.
We offer a range of subjects including Architecture, Business, Psychology and more.
We also offer a range of short summer courses for both groups and individuals.
Our short-term programmes (including Junior Year Abroad and Erasmus exchange) allow international students to spend a year or a semester at Kent, and gain academic credit from a leading British university.
Choose from a range of programmes to suit your academic ability, level of proficiency in English and the amount of time you would like to spend abroad.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/part-time/professional-development:
We value study at every stage of your career.
The following options are designed for professionals working across a range of industries in the private, third and public sectors, including in health and social care, and English language teaching, who wish to take the next step in their career.
We work with a range of employers to offer apprenticeship programmes that combine practical work experience with tailored academic study.
We design and deliver bespoke professional development training and CPD across a range of topics and industries for companies, organisations and individuals.
Explore our range of flexible, part-time work-related academic courses for working professionals.
The Tizard centre offers courses to further your career in quality care, including courses in Person-centred Active Support, Training in Autism, and bespoke courses.
We offer a portfolio of short courses which are focused around the clinical and cost effective use of medicines and prescribing.
These can be studied individually or to gain a postgraduate qualification.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/learning/programmes/valuemap.html:
Our team of experienced advisers are on hand to support you throughout your studies across an extensive range of academic skills.
You can book an appointment with one of our advisers or Royal Literary fund Fellows*, attend one of our skills sessions, access our SkillBuilder pre-recorded videos, or check our helpful study guides.
Whatever your academic skills needs, get in touch with the team today!
Check out our resit support section , or book an appointment with one of our advisers for bespoke support.
As a further development of our group appointment opportunities*, you and your colleagues can now commission a bespoke study skills session with an adviser to cover anything from exam prep to dissertation planning and writing.
Contact us at sas@kent.ac.uk and let us know:
Who you are, and how many
Subject area and what you would like guidance in
When you would like to have this session.
*Our term-time only micro-group appointments are for two - four students.
Booking slots will be available every Tuesday afternoon, 3pm - 4pm.
Book a group appointment via SAS Connect (see below under 'Book an Appointment').
The SAS team offer appointment slots on Mondays - Thursdays 0800 - 1800.
These are bookable as on-campus or online sessions at Canterbury and online only for our Medway students.
The Skills for Academic Success team provide a wide range of events and workshops for students both on campus and online.
These include skills and numeracy workshops as well as exams and revision events.
You can learn a lot from exams/coursework when you don't perform well.
It often comes down to technique rather than lack of knowledge.
Would you like some help from a student from a stage above you?
Peer Assisted Learning (PAL) Leaders aim to support your learning and help build your confidence when embarking on modules that are new to you.
Or maybe you could volunteer your time to help support other students through the PAL scheme.
To book online appointments visit S.A.S CONNECT
We are based in the UELT Building, adjacent to the Security and Transport Centre.
Email: sas@kent.ac.uk
Telephone: 01227 824016
We are based on the second floor of the Medway Building M2-31.
Telephone: 01634 888884

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/language-centre:
There’s no such thing as someone who isn’t gifted for languages—you just need to find the one that fits you.
And that’s why we’re here: Your multilingual future starts now!
At Kent, we do things differently.
Our approach is all about flexibility, personalisation, and employability—giving you the freedom to learn languages your way.
You can study, free of charge: Arabic, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Mandarin, Spanish.
Our Immersion modules are designed for progression, but YOU decide the level you want to be tested on!
🎯
With our exclusive Language Gym , you can tailor your learning even further!
Language Express offers you evening classes for free not only for staff and students, but also for education and NHS professionals across the region.
And if you are a current UG student at Kent you can take a whole immersion year in one language with the Year in a Language (one year standard UG fees apply).
Your options at a glance:
The Language Centre is home to a dynamic research community, bringing
together experts in languages, linguistics, and literatures.
Our work is
anchored in:
📚The Research
Network for Languages, Linguistics and Literatures –
exploring the richness of language in all its forms.
🎓
The Modern
Languages Teaching Forum – advancing research and
innovation in language education.
We welcome new PhD students into our vibrant graduate community.
Interested?
Explore our staff
profiles to find a supervisor who shares your research
interests.
✨ Funding Opportunity: The Philip
Robinson Scholarship for PhD students in French Literature
and Culture is now open for applications!

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/summerschools/index.html:
Enjoy our first-class study facilities and classroom tuition for your course.
Or we can support your faculty in their teaching delivery.
Thanks to its global reputation for academic excellence and inspirational teaching, the University attracts a large number of international students to our diverse and welcoming community.
Your students will be a part of this community.
They will make friends, practice their English skills and participate in cultural exchange with a social programme tailored for your course.
My experience at Kent was lovely.
I had a lot of fun, tried so many new things and learned more about both my course content and myself.
Immerse your students in the rich histories of Canterbury and Medway, including the stunning cathedrals in Canterbury and Rochester.
From historic castles to quaint seaside towns, we'll provide an exciting programme of cultural trips for your students.
Both Canterbury and Medway are less than an hour away from London by train.
We can organise trips to the capital as part of your short course.
Contact us to discuss your short course requirements.
We'd be happy to tailor a course specifically for your students and/or staff.
Canterbury cathedral
We offer:
The participants of your short course will be treated as Kent students during their stay, with access to our sports centre in Canterbury and our libraries in Canterbury and Medway .
My contacts have been genuinely impressed with the level of professionalism and organization that your group offers.
Your systems are truly well thought out.
We offer first-class study facilities for your course.
In the past, we've offered courses such as:
Plus, we provide activities that will immerse your students in the culture and history of the region.
We can organise trips to:
We will also organise a range of sports, social and cultural activities both on campus and nearby.
These may include:
Our courses are fully flexible and we can tailor them to include your specific requirements.
Rochester Castle
The cost of your short course will include:
A river tour on the Stour
"Tutors and student ambassadors were friendly and approachable." -- Community Engagement Participant, Kyoto University of Foreign Studies, 2022
"All three language teachers were really outstanding.
Expectations (which were high) were exceeded.
Hope we can work with you again." -- Everyday English for Work and Business Participant, University of Lille, 2022
A view of the cathedral from our Canterbury campus

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/short-term:
Ya'ara Gurel, University of Calgary, Canada

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/international/how-to-apply:
At Kent we welcome applications from students from all around the world and accept a wide variety of applications.
If you are from the UK or Ireland, you have to apply through UCAS .
If you meet the following conditions, you may choose to apply through UCAS or directly on our website:
Please remember if you are eligible and intend to apply directly on our website, you should NOT use UCAS at any point.
Submitting your application to both UCAS and our website will cause issues to your application.
If you decide to apply direct to Kent there will be no application fee.
Our dedicated international team are here to help support you through the application process.
Please do g et in touch if you require any advice or support.
If you are applying for a subject-specific foundation programme , you apply in the same way as for a three-year undergraduate degree.
Applications for our International Foundation Programme (IFP) can be made:
Apply directly on our website.
Apply via our representatives
International students can also apply with the assistance of one of Kent's overseas representatives .
Late applications A process called 'Clearing' takes place in July and August, running from 1st July annually.
We will provide an updated list of all of the Kent degrees that still have places available once Clearing opens – this can give you another chance to apply.
For more information on how the Clearing process works and how to apply, please see Clearing at Kent for details.
Applications to our Postgraduate programmes are made via the online directly to the University of Kent.
There is no application fee required.
The deadlines for applications to taught Master's and PhD programmes can be found on our International Admissions Deadlines page .
Although there is no fixed closing deadline for applications to research degrees, we strongly recommend that you apply as soon as possible; no later than three months before your intended start date.
The University has three PhD entry dates during the academic year: September, January and May.
Entry to a Master’s by Research is in September only.
Please answer the following five questions in no more than 200 words per question:
Find out when you'll need to apply so you can join us for your studies.
Entry requirements, tuition fees, contact details  and more for your country.
These are the language qualifications we accept as an entry requirement onto our courses.
Funding opportunities and financial support for students at Kent.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/apply/application-timeline:
Applying to university is a big moment, we're here to help you take your next step with confidence.
Applications open from September 2024.
It's really important that you're passionate about wherever you apply to, so be sure to book onto open days so you can get a real feel for the place.
It isn't just where you study that's important - what you study is also a huge decision.
Make sure you look into what course is right for you.
Take notice of modules, course pages and entry requirements to set yourself up for success.
15 October is the deadline for applying for Kent and Medway Medical School.
For all other subjects you still have time to make your decision, this also might be the time to start thinking about writing your personal statement.
We can help with that!
29 January 2025 is the main UCAS deadline.
You can still apply via UCAS up until 30 June, but you may not be able to get on to the course you want at your preferred university.
You might be moving from down the road, or across the country.
Regardless, getting your first choice room will help take away the nerves and turn them into excitement.
If you have an offer from us, you will be invited to one of our Offer Holder Days.
This is your chance to ask any more questions, experience your subject and get another look at our campus.
26 February 2025 - UCAS Extra opens for any applicants who received no offers, or who rejected all their offers.
Otherwise, if you can't visit us in person, you could take a virtual tour to check out our campus and facilities.
Funding applications will open via Student Finance England in late February.
It’s a good idea to check eligibility criteria and apply as soon as you can.
You don’t need to know which university you’re going to before making an application.
If you applied to Kent by the 31 January, we will send you our decision by the end of March.
If you accept the offer, don’t forget to apply for accommodation!
You can look around in person at an Applicant Event or take a virtual tour of our rooms.
If you've heard back from all the universities you applied to, you can start weighing up your options.
Maybe make a pros and cons list for each of them based on what you know.
You don’t have to make any choices until your last decision comes in.
If you applied by the October or January deadline, you’ll receive a decision in May.
You must make your firm and insurance decisions by 6 June.
If you're unsure, revisit your priorities and speak to your support group.
4 June 2025 - Reply to offers if you’ve received your decisions.
Your last chance to make a late application to UCAS is 30 June.
Applications received after this time will automatically be entered into Clearing.
If you are applying to study in the UK from overseas, you may need a Student visa.
Now’s the time to look into the process and begin your application.
You can find helpful information on our website and on the UK government’s site .
4 July 2025 - Last date to add a UCAS Extra choice.
5 July 2025 - Confirmation, Clearing and Adjustment open.
If you don’t have an offer, you can apply for any course that has vacancies.
If things didn’t go to plan, you’re not holding any offers or you’ve changed your mind about your course, you can enter Clearing to apply for something new.
Once your place is confirmed, it’s time to celebrate – you’ve made it!
Make the most of it – all our students tell us the years fly by.
Take a look at everything you can get involved with at Kent.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/apply/choosing-your-course:
We offer a variety of courses which
can be studied on a full or part-time basis.
And with a wide range of modules within each programme, there is a course to suit you at Kent.
You can browse all undergraduate degrees using the course finder .
Then once you’ve decided what to study, it might help you to use the application checklist below.
Check the general entry requirements and admissions criteria for the University.
Then check the specific requirements for your course on the programme page.
International students should check the entry requirements for their country and also make sure you meet our English language requirements .
Most full-time courses are made up of compulsory and optional modules.
Use our course finder to view the degree of your choice.
Click on the course structure tab for information about the academic modules taught for your chosen programme.
You can also search our module catalogue to view academic modules taught at Kent.
Our undergraduate programmes are taught at Canterbury and Medway , as well as at our partner colleges.
We teach different subjects at each location, so it is a good idea to check the location of your chosen course to explore the facilities and the opportunities available there.
Some of our degree programmes are accredited by a relevant professional body, so you gain an industry-recognised vocational qualification alongside your degree.
This offers a route into qualifying for a profession and gives exemption from entrance exams, for example Law, Architecture, Accounting & Finance and Actuarial Science.
Occasionally, these subjects offer joint honours options that may not include all the topics you need to study to qualify – contact the University if you are in any doubt.
If you have any questions about your application or studying at Kent, see our FAQs .
Many of our degree programmes allow you to study or work abroad during your studies.
Experience a different culture, develop your language skills, gain a new perspective and establish international contacts.
For a list of courses that include the opportunity to work or study abroad see Go Abroad .
You can spend a year in industry on many of our degree courses.
Immerse yourself in the working world, gain hands-on experience, learn new skills and put into practice what you have learned.
Use our course search to view a list of courses with a year in industry .
If you do not have the qualifications, study skills or English language ability you need to take the degree of your choice, you can apply for one of our foundation courses .
They can help you to achieve the qualifications required for degree-level entry at Kent.
If you don't want to do a full degree or would like to ease yourself back into education, we have part-time and short courses that you can take, including general interest, professional development and access to HE courses.
Please note: international students who are in the UK on a student visa cannot study part-time.
“The other Universities I saw just didn’t compare.
The campus is gorgeous and the accommodation is good.
And the course itself was a draw; Kent has a good choice of joint honours degrees.”

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/apply/how-courses-work:
You may want to go to University but are a little unsure about what studying at degree level involves, or how courses work.
We offer a range of pathways and degree options so you can learn in a way that suits your own timeline, interests, passions and talents.
All of our degrees are designed with employability at their core.
From day one you'll develop skills and grow your confidence so you're career and life ready.
This is the choice most students take, your degree is dedicated to studying one main subject.
You'll gain deep subject knowledge of your chosen subject while developing the skills you need to kickstart your career.
These degrees are 3 years full-time.
Similar to a single honours degree, but you'll split your degree over two subjects, for example Law and Criminology.
This allows you to take a broader approach, or cover more areas if you can't decide between two.
For most of our courses you will have the option to take a Year Abroad or a Year in Industry.
This adds an additional year to your degree where you can either get crucial work experience in a real word setting, or expand your horizons and spend a year in another country.
These degrees are 4 years full-time.
Not everyone's path is the same.
Foundation Years are designed to help you make the transition to studying at University and get degree ready for a year before you start your main degree.
Stage 0 is exclusive for Foundation Year Degrees.
This will be the year prior to your degree where we'll support you in making rapid progress and getting university ready.
If you are full-time, Stage 1 is your first year.
If you are part-time Stage 1 is typically your first and second years.
Stage 1 is where you build your knowledge, skills and confidence around the central ideas and themes of your subject.
If you are full-time, Stage 2 is your second year.
If you are part-time Stage 2 is made up of your third and fourth years.
Stage 2 is where you will deepen your knowledge and have the opportunity to become a specialist in your field.
If you choose to take a Year Abroad or a Year in Industry, you will do this between Stage 2 and Stage 3, adding a year to your degree.
If you are full-time, Stage 3 is your third and final year.
If you are part-time Stage 3 is made up of your fifth year and your sixth and final year.
In Stage 3 you'll further develop, building skills to make you future ready following graduation.
All of our courses are structured through modules.
Modules act as the building blocks of your degree.
In Stage 1, typically all modules will be compulsory, with Stages 2 and 3 in most cases, introducing optional modules so you can tailor your degree to your interests.
You will take up to six modules each year, usually with two, twenty credit modules per term.
Our curriculum and module structure is designed with you and your ambitions at its core.
All of your assessment will be in the term that that module has been taught in, with no long waits for assessment or to find out how you did.
You'll have your holidays to yourself, with all assessments carried out before your breaks.
Contact hours vary depending on which subject you take.
For example, science-based degrees can include full-day practical laboratory sessions, while other degrees lecturers and seminars.
The minimum for any module will be four contact hours per week, made up of a range of different types of teaching.
Academic credit is how we value each module you do.
Most modules are 20 credits, while some larger modules will be 40 credits, these are usually dissertations or large project based modules.
Honours programmes at Kent offer academic credits on a nationally agreed scale.
You normally take 120 credits at increasingly higher levels at each of Stages 1, 2 and 3, totalling 360 credits for a full honours degree.
Four-year degrees typically total 480 credits.
Kent has adopted the European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System (ECTS).
Each module at Kent carries an ECTS weighting, which is usually half of the credits allocated by the University.
A 40-credit module at Kent has 20 ECTS credits, and a 20-credit module carries 10 ECTS credits.
If you have studied higher education programmes elsewhere, you can apply to transfer the credit to a relevant programme at Kent.
Contact us for more details.
Watch our video to find out about how you'll learn at the University of Kent.
Hear from Demi, Felix, Ayo and Charlee about how the Kent way of learning allows them to fit their life in around their studies.
Rather than waiting for the end of the year to take exams for a module you studied at the start of the year, we make sure you learn, grow and develop step by step.
This means:
With each term building on the last, you can react to the feedback on your assessments as you go along, this means you can develop throughout each year and see your growth making an impact.
Our approach means you’ll be able to be more focussed on your modules as you study them.
So your assessments can be your chance to produce, and be judged, by your very best work.
While your studies are important, we know they aren't the only thing you have in your life.
Our approach to timetabling ensures you know your class schedule as early as possible and allows you the time and certainty you need.
Our progressive careers support and embedded employability at Kent is all about giving you the tools your need to succeed in your career.
We're all about opening doors, not closing them.
We don't settle for making you job ready, we make sure you're life ready.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/apply/personal-statement:
Planning to apply to University in the UK through UCAS from September 2025 for 2026 entry?
Here is our advice on how to write a personal statement, to help you make your application.
The biggest clue is in the name - it's personal - this is your chance to show off your interests, ambitions and all the great things you have achieved.
Universities receive thousands of applications a day, so puts yours in the spotlight.
It's your story, be the main character.
UCAS have published guidance for this, you can't pass off AI as your own work.
But that doesn't mean you can't use it to help brainstorm ideas.
You can view the full UCAS advice using the button below.
When you complete your application, you now have to declare that your personal statement hasn't been copied or provided from another source, including AI.
UCAS has software that detects if elements of a personal statement are similar to others, so this will pick up uses of AI.
The best way to avoid this, is to tell us all about yourself in your own words.
No one will have the same story as you, that's what makes it so worth hearing!
Yes!
The UCAS personal statement has changed, so if you are applying from September 2025 you'll be using the new format.
The great news is, the new format makes it a lot easier!
Before the statement was one longer piece of text, but now it is broken up into 3 questions.
This means you can worry less about structure and focus on giving all the reasons you're a great fit for your course!
Your personal statement will be made up of 3 questions.
Each question has a minimum character count of 350, and there is an overall character limit of 4000 across your 3 answers.
The 3 questions are:
Question 1 : Why do you want to study this course or subject?
Question 2 : How have your qualifications and studies helped you to prepare for this course or subject?
Question 3 : What else have you done to prepare outside of education, and why are these experiences useful?
Of course, only you know what inspires you, but we've put together some general help for each question to help get you started!
This is your chance to show us what drives you.
At Kent, we’re interested in what excites you about your chosen subject - and how it connects to your goals, your experiences, and the future you’re building.
Here are some things you might want to include:
What’s sparked your interest?
Tell us what first got you thinking about this subject.
Was it a moment, a person, or something you’ve always enjoyed?
Whether it’s a passion you’ve had for years or a recent discovery, we want to understand what’s motivated you to take this further.
What have you explored so far?
Universities want to see curiosity.
Have you read around the subject, taken on extra learning, or followed a project or idea outside of the classroom?
These experiences show you’re engaged and ready to take the next step.
Where could it take you?
If you have a future career in mind, let us know how this course fits into your plans.
And if you’re still figuring that out, that’s okay.
Think about the skills you want to develop, the kind of impact you want to make, or what you hope to gain from studying this subject at a deeper level.
This is your opportunity to reflect on what you’ve already learned.
Tell us how this has helped shape the skills, interests and confidence you’ll bring with you to university.
At Kent, we know that no two paths are the same, and we’re interested in how yours has led you here.
Here are some things to think about:
What have you studied that connects to your chosen subject?
Whether it’s a course you’re taking now or something you’ve studied in the past, share how your learning has sparked an interest, shaped your thinking or helped you build a foundation for what’s next.
This could be from school, college, training or even a short online course.
The thing matters most is how it’s relevant to your subject now.
What skills have you gained along the way?
Great candidates bring more than subject knowledge, they bring skills like analysis, creativity, teamwork, or communication.
Tell us how your studies helped you develop these strengths, and how they’ll help you succeed on your chosen course.
We're all about developing skills at Kent, so these are the things we're excited to hear about!
What are you proud of?
Beyond your grades, think about moments that helped you grow.
Have you taken on extra responsibility, represented your school or college, or gone beyond the syllabus?
These achievements help show your commitment, confidence and potential - and give us a clearer picture of who you are.
We'll already have your grades in your application, so use the character limit to really show off the things that make you, you.
Your experiences beyond formal education can say a lot about your interests, values, and potential.
At Kent, we know that learning doesn’t only happen in the classroom, so we want to hear about the things you’ve done that have helped you grow, build skills and get ready for the next step.
Here’s what you might want to include:
Experience that’s helped you develop useful skills
Have you taken part in work experience, had a part-time job, volunteered, or completed an online opportunity?
Whether it’s been in a hospital, a local business, a school, or even at home, think about what you learned and how those skills link to your chosen course, teamwork, resilience, time management, communication or anything else, it all counts!
Responsibilities and life experiences that have shaped you
Your personal journey is unique.
If you’ve taken on responsibilities - like caring for someone, managing a challenge, or balancing school with other commitments - tell us how these experiences have helped you develop qualities that will support your success at university.
Hobbies and extracurricular activities that show your interests
From sports and creative projects to student groups, summer schools or reading beyond your subjects - share what you’ve done and why it matters to you.
This is a great way to show your motivation, independence or curiosity about the subject you’re applying for.
What have you achieved outside of school or college?
Not all achievements come with grades.
At Kent, we value the wider experiences that shape who you are.
Have you taken on a leadership role in a club or team?
Achieved something in music, sport or the arts?
Won a competition or earned a qualification outside the classroom?
Whether it’s something big or small, if it’s meaningful to you and has helped you grow, it’s worth sharing.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/apply/after-you-apply:
We consider all applications received by the relevant UCAS deadlines .
Our Admissions team carries out an initial check of your application for accuracy and determines your tuition fee and residential status.
We also check to ensure that you have achieved, or are predicted to achieve, the academic requirements.
We aim to inform you of our decision on your application as quickly as possible.
If you have applied by the October or January deadline, you can expect to receive our decision by the end of March.
You can find out if you have been made an offer of a place through the UCAS Hub website.
It allows you to track the progress of your application and tells you what decisions the University has made.
To accept your offer, update your UCAS Hub record by the required deadline to indicate that Kent is your ‘firm’ or ‘insurance’ choice.
If you have an unconditional offer, you can select it immediately to confirm your place.
If your offers are conditional on exam results or other requirements, you can pick two so you have an extra one as a back-up.
We will send you a formal letter of admission to the University, and information about Welcome Week.
It also tells you how to pay your fees and register at Kent.
You also need to think about where you’re going to stay.
If you firmly accept your offer to study at Kent by 31 March 2025 and apply for accommodation by the same date, we guarantee your first choice of room style.
Don't worry if you miss the March deadline though.
Apply to Canterbury or Medway by 30 June 2025 as a full-time student and you're guaranteed on-campus accommodation (off-site at Pier Quays for Medway students).
We hope to offer University accommodation to Insurance, Late and Clearing acceptances where possible (subject to availability).
If you think that your application has been rejected unfairly, get in touch with the Recruitment and Admissions Team on:
See our Admissions feedback, appeals and complaints page for full details of our appeals procedure.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/apply/entry-requirements:
We consider your experience, alternative qualifications and other information in your application form.
Students are not treated differently on grounds of race, colour, religion, disability, gender, sexuality or any other distinction.
For more information, see our admissions policy .
The following are our minimum entry requirements for degree level study.
There is no upper age limit to studying at the University.
You should be at least 17 years old by 20 September in the year you begin your course.
If you are below this age, we may still consider you for admission but please contact us for more details.
The minimum requirements are:
Offers are normally based on achieving three A levels or equivalent at Level 3, although some University subject areas may specify differently.
You must have a minimum of two A level equivalents at Level 3 in two subjects (ie two A levels or one vocational double award).
We base offers on a combination of GCSE/AS/VCE A level/A level/other qualifications or predicted grades, your personal statement and reference.
See our GCSE conversion table to understand how A* to C grades are matched with the numerical system.
Kent welcomes the introduction of Core Mathematics qualifications to provide students with the opportunity to develop their mathematical skills beyond GCSE.
As the University is a nationally recognised Q-Step centre for quantitative social science skills, we value the importance of giving our students the chance to develop broader statistical, problem-solving, evaluation and data analysis skills.
We believe students taking degree subjects that do not require an A level in Mathematics benefit from taking a Level 3 Core Mathematics qualification from the suite available.
Although not a prerequisite for admission, we would continue to look positively on applications from students offering Core Mathematics qualifications.
The University welcomes applications from prospective students offering the full IB Diploma.
We make offers solely on the basis of the IB marking scheme and not the UCAS tariff.
We have a standard IB Diploma offer of 34 points across all programmes of study including any specific subjects at higher or standard level required by the particular degree programme.
As an alternative to achieving 34 points, for most programmes, the University will also make IB students the offer of passing the IB Diploma with specific achievement in higher/standard level subjects.
Both offers will be communicated to UCAS.
Students offering a combination of IB certificates and other qualifications, such as A levels, Advanced Placement Tests or the International Baccalaureate Career-related Programme (IBCP), will also be considered on their individual merits and should contact the Recruitment and Admissions Office for additional guidance.
The University will consider applicants holding T Level qualifications in subjects which are closely aligned to the programme applied for; this will be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
We are happy to consider other qualifications on a case-by-case basis, including the following qualifications, providing they demonstrate a satisfactory standard and include a pass in English at the equivalent of GCSE:
For information on entry requirements for your country, see our International Student website , or email international@kent.ac.uk .
In order to enter directly on to a degree programme, you also need to show evidence of your proficiency in English language.
The University also accepts some school qualifications in English.
Students requiring an educational visa will be restricted to particular tests that are acceptable to UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI), such as IELTS.
For details, see our English language requirements .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/transfer-in:
Start by carrying out some research into the financial support available to you for your studies and the course(s) entry requirements.
A personal statement is your opportunity to tell us why you want to study on the course and to detail any relevant experience you have.
It's also the perfect place to explain your reason(s) for transferring:
When you are ready you can apply in two ways:
If you’re looking to transfer credits you'll need to provide the following:
Accreditation Prior Learning (APL)
Prospective students who have previously gained credits at another institution may apply for Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL).
The two different types of Accreditation of Prior Learning are:
To learn more about the APL process, visit our webpage here: APECL - University of Kent
Find the best room for you with a range of meal plans and locations.
The right course for you and where you want to go.
Search our scholarships to see if you're eligible.
We have a number of campus tours and open days throughout the year.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/international-programmes/english-and-academic-skills:
All international students registered at the University can participate in the free English Language and Academic Skills (ELAS) series of workshops, which are designed to help you improve in areas such as:
In addition to the taught workshops, you can book individual speaking or writing tutorials.
The ELAS workshops run alongside your degree studies in the autumn and spring terms, for five weeks on Wednesday afternoons.
Note that ELAS workshops do not carry academic credits and so do not contribute to the credits you need for your degree.
If you attend at least 70% of an ELAS workshop series, you will receive a certificate of attendance.
By attending ELAS workshops you earn Employability Points (5 points per two hours up to a maximum of 20 points per workshop series – excludes individual speaking and writing tutorials).
To claim your points, you need to log them on My Folio .
If you are new to essay writing in English then we recommend you join EDUC0001 Essay Writing .
These workshops cover writing clearly structured introductions, paragraphs and conclusions, adding coherence and cohesion to your writing and incorporating sources.
To further develop your critical reading and
writing skills we recommend you join EDUC0014 Advanced Writing and Research .
Here you will develop strategies to navigate texts and find relevant
information at speed, and gain confidence to question, analyse, evaluate and
interpret source material, including identification of bias, unbalanced
argumentation or generalisation within that source material.
Autumn term dates: Wednesday afternoons in Weeks 10, 11, 14, 15 and 16 (weeks 3, 4, 7, 8 and 9 of term)
Spring term dates: Wednesday afternoons in Weeks 26, 27, 28, 31 and 32 (weeks 3, 4, 5, 8 and 9 of term)
To book: Sign up here .
To improve your English grammar at both sentence and paragraph level we recommend you sign up to EDUC0002 Grammar .
These workshops explore identifying different types of sentences and constructing active and passive sentences using diverse verb forms, noun phrases and relative clauses.
For higher level English grammar workshops where you will identify and employ functional devices to produce complex, cohesive, objective, neutral, and persuasive text then sign up to EDUC0015 Advanced Grammar .
Here you will also identify basic syntactical and morphological features of
English and compare them with those of your first language.
Spring term dates: Wednesday afternoons in Weeks 26, 27, 28, 31 and 32 (weeks 3, 4, 5, 8 and 9 of term)
If you have not previously delivered a presentation in English or need help structuring your presentations and want to improve your seminar skills, we recommend you sign up for EDUC0003 Seminar Discussion and Presentation Skills .
If you are more confident presenting your work and participating in seminar discussions but would like to further develop and enhance your critical and analytical skills, using techniques to engage and persuade audience, sign up to EDUC0016 Advanced Speaking Skills .
In our EDUC0004 Listening and Note-taking workshops you will learn how to make the most of your lectures and seminars by using tools to help you understand and make a record of all essential information.
Before booking workshops, please check your timetable to ensure you are able to attend.
If you are having difficulty registering for our workshops, or you need further advice, please email globallearning@kent.ac.uk .
Individual speaking tutorials give you the opportunity to refine your spoken accuracy, fluency, and pronunciation for seminars and presentations with an academic member of staff, who will give you advice and feedback on your speaking.
Tutorials are available all year.
To book, please email globallearning@kent.ac.uk with the subject line 'Speaking tutorial'.
Individual writing tutorials give you the opportunity to discuss your academic writing with a member of staff from International Programmes, who will give you advice on the structure, coherence, and cohesion of your work.
Please note: this is not a proofreading service.
To book, please email globallearning@kent.ac.uk with the subject line 'Writing tutorial'.
We also offer non-credit workshops in intercultural communication and competencies.
Our Talking Cultures workshops run in Autumn and Spring and are open to all students.
Our in-sessional elective modules are credit-bearing modules that students on social science or humanities courses can choose to study as part of their degree programme.
Our Talking Cultures module explores cultural differences, stereotypes and prejudices and is designed to enhance intercultural awareness and communication.
If you would like to choose any of these modules, discuss your choices with your academic adviser.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/international/international-admission-deadlines:
Speak to our International Recruitment team who can help and advise you on your application to Kent.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/208/economics:
Our four-year PhD programme provides rigorous training for careers in professional and academic economics, and offers a stimulating, supportive, and structured environment in which highly-qualified graduates can develop economic research skills that will enable them to make an original contribution to economic knowledge.
We aim to produce economists who are sought-after by leading economics departments and research institutions around the world.
Recent PhD students have been highly successful in securing internships and employment in academia and the private sector.
Our Economics faculty includes leading researchers in several fields, including macroeconomics, labour and development economics, microeconomic theory and agri-environmental economics.
All students will receive expert supervision by a research-active member of staff.
PhD students also have the opportunity to contribute to the teaching and research activity of the School and are encouraged to participate in seminars and present their own work.
The School of Economics is dedicated to excellence in both teaching and research, as demonstrated by our results in the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 and recent national student surveys.
Our academic staff are active in research, and teaching and learning are informed by the School’s thriving research culture and strong cosmopolitan academic community.
We currently have 35 academic staff, with about 30-40 MSc and 40-50 PhD students, which has the benefit of a good community for interaction between students and that each student receives a good deal of individual attention in classes and workshops.
It also means that we are able to offer excellent facilities for research.
Our postgraduate student community is global with many of the students originating from outside the UK and Europe.
There are also a number of different nationalities represented within the academic staff.
You will be able to integrate into this multicultural environment and build yourself an international professional network for the future.
We provide an environment in which you can both develop as an economist and complete a high quality thesis, plus the appropriate resources to achieve this.
All our PhD students are given dedicated office and computer facilities and have full access to the University’s excellent resources.
Our location, on the University’s Canterbury campus, gives easy access to both London and continental Europe.
You receive committed supervision, with regular appointments with your supervisor(s) to discuss your work, receive timely and constructive feedback on all the work that you do, and advice on how to present your work externally.
Over the last few years, the School has scored highly in the Postgraduate Research Student Survey, underlining our commitment to creating an excellent environment for our research students.
In addition to the provision within the School of Economics, as a postgraduate student you also have the support of the Graduate and Researcher College , which is a focus for all graduate activity at Kent and provides specialist academic and personal advice and guidance.
The Graduate School co-ordinates the Researcher Development Programme and facilitates cross-disciplinary interaction and social networking.
The Graduate School also provides formal training and development for research students who are required to teach.
Kent's Graduate School co-ordinates the Researcher Development Programme for research students, which includes workshops focused on research, specialist and transferable skills.
The programme is mapped to the national Researcher Development Framework and covers a diverse range of topics, including subject-specific research skills, research management, personal effectiveness, communication skills, networking and teamworking, and career management skills.
The School of Economics has a strong research culture and an international reputation in several fields, particularly applied microeconomics (labour and agri-environmental), quantitative macroeconomic theory, macro and microeconometrics and economic development.
The School is home to two research centres and one research group:
CEAS has a long history of participating in agri-environmental research and policy debate.
Founded in 1974 to conduct research into the implications of the UK's entry to the European Economic Community, CEAS has developed into a centre of research excellence, focusing on food and agri-environmental policy in the UK and Europe.
MaGHiC brings together a large number of researchers at the School whose main interests lie in the wide area of macroeconomics.
MaGHiC is the focal point for macroeconomic research, impact and training at the University of Kent.
The centre's main focus is on the analysis of macroeconomic issues, including productivity and growth, labour markets, income distribution, business cycles and macroeconomic phenomena from a historical perspective.
The group also has technical strength in computational economics, macroeconometric modelling and forecasting, and expertise in building long-run macroeconomic time series and reconstructing historical national accounts.
In addition to the two research centres, the School has an active microeconomics research group, whose members' research spans applied and theoretical microeconomics, and microeconometrics.
The group's research covers a wide range of areas with the main focus being on development economics, labour and education economics, microeconometrics, games and behavioural economics, the economics of food, economic geography, industrial organisation and the economics of tax.
A PhD in the area of economics is a particularly valuable and flexible qualification that can open the door to exciting careers in many professions.
Our PhD programme provides rigorous training for careers in professional and academic economics.
Our graduates have gone on to work as economists in international organisations, the financial sector, business, UK and overseas governments, and to academic careers at Kent and UK and overseas universities.
The 2025/26 annual tuition fees for this course are:
If you are uncertain about your fee status please contact information@kent.ac.uk .
You'll need regular access to a desktop computer/laptop with an internet connection to use the University of Kent’s online resources and systems.
We've listed some guidelines for the technology and software you'll need for your studies .
Find out more about student accommodation and living costs , as well as general additional costs that you may pay when studying at Kent.
Search our scholarships finder for possible funding opportunities.
You may find it helpful to look at both:
We have a range of subject-specific awards and scholarships for academic, sporting and musical achievement.
Unlock your potential with scholarships up to £5,000
Next steps
All applications should include:
Please note that students are not required to state a proposed supervisor as supervisors will be allocated during the PhD.
The relevant question on your application can be left blank.
Learn more about the applications process or begin your application by clicking on a link below.
Learn more about the application process or begin your application by clicking on a link below.
You will be able to choose your preferred year of entry once you have started your application.
You can also save and return to your application at any time.
Please note, international applications for September 2025 are no longer being accepted.
The deadline for submission was 30 June 2025.
Any applications submitted after this date will be considered for the next available intake.
Our friendly team is on hand to help you with any queries you have.
Find the right supervisor for your and your research project.
Experience our stunning campuses.
Everything you need to know about applying to Kent from abroad.
Supporting your success
Kent ranked top 40 in The Times Good University Guide 2025 .
Fees and funding
Kent has risen 11 places in THE’s REF 2021 ranking, confirming us as a leading research university.
Accommodation
For more information, see our terms and conditions .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/taught-masters/modes-of-study:
For taught programmes, your mode of study is defined by the programme type, course content and your academic supervisor.
At Kent, you can study full-time, part-time or by distance learning.
Before you choose a programme, check the course page or use our course search and filter by study mode to see your options.
Full-time study allows you to focus solely on your postgraduate programme.
Similar to undergraduate level, you spend the majority of your time in seminars, lectures and completing practical work and independent learning tasks.
It is a popular method for students progressing directly from an undergraduate degree.
Part-time taught programmes generally take twice as long as full-time programmes to complete, but they also allow you to work throughout your studies.
Studying part-time can also help you to enhance your career prospects while remaining with your employer.
The University does not sponsor international students for part time programmes or part time mode of study.
A Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) will only be issued for full time programmes/mode of study.
If you require immigration permission as a Student to study in the UK, you will only be able to study full time.
At Kent, it is possible to start some taught postgraduate programmes in January.
This gives you more opportunities to apply for postgraduate funding and the flexibility to begin your studies without waiting for entry in September.
If you're applying straight after completing your undergraduate degree, our January intake allows you more time to consider what you want to study.
We know that not everyone is confident about embarking on a full Master’s, or perhaps you would prefer to study shorter courses.
Kent has a range of options including the taster courses taught online , as well as stand-alone modules including Child Protection by distance learning.
Kent offers a number of postgraduate qualifications in alternative delivery formats.
Some of our programmes are purely online distance learning and others incorporate study days at one of our campuses.
Support is always available from your tutors and the University.
The main advantage is that you have the flexibility to plan your study around work or family commitments.
The University does not sponsor international students for distance learning programmes.
Should you be required to come to the UK for study related purposes for a short period, you should be able to apply/enter as a Visitor.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/research-phd/modes-of-study:
You can study full-time, part-time or by distance learning.
You can also study a jointly supervised PhD, external research degree or professional training.
Before you choose a postgraduate programme, consider the options available.
You can check the specific programme page or use our course search and filter by study mode.
Similar to undergraduate level, you spend the majority of your time in seminars, lectures and completing practical work and independent study.
At Kent, it is possible to start some postgraduate research programmes in January or May, as well as September.
These additional start dates give you more opportunities to apply for postgraduate funding and the flexibility to begin your studies without waiting for entry in September.
See the programme pages for more information about alternative start dates.
Dual research awards (widely known as cotutelles) offer PhD students the chance to be jointly supervised by the University of Kent and a university in another country.
This results in a dual award of a PhD from Kent and a doctorate from the partner university.
The University of Kent has partnered with specific global institutions and have set up cotutelles for students to apply to.
These opportunities are found on our find a scholarship page when available.
The University will issue immigration sponsorship to international students requiring a Student visa for the academic year that they intend to undertake their studies in the UK.
Studying by flexible learning has the benefit of allowing you to develop your career without having to leave employment and many of our programmes incorporate a work-based element.
You will be able to apply new knowledge and insights to your working life while you are still studying.
The University of Kent has an excellent reputation for research, both in the UK and internationally.
We have developed an external research degree programme that allows you to remain in your home country while studying for a fully accredited UK qualification.
External research degrees are designed for those who are in the process of establishing their careers or who need to study alongside other commitments.
They are ideal for individuals who are looking for an opportunity to undertake a PhD but may not be in a position to relocate or take time out from work.
As an external research student at Kent, you are required to meet the same entry requirements as all other research degree candidates at the University.
Full details of the application process and requirements are available from the links below.
For international students wishing to undertake their entire programme from overseas and who would not therefore require immigration sponsorship, you should apply as an external research student.
External Research fees are calculated as a percentage of the Overseas Fee rates.
For Full-time study you will pay 75% of the Overseas Full-time fee rate or for Part-time study you will pay 75% of the Overseas Part-time Fee Rate.
See our course fees look-up table for the overseas full-time rates for each programme.
Candidates from outside the University of Kent may apply to the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy by means of submitting published works.
The University will award this degree to registered candidates whose submitted work:
Admission is a two stage process.
Not all Schools offer this mode of study so check with the relevant School and obtain support from a potential supervisor before proceeding with an application.
School or staff contact details can be found on the school's website.
Alternatively, you can use our Find a supervisor search tool to look up academics.
Please submit an admissions application via the relevant PHD course page Apply button.
Please ensure you include:
Before undergoing a prima facie assessment of your existing work, you are required to pay the initial assessment fee of £500 via the online store .
There is a £500 fee for this initial assessment, which you can pay online .
If you pass the prima facie stage, you are eligible to progress to full registration.
You will be registered as a part-time student for 12 months and liable to pay fees at the full-time research council UK rate.
For more information, please see the Regulations for Research Courses of Study Annex 2 for non-staff.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/taught-masters/conversion-programmes:
Whether you’re looking for a change of direction or to develop your skills further, a conversion course will start you on the right track.
Kent offers a range of conversion programmes such as business and computing courses for students from an entirely different background, while our Master's degrees in law or journalism develop your academic and professional skills in new areas.
Here are some of our most popular conversion programmes.
You will find more opportunities on the full online prospectus.
Gain the skills for a lucrative career on our Institute & Faculty of Actuaries accredited MSc.
Join a 'triple crown' accredited business school and benefit from industrial placements.
A fast-track route to qualifying as an actuary.
A career focused Master’s at Kent Business School.
Gain an employability edge and thrive.
Prepare for a career in healthcare management or for doctoral research with this accredited MSc.
Accredited by CILT and CIPS, this MSc equips you for a career in a vital area of the modern economy.
Build the skills you need to become an inspirational project manager, strategist or consultant.
Start exciting career paths with our conversion Master's.
No prior computing knowledge is required.
Sets you up for a career in leading software, technology and commercially global companies.
Accredited by the UK government's National Cyber Security Centre.
The world is full of data, from global banks to Formula 1 teams, supermarkets and the United Nations.
Data scientists ask and answer questions like what happened, why it happened, what will happen, and what can be done with the results.
Make your way as a writer and discover your potential.
Experience our impressive facilities and campus-based film culture.
The Kent LLM allows you to broaden and deepen your knowledge and understanding of law by specialising in one or more different areas.
Take the lead in your career and develop the relevant skills with a CMI and IOE&IT accredited MSc.
Convert into a marketing expert within just a year with this CIM accredited Master's.
If you find yourself with a passion for better understanding human behaviour but didn't take a degree in Psychology, this course is for you.
Move onto one of our specialist MSc courses, fast-tracking you into your dream Psychology career.
Get a 360-degree perspective on child protection on this fully accredited distance learning course.
This MSc is a flexible, part-time, work-related programme for registered dental care professionals.
Study with qualified social workers, this is your route into professional practice.
A part-time, work-related programme for participants from the private, public and third sector.
A part-time programme for qualified teachers developing working practice to Master's level.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/apply/faqs:
If you find that your query is not addressed or if you have any specific questions, please call 01227 768896 or email information@kent.ac.uk
It's simple: find your course on our website, then apply directly online.
Any questions, contact our friendly team on information@kent.ac.uk .
We have a wide range of bursaries and scholarships.
To see whether you're eligible visit the Scholarships pages .
All lectures are recorded and accessible online.
See the Kent E-Learning pages for details.
Our libraries also have fantastic digital resources.
On lots of courses you can.
Go to the course search and filter by study mode for a list of part-time degrees.
Tuition fees vary depending on the type of course.
You can find the tuition fee for your course on our postgraduate course pages .
For details of the nursery on Canterbury campus, visit the Oaks Day Nursery site .
For information on Busy Bees nursery just 10 minutes from our Medway campus visit the Busy Bees website .
You can get to Canterbury or Medway from London in under an hour, with both campuses easy to reach by bus, cycle or on foot from local railway stations.
Parking may be available for commuting students.
Decide where you’ll feel most at home and find out how you can secure a guaranteed room offer.
Canterbury accommodation is on campus; Medway accommodation is set on the riverside, just a 10-minute walk from campus.
There’s lots of support on hand: our Student Learning Advisory Service offers help with study, writing and research skills and our wellbeing team are on hand if you need emotional or mental health support or you have a disability.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/conferences-and-events/holidays/bed-and-breakfast:
We offer a wide selection of mostly en-suite accommodation on our beautiful Canterbury campus, rated 4-5* rated by VisitEngland.
Rooms includes bed linen, towels, tea and coffee-making facilities, an en-suite bathroom, and complimentary toiletries.
En-suite single room - £58 per night (Sun-Thu) and £68 per night (Fri-Sat)
En-suite double room - £83 per night (Sun-Thu) and £87 per night (Fri-Sat)
En-suite single room - £53 per night (Mon-Sun)
En-suite single room - £58 per night (Sun-Thu) and £70 per night (Fri-Sat)
En-suite double room - £83 per night (Sun-Thu) and £89 per night (Fri-Sat)
All en-suite rooms include a private shower, toilet, wash basin, tea and coffee making facilities, towels, and bed linen.
Check in is from 15:00 on the day of arrival and check out is by 11:00 on the day of departure.
Please note that late check-out will incur a charge.
Upon check-in at reception, guests receive a key/fob for secure access to their accommodation.
We recommend keeping the fob with you at all times.
Our B&B guests receive a coloured disc with their room key which is used to redeem a complimentary breakfast.
The disc’s colour indicates where the breakfast will be served.
Double en-suite rooms available in Tyler Court C throughout the year.
Single and double en-suite rooms available during our vacation periods on a  B&B basis.
Book your accommodation today and enjoy staying with us at the University of Kent.
We have both B&B and self-catered accommodation nearby for you to book.
We have over 150 venues to choose from on our Canterbury campus for your conferences and events.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/sustainability/our-campus/climate-action:
We are working in partnership with Siemens Energy to deliver infrastructure improvements across our built estate and develop a carbon reduction strategy to help us achieve our net zero targets.
Along with over 1,000 HE institutions worldwide, we have signed the Race to Zero a global initiative for a zero carbon world, committing us to taking action and reporting on our progress.
We run both certified Carbon Literacy and interactive Climate Fresk workshops on request for staff and student groups.
Please contact the team if you are interested in arranging a session.
Access all the resources from our recent staff energy campaign including videos, energy saving tips and information from COP 29.
Day-to-day, energy use such as heating, cooling and lighting is managed by the Commercial Services and Estates (CSE) Department.
Net Zero is one of the 5 core commitments of our Sustainability Strategy 2025-30, supported by the Net Zero Working Group reporting to the Sustainability Steering Group
Read our carbon management plan for 2024-25 which sets out our targets, baselines, responsibilities and governance structures to support our carbon emissions reduction.
Our full carbon emissions footprint for the 2023/24 academic year for our operational (scope 1 and 2) and wider scope emissions including supply chain, transport and business travel.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/accommodation/living-on-campus:
Learn more about the support available at the Canterbury campus, designed to help you get back to making the most of your university experience.
Life at a campus university is so much more than just studying.
It’s about getting involved and becoming part of the student community.
Any Kent student can join one of over 250 groups, with new ones always forming.
You’ll meet people with similar interests, have fun, and develop transferable skills by joining.
As a campus resident, you’ll enjoy exclusive facilities on top of the furniture and appliances in your room—all designed to make your life easier.
View those all-important accommodation documents here or login to your accommodation applicant portal.
"Moving away from home is a big step, and campus accommodation is the first little step in that.
You are given everything you need and it now feels like a home away from home." James, Campus resident
Useful information
Are you arriving this September ?
Find out everything you need to know about beginning your journey at Kent.
For peace of mind, if you need to change rooms for financial, personal, or other reasons, we offer a room move or swaps starting in November to ensure you’re comfortable and happy on campus.
Accommodation with a meal plan (part-catered) does not include vacation periods.
To see all move-in and move-out dates, visit our Vacation Accommodation page for details.
If your accommodation contract doesn’t include vacation periods but you’d like to stay on campus, vacation accommodation is available at an additional cost.
Expecting Visitors?
We offer a range of bed-and-breakfast guest accommodation year-round, so there’s no need to squeeze everyone into your room.
Explore the University of Kent Canterbury campus accommodation with students Lueje,  Jonathan, Sharunya and Linda.
A Black-centric guide to navigating student life at Kent.
Campus Security is here to help and is available 24/7, 365 days a year
Providing advice, workshops and tools to prepare students and graduates for employments and further study.
Find information on local health services near our Canterbury campus, as well as nationwide NHS helplines for support wherever you are.
Students are responsible for keeping their accommodation clean, but each college has a housekeeping team to provide support and guidance.
The Kent Students’ Union is here to support you every step of the way – from the moment you choose Kent, through to graduation and beyond.
Each college is equipped with self-service washing machines and tumble dryers, operated by Circuit Laundry, conveniently located nearby.
Learn more about our reception services and how you can receive mail while studying at Kent.
Easily report any repairs needed in your accommodation using the Home at Halls app—all without leaving your room!
For on-campus residents – Our ResLife team is here to help you make friends, build connections, and fully embrace university life.
A team of experienced advisers who are on hand to support you throughout your studies across an extensive range of academic skills.
Helping students understand the cost of study, how to manage their money, and take full advantage of any financial support available.
Expert staff to support students with academic adjustments, mental health, disability, autism, SpLDs (including ADHD and dyslexia), and accessibility.
We’re committed to the Student Accommodation Code (SAC), ensuring you stay informed about your accommodation rights.
Find out all you need to know about arriving in Medway this September.
Easily travel between the Canterbury and Medway campus with our free shuttle service.
Kent Students' Union is part of the Hub partnership of Students' Unions located in Medway (led by Greenwich SU).
They run a host of activities throughout the year.
The Student Welfare and Community Life Teams provide advice, support, and guidance on all aspects of university life, along with a regular program of activities for you to enjoy.
Modern accommodation with en-suite rooms, shared kitchens, free Wi-Fi, laundry facilities, and 24/7 security.
Located near campus, it's perfect for comfortable student living.
Choose a contract length to suit you.
We offer contracts between 39 - 51 weeks.
Maintenance issues or damage can be reported to Pier Quays reception or via the MyUnite App anytime.
Include a laundry room, cycle storage, recreational areas including an outdoor courtyard and two social/study spaces, a Dominos Pizza, Subway and Tesco Express.
A dedicated reception which is open 24 hours a day to answer your queries and keep any deliveries secure and ready for you to collect.
Pier Quays has electronic entry systems, 24/7 CCTV as well as it's own security team you can contact at any time.
You can also download the SafeZone App.
Two modern and stylish study hubs within Pier Quays, the ideal place to relax, study or hang out with friends.
Everything you need to live smart – with features including flat chat, property updates, 24/7 wellbeing and service support, account management.
Accommodation costs include utility bills, internet, and personal contents insurance when you apply directly through the University's MyAccommodation portal.
Explore the University of Kent Medway campus accommodation, Pier Quays, with students Amarchi, Beyke and Jasmine.
Hear their experience of living on campus and how birthdays and parties have brought them together.
All our University accommodation belongs to one of seven colleges with Pier Quays part of the Medway College .
Colleges are looked after by the Colleges and Community Life Team who can offer you advice, help and support on a variety of topics on University life and run a regular programme of activities you can join.
The University also has an award-winning Student Support and Wellbeing Team that offers a range of services including emergency support, community events, counselling, support groups, accessibility and learning support and much more.
Take a look at all the accommodation options we have available across the Canterbury campus.
Live on the Canterbury campus to gain independence, meet new people, and stay close to the action, with a range of room options available.
Join our friendly Medway community to meet people, make friends and get a university experience to remember by living in Pier Quays .
Find answers to the most common questions from prospective and current students.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/careers:
Become employable!
Boost your CV and kickstart your career with these activities.
Different ways to enhance your employability.
Develop your skills at our workshops and employer events.
Our 15 minute check-in service!
Get feedback on your CV, cover letter, applications or LinkedIn.
Make the most of your time at Kent by using your Careers and Employability Service
Discover a range of opportunities including jobs, internships and placements.
Find out more
Explore the steps you can take to find part time work whilst you study.
Strategic career planning helps you align your skills and passions with future job opportunities.
Start planning today!
Step-by-step guidance to help you apply for part-time work, placements, internships, and graduate employment.
Considering further study?
Explore your options here.
We support students of all years and stages, including our graduates (for up to three years after graduation).
Explore our pages to make the most of your university experience and early years as a graduate.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/careers/career-planning/work-experience:
A placement year gives you the opportunity to gain valuable real-world experience.
By applying your knowledge in practice, you gain insights that you can then use in your final year of study.
Many courses at Kent come with the option of a placement year or a year in industry.
You spend up to 12 months employed in a role related to your studies, undertaking graduate-level tasks and projects.
The placement takes place between your second and final year and counts towards your final degree.
It is possible to apply for placements in the UK or abroad.
If you are an international student, you could choose to spend a year working in your home country.
Finding a placement with a major graduate employer is competitive.
Your application must show that you have the skills and abilities to do the job, understand what the work will involve and know about the sector you'll be working in.
Take a look at our guidance on writing CV's and covering letters .
If you are interested in a particular type of work or employer that does not regularly advertise placements, you may need to make the first approach (this is called a speculative approach).
It’s important to note that although the Careers and Employability Service will support you when applying for placements, you are responsible for finding the placement.
There will also be support staff in your academic school who will be able to help you,
Search for placements
Virtual internships are flexible, online opportunities, where you can undertake remote experience.
Many virtual internships exist in the fields of IT, sales, journalism, marketing and software development.
Some employers will give you project work/tasks to complete over a period of time, and you may have regular catch-ups and support from the employer during your virtual internship.
Depending on the sector and nature of the role, you may not be able to undertake all the elements of an in-situ internship, due to client/patient confidentiality.
However, you are still able to experience some of the work of a trainee and the function of the business.
If you're interested, visit Indeed's website which advertises remote internships.
Bright Network four-day virtual internship programme (26th-29th June) - applications are now open .
Different sectors available: Business, Marketing, Law, Finance, Consulting, Banking, Investment, Public Sector, Charity and Technology.
Forage hosts company-backed free open-access virtual internships.
They allow you to build career skills, gain experience and increase your understanding of different careers.
Opportunities include those in Law, Design, Tech, Investment Management, Banking and more!
Companies include: Linklaters, JP Morgan Chase & Co, Accenture, Citi, White & Case, KPMG
Sign-up for free here: www.theforage.com
RateMyPlacement.co.uk has teamed up with Inside Sherpa and Development Beyond Learning (DBL), to launch a FREE work ready virtual experience.
The work ready virtual experience consists of three modules.
Each one allows you to build specific skills that translate into the workplace - Wellbeing and resilience under lockdown, virtual first impressions and remote networking.
www.ratemyplacement.co.uk/blog/work-ready-virtual-experience-free/
If you do not want to commit to an additional year at university, you can still gain valuable experience through volunteering.
In some sectors such as environment, media and heritage, paid work opportunities can be limited, so volunteering can be a good way of gaining relevant experience in an area you are passionate about.
If you secure unpaid work experience, providing the work is at graduate-level, you may be entitled to funding from our Kent Career Fund.
The organisations below are a good place to start if you are looking for volunteering opportunities.
There are also a wide range of local organisations that welcome volunteers.
Students seeking internships in France, Spain or Italy will probably be asked for a “Convention de Stage’ or ‘Convenio de Colaboracin’ or ‘Accordo di collaborazione’ by French, Spanish and Italian host companies.
The agreement is basically a work contract for an internship position.
It is a standard tripartite agreement between the University of Kent, the Employer and yourself confirming that you are enrolled as a current University of Kent student and that you will be returning to university following your internship.
It states that the purpose of the internship is to allow the student to apply his/her theoretical knowledge into practice.
Therefore, your academic school will need to approve the internship as being of benefit to your degree course/intended career.
The more connections you make at university, the more you'll get out of the experience.
So look around, join societies, sports clubs, represent your course mates as a student rep, attend open lectures, become a student ambassador.
There are opportunities for you to improve the lives of your fellow students, while gaining new skills and  valuable experience which will help to impress employers when you graduate.
Being a student ambassador has allowed me to work on my inter-personal levels of communication, along with public communication.
Many students choose to work part-time while they are studying.
As long as you get the balance right between your studies and the number of hours you work, this can be a positive step.
If you don't want to work part-time during term time, you could consider summer vacation work.
You need to plan ahead though, so start applying early.
There are many ways to find part-time work at Kent.
As well as support from the Careers and Employability Service and Kent Union's Jobshop, there are many online resources you can make use of.
Have a look at our Part-Time work guide to take your first step towards finding a suitable role.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/careers/career-planning:
By giving support and advice when you need it we help you to put a plan in place to reach your goals
It’s never too soon to start planning your future; here's our year-by-year guide.
An A-Z list of our degrees and where they can take you.
Find out more about the field you want to work in.
Pursue your passion with postgraduate study or research
Just as it’s never too early to start planning for your future, it’s never too soon to start gaining work experience .
That’s why at Kent, we provide lots of opportunities to help you gain those valuable transferable skills that can make all the difference when you are applying for graduate roles.
Increase your skills and confidence and assess whether a particular role is for you.
Volunteering is rewarding.
You get to help others while gaining invaluable skills and experience.
Run a society or become a student ambassador.
It all shows you can take on extra responsibility.
Working part-time helps you financially and you can get to know your local community.
You may know the career you want to follow, but need advice on how to get there.
Or, you may be unsure of what you want to do next.
Either way a meeting with one of our careers advisers can help you to take the next step.
Meetings are relaxed and informal, designed to make open discussion easy.
To get the most out of your interview, it's worth doing some initial research in advance.
Our advisers are impartial and will help you to explore your options objectively; they’ll make sure you are aware of the pros and cons.
Career choice is a process not an event, the professional advice we provide can help you focus your research in the right areas.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/go-abroad/study-abroad:
Grow in confidence, enhance your employability and return to Kent inspired and motivated
The University of Kent has links with prestigious universities across the world.
Your choice of destination for the Year Abroad is dependent on your degree programme, so take a look at our A-Z list of destinations .
In many destinations teaching is in English, but we still encourage you to gain some skills in the local language.
It is possible to take modules in a range of languages at our Language Centre .
You'll be amazed at how quickly even the most rudimentary language skills improve once you are living in a country.
Naomi Gilad, Comparative Literature BA (Hons)
Studies have shown that students who study abroad are more likely to achieve a First or 2:1
Students who study abroad are more likely to be in graduate jobs and earn more than those who don't.
You'll make friends in the country you're studying in and meet other adventurous students from around the world.
Callum Marius, English Language & Linguistics and French BA (Hons) graduate
In a competitive market, having something that differentiates you from the crowd is a real plus.
By making the decision to study abroad you are demonstrating to future employers that you are flexible in your outlook and have the enthusiasm and drive to succeed in new environments.
You'll also have improved your communication skills, grown in confidence and have a great story to tell at your interview.
If it is not possible for you to study abroad as part of your degree programme, you could attend a summer school at one of our partner institutions.
You can choose to study in an area related to your degree or try something completely different.
With opportunities around the world, including in Europe, Asia and North America, there are plenty of destinations to choose from.
Explore your options through Summer Abroad.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/computing/about/year-in-computing:
Are you keen to learn the tech skills that will
make you stand out to a graduate employer and enable new career opportunities?
Year in Computing will give you the skills you need to get into a field that is
increasingly underpinning much of modern economy, science and culture.
You can take the Year in Computing either between Stage 2 and Stage 3 of your degree or at the end of Stage 3.
You’ll develop coding skills, learn how to create user-friendly computer systems and discover how to analyse data.
Students who successfully complete the Computing year and their home degree will graduate ‘ with a Year in Computing ‘.
The full transcript of your degree results will include your marks for the Year in Computing, as evidence of your achievement for potential employers.
To apply, please email cemsugandpgt@kent.ac.uk giving your student number.
Please note that if you are in your final year, there is an earlier deadline to enable graduation.
It is important to apply as soon as possible.
Miles Pitt - Year In Computing
This specially designed, one-year programme is accessible to all students with an interest in developing the skills in computing to further your career and passion.
A computing background is not necessary.
The course is taught on the Canterbury campus.
You will be exposed to a full range of
computing technologies, ranging from web programming to artificial intelligence
and machine learning.
Along the way, you will understand computer operating
systems, networks, learn a programming language, master working with data and
the development of web servers and web sites.
Thanks to the extensive
coverage of the web, you will be ready to build your own web services using
HTML, CSS and JavaScript that not only look good, but are designed with user
needs in mind.
Yes, if you are a University of Kent undergraduate student who:
Two groups of students are not eligible:
If your degree is accredited with a professional body, you will need to confirm with your home Division that this can include the option of a Year in Computing.
Students who successfully complete the Computing year and their home degree will graduate ‘with a Year in Computing‘.
Your degree classification will depend on your main degree subject and not the Year in Computing which is a pass/fail year.
If you pass the year, you will get ‘with a Year in Computing‘ added to your degree title.
If you fail, you will drop back to your current degree.
You do not risk your current degree classification by doing the year.
Please talk to staff in your home School about whether adding a Year in Computing will affect your accreditation or not.
The Year in Computing should be viewed simply as an additional year of study, making a three-year degree into a four-year degree.
If you pay your own tuition fees, then you will have to pay for an extra year.
For those eligible, student loans should normally be available for all four years.
However, it is your responsibility to check with the Loan Authority that they will continue to give you financial support on the new programme.
International students wishing to add the Year in Computing course will be approved on a case by case basis in accordance with UK immigration regulations and the University’s Student (Tier 4) policy on Academic Progression and Change of Course.
You also need to be aware that you may need to return home overseas to apply for a new visa to add the year to your degree.
Except for the project, modules on the Year in Computing are assessed by a mixture of coursework and unseen examinations.
Coursework is typically practical in nature, with deadlines spaced throughout the module.
You can study for a conversion Master’s in Computer Science if you have a good degree in another subject and neither this Master’s nor the Year in Computing assumes any prior knowledge of computing.
However, the content of the two programmes and the way they are funded are quite different.
Both of these programmes will equip you for a tech-based career.
It is important that you consider which is the most appropriate for you
Unfortunately not.
The programme is only open to current Kent undergraduates, not Master’s or PhD students.
Allana took a Year in Computing as part of her Economics and Politics degree
Cassie took a Year in Computing as part of her Comp Lit & English & American Lit degree.
Vanessa took a Year in Computing as part of her Business & Management degree
Joseph took a Year in Computing as part of his Film degree.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/clearing/keeping-calm-in-clearing:
We’ve covered this one already in our top tips for Clearing blog, but being prepared is the best way to reduce stress during Clearing.
Put together a shortlist of courses that you like the look of (considering their module content, placement years and graduate opportunities) and apply for those courses as soon as Clearing opens.
You’ll feel more at ease if you already have several courses that you can apply for straight away.
You’ll have heard before that sleep is a powerful stress reducer.
Being well rested improves concentration, regulates mood and sharpens judgment and decision-making – all of which are important during Clearing.
To power through the day ahead, try to get seven to nine hours of sleep on the night before results day.
Putting your phone on bedtime mode or ‘do not disturb’ an hour before going to bed will help you wind down as well.
You’re not on your own during Clearing.
Whether you want to speak to someone about your options or discuss your Clearing offers, there are people ready to listen and support you.
Firstly, speak to your teachers or career advisers at your school or college.
They’ll be familiar with how Clearing works and will be able to guide and advise you.
It’s best to speak to them before Clearing starts in case there’s anything you don't understand, but they’ll also be available on results day if you need a plan B.
Secondly, you can always speak to us.
We know our way around the Clearing process, and you don’t have to make an application to call our hotline.
If you have questions about our course vacancies, or want more info about the University, our Clearing operators can help you make an informed decision.
It sounds simple, but feeding yourself properly can make a difference to how you feel before Clearing.
If your body doesn’t get the energy it needs, you’ll find it harder to regulate stress and relax.
Drink plenty of water and eat nutritious meals.
Try not to drink too much caffeine, eat sugary snacks or resort to junk food.
They’re fine for a quick boost of energy, but they won’t sustain you for long.
Think about prepping some of your meals ahead of results day to maintain your energy levels.
It’s also important to take regular breaks, so make sure you step away from your computer and take some time out.
Taking a breather will help you stay focused and maintain your energy levels.
Instagram, Facebook, TikTok and Twitter are great platforms for doing your Clearing research, but they may not be as good for your mental wellbeing on results day.
If you’re concerned you won’t get the results you want, make sure not to compare yourself to others on social media.
Focus on what’s best for you and take a break from your socials if it’s affecting your morale.
If you want to stay in touch with friends and family, there are alternatives.
You can WhatsApp or text, or, if you want to focus entirely on the task at hand, turn your phone off altogether and wait until you’ve secured a place before diving back into your socials.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/clearing/international-students:
Scholarships available up to £5,000
Achieve your global ambition at Kent through Clearing.
Not sure what clearing is?
That's okay, here you can find out all your need to know about Clearing so you can start at Kent this September.
In England, most undergraduate students apply for University before the end of January - before they get their results.
However, this isn't always the case.
Clearing is an opportunity for you to apply to study in the UK after you have already had your exam results, or if you've just taken a bit more time to consider all of your options.
This means that you can be more confident in your decision making, and go through a far quicker application process.
You could apply now and be living and studying in the UK by September.
You’ll find our course vacancies on our website, and you can apply online.
If you want to talk through your options, just give our friendly team a call on +44 (0)1227 768 896 and they’ll be happy to help.
Clearing opens in July and closes in August.
If we make you an offer we'll just need you to confirm your results with us as soon as you have them.
International students can apply to study in the UK through Clearing.
As an International student, you will be eligible to apply through Clearing if:
Need advice and support applying through Clearing?
Contact our dedicated international team who will help guide you through the process +44 (0)1227 768 896 or email study@kent.ac.uk
We also work with agents across the word who can support you with your application.
Please refer to your country page for details.
In the QS World University Rankings 2025, Kent is ranked 380th in the world and 40th within the UK.
Kent is a welcoming and diverse community of over 100 countries.
With over 250 societies there is something for everyone.
Explore our Canterbury campus with students Harry and MJ as they take you on a tour of their favourite spots.
Discover the Medway campus with students Amarachi and DJ and find out what they think about living in Medway.
"Here in the UK we'll do everything we can to help you succeed."
- Bridget Phillipson, UK Secretary of State for Education.
The Education Secretary's satement on international students in the UK.
As an international student, you must apply by 26 August 2025 to be able to start at Kent this September through Clearing.
Need any more information?
Check out our international deadline page .
During Clearing our entry requirements change in real time to reflect the supply and demand of remaining course vacancies.
Check out our country pages where you can find out the typical entry requirements from your country .
You can check out all our remaining undergraduate courses in Clearing .
Any questions?
Get useful tips, advice and reminders about Clearing straight to your inbox.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/clearing/tips-for-clearing:
1 - The early bird...
You don’t have to wait for results day to find out what courses are available in Clearing.
Most universities will publish their course vacancies on 5 July.
Like Kent, some universities allow you to pre-register for vacancy information too.
At Kent we have our Clearing Fast Track service where you can sign up to recieve a call from our Clearing hotline team before - or on - results day itself.
As well as additional support and updates.
You can sign up here .
Do whatever you can to be ready for when hotlines open – usually at 8am.
You’re less likely to miss out on the course you want if you apply early, so get a plan of action ready and call us as soon as you get your results.
2 - Do the prep work
Spend some time researching what’s available and look at course detail as you did for your initial application:
Don’t be tempted to skip your student life research either.
Lower entry requirements might be tempting, but it’s important to enjoy where you study.
Scroll through our socials to get a feel for our campuses, accommodation, facilities and nightlife.
3 - Keep an open mind
Being flexible is the key to Clearing success.
Look at courses that you haven’t considered before and don’t be put off by unfamiliar degree titles.
They might have similar module content to the course you originally applied for.
If you’ve had a change of heart about your chosen subject, Clearing is the perfect opportunity to switch things up too.
Just remember to check the entry requirements and required subjects before you apply.
4 - Try to relax
We know, easier said than done, but you’re not on your own.
Speak to your school or college, they are there for you and will provide expert advice and support.
Be as organised as possible to help with your nerves.
Write down some essential info such as your exam results, examination boards and UCAS ID (if applicable).
Universities will ask for these details when you make an application.
It’s a good idea to jot down who you speak to and a summary of your conversation too.
5 - Take a road trip
Clearing isn’t a quick fix.
You’re at uni for three (or more) years, so wherever you choose should give you good vibes.
To get a feel for where's best for you, look out for ways to visit in the run-up to and after Results Day.
If you have time, head into the local town or city too.
Can you see yourself having nights out with friends, doing your weekly food shop or having a mooch around the high street?
x - Question everything
Once the Clearing process starts it can move pretty quickly.
Don't feel pressured to get off the phone, we're here to help you and really believe that there are no silly questions.
Take time to find out everything you want to know about the course, the University, clubs and societies, accommodation, surrounding areas and anything else that will help you to picture your life at Kent.
Our website has lots of information but there's nothing quite like hearing it first-hand.
Look out for ways to visit, either

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/clearing/prepare-for-results-day:
It’s a good idea to try and plan for different scenarios.
Make a list of your top three courses, but also have some backup options available.
You could also put together a list of alternative universities, pin their web pages to your browser and have their Clearing phone lines to hand in case you don’t get the results you expected.
Remember: stay calm and focused and you’ll be able to find a course that suits you
Every university will have different hotline hours during Clearing.
Most will stay open for extended periods on results day but make it part of your research to check their opening hours.
Visit our contact page for more information on our hotline opening hours.
Save yourself extra stress on results day by making sure your UCAS contact details are updated in advance.
It’s important to keep these details up to date so that any applications you make go smoothly.
If you need to change any of your details, try to do this as soon as possible.
Before you start making calls, get yourself ready by having all your important information and documents in one place.
These include:
Universities update their course vacancies in real time on their websites, so make sure you check them regularly.
Bear in mind that popular courses fill up quickly, which is why it’s a good idea to have a list of other options.
If you approach Clearing with an open mind, it can be an opportunity to challenge yourself and try new things.
Even if you don’t get the results you were expecting, there may be other courses out there that suit you perfectly.
If you stay flexible and you’re willing to experiment, Clearing could open all kinds of new doors for you.
You might feel anxious in the run-up to results day, so whether it's a teacher, friend or family member, make sure you have people around you that you can turn to for support.
We also have some tried and tested tips for keeping calm during Clearing that involve plenty of sleep and food.
And finally, make time to congratulate yourself on your achievements.
Whichever university you go to, you'll have new experiences, meet new people and work towards an exciting future!

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/clearing/prepare-for-clearing:
Book a call with our admissions team.
If you know you’ll be applying through Clearing, preparation is key.
Explore courses, gather your details and understand the process so you're ready to secure your place at Kent when Clearing opens.
If you haven't yet made an application on UCAS, or have since changed your mind and want to release from your first choice there are some key things that are helpful to know.
UCAS Clearing for 2025 opens on the 5 July 2025
UCAS Clearing for 2025 closes on the 20 October 2025
UCAS Extra is another chance to secure your place at Kent, between 26 February and 4 July 2025.
If you used all five of your choices on your original application and you’re not holding an offer, you’ll be able to add another choice using Extra.
If you are preparing to enter Clearing, UCAS Extra could be a way for you to get ahead!
In the QS World University Rankings 2025, Kent has been ranked 40th within the UK.
Get ahead and find your place as part of a global community at Kent.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/177/law:
This course gives you the knowledge and confidence to understand, question and apply the law.
At Kent, law is taught critically - not just as rules to be learned, but as a system that shapes the world and can be shaped in return.
You’ll study all the essential subjects of a law degree, but you’ll also look beneath the surface.
You’ll explore how law works in practice, who it serves, and how it could be made fairer, more effective, and more inclusive.
You’ll be taught by active researchers, legal professionals, and experts in legal education, and you can gain real experience working on live cases in our pioneering Law Clinic.
With lawyering skills built into the curriculum and a wide range of optional modules, you’ll graduate with the tools to thrive in the legal profession - or wherever your ambition takes you.
Why study Law at Kent?
This course requires a Very Good level of English language, equivalent to a high B2 on CEFR.
IELTS 6.5 with a minimum of 5.5 in each component
AAB
136 Tariff points from your IB Diploma, Typically H6, H6, H6 or equivalent.
Pass the University of Kent International Foundation Programme.
Pass the Access to HE Diploma with 45 credits at level 3, of which 30 should be passed at Distinction, 12 at Merit, and 3 at Pass; or 33 at Distinction, 6 at Merit, and 6 at Pass.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/1399/business-and-management-canterbury:
You have the option to add a year in industry to this course.
Book an appointment with a placement adviser via the careers service.
Yes, you’ll pay a substantially reduced fee.
Where can I get visa advice if I’m an international student?
You receive four-weekly check-in emails, a visit from the team every three months and you can reach out to us any time by email or phone.
The minimum requirement for an industrial placement is 44 weeks.
Taking a year abroad – whether you study at one of our prestigious partner universities or do an internship – is an amazing opportunity.
Is there any additional funding for the year abroad?
You may be able to apply for funding; check with our Go abroad team.
Do I have to pay tuition fees for the year abroad?
You don’t pay anything to the host uni.
Will I still get my maintenance loan?
When does the year abroad take place?
Between your second and final year.
Do I have to learn a foreign language?
You’re taught in English in many destinations, but you’ll get more out of your year if you learn the local language.
You have full access to all Kent’s support services as well as our dedicated Go abroad team.
ABB
DDM
128 Tariff points from your IB Diploma, Typically H5, H6, H6 or equivalent
Access to HE Diploma with 45 Credits at level 3 with 30 credits at Distinction and 15 credits at Merit
Fees for undergraduate students are £1,905.
Fees for undergraduate students are £1,430.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/3738/mechanical-engineering-beng:
BBB including B in Mathematics plus one other STEM subject.
DMM in an Engineering subject including Further Maths/Further Maths for Engineering Technicians/Calculus to Solve Engineering Problems.
Other subjects are considered on a case-by-case basis.
120 tariff points from your IB Diploma, including Maths (not Maths Studies) at 5 at HL or 6 at SL, or Maths: Analysis and Approaches at 5 at HL or 6 at SL, or Maths: Applications and Interpretations at 5 at HL or 6 at SL, and a science subject at 5 at HL or 6 at SL, typically H5, H6, H6 or equivalent.
A typical offer would be to obtain the Access to HE Diploma in a suitable subject with a minimum of 45 credits at Level 3, with 24 credits at Distinction and 21 credits at Merit.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/109/economics:
Study Economics | University of Kent
BBB
The University will consider applicants holding BTEC National Diploma and National Extended Diploma qualifications (QCF; NQF; OCR) on a case-by-case basis.
120 Tariff points from your IB Diploma, Typically H5, H6, H6 or equivalent
Mathematics grade B / 6.
However, those who hold GCSE Mathematics at grade 5 will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
The University welcomes applications from Access to Higher Education Diploma candidates, who will be considered on a case-by-case basis.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student/safezone:
The free campus safety app.
SafeZone is a free and simple-to-use app for our students and staff.
It's designed to help you summon first-aid, security or safety assistance via your mobile phone.
Once you are signed up, calls for assistance using the app will be received by our Campus Security Team.
They will know your location and act on your request.
Here's what you can use the app for:
For when you or a friend you needs medical assistance
If you feel threatened or need urgent assistance
Share your location with Campus Security for your personal safety
If there is an incident on campus that requires you to take action
Quick access to the University of Kent switchboard
Your location stays private unless you request assistance or check in
Our SafeZone app covers specific roads and footpaths in Canterbury between the two university campuses (University of Kent and Canterbury Christ Church University) and Canterbury city.
So you can get support in the city centre, as well as on campus.
You can register for the SafeZone app quickly in three simple steps.
Register for the University of Kent’s SafeZone service using your Kent email address.
You’ll be automatically redirected to our University of Kent secure single-on page.
You can then log-in using your usual University of Kent login and password.
Find out what regions are covered by tapping ‘Regions’ on the SafeZone app menu.
Fill out the 'SafeZone Overseas Travel Request Form' and email it to security@kent.ac.uk
If you're working alone outside normal hours, set a limit on the length of time you're checked in.
Here we answer some of your questions about the SafeZone app.
If you can't find what you're looking for email safezone@kent.ac.uk
No, the SafeZone app only shares your location with Campus Security when you press one of the three alert buttons (Emergency, First Aid, Help), or Check-In.
Even then, your location is only ever shared with Campus Security.
Your right to privacy is always respected and you can cancel any alert or check-in at any time.
When your alert is activated, Campus Security will receive the alert within seconds and call you immediately.
If you activate SafeZone accidentally, please answer your phone when Security call you so they know you are safe and do not require assistance.
If you do not answer, they may assume you require help and come to your location.
In the event of an emergency or first aid alert, Campus Security will telephone you immediately and attend as soon as possible.
SafeZone works on the Canterbury and Medway campuses plus Pier Quays accommodation in Gillingham as well as our centre in Paris.
View the regions by tapping ‘Regions’ in the SafeZone app menu.
If you are outside one of the regions and you press a SafeZone button, the app will offer a one-tap call to local emergency services instead.
When you press the 'Emergency' button, there is a few seconds countdown where you can cancel the call to Campus Security's emergency line.
If the call goes through, make sure you answer and speak to Campus Security to let them know it was accidental and that you are safe.
If you do not answer, Campus Security will assume you require help and come to your location.
Enquiries will be answered by the University’s switchboard, Monday to Friday, 09:00-17:00.
Outside of those hours enquiries will be answered by Campus Security Control Room.
SafeZone’s use of location services has been optimised to minimise battery draw-down so that it does not impact your day-to-day use of your smartphone.
SafeZone requires location services to be enabled, however it does not use your location until you press one of the alert or check-in buttons.
It is only when you raise an alert, or check-in, that your location will be shared with Campus Security.
The current app size on Apple devices is 162.2MB.
This equates to about the same storage as 33 photos on a typical phone (taking the average size of a photo to be 5MB).
Considering that many new phones come with a minimum of 32GB of storage space (sometimes more), SafeZone requires only about 0.5% of the total storage space.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/contact:
Find out why you belong at Kent
Get the low-down on Kent directly from our students.
It's easy – sign up, choose a student and ask whatever you'd like to know.
Our social media platforms are a great way to learn more about studying with us.
Follow, like or contact us to stay connected.
View our prospectuses online, download them as PDFs or order printed versions.
Explore Kent from anywhere in the world

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/whats-on/event/71841/canterbury-campus-tours-12:
Tours will be paused for Thursday 7 August 2025 and Thursday 14 August 2025.
The tour will be led by a student ambassador so feel free to ask plenty of questions about student life at Kent.
The tours are open to both undergraduate and postgraduate enquirers and applicants and run every Thursday on our Canterbury campus.
Once you've booked a tour on your chosen date, we'll send you further information about your visit.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/tuition-fees/undergraduate:
*The
Government announced on 4 November 2024 that tuition fees in England for Home
students will increase to £9,535 from £9,250 for the academic year 2025/26.
This
increase requires Parliamentary approval, which is expected to be given in
early/mid 2025.
Tuition fees may be increased in the second and
subsequent years of your course.
Detailed information on possible future
increases in tuition fees is contained in the Tuition Fees Increase Policy .
Your status will depend on nationality and residency.
Please note: We are making changes to the courses we offer and some of the course names below may be subject to change.
If your course is not listed in the table please contact us for further advice.
Please note that fees displayed may be subject to change and amendment.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/tuition-fees/postgraduate:
The
University will assess your fee status as part of the application process.
Your
status will depend on nationality and residency.
If you are uncertain about
your fee status you may wish to seek advice from UKCISA before
applying.
Students on research programmes of study who register as part-time should be supervised on that basis and not be allowed to finish early through working full-time on their PhD, whilst paying part-time fees.
Full fees will be payable up to the maximum period of registration if early completion is achieved.
Please see our Codes of Practice for Research Courses .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/tuition-fees/foundation:
*The Government announced on 4 November 2024 that tuition fees in England for Home students will increase to £9,535 from £9,250 for the academic year 2025/6.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/tuition-fees/miscellaneous:
Please read the course fee increases page for information about year-on-year fee increases.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/guides/finance-contacts:
Before contacting us, please check our FAQs as we may have already answered your question.
The Income Office can help with enquiries about paying your
tuition and accommodation fees.
Please contact the relevant school email address:
Virtual appointments are
available Monday-Friday, 10.00-15.00.
Phone lines are available Monday-Friday, 10.00-16.00.
Tel : +44 (0)1227 824242
The Student Funding Office are here to help answer queries regarding the Kent Financial Support Package (KFSP) or the additional student funds .
They are available Monday-Friday from 10.00-16.00 via telephone and email.
Virtual appointments are available on Tuesdays and Fridays.
Email: studentfunding@kent.ac.uk
Tel: +44(0)1227 827289
The Foreign Loans Office are here to help you
if you are applying for US Federal Direct loans (using FAFSA), US Private
loans, US Veterans Educational (GI Bill) Benefits, and Segal AmeriCorps
Education Awards .
They can also answer queries relating to other foreign
government loans, i.e.
Canadian Student Loans.
Information on US Loans .
Information on Canadian Loans .
Email: foreignloans@kent.ac.uk
The Insurance Office can help with any queries around insurance , including travel insurance for students studying or working abroad.
Email : insurance@kent.ac.uk
Kent Students' Union Advice Service offers free, confidential and impartial advice for students studying at Kent.
Email: advice@kent.ac.uk
The student Advice Service at The Hub provides free, confidential and impartial advice to all University of Kent students studying at the Medway campus.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/guides/fees-faqs:
Our
Billing Team is looking into the following error message some students are
getting on KentVision.
Once it is fixed and we can generate your tuition fee,
we will contact you via the KentVision portal to say you can complete Financial
Registration.
Thank you for your patience with this matter.
Process paused
"We are working to resolve an issue that occurred during your tuition fee generation.
Please try again later."
Save and exit >
In order to receive your payment of loans/grants from the Student Loans Company
(SLC) on the first day of the academic year, you would need to have submitted
your applications to Student Finance England (SFE) by the following dates:
Students
can still apply for student finance after these dates but there is no guarantee
they will receive payment at the start of the academic year.
If your funding is going to be delayed for any reason, there
are several steps you can take to help you manage the first few weeks:
Each year, for a range of reasons, some students may not
have their student finance in place when they arrive at university.
Reasons for
funding delays can include:
Any students who have been through Clearing after getting exam results still need to make sure that their student finance is sorted.
New guidance for any students in England going through Clearing is available on the Student Finance website .
If you've already applied for student finance but your course, university or college has changed through Clearing, you'll need to let Student Finance England know as it could affect what you're entitled to.
See this quick video on how to change your application .
Students can make changes to their course, college or university details online.
To make a change log into your Student Finance online account then Your Account > Change your application > University/college course.
Once your loan is confirmed, don’t forget to complete and submit your online declaration from your funding body (or sign and return the paper version, if applicable) or you won’t receive any payments at the start of term!
You can pay in full on or before the registration weekend.
You can also pay in two 50% instalments.
The first is due on or before registration weekend and the second by 1 December that academic year.
For information about how to pay and our accepted payment methods, visit our Making Payments page .
Yes – if you are receiving the PG Loan, you can pay in three equal instalments in line with your loan disbursements.
A payment plan should be set up via our online web payment system .
Please select Postgraduate with SLC Loan from the drop down menu.
When required, you will need to select the 'instalments' option.
Enter the total tuition fee you are liable to pay and the card details you would like the payments to come from.
A sponsored student is a student whose tuition fees are being paid for by a private company or other organisation, (not parents/relatives or Student Finance England).
We will require an original letter from your sponsor/company on headed paper.
The letter should include:
Please email the letter through to the Income Office .
A privately funded student is a student whose tuition fees are being paid by yourself or by parent or guardian.
If you are funded by the Student Loans Company, a Career Development Loan or US Loan this is also classed as privately funded.
If you are having financial difficulties it is important to let the Income Office know as soon as possible.
Failure to pay in the expected payment terms may affect your registration at the University.
You should also contact Kent Students' Union Advice Service for assistance with budgeting and to find out if support is available for you.
If you have applied, and been successful in receiving support, the University will be advised directly by The Student Loans Company.
This is provided that you have submitted all of the evidence required and completed the online declaration form (or returned the paper version if applicable).
The tuition fees are paid directly to the University, in instalments.
If you have not yet received this formal confirmation please check your online account with SLC, or contact them directly .
There may be a problem with your student loan, please contact the Income Office so we can advise you.
For information about tuition fee prices, please visit our Tuition Fee webpage .
Make sure to select the correct academic year.
If payment of tuition fees is not received as expected, you are at risk of receiving late payment charges.
For more information please see our Debt Management Policy .
Students are normally invoiced for their tuition fees in mid-late September.
If you need your tuition fee charge confirmed before this, please email tuitionfeeenquiries@kent.ac.uk and we can confirm your tuition fees.
If you change your mode of study from Full Time to Part Time in the middle of the academic year, you will be charged pro rata for the amount of months studied Full Time at the Full Time tuition fee rate and the remaining amount of months at the Part Time tuition fee rate.
If you are a new student you will need to contact the admissions team by emailing admissions@kent.ac.uk
If you are a current student you will need to contact the Financial Aid Office by emailing studentfunding@kent.ac.uk
Please email studentfunding@kent.ac.uk
The fastest and most convenient method of payment is our online payment system .
For details of other payment methods accepted by the University, please visit our Making Payments page.
See the different options for paying accommodation fees .
Students living in Pier Quays accommodation should contact Unite Students directly.
Payment is due at the start of each term or quarter, depending on whether you are an undergraduate or postgraduate student.
This information and the amounts payable are detailed in the online room agreement that you have signed up to with the Accommodation Office.
You will not be invoiced for accommodation.
Your room agreement acts as the invoice.
Undergraduate students in self-catering accommodation need to pay within the first two weeks of term.
Postgraduate students need to pay in the first two weeks of the quarter.
Read more about paying accommodation fees.
If you feel that you have special circumstances (i.e.
receiving a stipend from your sponsor or research studentship) you must have any special arrangements authorised by your account controller in the Income Office.
However, there will be staff located in the
Arrivals Hub to direct you how to pay.
Alternatively, to avoid the queues, you can pay online or via bank transfer
If payment for the accommodation fees is not received during the first two weeks of the term/quarter, you will receive a series of reminder letters and incur a late payment charge of 1.5% of any outstanding balance.
You may also be visited at your accommodation to discuss non-payment.
Please email your account controller with details about why you cannot pay on time and when you would be able to pay.
Accommodation fees can be funded through a student Maintenance Loan/Grant.
These are paid directly into your bank account, and then you can arrange the accommodation payment to the University.
This can be completed through our online payment system .
If you have not had formal confirmation of your funding and/or your funding is going to be delayed, you should contact the Financial Aid Office for advice, and also inform the Income Office .
The University cannot accept payment for Pier Quays accommodation at Medway as this is owned and managed by Unite Students.
Payment must be paid directly to Unite Students.
Any payments received for Unite Students will be returned directly to the sender by the same method that payment was made.
You can update your card details on your current instalment plan on our online payment system .
We accept Visa & MasterCard.
Unfortunately we do not accept American Express.
No, the university does not accept payment in cash or by cheque.
Find out more about the University’s Debt Management Policy.
Please contact the Student Conduct and Complaints Office .
The University does not act as a bank.
Any overpayments made can only be returned to the bank account from which the payment was originally made.
Please visit our Making Payments page .
The University's bank details are under the 'Bank Transfer' tab.
This can be a library fine or an emergency loan.
These can be paid for on our online payment system .
If you are unable to complete financial registration because
your scholarship or discount is not appearing in your in your student account,
then please follow the steps below:
Log in to your account at evision.kent.ac.uk and navigate
to the ‘Financial Registration’ section.
On the ‘Funding Details’ screen choose the option
'Funding details are incorrect' and click 'Continue'.
Choose the option 'Or, internal funding - fees or
partial fees being paid by a School/Department is missing' and click 'Continue'.
A screen will show with the message 'If your
scholarship is not listed, you will receive an invoice for your tuition fees
until your scholarship has been processed and added to your student account.' -
click 'Continue'.
On the view tuition fees screen, click 'Continue'.
On the select payment method screen, choose 'Your fees
are being paid (or partially paid) by a scholarship but have not yet been added
to your student account.' and click 'Continue'.
Scholarships, fee waivers and discounts are not currently
appearing in student accounts.
This may result in you receiving an invoice for
your full programme fees for the academic year 2024/25.
You are only required to pay for any outstanding fees minus
the value of any scholarship you have.
For example, if you have received
a fee invoice for £8000 and you have a scholarship discount of £3000, you only
need to pay £5000.
Please note, if you have a complete fee waiver, you are not
required to pay anything towards your fees.
You will be able to pay any outstanding balance online
through bank transfer or our epay system .
You can also still pay your fees in
instalments of 50% prior to registration, and the remainder on 1 December 2024.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/guides/budgeting:
As a student, it’s helpful to consider your living costs to help
you create a realistic budget.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/guides/making-a-payment:
The University of Kent has partnered with Flywire to accept payments from international students worldwide.
Easily and securely make education payments in your own currency, using local payment methods from the safety and convenience of your home.
With real-time tracking and around-the-clock multilingual support, millions of students and families around the world trust Flywire for payment processing.
Please note that Convera GlobalPay for Students powered by our partner, Convera Business Solutions, is an authorised agent of the University that can arrange the transfer of payments to the University.
How it works...
If studying at the Paris campus you can make an online payment using Euro Pay.
For direct bank transfers,
our authorised partner Flywire offer a safe and secure service that is fully
integrated with our online payment system.
Choose the Flywire
option to initiate a payment by bank transfer.
This service is available
to both domestic and international customers depending on where you are paying
from and your local currency.
Payments are given a unique transaction reference that
can be fully tracked through Flywire and is automatically paid to your student
account.
Bank transfers may also be
arranged by the customer directly with their own bank, but please be aware this
can take longer to track and appear on your student account.
Please be aware when paying by an international bank
transfer you will incur bank charges both in the UK and originating bank.
These fees need to be paid by the student.
When making this type of
transfer please make sure to reference your Kent ID number and name so
we can identify your payment.
University of Kent bank details:

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/scholarships/funding-for-american-students:
Loans for students and parents to help pay for the cost of a student's education at our Canterbury & Medway campuses.
Anyone can borrow a private loan.
These loans are available for students studying at our Canterbury & Medway campuses, and our Paris centre.
The University of Kent is approved by the US Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to administer education benefits to eligible students.
As a Title IV eligible institution, the University of Kent is eligible to receive SEGAL Education Awards from AmeriCorps.
The University can authorise students to borrow US loans up to the total cost of attendance (CoA) for their course.
Discover how to make an application to borrow US Federal loan/s to support your studies at the University of Kent.
The US Department of Education requires US Federal Direct loans to be disbursed on a termly basis.
The US government requires institutions which offer federal student loans to disclose certain consumer information.
This page sets out the terms and conditions of requesting and obtaining US financial aid whilst studying at the University of Kent.
We can help you with foreign loans processing or you can get in touch directly with the Federal Aid Center.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/scholarships/contact:
scholarships@kent.ac.uk
PO Box 210, Darlington, DL1 9HL, Telephone: 0845 300 50 90
Mandela Building, University of Kent, Canterbury, Kent CT2 7NW Advice Line: +44 (0)1227 827724 (for advice) Main reception: +44 (0)1227 824200 (for making appointments) Email: advice@kent.ac.uk www.kentunion.co.uk/advice

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/sports/scholarships:
In 2023-24 Kent Sport offered more than 50 Sports
Scholarship places to both undergraduate and postgraduate students on the
Canterbury and Medway campuses, on behalf of the University of Kent.
The Sports
Scholarship Scheme supports student athletes in continuing their competitive
engagement in sport while completing their academic studies, through a range of
exclusive benefits.
Applications are open to athletes from all sports,
including para-athletes, provided the athlete competes at a county/regional level
as a minimum.
We also have a bespoke offer for Kent and Medway Medical
School students.
Unfortunately, the scheme is unable to support applications
from sports officials or coaches.
The application window for the 2025/26 scheme is now open for ‘Clearing’ applicants only.
The scheme remains closed for all other applicants until November 2025.
The application form for returning scholars for 2025/26 has now closed.
Applications for the 2026/27 scheme will open in the summer of 2026.
As part of our commitment to each Sports Scholarship recipient, we offer free to access to a number of educational workshops throughout the year.
In the 2023/24 academic year, Scholars were invited to the following workshops:
In the 2024/25 academic year, Scholars will be invited to the following workshops:
You can find the answer to most of the common questions about the Sports Scholarship Scheme below.
If you have any other questions, please email sportsscholarships@kent.ac.uk .
Sports Scholarship applications are considered for all sports providing the standard that you are performing/competing at meets or exceeds the required level and you can be supported whilst at University.
As a general guide we consider athletes representing at county/regional level or above in their chosen sport.
Unfortunately, the Scheme doesn’t support applications from sports officials or coaches but does welcome applications from para-athletes from all sports.
The Sports Scholarship Scheme provides supplementary financial support to students and does not cover tuition or accommodation fees.
We consider undergraduate and postgraduate applicants, including current students studying at the Canterbury or Medway Campus only.
It is not necessary to wait for a confirmed offer of a place before submitting your application, however the offer of a Scholarship does not carry with it the offer of a place.
If you are successful in being offered a Sports Scholarship, you will need to have been offered a place to study with us before you can accept.
International Campus and UK Distance Learning applicants will be considered on a case-by-case basis depending on their sport.
We welcome applications from all nationalities so long as they meet the performance criteria.
If you are a University of Kent student studying at Canterbury or Medway then you are eligible to apply for a Sports Scholarship.
Students undertaking an International Foundation Program at the University of Kent are not eligible for the scheme and are encouraged to complete this first before applying as a full undergraduate at Kent.
Some applicants may be placed on our ‘Michaelmas Trial Scheme’ which runs throughout the Autumn Term (Sept-Dec).
You will receive details on how the trial scheme runs and how to update the Sports Scholarship Committee throughout term one with a view to joining the full scheme in the Spring Term if your trial is successful.
The annual application process opens each year on 1st November and runs until 30th April of the following year for the next academic intake.
You will need to apply the same year that you apply for University.
We cannot hold any applications for later years.
All applications are put forward to the Sports Scholarship Committee who decide which applications are successful.
The Committee meet every 8-12 weeks, if you do not get a response within 12 weeks it may be because the committee cannot come to a decision or because more information is required from references or other outside advisors.
If you do not get a response after 12 weeks, please contact the scholarships administrator at sportsscholarships@kent.ac.uk .
If your Scholarship application is unsuccessful we encourage you to continue with your sport and join your University sports club and represent at BUCS in the highest team available.
You can then reapply to the Scheme during the next window but are encouraged to apply at the end of the Spring Term.
If you have come through University ‘Clearing’ or applied to study at Kent after the 30th April deadline then you may contact the Scholarship team via sportsscholarships@kent.ac.uk to enquire about completing a late application.
Such enquiries will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and the decision to permit/consider a late application will rest with the Sports Scholarship Committee.
If you are applying for a Sports Scholarship for the first time (this includes having been unsuccessful in the past) please complete a ‘New Scholarship application form’ on our webpage.
If you are a current Scholar and wish to be considered for the Scheme the following year please fill in a ‘ Returning Scholarship application form ’.
Each year you will need to apply for a Scholarship as standards and achievements change.
You will not be accepted just because you were accepted the previous year.
The outcome will also depend on you passing your academic exams or coursework for the current year.
Existing Sports Scholars cannot renew their Scholarship if they are heading into a placement year unless their placement location and commitment enables them to fulfil the requirements of the scheme.
Such applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Scholarship payments are awarded in accordance to your attendance at mandatory events, sessions and fixtures or competitions throughout the year.
The payments are split across the academic year in November, February and May.
The payments may not be split equally as they are depending on sporting and scholarship calendars.
Your payment can also be increased/decreased dependent on your commitment and performance.
Further expenses are only supported on certain Scholarship Tiers.
Any capacity for submitting expenses will be outlined in your Scholarship offer or welcome pack.
To claim expenses, please retain all receipts and either scan them to sportsscholarships@kent.ac.uk or send them to the Sports Centre addressed to the scholarships administrator ensuring you state your name and what the expenses are for.
No expenses will be paid without receipts.
Please keep copies of anything you send.
Expenses will be paid at the same time as your next Scholarship award instalment.
Yes, this is pre-requisite of the Scheme unless you are a professional athlete representing a Club or your country.
As part of the Scheme you will be agreeing to represent the University of Kent either through competing with your sports club in BUCS fixtures, competitions or events.
You are permitted to competing externally where this does not conflict with University representation.
It is always best to make sure that the committee have all relevant up-to-date information.
If you have further information you wish to be considered please email sportsscholarships@kent.ac.uk .
Please provide any relevant web links in your application – there is a section specifically list for this at the end.
This would depend on your level, the nature of your injury, or how long you have not been competing.
Please include as much detail in your application regarding the reason you have not been competing.
If you are currently rehabilitating or returning from injury please include details of this within your application alongside any referees who may be able to provide further testimony to your situation.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/music/scholarships:
A Music Performance Scholar  talks about his time at Kent
The University recognises the role that music and culture plays in the development of the individual and the benefits cultural activities bring to the wider University community.
The scholarship is intended to encourage excellence and development in extra-curricular music performance , and includes instrumental/vocal tuition with experienced teachers.
Around fifteen scholarships are awarded to new applicants each year.
Students returning to the University in their second or third year are able to apply for a University Music Performance Award , which entitles them to a year's worth of instrumental / singing tuition in support of their involvement in music-making.
The scholarship rewards a recipient’s involvement in the extra-curricular musical life of the University; scholars are usually expected to contribute to a minimum of two relevant ensembles ( where appropriate) as part of their commitment to the scholarship scheme.
Scholarships will normally be allocated only to those students whose musical interests and talents can be supported within the University community.
We welcome applications from all backgrounds.
Scholarships/Awards will normally be allocated only to those whose musical/vocal interests and talents can be supported within the University community.
The number of years of instrumental and/or vocal study and performing experience, as well an applicant’s potential, will be taken into account.
Scholarship/Award recipients must be prepared to represent the University and to contribute to the cultural life of the University by participating in activities and events.
Candidates must also be willing to act as ambassadors for the University and to agree to be featured in University publications and press releases.
The University of Kent reserves the right to withdraw the Scholarship/Award if the formal criteria are not met.
In particular, if for any reason the holder ceases to be a registered student at the University, it will be suspended immediately.
To apply for the Music Performance Scholarship (new registrants only) you should download the Application Form .
To apply for the Music Performance Award (returning students only) you should download the Application Form .
Once completed, e-mail your application to the Music Administrator (as a typed Word document or PDF only - other formats will not be accepted).
Applications will be considered and candidates who have been successful at this stage will be invited for interview and audition.
Unsuccessful candidates will also be informed.
(Due to the high volume of applications we receive each year, unfortunately it is not possible to offer specific feedback at this stage of the application process.
We do, however, encourage all students to enjoy and participate in musical provision at the University.)
It is vital that, if your application is accepted, you then arrange an interview with the Director of Music as soon as you arrive at the University – these will be held in a number of Office Hours which will be published on-line prior to the start of term.
There is no deadline prior to the start of the academic year, but early application is advisable.
Applications will only be considered up to 9am on Friday 26 September 2025 , except in exceptional circumstances.
Interviews will be held in Welcome Week (week beginning 29 September), during which your audition will be arranged.
Music Scholarships/Awards are intended to recognise and encourage  excellence.
Applicants would usually be expected to demonstrate some or all of the following criteria when submitting their written application:
If you would like to discuss the Music Scholarship/Award Schemes prior to your application, email the Head of Music Performance.
Candidates needing particular support or accessibility will be able to highlight these both on the written application form and at interview where necessary.
For information regarding accessibility and Gulbenkian / Colyer-Fergusson, please see details on the Gulbenkian website here .
Funded jointly by Canterbury Christ Church University and the University of Kent, three individual scholarships for KMMS first-year students of £1,000.
Intended to recognise existing musical talent, encourage excellence and development and reward participation in extra-curricular music performance these also include instrumental/vocal tuition with experienced teachers.
For information about other scholarships available at the University, including academic and non-academic scholarships and overseas loans, please follow the link below
Third-year Music Performance Scholar reading Law, Meg Daniel, in music by Enesco and Taffanel
Read profiles of some of the University Music Scholars.
"One of the reasons I chose Kent was for its great facilities and the warm atmosphere in Colyer-Fergusson"
"It has allowed me to purchase a new bag for my bagpipes and has covered the travel and membership that I pay to practice with the Glenduart Pipes and Drum Band."
"I intend to make the most of all the musical opportunities available to me while I am at Kent"
"Gaining the scholarship led me to achieve a dream I didn’t even know I had: leading the Symphony Orchestra"
"I chose Kent especially for its wonderful music facilities and it was a huge deciding factor when picking my top choice"
"All of the extra-curricular music activities have been a lovely way for me to relax away from my studies"

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/scholarships/loans-for-canadian-students:
If you are a Canadian student, you can apply to borrow a loan from the Canada Student Loans Program.
Federal loans and grants are delivered in partnership with participating provinces and territories and are available to:
For information on applying please see the Canada Student Loans Program website at: https://www.canada.ca/en/employment-social-development/programs/canada-student-loans-grants.html or visit the website of your provincial Student Aid Office.
Your provincial Student Aid Office will process your loans.
The University of Kent does not administer Canadian Student Loans.
However, we do provide confirmations of enrolment and program information forms to support your loan application.
Confirmation of Enrolment / Registration Forms : Before any student loan monies are disbursed to you, your lender may require the University of Kent to verify your student status to confirm that you have either been accepted on to a programme of study, or are already registered at the University of Kent.
This is usually done via a Confirmation of Enrolment or Confirmation of Registration form.
To have your form authorised by the University of Kent: 1.
Complete the Student section of the form (do not complete any other sections) 2.
Provide the following information with the form:
Send us the form via one of the following methods:
We will then:
Program Information Forms
Before your provincial Student Aid Office will decide what loans and/or grants you are entitled to, they may want to know more about your intented program of study.
This is usually done via a Program Information form.
To have your form completed by the University of Kent: 1.
Ensure your form is populated with your personal and program information.
Send us the form via the following method:

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/scholarships/search/FNADPGLOAN02:
Looking for a different scholarship?
Eligible students can borrow up to £12,471 (2024/25) (External Link)
You are encouraged to apply as early as possible but the deadline for applying is 9 months after the first day of either:
To be eligible for the loan:
The following is not included:
Students are not eligible if they are eligible to apply for a healthcare bursary or are in receipt of a social work bursary from any of the following:
We endeavour to provide accurate information regarding the Postgraduate Loan (PGL) scheme but full details of the scheme including eligibility of students and programmes, are still being finalised by the Department for Business Innovation and Skills and the Student Loans Company (SLC).
Please note that loans are NOT available to students studying exclusively at Paris.
A Postgraduate Master's Loan can help you with course fees and living costs while you study a postgraduate master's course.
The loans will be available for both taught and research Master's programmes, including LLM, MBA, MFA, MRES (but not for PhDs).
All disciplines and subject areas are eligible.
Loans will be available for full-time, part-time and distance-learning Master's programmes (with certain exceptions).
Eligible part-time courses are those that have a duration of:
The loans will also cover split-site Master's at Kent's specialist centre in Paris provided you spend at least 50% of your study time (and credits) at Kent's UK campuses.
For any other split site programme, we recommend that you confirm with the relevant school the percentage of time spent in the UK and abroad.
The loans are not means tested and are paid directly into your UK bank account in three instalments of 33%, 33% and 34% through the academic year.
The earliest you’ll start repaying is either:
Repayments will be income-contingent and made concurrently with undergraduate loans.
Details on repayment rates and rates of interest are available at https://www.gov.uk/repaying-your-student-loan/what-you-pay .
Postgraduate Master's Loans will be administered through Student Finance England with applications made online or via paper forms.
You can apply via the following: https://www.gov.uk/postgraduate-loan/how-to-apply .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/fees-and-funding/living-costs:
£124.46 - £280 per week
The cost of accommodation depends upon location, room type and facilities.
We have a range of accommodation available on campus with self-catered and part-catered options.
These rooms all include electricity, gas and water bills, as well as personal possessions insurance cover.
Full accommodation prices are available on the accommodation website .
Students do not have to pay council tax, but you do have to get an exemption certificate.
For information on how to request your exemption certificate please see our Guides website .
It is up to you to make sure the certificate is given to the local council where you live.
£17-28 per week
If you decide to live off-campus, you will need to budget for gas, electricity and water bills.
£54 - £96 per week
The amount you spend on food varies according to what sort of accommodation you live in and personal taste.
Students living in college ‘bed and flex’ accommodation on the Canterbury campus can prepare drinks and snacks in small kitchenettes but have to buy their other daily meals.
If you live in self-catering accommodation (on a 39-week lease or off campus on a 52-week lease), you must buy and prepare all your own food, although you can of course take advantage of campus catering.
£19 - £26 per week
Academic costs include books and course materials, as well as photocopying and printing costs.
These can vary tremendously depending on what subject you study.
You should allow £18-£25 per week on average, although the bulk of this expenditure usually comes in the first term when you buy books for the year.
You can reduce costs by purchasing second-hand books and by using the library.
Most rooms on the Canterbury campus are connected to the network via the Study Bedroom Service.
This service includes a free high-speed 24-hour connection to the internet and access to email, newsgroups and library materials.
All bedrooms at Pier Quays in Medway are connected to the network and there is Wi-Fi throughout.
£18 - £55 per week
This includes purchasing clothes for everyday wear, sportswear and replacement clothing items as well as use of local laundry facilities.
£13 - £24 per week
Costs of personal items (for example, toiletries) vary considerably from individual to individual, but we estimate between £12 and £23 per week.
£33 - £83 per week
You should set yourself a budget so you can enjoy everything the University has to offer for the whole term, not just the first few weeks.
Make sure you get an NUS Extra card, which offers exclusive discounts and potential savings of over £500 per year.
£5 - £17 per week
The amount you spend is up to you - keep an eye on your bills.
You should shop around for the cheapest tariff to suit your circumstances.
£3.26 per week (calculated over 52 weeks)
If you decide to have a television in your room, you are required to have a TV Licence .
£13 - £19 per week
Depending on where you live, you may need to budget for daily costs and weekend journeys if you travel home or away on visits.
If your home is some distance from the University, you will also have to consider the cost of travelling to and from the University at the beginning and end of term.
For local University travel, you can take advantage of local bus ticket discounts .
£14 - £19 per week
You should budget for occasional expenses such as medical or dental costs
£6 - £23 per week
You should budget for emergency expenses such as lost/damaged study items or emergency travel.
Costs for University accommodation include insurance for loss of personal possessions up to £6,000 in respect of claims arising from fire, flood or theft within the accommodation area, including losses by walk-in theft.
Students can arrange additional cover online at the insurer’s website, for accidental damage or all risks on high-value items such as smart phones and laptops.
For students living off-campus, you should consider whether you will need insurance to protect your belongings.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/sports/membership:
Free and paid options for students, staff, alumni, and members of the public.
Whether you're looking to use the gym, take up a new sport, or want to experience everything, we have a membership option to suit you.
We're open to all students, staff, alumni, and members of the public .
So join us and make use of our fantastic facilities across the Canterbury campus.
Get a fantastic discount on one-month Kent Sport membership this summer between 1 June and 31 August.
Our summer membership gives you access to the amazing sport and fitness facilities at Kent Sport for as little as £17.99 per month.
* To apply for the junior rate, you must be aged 16 to 17 years old.
Offer valid from 1 June 2025 to 31 August 2025.
Membership valid for one month from purchase date.
University of Kent students can access Kent Sport with our one-month membership option on Premium Plus and Plus memberships, from £20 per month.
Offer available to existing Pay to Play and non-members only.
If you've decided which option suits you best, head to the links below to see membership prices and purchase your membership online.
Monthly payment membership options for returning students.
Annual and short-term options for University of Kent staff and alumni.
Annual and short-term options for members of the local community.
Kent Sport membership options are available to everyone, including members of the public.
In order to access our facilities and services, you'll need to have a membership with us.
If you're not ready to commit to an annual membership, try out our free Pay to Play option.
Access Personal Training and other health and fitness services with us.
Premium Plus and Plus members can get discounts on services with our qualified staff.
Kent students and alumni can join a student club and use Kent Sport facilities for training.
Students and staff at Kent can get access to over 60 gyms across the country.
When you purchase a membership with Kent Sport, make sure you review the membership terms and conditions and our health commitment statement before using our facilities.
You will be able to review the terms and conditions when you create your membership online.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/sports/sports-recreation:
Kent Sport's social and competitive sport programme offers something for everyone.
Enjoy fun and recreational ALL Active sessions, one off sports events, our structured football leagues, or join one of our social and community groups.
Join one of our various leagues on campus for students, staff, and alumni.
Experience our exceptional tennis facility with group coaching and court bookings.
Low commitment sessions, just turn up, play, and have fun.
All equipment provided.
Team Kent run more than 60 different sports clubs, open to all ability levels.
Our departmental staff competition for all abilities to encourage staff to keep active.
Join our weekly social programme of relaxed, low-commitment sports for the over 55s.
Our multi-sport and activity camps for children aged 5 to 12 years old.
The inaugural Kent vs CCCU staff sports tournament!
Our popular holiday camps are bigger than ever!
With daily sports and activities including Nerf, tennis, cricket, mini golf, New Age Kurling, and much more, your children are sure to have fun!
We've put together some great route videos of varying length across the Canterbury campus, so you can get out and explore more of our beautiful surroundings.
Join one of our over 55 sessions including pickleball, badminton, walking football, walking netball and table tennis and join a fun, social group and get active!
Email sportsdevelopment@kent.ac.uk for more information.
Book and cancel gym sessions, classes and sports through your online booking portal
View our wide-range of indoor and outdoor sport and fitness facilities
Available to students with outstanding sporting ability
Event and exhibition spaces across our sports facilities, catering for all

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/sports/tennis:
Level up your game with Kent Sport
Our superb Kent Indoor Tennis and Events Arena on the University of Kent's Canterbury campus provides some of the best quality tennis courts locally.
Read on for more information about our fantastic tennis facilities, group coaching, and membership.
Our high-quality indoor tennis facility
From recreational to competitive tennis, junior to adult, you'll be able to do it all within our fantastic tennis facilities.
Take advantage of the courts being indoors, and never have to battle the elements again!
Play recreationally from just £5 per person, or take out an annual membership and book a space for free.
Our tennis courts are on the University of Kent's Canterbury campus, but we're open to all members of the community.
Whether you're a complete beginner or a seasoned pro, you'll find a tennis programme to suit your needs with Kent Sport.
Our structured coaching programme with our LTA qualified coaching team includes coaching for 4-year-olds through to adults on Mondays, Thursdays, and Saturdays for £10 per session regardless of your Kent Sport membership tier.
These sessions are open to everyone and all ability levels.
All members can join our Cardio Tennis on Wednesday mornings 11am to 12pm, and Sunday Social Tennis sessions 10am to 12pm.
Book these sessions through your online account.
Students can access the
inclusive Student Tennis Society sessions by joining their society.
This includes options
for all levels from Beginners to Team players.
Staff can access various weekly sessions through the ALL
Active programme :
Our tennis courses cover beginner to advanced level tennis for all ages and are just £10 per lesson.
Our Private Tennis Lessons offer the perfect way to advance your skills with 1:1 qualified coaching.
Join us at our free Tennis Open Days and experience our amazing facilities and LTA qualified team.
Join our Cardio Tennis or Social Tennis sessions each week - book through your online account.
Our disability-specific tennis programme aimed at increasing participation.
Book courts and much more with a free Pay to Play membership - sign up quickly and easily online.
Already a member?
Book courts through your online account.
Here at Kent Sport, we operate all the sports and fitness facilities across the University of Kent's Canterbury campus.
The Kent Indoor Tennis and Events Arena (KITEA) is located within the Sports Pavilion outdoor complex and houses our four indoor acrylic tennis courts.
Our tennis courts are available for booking throughout the year, with the exception of bank holidays and the Christmas holiday.
Everyone is welcome to become a member of Kent Sport with our range of membership options, allowing you to book courts at your leisure, or join one of our Group Tennis Coaching courses and Private Tennis Lessons .
Nick Skelton leads the tennis coaching team at Kent Sport and is an LTA Level 5 qualified coach.
For direct enquiries please email n.skelton@kent.ac.uk .
Children under the age of 16 can now create a Pay to Play account to use sports facilities at Kent Sport.
This Pay to Play account can only be created with parent or guardian consent at the Sports Centre or The Pavilion receptions.
All under 16's must be accompanied by a parent or guardian throughout their booking.
Under 16s will pay £4.50 per booking (excluding group and private tennis coaching).
Love tennis?
Or just starting your journey?
Join our mailing list to hear all about tennis opportunities at Kent Sport.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/sports/holiday-camps:
Join us in 2025 for our popular multi-sports Holiday Camps!
Our holiday camps on the University of Kent's Canterbury campus provide the perfect way to keep your children active and entertained over the Easter and summer school holidays.
Our camps are open to children aged 5 to 13, and provide daily sports and activities, all under the supervision of experienced and DBS verified camp staff.
Fun for 5 to 13 year olds!
“SummerZone was an amazing experience for my 5-year-old daughter.
She got to try so many new activities and found loads of new sports and games that she thoroughly enjoyed.
It was well run and I was impressed at how well the staff knew all the children by name and personality.
Amazing value as well.
Highly recommend and we will be back next year!”
Children's Holiday Camp survey feedback, 2023
Your child will experience a range of traditional and non-traditional sports plus new activities.
Your child will receive sports coaching from a qualified team member, so they'll learn and have fun!
You can choose to pick up your child between 3pm and 5pm with our late pick-up option.
*Additional cost, see camp pricing.
For all our camps we have exclusive access to our Kent Indoor Tennis and Events Arena, meaning whatever the British weather throws at us, we will stay dry.
Our highly popular EasterZone and SummerZone camps are back at The Pavilion, University of Kent in 2025 with another round of fantastic sports, games, and activities to keep your children entertained!
SummerZone - Monday 11 to Friday 22 August (8.30am to 3/5pm)
Bookings for all 2025 camps are open now!
Bookings for our popular summer camp, SummerZone, are now open!
You can book any day or combination of days that you like for our SummerZone camp.
Booking for a full week (either week one or week two, not a combination of days from both) of SummerZone will automatically apply a discount.
We offer an exclusive 15% discount for all University of Kent staff when booking children on to our holiday camps.
The code is valid up to and including the camp dates.
Contact our Sports Development team at SportsDevelopment@kent.ac.uk to receive the code.
Our late pick-up option includes fun and engaging activities tailored to the location, such as table tennis, table football, new age kurling, bowls, speed stacks, twister, board games, and creative drawing.
We're already starting to think about Holiday Camps for next year!
Sign up to hear when booking opens for our 2026 camps.
Our holiday camps are based at The Pavilion on the University of Kent's Canterbury campus.
See the Canterbury campus map and directions for reaching The Pavilion .
Camp address:
The Pavilion, University of Kent, Canterbury, Kent CT2 7SR
Our multi-sports and activity camps take place across our three artificial pitches and our four court indoor tennis centre.
Unfortunately, we do not offer childcare vouchers, but if you are a University of Kent staff member you are entitled to a 15% discount.
Email sportsdevelopment@kent.ac.uk to request a code.
We do not currently offer a sibling discount.
We are not OFSTED registered but we pride ourselves on being a camp of a high professional standard.
Safeguarding and our children’s wellbeing is our number one priority.
During each day of camp there will be two small breaks and a lunch break for children to eat should they wish.
Please provide your children with a packed lunch.
We are a nut free camp, so please do not pack any nuts or nut products.
We have an amazing four court Indoor Tennis Centre which provides enough space for us to continue camp indoors out of the rain or heat.
We offer a wide range of sports and activities, including: minigolf, Street Dance, football, cricket, tennis and many others.
Once the camp timetable is finalised, this will be available to view on our website.
A major benefit of our multi-sports camp is that children get to try a wide range of activities and sports across the week.
If a certain sport isn’t their favourite, then they only do said sport once or twice over the entire week.
Our experienced coaches are able to cater sessions for all abilities and interests and the sessions are focused around fun/social games and activities as opposed to in depth technical/tactical sessions.
If you wish to change any or all the days you have booked with us, you must notify us immediately.
We cannot guarantee a space for the date you wish to move to.
If a space has been made available for you and you do not show up, you may still be charged for this service.
This will be at the discretion of Kent Sport.
Kent Sport EasterZone and SummerZone camps operate a tiered refund policy; -
Children under the age of 16 can now create a Pay to Play account to use sports facilities at Kent Sport outside of our Holiday Camps.
Under 16s will pay £4.50 per booking.
Personal data, including health data, supplied by you the parent/guardian on this application form will be used for the purposes of the sports camp.
The information supplied by you will be accessed by the camp leader (email sportsdevelopment@kent.ac.uk ), health and safety lead and authorised sports camp staff coaches where deemed appropriate.
Without this data and your consent, as collected in the application form, Kent Sport are unable to accept any persons onto our sports camp due to Health and Safety.
Your data will also be used to inform you of future Kent Sport promotions and activities, if you have agreed to this on the application form.
You can request access to the information held by emailing dataprotection@kent.ac.uk Kent Sport treats all information gathered with the strictest respect and confidentiality.
Information provided to us will only be used for the purposes intended and not disclosed to any third parties unless required to do so by law.
All personal information is processed under Data Protection Law.
Further information regarding Data Protection at Kent can be found on our website ( www.kent.ac.uk/infocompliance ).

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/sports/health-and-fitness:
Our refreshed Personal Training service is the perfect way to meet your fitness and lifestyle goals.
A 12-week tailored exercise programme aimed at helping you to get active after a health referral.
An 8-week programme of fitness advice, group exercise sessions, and Kent Sport facility access.
A 6-week fitness programme supporting women through the changes associated with menopause.
We offer a range of appointments with our qualified staff, from consultations to nutritional plans.
Our new Kent Sports Clinic provides a range of performance, physio and rehabilitation services.
We work with the Kent Sports Clinic and other organisations to provide specific advice and guidance.
Read our statement on how we are supporting this initiative with Kent Union.
An introduction to Kent Sport fitness facilities
It can be daunting starting a new fitness routine.
It's important to begin slowly and not push yourself too hard.
You can always talk to our friendly fitness team while using the gym if you're unfamiliar with any equipment or exercise.
See our top-tips for starting out on your fitness journey:
If you would like a Free Fitness Suite Induction or Orientation with a member of the Fitness Team, please email csekentsportgym@kent.ac.uk to request a suitable time.
Kent
Sport's fitness instructors have a wealth of knowledge in their field.
They're
dedicated to helping you on your fitness journey - so just ask!
When
starting any new fitness programme, be sure to start slow and work your way up.
Easing in is the best way to gain confidence without injuring yourself.
Now
that you're well on your way to having better fitness, the more you go, the
more likely you'll make like-minded friends who can join you in the gym!
Taking
the first step into the fitness suite or new class can be a daunting experience.
Use equipment you know or go with a friend to help familiarise yourself with the environment.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/sports/classes:
Join our LES MILLS™ Virtual Instructor Classes.
Eleven programmes from some of the world's best instructors.
Our class timetables feature cardio, conditioning, dance, and holistic formats across all the classes you know and love.
With our Virtual and In-Person Instructor timetables, you're bound to find your next favourite thing.
All classes take place in the Dance Studio at the Sports Centre.
See class descriptions below.
All classes are available to students, staff, alumni, and members of the public.
Kent Sport membership is required to join classes.
If you don't have a membership, check out the membership options on our website.
Les Mills Virtual takes the same world-class, scientifically-backed workouts that move millions and transforms them into cinematic on-demand group fitness experiences for ultimate flexibility.
Classes are between 30 and 55 minutes in length.
See timetable for details.
Virtual classes are now included in all Plus memberships.
Join 30 virtual classes split over 10 unique programmes each week in our Virtual Instructor class timetable.
Train with the best in the business in our Dance Studio at the Sports Centre.
*We may offer fewer virtual classes during university vacation periods.
Get toned, lean, and fit with this total body workout, suitable for everyone.
Combining yoga, Tai Chi and Pilates improves your mind, body, and soul.
Suitable for all.
Power your way to total fitness with this martial arts-inspired workout.
High-energy fitness class combining athletic movements with strength exercises.
A scientific core workout for incredible core tone and sports performance.
HIIT workouts, scientifically designed to deliver results through intense athletic training.
Journey through digitally-created worlds on this 45-minute, multi-peak cycling workout.
An indoor cycling class set to motivating music.
Burn calories, get fit and feel euphoric.
HIIT workout scientifically designed to burn calories, build muscle, and drive athleticism.
A high-energy workout set to 10 tracks that will challenge and move you.
Alongside our virtual instructor offering, we have a timetable of fantastic classes with our qualified and experienced health and fitness team.
Our team are on hand to aid with equipment setup, talk through injuries or concerns, and will clearly instruct you throughout each class.
We strongly advise attending an in-person class before booking a virtual class, particularly if you are unfamiliar with the class format.
Indoor cycling on a stationary bike, you'll build leg strength and cardio fitness.
The classic Les Mills workout featuring weights to build strength and tone.
Low-impact class based on stretching, adjusting your position with each breath.
The world-wide dance phenomenon.
Fast and slow rhythms combined with amazing music!
Develop your physical strength while learning how to throw and dodge punches.
Stretch your body to the rhythm of the music, and train your mind to feel relaxed and content.
Focus on stretching all areas of your body in this gentle-paced class.
Medium intensity and low impact workouts, concentrating on the stomach and lower body.
Fast and intense whole-body workout, featuring brief pauses within each exercise set.
Low impact workouts to tone and strengthen your legs, bums and stomachs.
Holistic class inspired by ballet techniques.
Dance, improve posture and balance.
Gentle stretching and meditation combine to make you feel relaxed and recharged.
Follow us on social media @UniKentSports for up-to-date information on class changes and in the event of a class cancellation.
The studio etiquette is administered in the best interest of members and instructors, ensuring all participants’ safety and wellbeing.
All group exercise class attendees should adhere to the following studio etiquette at all times.
If you have any queries, please contact the Kent Sport Health, Fitness and Performance Manager on J.Dexter@kent.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/sports/facilities:
View our facilities and equipment list.
See what we have to offer at Kent Sport.
Why not hold your next event with us?
Book or cancel sessions with your online account, from any computer, browser or device.
Whether you're a students, staff member, alumni, or member of the public, you can use the facilities at Kent Sport.
We operate throughout the year, including term and vacation periods, with the exception of the Christmas holiday closure.
We have a wide range of sport and fitness facilities across the Sports Centre and The Pavilion on the University of Kent's Canterbury campus.
Located near the heart of the Canterbury campus, the Sports Centre services all users of the fitness suite, fitness and dance studio, sports halls and the Kent Sports Clinic.
At the reception desk, you can sign up for a membership with Kent Sport.
The Sports Centre facilities include:
Kent Sport has some of the highest-quality fitness equipment in the county, which is available to all members including students, staff, alumni and the public.
Our qualified fitness instructors are on hand to give advice and can provide health and fitness consultations as part of our appointment service.
You can view the range of available appointment types on our website .
We are now providing women and non-binary only gym hours.
See our full statement for details.
The fitness and dance studio has enhanced lighting and sound and can be split in two for more intimate classes.
The studio is an ideal environment for group exercise and has the capacity for a wide range of classes including Boxercise, spinning and Zumba.
You can view the full timetable here .
Main hall
Multi-use double hall measuring 37 metres x 35 metres, with a sprung Taraflex floor.
The
main hall can accommodate:
Hall 2
Multi-use hall measuring approximately 32 metres x 17 metres.
Hall
2 can accommodate:
Hall 3
Hall 3 can
accommodate:
Court bookings for recreational sports can be made through your online account .
For commercial bookings, please contact kentsportevents@kent.ac.uk .
At the Sports Centre, we have a boxing and combat sports area above hall 2, featuring a boxing ring, bags and training equipment.
Located at the outdoor playing fields complex, opposite Parkwood accommodation, The Pavilion services all users of the artificial pitches, grass pitches, and the Cycle Hub.
3GX The 3GX is a world-class pitch which enables back-to-back fixtures and training for rugby, football and American football.
3G Members have access to a state-of-the-art 3G football pitch.
This is a full-sized pitch capable of holding four 5-a-side games during tournaments.
Astro
The astroturf pitch is a full-size, sand-based pitch and can be used for football or hockey.
Grass pitches There are a number of grass pitches available at The Pavilion which can support recreational/match rugby.
You can book each pitch for recreational sports.
This can be booked through your online account , or for commercial bookings, please contact kentsportevents@kent.ac.uk .
There are two bay cricket nets outside the Pavilion, which are bookable for Kent Sport members (1h 30mins max.
per booking).
Please contact The Pavilion or Sports Centre to book.
Four
high-quality indoor acrylic tennis and netball courts, easier facility access
and provides an exceptional conference and events space for approximately 2000+
attendees.
For recreational tennis, please visit our tennis webpage for more information.
For commercial hire, please visit our Conference and Events page.
Parking is available for staff and student permit holders at the Sports Centre and the Pavilion.
Pay and display car parks are also available nearby.
Sports Centre
The Pavilion
A range of performance, physiotherapy and rehabilitation services.
Find out more about there services here.
Providing one of the best views on campus, the Pavilion Café Bar provides an excellent meeting and event space.
Bespoke catering is available.
If you would like to hire the Pavilion Café Bar, please email kentsportevents@kent.ac.uk
You can find out more here .
Kent Sport is committed to providing inclusive fitness and sport across all of our facilities.
It is our mission to get more people, more active, more often.
Our team have been specially trained to assist you with any accessibility enquiries or information regarding all of our activities and services.
Louisa Arnold, Kent Sport Workforce and Coaching Manager
Everyone is welcome to become a member of Kent Sport.
We have a variety of membership options to suit your activity level and budget.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/sports-clinic:
Performance - Physiotherapy - Rehabilitation
The Kent Sports Clinic on the University of Kent Canterbury campus combines Performance, Physiotherapy, and Sports Rehabilitation services to create one of the most extensive clinics in Kent.
With a wide-range of services and equipment, plus appointments with qualified and student-led teams, we're confident we can get you back on the road to recovery and enhance your sporting performance.
Book and attend your 30-minute massage with one of our qualified therapists between 11 August and 29 August 2025 inclusive to claim this special offer.
To benefit from the offer, book through your online account or call the Sports Centre reception on 01227 823623.
We are also increasing our appointment availability, adding Wednesday appointments with Mark throughout the offer.
Kent Sport's summer membership gives you access to the amazing sport and fitness facilities at Kent Sport, including discounts on appointments at the Kent Sports Clinic.
Summer membership one-month prices:
Our staff have extensive experience working with elite athletes and know exactly what it takes for an athlete to stay at the very top of their game.
We take an athlete-centred approach and can create bespoke programmes for individuals and teams.
Our qualified physiotherapists provide a wide range of services to help you manage an injury or disability, and can help you return to full fitness and prevent recurrence.
Through innovative techniques and state-of-the-art equipment, our supervised student-led injury team can cut your recovery time and give advice on preventing future injuries.
High-quality research undertaken in the School of Sport and Exercise Sciences feeds into the work of the Respiratory Clinic, which means our advice and support reflects the latest developments in the field.
Whether for rehabilitation or relaxation, massages provide a wide range of benefits.
Our clinic provides qualified and student-led services for students, staff and the public.
If you are experiencing health issues that are affecting your home or work life, we offer a range of guided services to help you increase your physical activity.
We offer a wide range of performance, physiotherapy, and sports rehabilitation appointments in our clinic on the Canterbury campus of the University of Kent.
You
can choose between qualified and student-led appointments for many of our
services.
Booking and payment for most services can be made online.
Our
qualified clinic staff provide a range of services including:
Our
student-led team provides a range of services including:
Use the below links to quickly and easily book an appointment with us.
Please note:
Performance appointments can be booked by emailing sportsclinic@kent.ac.uk .
Respiratory appointments can be booked by emailing j.w.dickinson@kent.ac.uk
Dr Glen Davison, Head of SSES
The Kent Sports Clinic is split between two sites on the University of Kent Canterbury campus.
Depending on your appointment, you will be directed to one of the following locations:
Directions to the Sports Centre
Directions to Chipperfield
For Sports Centre appointments, please use the Pay and Display car park behind the Sports Centre and provide your car registration to reception.
For Chipperfield building appointments, there are two designated parking spaces in the Chipperfield building car park.
Book a parking space by emailing sportsclinic@kent.ac.uk prior to your appointment.
Please leave in good time as parking can be busy during term time.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/sports/events:
There's so much happening at Kent Sport!
From exciting classes to social sports and fun one-off events, there's something for everyone.
You will need a Kent Sport membership to take part in our events.
If you don't already have a membership, you can create one for free online .
You can choose to filter the events using the 'Tags' option below.
Not sure what each programme is or who can attend?
Visit the programme webpages for more information.
Enjoy the beautiful campus with a range of walking, running, and cycling routes.
Join Kent Sport today to start joining in our fun, social events and programmes!

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/sports/opening-hours:
See the below opening hours for each facility within the Sports Centre and The Pavilion.
Please ensure you bring your Kent One Card (students and staff) or Kent Sport membership card (public) to each session.
You will need your card to check in at reception and to gain entry through the turnstiles.
See our list of closures and reduced hours during bank holidays.
To support the University rest day for staff, we are reducing our opening hours on Tuesday 26 August.
In collaboration with Kent Union, Kent Sport is continuing to support the women and non-binary only gym sessions at the Canterbury campus, giving these specific groups the confidence to go into the gym and exercise in a non-judgemental space.
These sessions will run weekly at the following times;
See the full statement on our blog.
Please note: Last entry to the gym is 30 minutes before the gym closure times as stated above.
Appointment times vary between qualified and student-led services.
Please visit the Kent Sports Clinic website for more details.
Kent Sport facilities will be open on bank holidays within term time and closed on bank holidays in vacation periods.
You can see the full list below:
The Pavilion Cafe Bar is currently only available to hire.
Contact our events team for booking details: kentsportevents@kent.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/sports/contact-us:
sportsenquiries@kent.ac.uk
sportsclinic@kent.ac.uk
kentsportevents@kent.ac.uk
Kent Sport staff work hard to
create a professional and enjoyable atmosphere within our facilities so that
you can really enjoy your activity.
Recognising our fantastic staff is just
as important as the job they do.
If you experience exceptional customer service
with us, please nominate a member of staff using the Bronze Award nomination form.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/sports/contact-us/work-with-us:
As a member of Kent Sport staff, you're part of a fun, engaging department that is keen to get as many people active as possible.
Alongside the use of all sports facilities, there are a lot of benefits to working with us, including a generous pension plan and local outlet discounts.
There are many opportunities to join Kent Sport as a member of our team, whether that is part of our contracted staff (substantive roles) or as part of our casual (student) team.
See below for the current opportunites in both areas.
When a substantive role within the Kent Sport team becomes available, full details and the application process will be available on the University's main jobs page .
No current substantive opportunities.
Being a casual staff member at Kent Sport while you are studying is a great way to learn valuable skills and develop experience within a working environment.
The benefits for students include:
*Casual staff must complete 50 hours with Kent Sport, and continue to fulfil their hours.
See our list of available casual timesheet roles:
Fitness Instructor
Personal Trainer
Studio Instructor
Football Official
Role: Fitness Instructor
Department: Health, Fitness and Studio
Line Manager/Contact: Jeni
Dexter – j.dexter@kent.ac.uk
Location: Sports Centre - Canterbury Campus
Qualifications
or Experience required: Level 2 Fitness Certificate preferable
Rate of Pay: NMW
or NLW dependant on age (£7.05-£9.41per
hour)
Shift
Times/Hours Available: Predominantly Evenings (1700-2200) and
Weekends (0900-1700)
Key accountabilities, duties and expectations:
Role: Personal Trainer
Line Manager/Contact: Jeni Dexter – j.dexter@kent.ac.uk
Qualifications or Experience required: Level 3 Personal Training Qualification/Certificate
Rate of Pay: Grade 7 (£22.55 per hour).
PT Sessions are 60 mins long
Shift Times/Hours Available: All Hours - Availability required to match client requests
Role: Studio Instructor
Qualifications or Experience required: Qualified
Group Exercise Certificates essential
Rate of Pay: Grade
6-8 dependant on Class Genre (£17.76-£26.04 per hour)
Shift Times/Hours Available: Between 1-4 classes per week with availability to
cover absence.
Lunchtimes
/ Evenings / Weekends as per current Timetable
Role: Football Official
Department: Sports Development
Line Manager/Contact: Billy Radford – sportsdevelopment@kent.ac.uk
Location: Sports Pavilion - Canterbury Campus
Qualifications or Experience required: Qualification not required
Rate of Pay:
Shift Times /Hours Available:
Kent Sport is a busy and
diverse department that services and promotes many of the varied sporting and
wellbeing activities on campus.
University of Kent students can earn employability points for volunteering for
a certain amount of time.
Volunteering is currently only open to University of Kent students.
We are looking for enthusiastic individuals
to join us in a variety of roles, including:
If you're interested in
volunteering with Kent Sport, please email sportsenquiries@kent.ac.uk .
Kent Sport supports students
from partner schools and colleges by
providing proactive and engaging work experience placements.
We offer a
vocational foundation within the sport and leisure industry in a unique
environment at the University of Kent.
If you are interested in work
experience, please complete the form below and return it to sportsenquiries@kent.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-life/arts-culture-entertainment:
Radio 1Xtra’s Fee Mak took every opportunity at Kent to kick-start her career.
Meet Jarman Jam, a group of Arts students who run a bi-termly creative showcase for students to share their artistic works.
Our students to do outstanding things with their
futures.
But graduate theatre company, Little Bulb took their ambition to another level winning an Olivier Award.
Heather balances her studies with performing and teaching folk music, as well as excelling in hockey.
Innovative and engaging arts activities for the public, staff and students.
You don't need to have the best voice, if you have a love for singing that's all that matters.
Sing in a group arrangement or solo in themed jam sessions covering every genre!
Kent Television is the student television station for the University of Kent, with a studio based in the Student Media Centre and a department operating on the Medway Campus
Do you have a passion for drama?
T24 put on around 18 shows per year.
Whether you want to be in the spotlight, or set the stage, there are plenty of opportunities to get involved with!
ARTPAD is a community for artists of any level of experience of skill.
Aiming to refine their skills, experiment with new materials and share work with each other.
Canterbury Student Radio covers both the University of Kent and Canterbury Christchurch.
Whether you want to be behind the scenes, or live on air - there is plenty to get involved with!
A society focused on K-pop, providing beginner-friendly classes, housing a competition-driven dance team, and non-dance related k-pop socials and games.
One for the bookworms!
Fiction Addiction meet weekly to discuss their book of the month - as chosen by polls of members - as well as hosting loads of other socials.
Whether you’ve been dancing your whole life or have never danced at all, Kent Dance is for you!
They run weekly classes in Ballet, Tap, Jazz, Contemporary, Commercial, Street and Musical Theatre.
Whether you are an experienced DJ, looking to start mixing or just love electronic music and attending raves and festivals, this is the place for you!
From house and garage to dnb and techno.
Kent Gospel Choir – a family that sings together, fellowships together and creates a safe space for musical and spiritual growth - and of course, University Gospel Choir of the Year!
Perfect for singers who don't take themselves too seriously, or those who aren't singers at all!
All you need is a voice that's willing to sing!
Gaana is a form of street dance that originates from the South of India.
It is an upbeat energetic dance form belonging to the folk genre typically danced to with percussion instruments.
Kent Spoken Word is a safe, supportive, and uplifting space for anyone to write about what resonates with them.
Find your style and gain the confidence to tell your story
Kent Video Game Society is a group dedicated to creating gaming events, both in person and online and creating a fun gaming community for everyone at the University of Kent!
If you're a performer, or a musician looking for band members, come along to a Kent Live Music Society event and make music!
Kent Music brings together university musicians of a huge range of backgrounds.
They put on concerts with their plethora of groups and bands, bringing musicians together.
As the University of Kent’s main outlet for all things Musical Theatre, MTS aims to provide a fun and professional environment for members to get involved in.
Do you love rock or metal but feel like you can't share your passion?
Then this is the society for you!
RAMS do pub crawl, gigs, jam sessions and everything in-between!
Everyone is welcome!
From complete beginners to more seasoned dancers you will find classes adapted to your level!
No equipment or partner required either.
This is the perfect society for anyone who wants to practice their performance skills, gain more confidence, or just wants to laugh with others performing.
That's Sew Crafty is an inclusive fiber based arts society on campus.
Encouraging people to take time off from uni to unwind, relax and chat with people who also share a love of arts.
A friendly community of students who like to take a break from their busy lives and studies once a week to get creative.
With a wide range of activities, there’s something here for everyone to enjoy!
Where on campus do you go if you want to do some sewing?
Maybe you have an itch to turn something on a lathe or want to send a radio wave around the world?
TinkerSoc is the society for Kent's makers!
TNT aim to bring humour to people's lives.
Get thinking on your feet with impov or jump into sketch comedy through collaboration and put on a show!
UKC Swifties is a society run by and for fans of Taylor Swift.
Everyone is welcome, whether your a mega-fan, or you just like to dance it out to Shake It Off.
This is the place for you.
Colyer Fergusson is the perfect place for our student orchestra, big band, chorus and chamber choir to perform.
It’s next to the Gulbenkian Arts Centre, which houses a cinema, theatre and café and offers special rates for students

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-life/clubs-and-societies:
Can't find one you like?
Start your own.
Being part of a society is a great way to make new friends.
You could stick with something you know or try something new.
Just go with it and see where it takes you.
Can't find what you want?
Whether it's Circus or BBQ, watch our 10 second society pitches.
Meet Kent Mind, a new society creating supportive events for students and fundraising for charities Mind and Student Minds.
There's nothing holding you back from joining a society, meeting like minded people and having lots of fun.
Medway music society run a range of successful events at our Medway campus...
and they're not stopping there.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-life/commuting-students:
Student halls not your thing?
Do you want to stay closer to family and friends?
Maybe you’ve already set up home in the area.
With a free shuttle bus between campuses and student discounts available with local travel companies, Kent makes travelling to university simple.
“I was already renting with my partner, in Chatham, so it made more sense for me to commute rather than uproot everything.”
“I wanted to go to university but I’m very close to my family and didn’t feel ready to leave home.
So I decided to commute.”
“I commuted from Dover for my first year, but decided I’d be happier living closer to uni, so moved to Canterbury.”
“The bus stop is right outside my lecture building so I don’t even have to walk!”
Our Student Learning Advisory Service offers study skills and revision support, as well as in-person and online appointments and workshops.
Supporting mental health, wellbeing and disability needs is at the heart of what we do.
We work with you to make your uni experience one to remember.
Our careers service helps you to find your future path.
Some local students choose to live on campus in their first year and then commute for the rest of their studies; this may be worth considering as an option.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-life/sport:
Set your own pace.
Sport at Kent is for everyone.
Whether you want to play for fun or train to compete, you'll be joining a welcoming community where you can reach your personal best.
If you already have a sport you love, that's great!
If not - don't worry, there are loads of clubs, so you can discover what is right for you.
When you come to Kent with passion, the ball is in your court.
Discover how Behrad, Denzel and Ed went from Kent to the NBA.
The Kent Stars campaign celebrates students doing amazing things – and Millie Knight has some incredible achievements under her belt.
‘We’re all about bringing people
together, we run men’s and women’s
teams and welcome people of all abilities,’
"Korfball is a mixed-sex sport and a combination of netball and basketball, where you can attack, defend and mark a lot closer."
"I walked into the sports centre alone on a September night and left with some best friends and a sport I loved."
"We compete against universities in London and the south east and have won every league game so far."
The University of Kent won this year's varsity with a 61-20 victory over Canterbury Christ Church.
Join Kent and become a part of the next generation of our sporting stars.
At Kent we want sport to be for everyone.
Discover what we're doing to make that happen.
Sport at Kent is the heart of activity on campus, and our facilities are where it happens.
We're home to a huge range of sport and fitness facilities from gyms, to pitches to courts, the stage is set for you.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-life/sustainability:
Reduction in Scope 1 & 2 Carbon Emissions (compared to 2018/19 baseline)
Undergraduate modules mapped against the UN Sustainable Development Goals
Place in the people and Planet University League table up 12 places from 2021
Of food grown by volunteers at our Kent Community Oasis Garden
Of vehicles in our fleet are electric.
Tonnes of food waste diverted from landfill to anaerobic digestion
We're ranked in the top 30 vegan-friendly universities in the UK (PETA)
Staff and students have reused 157.4 tonnes of items through schemes such as Canterbury Freecycle.
In 2018 we signed an agreement to incorporate the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into everything we do.
Campus isn't just home to our students, meet who else we share our campus with!
Putting the Right to Food on the World Stage.
Transforming Food Systems through teaching and research.
Tackling food insecurity, while promoting a healthy and sustainable food community at the University.
Addressing food inequality in our region.
If like us, you believe that everyone has the right to healthy and affordable food, working to reduce food waste is a great place to start.
KentCOG has been a welcoming space on campus for everyone – students, staff and local volunteers – to grow seasonal food, meet new people and improve wellbeing since 2018.
Now, for the first time in the University’s history, Kent’s catering department has been able to purchase fresh produce from KentCOG to create some delicious daily specials at our café in the Gulbenkian Arts Centre.
Two of our student volunteers, Charlie and Ameira, talk about what the garden means to them.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-life/canterbury:
I’m a final-year Computer Science student.
You can usually find me playing or watching sport at the Pavilion in Park Wood.
Here are my best bits about Canterbury.
The best view is from Rutherford and Tyler Court where you can see the whole of Canterbury.
Join societies which suit your 
interests.
You'll find people who have common interests and who might be in a similar position to you.
The food at Hut 8 is affordable and in my 
opinion tastes the best.
Ashford Designer Outlet is one train stop away from Canterbury.
And as a Londoner it has all the shops I am used to in central London.
I always feel after a busy day 
in library and lectures, coming home is the best place to relax.
Saint Smokeys BBQ House is delicious.
It’s located in town and I’d highly recommend if you like BBQ food.
My hidden gem is quite simple but effective.
Go to any study room 
beside the library which are less busy and have the same vibe.
Anywhere DJvine is at.
He’s a Kent student who always puts on the biggest show.
His crowd control and his taste in 
music are near perfection.
I’ve spent a lot of time in Canterbury during my three years at Kent.
There’s so much 
to do, I could be here all day sharing it with  you!
Here are my best bits of this special city.
Westgate Gardens is my favourite place to visit, especially in the summer when all the flowers are in bloom and the weather is sunny.
It has to be just outside the library when the sun is setting!
The sky is so colourful and contrasts perfectly with the décor of the surrounding buildings.
Mungo’s without a doubt.
They serve everything from Korean chicken wings and veggie breakfast wraps, to ice-cream sundaes and waffles.
The Eleto Chocolate Café offers delicious Italian coffee, as well as a wonderful range of desserts and other drinks.
I recently discovered a new restaurant called The Cheeky Ramen!
Not only was the authentic Japanese food delicious, but the vibe of the place was so calming and nostalgic too.
Woody's!
If you’re into sports you will definitely find yourself here watching the football with your friends, or coming as part of a social with your society.
I’d say the Curzon cinema.
I can’t think of a better way to relax than in a dimly lit room, watching a movie, in a reclining chair!
They even bring your food to you at your seat!
The chill out zone in the library.
The beanbag in there is so comfy, and the plants really add to the whole aesthetic of the room.
My friends and I went kayaking along the river last summer and paddled in the water.
It was so much fun and was a perfect way to cool down in the hot weather.
K-pop night at Cuban!
When you first walk in there’s a really nicely decorated swing where you can take photos with your friend, and an outdoor seating area where you can chill out and talk to people.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-life/medway:
Go to events from the University or from Kent Union at the Hub.
Join a society or sports club.
And finally, stay on campus when you can!
I love The Deaf Cat café right across the street from Rochester Cathedral.
This was the first independent coffee shop I visited when I moved to Medway.
The Great Lines Heritage park, definitely.
Go all the way down to the Chatham Naval Memorial and take a seat on one of the benches on the hill.
It’s a great walk with an amazing view.
I love grabbing a book and walking to the pier in Pier Quays.
You can watch the boats, chill on a bench and take in some fresh air.
It’s very peaceful.
Taco Bell in Pier 5!
I would highly recommend getting the Crunchwrap Supreme and the cinnamon twists.
Make use of Blackbullion for your budgeting and finances!
It is free for students, and can help you keep track of your spending and see how you can become more financially savvy.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/news/kentlife/36363/kent-wins-university-gospel-choir-of-the-year-for-second-time:
Congratulations to Kent Gospel Choir, which has won the annual University Gospel Choir of the Year competition for the second time in its history.
As a celebration of gospel music, talent, and the power of community, the University Gospel Choir of the Year finals took place on Saturday night (22 March) at Oasis House in Croydon.
Kent Gospel Choir previously won the competition in 2023 and is renowned for its members’ inspiring vocals and stage presence.
The student-led choir faced tough competition to win in the final, including 2024 winners BIMM Birmingham Gospel Choir, King’s College, Keele, Portsmouth, CCCU and Warwick.
On behalf of the Kent Gospel Choir, one of its’ Musical Directors Samuel Opara said: ‘Kent Gospel Choir really is a family!
Our ethos is that we believe what we sing, and this is what we took to the stage.
Winning University Gospel Choir of the Year really means a lot – from the first years who were there for the first time, to the third years who were having their last competition.
We just went there with a heart of worship and that led to the win!’

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student/news/36594/kent-stars-superstar-society:
This month’s Kent Stars are the Medway Music Society who won Society of the Year at the latest Medway Activities Awards .
They won for transforming the society, and running successful events that would often get up to 70 students attending.
The nomination said: “I think it is impossible to ignore the achievements that the society has made over the past academic year… I wholeheartedly think the Medway campus would simply not be the same without the Music Society.”
Hear more from the Medway Music Society and its President Skye:
“We are the Medway Music Society, we hold regular events with amazing live music as well as interactive events such as quizzes and karaoke.
Firstly, to introduce myself and my team:
F ront-lef t: Chloe Jagger ; front-rig ht : Izzy Logie ; back-left : Skye Ryan ; back -right : Ash Luk
Society of the Year “Winning Society of the year came as a complete shock as we thought due to the other amazing societies, who have also done so many amazing things for Medway students, the running would be very tough.
Yet to hear that we won we are so grateful.
“This year we have really pushed the society to get back on its feet and rise to its former glory as we saw how amazing it could be and the experience it provided for students.
Though this did not come easy, there was a lot of work to be done throughout the summer in the build-up to our freshers event to make sure we started off with a bang.
“This event made a great first impression and we couldn’t have done it without the help of the music lecturers Dr Rich Perks and Dr Richard Lightman.
They helpfully guided us through the process making sure we thought through every detail so that this event would set us on track for an amazing year and it truly fulfilled its purpose.
“And so, winning society of the year was not just down to us but down to all those who supported us along the way.
Including our returning crowd of students who stuck with us through the hard times as they knew we would come out on top.”
What advice would you give to other students?
“As for advice we would give other students running societies…
“First of all, it is not a small job, if you want success you have to be dedicated and stick to the plan even when it doesn’t seem worth it.
“Secondly, fix the small problems as they cause so much frustration and yet are fixed so easily.
For example, we kept having problems with the key code of our cupboard door and this small fix has led to smoother running events.
“Thirdly, rely on your team.
If you can’t do something yourself, ask for help, there is no point in making it difficult for one person when with the help of your team it can get done more easily and efficiently.
“Lastly, have fun.
If you’re not enjoying it then why should you do it.
This was the one rule we took on when starting out as we felt that for this society to work it shouldn’t be painful to run.
Yes there will be bumps along the way but overall if it is taking a toll on your wellbeing and you can’t fix a better way then just don’t do it..”
What are your plans for the next year?
“Next year we plan to continue to grow the society, we have an amazing team taking over that have plans to elevate the Music Society to new levels.
Such as getting gigs in different locations, perhaps introducing a music society after hours, a dedicated club night and much more (secret plans to be revealed next year so stay tuned).
“We, the current committee, can’t wait to see how the Music Society will continue to develop next year.”
Do you know an inspirational student or student group?
Let us know.
Learn more about the Kent Stars campaign.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-life/meet-little-bulb:
We’re ambitious by nature at Kent, and that empowers
our students to do outstanding things with their
futures.
But it’s not every day that our alumni take
their ambition to another level and win one of Britain’s
most prestigious stage honours: an Olivier Award.
Little Bulb theatre company started out at Kent in 2008, founded by friends and former drama students Alexander Scott, Clare Beresford, Dominic Conway and Shamira Turner.
Fostering each other’s love for theatre and music, Little Bulb was a glowing success from day one and won three awards at the Edinburgh Fringe in their first year together.
Going from strength to strength, Little Bulb returned to Edinburgh as residents of the Forest Fringe and have since performed at Bristol Old Vic and teamed up with Battersea Arts Centre to create their sell-out show, Orpheus.
Little Bulb’s recent collaboration with the Royal Opera House is their biggest production to date though.
Wild folk opera Wolf Witch Giant Fairy made its way to the Linbury Theatre last Christmas where, met with great acclaim, it went on to win an Olivier award for ‘Best Family Show’.
Still reeling from the celebrations, Little Bulb told us they were overwhelmed to have received the award.
‘It might be a while until we get our heads around it!’, they said.
Fifteen years on from their time at Kent, not-so-little Little Bulb are shining as bright as ever.
Still, they haven’t forgotten their roots.
‘We’re so very thankful to everyone that has supported us and helped us on our way – not least our wonderful teachers from Kent!’

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-life/sing-their-praises:
I am currently a second-year student studying Computer Science at the University of Kent.
When I am not busy with my studies, I enjoy singing soprano as a member of the Kent Gospel Choir, which has been an incredible experience so far.
As the Social Media Admin for the Gospel Choir committee, I enjoy using my skills to promote the choir and share our experiences with a wider audience.”
“Winning the University Gospel Choir of the Year competition was an incredible experience for Kent Gospel Choir and myself.
It was a moment of pure elation and a true testament to the hard work and dedication of our entire choir community.
From the moment we started preparing for the competition, we knew we had something special, but we never expected this.
The feeling of hearing our name announced as the winners is something that will stay with me forever.
When preparing the set for the competition, we had to make sure to stay on theme which was ‘The Latter is Greater than the Former’.
With this theme we handpicked and remixed the right songs for what we wanted to perform and the story we wanted to tell.
We were able to bring a unique style to the songs and truly showcase the versatility of our choir.
Our choir members gave their all and sang together as one, pouring their hearts and souls into each note and harmony.
The audience and judges were captivated by our performance, and we could feel the emotion in the room as we sang.
One of the most special moments of the competition for me was singing with the all the other choirs as part of the UGCY Mass Choir.
We all rehearsed together for the first time that day but when it came to performing the song (Lord You’re Holy Ballin’ – Sunday Service Choir) the energy on stage was definitely there and we sounded amazing.
The entire day everyone had been so friendly and welcoming to each other, so it was really fun to sing together with the choirs, forget about the competition and just enjoy ourselves on stage, definitely the highlight of the day.
Winning the University Gospel Choir of the Year Competition was a truly unforgettable experience.
It showed us that hard work, dedication, and a passion for music can take you anywhere you want to go.
It was a celebration of the talent and spirit of our choir, and a testament to the power of gospel music to unite and uplift people from all walks of life.”
Emerald Olorunsaiye, Social Media Officer for Kent Gospel Choir Society
“My advice to other students would be to make the most of your university experience by getting involved in extracurricular activities that interest you.
These activities can not only help you develop new skills and meet new people, but they can also provide a much-needed break from academic studies.
It’s important to find a balance between academic work and other aspects of your life to ensure that you’re taking care of your overall well-being.
Additionally, don’t be afraid to step out of your comfort zone and try new things – you never know what opportunities and experiences may come your way.”
“As I will be going on a placement year next year, I will unfortunately be unable to participate in Kent Gospel Choir during that time.
This makes me appreciate even more the experiences I have had with the choir this year, such as performing at various events and bonding with the other members.
My plan for the next year is to make the most of my placement opportunity and gain valuable experience in the field of computer science.
I also hope to continue developing my musical skills on my own time and come back to the choir even stronger in my final year.”

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-life/creative-culture:
Developing your creative side is easy at Kent.
You could produce written, video or audio content at our student media centre; join a drama, dance or stand-up society; sing in a choir; play in a band or in our symphony orchestra.
Music matters at Kent and the Music Society is open to all.
We caught up with Music Award Holders, cello-playing Forensic Science student Lois and violin-playing History student David, to see what it’s like to be a part of our music community.
For Lois, music was definitely part of Kent’s attraction: ‘Compared to other universities I looked at, Kent had the best facilities.'
As soon as they arrived at Kent, Lois and David joined the orchestra and String Sinfonia.
They’ve loved taking part in ‘special ops’ organised by the Music team.
These have included working with professional musicians from Glyndebourne:
‘It was amazing, they’re one of the best opera houses in the world and I sat next to the orchestra leader who gave me some great advice,’ recalls David.
Other opportunities have come thick and fast: David and Lois worked with classical composer John Woolrich, who attended both rehearsals and performances; while Lois got to play solo in an Elgar piece and perform in the Crypt in Canterbury Cathedral:
‘I really enjoyed it; the cathedral is so beautiful.’
Both are in student-led string quartets.
David and Lois are in no doubt that being involved in music at Kent is a fantastic opportunity, not just to play and improve as musicians, but to gain confidence and make friends.
Their advice?
If music matters to you, get involved with the Music Society, you won’t regret it.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-life/comedy-club:
Gabby has loved
comedy all her life, so when she discovered Kent’s Stand-up Comedy Society, she
was in.
‘I joined the
Stand-up Comedy Society in September 2022.
I’ve always enjoyed comedy and went
to my first gig when I was 14, so it was perfect for me.
It’s great to be a
part of a community where everyone’s happy to discuss comedy.
We all write our
own material then, when we meet, we try out new ideas and get feedback.
We’re part of
the ‘campus comedy circuit’, there’s the Funny Rabbit Comedy Club and those in
the society who want to, can perform at Woody’s; there are also opportunities
to do gigs off-campus.
We promote the ‘professionals’ who perform at the
Gulbenkian too.
When I joined
I had no intention of performing, but my friends in the society very gently suggested
I should, just for five minutes at a small on-campus gig.
I wasn’t keen because
I get terrible stage fright, but they all said that once I was on stage that
would disappear.
I didn’t really believe them but I decided to give it a go.
And actually, it’s true!
The minute you tell your first joke and get a laugh,
the fear melts away.
I’ve done 12
gigs now and the more experience I get, the more fun it is.
I absolutely love
it!
This year
I’ve become the social secretary, which means I’m helping to create performance
opportunities for all of us, as well as arranging other social events.
My
organisation skills have definitely improved.
That’s the thing about societies,
you don’t just have a great time doing something you love, you also develop
other skills that look great on your CV.
So join a
society, you won’t regret it.
And if you love comedy, join us – it’s a laugh!’

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-life/soul-to-soul:
When first-year Psychology students Annicia and Deborah joined Kent Gospel Choir (KGC), they were looking for a community; they never dreamt that their choir would become University Gospel Choir of the Year.
For Annicia and Deborah, becoming members of KGC was an easy decision, both loved singing and thought KGC would be a happy reminder of home.
It became their uni ‘family’.
Deborah: ‘I fell in love with KGC in the first taster session!’ Annicia agrees: ‘Everybody was very welcoming, which made it easy to feel a part of the community.
We support each other, offer a shoulder to lean on when needed.’
KGC had submitted an audition tape to the University Gospel Choir of the Year competition.
When they heard they’d been successful, rehearsals began.
For Deborah, it was hard work but great fun: ‘We really bonded, learning the entire set including new choreography; everyone gave it their all.
And who doesn’t love a bit of competition!’ Annicia takes up the story: ‘It was a great environment, everyone working together, we even had some alumni joining us.
We were having such a great time, we were motivated but we didn’t really care about winning or losing.’
When competition day arrived, the pressure began to build.
Working with the other choirs was inspiring but also made everyone realise how talented all the singers were.
And singing in front of a big audience (including your family and friends) is stressful.
But KGC prayed together and pulled together, and then…
When we finished we were just jumping on stage, we didn’t know if we were going to win, but we knew we’d done our absolute best.
With all the choirs gathered on stage, the moment of truth arrived: Kent Gospel Choir was University Gospel Choir of the Year!
Deborah could hear her mum screaming; Annicia could hear her family calling out her nickname!
For both it was the end of an exhilarating day, a fantastic experience that they will always remember.
Now second years, Annicia and Deborah are managing to combine their love of singing and their passion for their psychology degrees.
They believe that doing something that relaxes and energises them also helps them in their studies, ‘KGC is a relaxing space for us, a chance to think about something outside of our studies.
As long as you’re organised, it’s fine.
We’d definitely recommend joining a society.
And if you enjoy singing and want to be a part of a community that explores worship and fellowship, come and join us, we’d love to meet you!’

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-life/matter-of-debate:
‘It was around a year ago, as I apprehensively watched the French presidential debate between Emmanuel Macron and the far-right candidate, Marine Le Pen, that the idea of helping set up a debating society at the University of Kent first arose.
It was a worrying time for me and my family.
For over 12 years, France had been our home.
But the very real prospect of France soon being governed by far-right nationalists served as a stark reminder that we were in fact a British family residing in a foreign country.
This highly contentious and public televised debate between Macron and Le Pen was arguably a decisive moment in the election campaign, leading to Macron being elected for a second term.
It highlighted to me the extent to which debating skills are vital in the world of politics, and, in turn, incited me to try and improve my own debating and public speaking skills.
I searched for a debating society at the University of Kent, but discovered that it was unfortunately no longer running.
It was a throwaway comment I made to my friend, Halle Breed, that started us in pursuit of reviving the debating society at the University.
Our aim was to set up a society that provides a fun and safe setting to debate on key issues, while encouraging and inspiring people to practise public speaking.
We also wanted this to be accessible to all, regardless of a person’s experience in debating/public speaking, or the degree they were studying.
And, as this was a new society, we decided to call it: the Kent Debating Union.
We were later joined by Meg Payne and Harry Mckenzie, and together we explored the ways in which we could put this idea in motion.
However the truth is, despite our best intentions and our dedication, we really had no idea if anyone would be interested in joining the society.
Therefore, we were delighted and encouraged by all the support we got during the Welcome Fair, with close to 50 students signing up to be members of the society in the days after.
Although there are countless different debating styles, we decided not to let a rigid debate structure hinder the flow of an engaging and fruitful discussion.
Fundamentally, our debates allowed for two opposing teams to confront ideas and facts, with the aim of being the most persuasive side.
We’ve also collaborated with a variety of different societies on a diverse range of topics.
During the first term, we hosted an event with both the Human Rights Law society and Sports Law society on the topic: “Should major sporting events be held in countries with human rights violations?” .
During the second term, we debated with the European Law Students Association society on: “Are the current University lecturers’ strikes in the UK justified?”
These diverse topics were shaped by our desire to debate on both the big issues of today, but also more traditional discussions.
These lively events gathered over 30 attendees!
For this year’s committee, one of the most rewarding aspects of setting up this society has been to witness the friendships formed during our weekly debate sessions.
We were blessed each week with kind and considerate members that helped ensure a good feeling within the society.
We set up the debating society in the hope that it would have a positive impact.
But as committee members who were all in our final year, we also hoped the society would carry beyond this year.
Last month, we held our elections.
The recently elected new committee is made up of talented, ambitious and compassionate individuals, and we are very excited to see the direction the society takes next year!’

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-life/checkmates:
Whether it’s a classical or blitz game, Owen knows a thing or two about bringing people together.
‘Whenever I ask people, “How long have you been playing chess?” they often say “I’m a beginner.
I’ve only got into it since watching The Queen’s Gambit”, or they might have watched a game on Twitch.
It’s great that there’s been an explosion in the popularity of chess but new students are surprised to find that there’s a great social scene around the sport too; it’s such an easy way to meet new people.
Part of my role as Vice-President is to play against new players and introduce them to the game.
I don’t leave anyone on their own!
I try to match beginners who are equal in skill set, but I’ll sometimes pair them with a more experienced player to help improve their game.
We only provide friendly and constructive criticism!
Our casual meet-ups are a great laugh too.
Our three and four-player boards are great for building close friendships and our six-minute blitz games are helpful for developing quick-fire tactics.
As expected though, there’s more silence and seriousness during our classical game tournaments; they require a different level of concentration to avoid any blunders.
Our Chess Society is particularly great if you’re nervous about talking to new people.
Not only are the pieces a great distraction and fun to fidget with, but if you’re in the middle of a conversation and you don’t know what to say next, you can focus on the game and then go back to talking when you feel comfortable.
You don’t have to be good at maths or computing to get involved with chess; everyone has different skills and enjoys different things in our Society.
Some people love our socials while others prefer to play and then go home.'

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-life/frame-of-mind:
"Kent Mind Society is a new society, which aims to create safe and supportive spaces on campus, destigmatising conversations about mental health, and fundraising for Mind and Student Minds.
We founded Kent Mind to help with the demand for support as we face a student mental health crisis and our desire to enact change on campus.
We have organised a wide variety of social, fundraising, and well-being drop-in events alongside raising awareness for important dates like Disability History Month and Time To Talk Day.
The ‘Safe Space’ initiative was a great success, providing a supportive environment for students who felt lonely, low or bored on a Friday night and need an alternative to ‘Friday Night Drinks’.
We are excited to relaunch the initiative bigger and better in the Summer Term.
We’ve had the great privilege of working with other local charities such as Porchlight, supporting their NHS-commissioned project on 18-25 year olds who have experienced mental health crises.
We continued strong with our calendar of events for University Mental Health Day, including a Bingo Fundraiser at Woody’s and our Spring Prom at Venue.
More details of upcoming events can be found on our Instagram (@kent_mind_society).”
Hi, I’m Shivali.
I am the President of Kent Mind Society and a third-year Economics student, looking at a career in Philanthropy after my involvement in many of the Community Action Groups here at Kent.
Hi, my name is Tommy.
I am the Campaigns Coordinator for Kent Mind Society.
I’m an MSc by Research student in Computer Science and I’ve been a part of many societies throughout my four years at the University of Kent.
“During our summer term, we hope to continue our ‘Safe Spaces’ initiative to provide a chilled and relaxed space amongst all the exam-related stress.
In the next year, we would love to continue our fundraising schemes and collaborate with other Community Action Groups, sports clubs and societies to raise even more money for some great causes.
We’d also love to work closely with student committees to raise awareness of how to look out for your members and be considerate of mental health.”

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-life/simply-british-ballers:
Behrad, Denzel and Ed are the brains behind Simply British Ballers (SBB), the company they created to grow basketball in the UK.
They’ve definitely hit the court running, working with brands including Nike, Adidas, Footlocker and Meta, and even their holy grail, the NBA.
Back at Kent for the annual alumni basketball game, the three friends have good memories of their time at ‘the uni that changed their lives’.
Behrad remembers the first time he met Ed (impressed by his basketball skills) and Denzel (great shoes).
But the three really gelled on the basketball court: ‘We played and ran the basketball team, Denz was captain, Ed was President and I was Vice-President.
It was a great experience and built the dynamic for what we have now.’
You’re responsible for 30 people, so fantastic training for a future career.’ Or, as it turned out, for running a business.
When Covid struck and it was no longer possible to play basketball, Behrad started to create basketball content for YouTube and SBB began to take shape.
Next step was to add live basketball content.
Denzel, inspired by Chicken Connoisseur, who rates chicken shops[cafés], suggested they rate basketball courts.
A friend showed Behrad and I how to use TikTok and we went to three courts posting the content the next day.
We posted at 12 and by 4pm people were going crazy; we’d got through to a community we didn’t know existed.
They asked us to come to courts in places we’d never heard of, and we thought, “yeah, let’s go!” and from there it just grew.’
It wasn’t just members of the basketball community who were watching though.
Within months Nike were in touch wanting to work with SBB and others followed.
For Ed the development has been rapid which is exciting and challenging:
‘We’ve worked with a whole host of companies and have a contract to produce content for the NBA in the upcoming season.
Now we need to build the business, we’ve built up expertise in content creation and media, so we’re helping companies with that and have plans to start an SBB Charity in the future.’
I’ve watched the NBA all my life, so when we were invited to the US to watch the All-Star Game, it was beyond my wildest dreams.
We were in the same room as Lebron James, Giannis, DeMar, talking to them – it was surreal, amazing!
Having come so far, so fast, what advice do they have for budding entrepreneurs: ‘You have to be hardworking, focused and comfortable with feeling uncomfortable!
It’s difficult but if you can create something lasting and meaningful, why wouldn’t you?
Just attack it head on, and most importantly don’t be afraid to fail.’
For Behrad, Denzel and Ed though, it’s not just about building a successful company, it’s about creating a connected community whose shared passion for basketball can move the sport forward in the UK.
‘We all wanted to go to the NBA, it didn’t work out for us but we want to make sure the next generation of dreamers has a better chance of getting there.
We want to inspire people to stay in the game, to play and to be creative and entrepreneurial – to turn passion into action.’

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-life/howzat:
Sport at Kent is for
everyone.
Whether you
want to play for fun or train
to compete, there are over
40 clubs to get involved
with.
Whatever your ability,
we’ll support you to reach
your personal best.
Take Kent’s cricket club.
Delighted to be the first
university team to be
crowned National Indoor
Cricket champions in
2023, the club is also
proud of its open door
policy: ‘We’re all about bringing people
together, we run men’s and women’s
teams and welcome people of all abilities,’
club chairman Dan Howell told us.
National champions, though, what an achievement!
Head coach Richard Durrant remembers the day: ‘It
was amazing.
With most of the Cricket Society coming
to Lords, the “Home of Cricket”, to support us, we
played in a nail-biting semi-final and final to secure the
national title.
We’re all very proud of what the club has
achieved.
Dan was one of those who attended the finals day at
Lords.
He’s also enjoyed playing games for the 2s and
for the 1s and gets great satisfaction captaining the 3s.
‘I work with people who are rookies and others who
haven’t played for a long time, it’s great to get them
involved in the club, playing matches and winning some
too!
When members tell me how much they’ve enjoyed
it, it’s very satisfying.
Alongside teams who compete in BUCS (British
Universities and Colleges Sports) events and external
leagues, we run an intercollege tournament.
We mix up
the teams, so people of different abilities play together.
It’s fun but still competitive; afterwards we head to
Woody’s, our favourite bar on campus, to relax.
It’s
a good balance of competitive and social.
I’m proud of how inclusive and diverse the club is and
that it’s home to national champions and absolute
beginners.
As chairman, Dan’s keen to keep the club going from strength to strength, building on its successes both on and off the field.
‘Being chairman is a lot of work, but it’s rewarding too, I get to work with people from lots of different backgrounds and enjoy seeing our cricketing community develop.’ And as a Management student, he knows that the skills he’s gaining in leadership and organisation will look great on his CV and give him experience to draw on when he starts out on his career.
For Dan, joining a club is a good move: ‘I’d definitely recommend it, you’ll meet lots of people, it’s a break from your studies and you’ll have a great time.’
And, who knows, you could end up being a national champion!

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-life/pitch-perfect:
Kent student Abbie Cushion watched England’s women’s team win the European Championship surrounded by schoolmates in her local pub.
It was a great moment for someone who has been playing football since she was 11, first in mixed teams and now as part of Kent’s highly successful women’s football club.
‘England’s win was momentous and will I think see the general interest in women’s football continue to grow.
When I started playing there weren’t many teams for girls, but it’s really refreshing to see how many opportunities young girls have now.'
Kent’s women’s football team had a stellar 2021/22 season, undefeated in the BUCS (British Universities and Colleges Sport) league and with 74 goals scored across all competitions.
To build on their success and the increased interest in the club, they decided to run two teams for 2022/23 so that more people could play competitively.
Abbie plays for the second team: ‘Our last game is against Essex, so kind of a local derby.
Essex are also undefeated, so the pressure is building!’
Abbie has been a part of the club since she started at Kent.
‘As soon as I knew I was coming, I contacted the club via Instagram.
Everyone was very welcoming and when I got here I really enjoyed mixing with the older students.
It integrates you into the whole University community and you learn a lot from their experiences.
The social events are great too.
I’ve made long-lasting friendships and really come out of my shell.’
The club welcomes everyone who loves football, from those who want to compete in leagues to those who just want to enjoy a Sunday kick-about.
‘In training we focus on skills development, but also make sure everyone gets a chance to just play.’
As well as being passionate about her football, Abbie is also dedicated to her studies and hasn’t found balancing the two difficult.
She intends using her Environmental Social Sciences degree to forge a career in policy development in sustainability.
And, of course, she plans to continue playing football.
As a Norwich City supporter, Abbie knows all about the ups and downs of football but fortunately, at Kent, it’s been mostly ups!

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-life/korfball:
‘Korfball is a mixed-sex sport and a combination of netball and basketball, where you can attack, defend and mark a lot closer.
I think mixed-sex sports really boost people’s confidence; in a game situation everyone has to talk to each other!
Korfball is really inclusive and great for meeting new people.
There’s really no pressure to be amazing and everyone’s welcome, from beginners to experienced players like our first team captain and Kent Sport Scholar Ayishah.
We all get along so well and have a great team spirit.
If a member feels anxious about playing, we rally round and, as Vice-President, I make sure they always have a support network and someone to talk to.
For others, korfball is a way to escape and just take a break from their studies.
As well as playing korfball, there’s a great social side organised by our wonderful Social Sec Kamila.
She hosts our monthly socials and activities, making sure there’s something for everyone.
You’ll always find us at Woody’s or K Bar after training every week too!
If you’re competitive and love game time like me, then you can join our BUCS (British Universities and Colleges Sport) teams.
Last year we got to the final of the National Championships, but we lost to UEA.
I won’t go into too much detail because it still hurts, but on a positive note, we’re placed 2nd in Great Britain, outranking 52 university teams.
It’s a position that’s given us some serious bragging rights around campus.
BUCS kicks-off again in a few weeks and it’s likely to be Kent vs UEA for the cup.
We’ll be on home turf, playing in front of a home crowd, with three strong teams.
We will do it!

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-life/meet-nicole:
Nicole Hall chose Kent’s Business and
Management degree because she felt it would
give her lots of options.
And it did.
Taking
advantage of all the opportunities on offer
set Nicole up for her next step.
Throwing herself into university life, Nicole embraced the opportunities her
course offered.
From learning from inspirational lecturers whose sessions
were not only great for learning and development but also fun and engaging
to working through business problems with her peers and taking part in a
‘negotiation workshop’, she gained a real insight into the business world.
A chance to put that insight into practice soon came along when she took
a year in industry.
‘Working at The Walt Disney Company as a retail supply
chain intern was a dream come true.
The selection process was hard, but the
employability team at Kent were fantastically helpful.
The year confirmed
that supply chain management was an area I was very interested in, as it
seemed to come naturally to me.’
Nicole’s industry experience was a real asset when she started to apply for
graduate roles.
She is now a New Accounts Graduate Manager at Amazon.
‘Working for such a large organisation since graduation has given me so
many opportunities.
My favourite project since starting has been hosting
webinars for selling partners to educate them on how to optimise their
selling account and boost sales.
By working on the supply chain, I’ve been
able to see end to end processes and find improvements to aid sellers’
experiences.’
And is Nicole able to dip back into her time at university to support her
work?
Absolutely: ‘I use lessons from my degree in everything I do, from
specific knowledge to life skills.’
Nicole studied BSc Business and Management and graduated with a First.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/alumni/news/3341/alumnus-ezechi-britton-receives-mbe:
Alumni Profile - Ezechi Britton
How did it feel to be appointed an MBE?
Surreal is the first word that comes to mind and a complete surprise!
But ultimately it’s an incredible honour to be appointed an MBE.
How do you think your MBE can inspire others?
Let me tell you a story.
On New Year’s day after the announcement, a colleague of mine called to congratulate me, but what surprised me was that he was practically in tears as he did so.
The main message he had for me was that black men like us from areas like Southeast London simply don’t win accolades like this.
He was overjoyed that I had been appointed an MBE because it goes to show that people like us can achieve incredible things and be recognised for it.
So if even one person is inspired to believe in themselves and to push to achieve more than I have then it will have been worth it.
What advice would you give to any young technologists out there?
Technology is at the heart of everything now and the most valuable companies on the planet are tech businesses.
But what I love about technology is that it’s genuinely meritocratic.
All you need is a laptop and an internet connection and you have the ability to learn everything you need to be a great coder.
But the critical part is that with that skill set you can code an application, host it in the cloud and launch it internationally with no help from anyone else.
If you don’t have that skill set this is impossible and you become dependent on others to do this for you.
As a coder, you can literally take your ideas and turn them into a global product.
This is a superpower that only technologists have.
So as far as advice goes, learn what you can, get involved in open source technology projects, expand your skillset as much as possible and develop it to the point that it becomes a genuine superpower.
Even if you don’t want to launch a start-up, there are open more tech jobs in London than there are in Germany and France combined.
With this skill set, you will always be in demand.
What are you doing now?
I now invest in start-ups.
I’m an investor and CTO in residence for Impact X Capital.
Impact X is a venture capital fund that invests in start-ups with diverse founding teams.
What attracted you to your course and to Kent?
Well I attended a very poor secondary school and as a result, I didn’t do very well in my A levels and I had to resit them.
This meant that getting a top tier role was a serious challenge due to my educational track record, so I knew that the only chance of me pursuing my career of choice was to find a great University that offered an industrial placement year.
I researched all the top Universities that offered a Computer Science BSc course with an Industrial Placement year.
UKC featured in the top 10 and I knew a few people who came here and recommended the University to me.
Which skills did you learn on your course that you use most now in your career?
Well, my career has been extremely varied.
I started as a Java programmer at an international investment bank called Lehman Brothers from there I moved to Credit Suisse and worked as a C# contractor.
Next, I co-founded a Fintech Start-up called Neyber where I was the CTO and now I invest in tech start-ups.
So it’s safe to say that the skills I use have changed dramatically over the years.
Initially, it was absolutely the core programming skills but over time a general understanding of technology how it works and its potential application has become critical to my role.
This can range from understanding the fundamentals of programming to database normalisation through to how cryptography really works.
All of these things have been useful to me at various stages of my career.
Which aspects of your degree did you enjoy the most?
The programming.
It was always my favourite aspect of the course.
I loved the feeling of creativity that it gave me.
Did you undertake any work experience whilst at Kent?
I completed a 1-year industrial placement at Lehman Brothers.
Whom I then joined as a graduate.
What does a day in the life look like for you?
My day’s vary wildly, It’s easier to give a sample of the kind of activities I am involved in!
I speak with new founders on a daily basis, I work with founders in our portfolio on growing their start-ups, I work with our team at Impact X to make investment decisions, I advise and mentor a large number of companies on their tech, operational and growth plans.
Finally, I regularly speak at events, panels and interviews for example next week I’m interviewing Kwasi Kwarteng the UK Secretary of State at the Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy.
So if there is one thing in common with all of these activities is that these days most of my time is spent talking with people.
What are your future plans?
The immediate focus is on completing the fundraising for Impact X.
The plan is that this year we will complete our £100m raise which will allow us to invest in another 10 start-ups per year for the next 5 years.
Ultimately Impact X intends to raise and invest over £1bn into diverse founders across the UK and Europe over the next decade.
What advice would you give to somebody thinking of coming to Kent?
I loved Kent and it’s been foundational to my progression as a professional.
It’s a beautiful campus with some incredible people.
Without my time there I wouldn’t be the person that I am today.
So if you’re thinking about coming to Kent consider this a massive endorsement!
How would you describe Kent in three words?
Transformational, Fun, Educational
Are you currently working on a project that you would like to tell us a bit more about?
Well, I also run an organisation called Code Untapped which acts as a platform for underrepresented technologists.
The end goal is to turn it into a Start-up Venture Studio where we will be recruiting the next generation of entrepreneurial technologists to build an ecosystem of tech start-ups.
So watch this space!

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/architecture-planning/alumni/4006/graduate-profile-yeni-ope-ewe:
BA (Hons) Architecture graduate Yeni Ope-Ewe gives current and prospective students an invaluable insight into life at the University of Kent and beyond.
Following graduation, Yeni volunteered as an International Aid Worker, worked on some incredible projects as an Architectural Assistant at Article25 and now works at HTA Design as well as being involved with the organisation Black Female Architects .
What advice would you give to a prospective student looking to study architecture?
When pursuing architecture, it’s really easy to get ahead of yourself and bogged down with grades, qualifying and other future things that are way ahead.
Remember to enjoy wherever you are at the moment.
Enjoy your projects, enjoy your field trips, enjoy being creative and most importantly enjoy your sleep!
How do you feel your time at Kent prepared you for life after graduation?
Honestly, I don’t think anything prepares you for life after graduation!
It’s kind of like learning to ride a bike while you’re already on it.
Having said that, I think the most notable thing that my time at Kent prepared me for was the sheer amount of diverse people you will meet and collaborate with when you start working.
From seeing the array of different ideas in crits, to working with architects and your tutors, even to meeting strangers on international trips  – that’s exactly what it’s like when you start working and networking.
What was your favourite design project and why?
My favourite project at university was my dissertation project.
I had opportunity to explore and research a field of my choice and I chose digital architecture and parametric design.
I conducted a workshop where students explored the benefit of undergoing a generative design process.
I spent my Christmas holiday laser-cutting and gluing over 300 cardboard components and by applying parametric rules, we were able to create some really cool abstract structural models with them.
After graduation, you went onto be an International Aid Worker.
Could you tell us a little bit more about what this involved and why you decided to volunteer?
I always wanted to work in development, specifically in low economy regions, so when I saw the opportunity to volunteer for three months in Kenya I was eager to apply.
While there, I led a design and build project with my team, where we constructed a beehive fence on a farm in order to prevent the crops being ransacked by elephants.
Not only did this protect the produce, but it also added an additional source of income through honey harvesting.
It was an unforgettable experience.
Could you tell us a bit more about the organisation ‘Black Female Architects’ and the importance of the work they do?
What was your role?
BFA is a network and enterprise founded to increase the visibility of black and black mixed heritage women within the architectural industry and other built environment fields.
As the marketing assistant, I helped to organise several social media campaigns, networking events, a live pavilion design project and I also helped to facilitate plastic recycling workshops as part of our work.
You can follow us @Blackfemarc !
You also worked as an Architectural Assistant for Article25.
That must’ve been an amazing opportunity – could you give a bit of insight into the kinds of projects you worked on?
Whilst at Article 25 I worked on a school and orphanage project in Tanzania, as well as a housing project in Dominica to reconstruct over 600 homes destroyed in Hurricane Maria in 2017.
It was such a great experience working on international projects, and they made me really passionate about focusing my career on residential architecture, social housing and regeneration.
Congratulations on your recent job role at HTA Design.
What’s a typical day in the life for you at the moment?
A typical day for me starts off with a project team catch-up.
We discuss progress on our work and delegate tasks for the day.
Then I’ll probably jump onto Revit or AutoCAD to do some modelling in the morning.
After lunch (which is so kindly provided by the chefs at HTA), the team might have a design review or consultant meeting where we’ll present to clients, planners, or even the senior partners within the practice.
If I’m really lucky, I’ll get to go out to site to see the current development on a project.
It’s a really enjoyable work day!
For all our final year students, what’s the best piece of advice you give as they prepare to start their job hunt and life after university?
I would say be really open to any and all opportunities you find, even if it’s not in the traditional route of architecture.
Don’t compare yourself to what “everyone else” seems to be doing, because different experiences can be so valuable for you as you build your career.
Your career path may seem very straightforward on paper, but real life doesn’t happen on paper.
It happens in reality, so brace yourself and enjoy the ride.
Image credit: Rebecca Dada | @rebeccaodadax

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/alumni/profiles/elaine-loke:
After graduating in 2018 with a Journalism degree, I returned to my home country Malaysia to work as a magazine journalist.
It was the largest magazine publisher in Malaysia, with local titles such as FEMALE (which was the team I worked for) and international titles like Marie Claire and Harper's Bazaar.
The company closed down during COVID and I moved on to work as a social media analyst at a local online grocery delivery company, HappyFresh.
I returned to Kent to pursue my MSc in 2021 and after graduating in 2023, I started working for J.P.
Morgan as a software engineer under the Software Engineer Program (2-year graduate program).
Specifically, I work as a React Native mobile developer for the Chase mobile banking app.
My work day is usually a journey filled with problem-solving, creativity and collaboration.
I start every morning with my team's stand-up where we discuss our current workflow, blockers and plan for the day.
This is usually followed by a dive into coding and the task varies each day depending on the requirements.
This can be building new features, refining existing functions or tackling challenges such as bugs and glitches.
Occasionally, I collaborate with other developers to brainstorm ideas, solve complex problems and perform peer reviews to maintain the quality of our codebase.
During my time as a magazine journalist, I had the opportunities to interview celebrities such as Calum Scott, Lukas Graham, Anne Marie and Honne.
I also had my own column "Ask Elaine" in the magazine where I answer readers' questions about food, technology and travels.
It was a project I thought I may not do well as I'm only a grad but I'm glad my managers believed in me.
Kent provided me with a good foundation in computer science which was crucial for me to get started as a budding software engineer.
The courses in object-oriented programming, algorithms, software engineering principles etc proved to be very useful when I started working in the industry as they enabled me to approach new languages and technologies with confidence as I already possessed a solid grasp of underlying principles.
We also had a Project Week which gave me valuable hands-on experience in developing an existing software to make it more user-friendly to visually impaired users.
It was a great experience as I got to apply theoretical knowledge into action and understand the software development lifecycle, version control systems and project management methodologies that I use in my everyday work now.
As a Journalism graduate, I was also trained to possess valuable soft skills such as communication, teamwork, interpersonal and time management, all of which were instrumental even after I made a career switch into software engineering.
I believe my Journalism background provided me with a unique set of skills and perspectives that complement my current role, allowing me to think critically, convey complex technical concepts, and adapt to challenges with confidence.
Focus on acquiring a solid foundation in software engineering fundamentals; always be curious about the whys, i.e.
why is this an issue, rather than focusing on the hows, i.e.
how to solve this issue.
Learn to embrace the mindset of lifelong learning as technology is always evolving and engage in hands-on projects or internship opportunities to gain practical experience.
Ethnic food nights with my flatmates!
I was living in Woolf with 7 other international students, all from different countries such as Italy, Korea, Pakistan, Indonesia, Thailand and the USA.
We used to rotate hosting dinners where we serve food from our home country and celebrate each other's cultures.
It really ingrained in me a deep appreciation for the rich tapestry of cultures that shape our world.
I would join more clubs and societies.
Due to courseworks and exams, I spent very little time exploring new activities and getting involved in sports.
I'd definitely want to attend various activities and expand my network even more if I could go back to university.
Yes, we're still good friends and I'm still in touch with a few academics.
I'm really passionate about innovation and aspire to develop software that'd create opportunities for growth and impact.
I'd love to progress into a lead mobile engineer role where I can take on more responsibilities on design, development and implementation of mobile applications.
I'd also like to be able to provide technical leadership and mentorship to budding developers in the future.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/year-in-industry/finding-your-place:
Julia Stanovnik, NHS, Biomedical Science
During Julia's paid placement at the NHS she gained real-world experience, made new connections and built a professional portfolio which will help her to get HCPC registered after graduation.
“When I applied to uni, I didn’t plan to do a placement but in my second year I decided that a placement would give me a chance to see what it’s like to work as a biomedical scientist.
I also thought it’d be a cool experience.
Our department sends out emails that list placement opportunities, so I applied and was successful.
My placement, which was
paid, was in Brighton at the Royal Sussex County Hospital NHS Trust.
I moved to
Brighton for the year and shared a flat with two other girls who ended up becoming really good friends.
I worked in a lab in the pathology
department.
We took samples including skin biopsies, tissue samples, pieces of
organs, processed them and put them on slides to be examined for types of cancer
and other diseases.
It was really interesting,
working with other biomedical scientists and being part of a wider team that
included consultants and nurses.
I discovered how much work goes into analysing
a sample and arriving at a diagnosis, it’s really not that simple!
It was a
very rewarding experience,
I not only learnt a lot, I also felt I was helping others – patients and my
team mates.”
Biomedical science is great for people who love science, but don’t want to dedicate themselves to a specific area.
You study biology, chemistry, a little bit of everything so it opens up lots of possibilities for future careers.
It was a good choice; I’m glad I chose it.
“During my placement, I
was also able to build an Institute of Biomedical Science (IBMS) registration
portfolio, which will allow me to be HCPC (Health and Care Professions Council)
registered after I graduate.
I hope
to return to the hospital after graduation to see what it would be like to work
there longer term and to continue with my professional portfolio.
The benefit of your placement continues when you return to uni.
So much
of what we learn is connected to pathology, so when lecturers are explaining
pathology or haematology, even immunology, all of these things feel more
familiar to me.
I also feel more confident in the lab, which is definitely
helping me as I work on my final-year research project.
I’d
definitely recommend doing a placement if you can.
It’s a good chance to
explore a role and see if you like it, you’ll also gain knowledge and
experience and get some new connections.”
Biomedical Science is the fundamental building block of medical practice.
Without a deep understanding of the body, healthcare practitioners cannot truly understand, diagnose and treat illnesses and diseases, such as cancer.
At Kent, we prepare you for successful careers within and beyond the world of biomedical science and equip you with the skill-set you need.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/kent-business-school/careers-and-employability/20511/international-business-graduate-i-began-to-think-like-a-businessperson:
By Charlotte North
Alexandra Smith studied BSc International Business and has recently secured a role at a major international consulting firm.
‘I was one of those students who didn’t quite make the grades to get into my choice of university, which at first was close to my hometown of Derby.
I had to apply through clearing and look at different courses at the very last minute.
Kent Business School was one of the first I made because I was really drawn into the University by what I saw online.
I thought it looked friendly, supportive and the campus was green and beautiful.
International Business really appealed to me, because it offered such a breadth of knowledge.
Arriving on campus, I felt instantly ‘home’ and that same sense of support and wellbeing that I got from looking online.
Kent felt inclusive and somewhere you could thrive.
That feeling stayed with me, throughout my years of study.
I started that September, living in Parkwood with some incredible housemates – we loved socialising on the lawns outside and having a laugh.
The initial teachings began with the real capstones of business, which at first felt a little general, but as I moved through the course, I realised how integral they are to business education.
Socially, I couldn’t have asked for more.
I had made an excellent group of friends thanks to ice-breaker sessions held by Kent Union to settle us into university – fun things like being put into teams and going out on tasks that really worked well.
I did foam parties and joined salsa dancing and lacrosse clubs.
I even tried out fencing!
My final year was most transformational for me.
The modules that I have loved the most are European Business and Global Strategy and I feel deeply involved in the study and research required for my dissertation, which was on analysing technological innovations in agriculture.
I found out recently that I got 72 in my dissertation, which was amazing.
I am over the moon to have secured a role as a Service Delivery Analyst at Capgemini, a consulting firm in application management that I started in August 2022.
If a new company is interested in our services, I prepare a proposal for them that offers solutions to their needs.
It requires a great level of data analysis and communication skills.
Capgemini is a huge international company with over 360,000 employees, so the opportunities are endless.
The business really invests in their staff and I can choose the direction I want to go in.
I’ve been amazed at how relevant my course is to everything I do within this role, particularly the analytical skills built during my three years of study.
I also find that the modules I took on strategy really play a part in my working day.
I am so thankful for the path I took at Kent as without my course, I’d never have found my dream job so quickly.’
Our International Business degree is designed to give you the industry-relevant skills and essential knowledge that you need if you see yourself having a career that involves managing or leading across boundaries

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/alumni/profiles/kate-mccaffrey:
As part of my MA thesis I uncovered some groundbreaking new
evidence about one of Anne Boleyn’s private prayerbooks (her Book of Hours)
that received international press and scholarly attention.
As a result, I was
employed at Hever Castle, where that Book of Hours is held and who I had worked
with previously, as their Assistant Curator.
I have co-curated two exhibitions, one based on my personal
research with the Books of Hours, organised Hever’s first international loans,
co-authored three books, and made international press with another
groundbreaking historical discovery in 2023 with the finding of Thomas
Cromwell’s lost Book of Hours.
I received a promotion in 2023 to Castle
Historian of Hever, as well as keeping my curatorial duties.
In June 2024 I led and launched the greatest change Hever
Castle has seen in well over a generation, ‘The Boleyn Apartment’, which is a
permanent and full refurbishment of the Boleyn family rooms within the Castle.
In 2023, I started a company with two of my historian friends, called The Tudor
Trio, where we share monthly online content to subscribers about Tudor history
and also plan and execute online and in-person history events and tours.
In 2024, I accepted CHASE funding to begin my PhD with MEMS
at the University of Kent this autumn.
Every day is different, which is part of the fun!
I will be organising whichever project is most current –
recently that has been the refurbishment of the Boleyn Apartment, and currently
that is planning our next exhibition for 2026.
I might be writing the new audio
guide tour of the Castle, or researching items within our collection, or
meeting with curatorial colleagues at different heritage sites around the UK.
I also help with sourcing new acquisitions and conserving
our collection, as well as filming documentaries or television programmes and
promoting Hever Castle through social media.
Our ‘Catherine and Anne: Queens, Rivals, Mothers’ exhibition
from 2023, which was based on my personal research.
I reunited Catherine of
Aragon and Anne Boleyn’s prayerbooks for the first time in 500 years.
It was invaluable – my MA thesis that I completed at Kent
became the very basis for my current career.
I would never have been able to
work with Anne Boleyn’s prayerbook if I didn’t have the skills and expertise I
acquired during my MA with MEMS.
Say yes to all the opportunities that come your way, get as
much practical experience as possible, and gather as many new skills as you
can: languages, palaeography, archive experience and codicology were all
incredibly important for me.
Probably having classes in the Canterbury Cathedral archives
working with documents from hundreds of years ago!
The pandemic and lock-downs affected how much time I was
able to physically spend on campus, so I wish I’d had more time in person, but
that was unavoidable!
Yes, many.
Mainly from MEMS, as I will be returning to join
them for my PhD very soon.
Gain my doctorate, write some more books, and
continue working in the heritage space and sharing my love and knowledge of
history with the interested public!

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/alumni/profiles/angel-raju:
It has taken a couple of turns since I graduated.
I worked as a play worker in a before and after school program, then started working as an administrator in a domiciliary care company before receiving a promotion to administrative manager.
Presently, I am now working as a Civil Servant as a Programmes Facilitator in the Ministry of Justice for His Majesty's Prison and Probation Service.
On a typical day, I will meet with people on probation for group sessions as part of their rehabilitation programme.
I coach them through each session and ensure the safety of the general public.
The amazing people I have had the opportunity to meet from children, to palliative adults, to people on probation - the different walks of life they have come from and the stories they’ve shared with me - have always been, and will always remain, a professional highlight.
English Literature is such a fantastically broad subject with its wonderful nuances that I genuinely was never under the impression that a job was not for me, it is applicable in everything and incredibly helpful when needing to write any type of report!
Connections help and so does building a strong network, but honestly I think the most important thing to have is resilience.
Being able to persevere in order to be part of something so much bigger than yourself is the crux of it all.
I spent hours, days, and weeks applying for jobs and now that I'm here I can hand on heart say that it was so incredibly worth it.
I have a few thousand favourite memories of Kent, but seeing the city from the steps of the library is a particular highlight.
Even writing about it now gives me goosebumps!
Be a bit louder and worry less.
I met one of my best friends on my first official day and I remain good friends with many other alumni.
I want to be a bit louder, worry less, and continue to help as many people as I can in the process.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-support/how-to-register:
This page contains the Student Support and Wellbeing (SSW) online registration form, as well as information on the registration process and a video guide to using our online registration system.
In order to access many services from Student Support and Wellbeing, you need to be registered with us.
This means that your details will be entered into our system, and we can begin collecting any evidence we may need before we can help put in place support for you.
If you're not sure whether you are already registered with SSW, please contact us .
Online registration is the most efficient way to provide us with the information we need to offer you the most appropriate support.
However, if you experience any difficulties with online registration, please contact us for an alternative method.
If you're interested in having free confidential counselling from Student Support and Wellbeing, you do not need to complete the below registration form.
Instead, please email Counselling@kent.ac.uk if your course is based at Canterbury or MedwayCounselling@kent.ac.uk if your course is based at Medway.
Want to see what that online registration process looks like?
Take a look at this brief tutorial video.
Use this form to register with Student Support and Wellbeing for the first time.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-support/safeguarding:
Our
safeguarding policies are designed to protect children and adults at risk of harm
on our campuses or involved in any related University activity including
safeguarding for apprenticeship students in employment.
Our full safeguarding
policy can be found
here
The University has a responsibility to keep children and
adults at risk safe to take appropriate safeguarding action in relation to
signs and symptoms of abuse or neglect, which could include:
• Physical • Psychological or emotional • Sexual • Domestic Violence • Financial • Neglect • Discriminatory • Institutional • Modern slavery
Statutory Safeguarding: applies
to children (those under 18) and adults with care and support needs.
Where you
are concerned about abuse or the wellbeing of such individuals you MUST report
any concerns to the Designated Safeguarding Officers
Prevent (statutory) duty : a key
aspect of the Prevent Duty affecting Higher Education is to ensure members of
the University community that may be vulnerable to radicalisation or being
drawn into terrorism are passed without unnecessary delay to trained
professionals external to the University who are qualified to assess and manage
such situations.
You MUST report any concerns to the Designated Safeguarding Officers who are
also trained to discern the safeguarding, wellbeing and Prevent matters arising
from referrals.
University staff, students and those external to the university may have
a cause for concern with regard to a member of the university or individual who
the university has engaged with.
All safeguarding concerns can be reported to safeguarding@kent.ac.uk this email address
is monitored Monday to Friday 9am till 5pm.
If you concerns requires immediate
attention and it is outside of the monitoring hours then you should contact security@kent.ac.uk who will contact the
Student Services Duty Manager.
The safeguarding team are trained to respond to safeguarding reports and
will escalate concerns if required.
The Designated Safeguarding Lead and Deputy
Leads keep records and reports in secure locations.
When reporting a concern if you are a member of staff you should contact
your local designated safeguarding officer within your professional service or
division and a list of who they are and contact details can be found here .
If you are not from the University or
if you are an employer or a student or apprentice please email safeguarding@kent.ac.uk
The prevent duty forms section 26 of the Counter Terrorism
and Security Act 2015 which places a statutory duty for Universities to have
due regard to prevent people from being drawn in to terrorism.
Prevent forms a
core part of safeguarding at the University.
Prevent has three main objectives: ·       Respond
to the ideological challenge of terrorism and the threat faced from those who
promote it.
·       
Prevent
people from being drawn into terrorism and give them advice and support.
·       
Work
with sectors and institutions where there are risks of radicalisation
Reporting PREVENT Concerns If you have a concerns about an individual you are
considering to be at risk a Designated Safeguarding Officer would be your first
point of contact.
Any other questions around PREVENT should be passed to
David Powell( Policy Adviser to the Vice Chancellor) via prevent@kent.ac.uk Information on PREVENT can be found here
The designated Safeguarding team are all based in our
Student Support and Wellbeing Team.
Find out more about the work of Student Support and
Wellbeing here .
The team offer support to students with disabilities,
accessibility needs, mental health concerns and wellbeing issues.
All students
and apprenticeships can access support from SSW by emailing kentSSW@kent.ac.uk
Admissions Policy
Admissions
policy - Applicants - University of Kent
Applicant DBS Checks
Disclosure and
Barring Service (DBS) checks - Applicants - University of Kent
Disclosure of Criminal Records Information (staff
only)
Disclosure of Criminal Records (DBS)
Applicant Criminal Convictions Criminal
convictions - Applicants - University of Kent
Safer Recruitment (Human Resources)
Recruitment Selection Policy - University of Kent
Safeguarding our
apprentices (guide for employers)
Safeguarding our apprentices - University of Kent

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-support/information-for-parents-and-supporters:
Details of the University's term dates can be found on the University term and closure dates webpage.
We understand there may be times when you wish to raise a concern about your son, daughter or dependant who is studying at the University.
Whenever we are made aware of concerns around a physical, mental or emotional difficulty a student is experiencing, these are always taken seriously and passed to the correct contacts within the University, and appropriate action taken if required.
Please be advised however that University of Kent staff are unable to give any information about a student currently studying at the University, to a third party, without that student's express permission.
This includes parents, spouses, siblings etc.
Students experiencing distress arising from psychological, emotional or mental health issues are able are able to access support from our Mental Heath Support team.
Students can meet with a Mental Health Adviser and/or Counsellor to discuss any issues they are experiencing.
Students may also be able to attend regular sessions with a Mentor.
Further details are available on our Mental Health and Wellbeing pages .
Students with Specific Learning Differences (SpLD) such Dyslexia , Dyscalculia, Dyspraxia and ADHD can receive support from our SpLD Advisers and may be able to attend regular sessions with a Study Skills Tutor.
More details can be found on our SpLD webpages.
A range of support is available for students with disabilities, including the creation of Inclusive Learning Plans (ILPs) and adapted exam arrangements.
Full details can be found on our Disability webpages .
We are able to offer support to students with autism, or students who think they might be on the autistic spectrum but have never received a formal diagnosis.
More information can be found on our Autism Support webpages .
International students with disabilities are welcome to request extra support during the course of their time at the University.
Further is available on our international student pages.
Students living on, or within six miles of, the Canterbury campus can register with the University Medical Centre .
You should register with a local doctor near to your accommodation in order to receive treatment under the National Health Service (NHS): Find your nearest NHS Surgery.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-support/contact-us:
Monday to Friday 9:00 - 5:00
KentSSW@kent.ac.uk
We have partnered with SignLive to give British Sign Language users better access to talk to us.
Use SignLive to call the University through a relay interpreter or to access a remote interpreter for free while on campus.
You can download the SignLive app or access it through their website.
For further information, email digitalaccess@kent.ac.uk or visit the SignLive guide page .
The University of Kent Canterbury and Medway campuses are marked below, zoom in to navigate our UK campuses.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/sustainability/kentcog:
A multi-use space for students, staff and the local community, run in partnership with East Kent Mind.
To find out how you can get involved, follow one of the links below for more information or email us at kentcog@kent.ac.uk
You can also support the project by gifting funds via the button below.
Student at Kent or another university?
Find out how you can get involved here.
Community members keep the garden growing all year round.
Information on joining can be found here.
There are lots of ways staff can get involved in KentCOG from volunteering to research.
Find out more here.
For more information on group bookings, referrals and more, please find it here.
Are you leaving campus this summer?
Sharing your space with houseplants is really rewarding, but what to do with them when you have to leave them behind?
We have the answer!
You can now give them up for rehoming or label them with your name for summer boarding at KentCOG if you want to reunite in Autumn Term.
You can drop them off at KentCOG any Wednesday or Friday all through the Summer term and Summer break.
We will make sure your plants have a good summer and rehome them to be cared for by someone new.
If you can't take them, donate them.
Make someone's day this Autumn with a new houseplant housemate.
Learn about what we do at the Kent Community Oasis Garden and how you can find out more.
Follow along with our useful video that will show you how to walk from the Sports Centre to the Kent Community Garden located in Parkwood.
Sustainable Houseplant growing on Campus
Sharing your space with houseplants can really help improve your wellbeing.
But what can you do when they get sick?
At KentCOG we have the answer with our monthly houseplant hospital sessions.
We can offer advice, propagation, pots, compost and aim to support whatever your needs are, to encourage sustainable houseplant growing and sharing on campus.
If you're leaving campus we can also babysit them until your return or rehome them to a student who can offer them a new space to live in.
Monthly Drop in Sessions
First Wednesday of the month 12 noon - 1pm
Supporting you to grow in a space near you.
To support students growing in their own green spaces, we have established a Tool Library at KentCOG.
UoK Students can borrow garden tools and equipment to help establish and maintain growing activities, whether that's seeding herbs for your windowsill kitchen garden or planting vegetables and wildflowers in a patch of green, the Tool Library can help.
Tools can be collected on a Wednesday morning from KentCOG and returned a week later.
Click on the button for more information.
So have a go and grow in your green space and visit the garden to collect what you need.
All events take place at the garden unless otherwise stated.
You can find directions to the garden using the location button in the top banner of the page.
If you are new to KentCOG please visit our volunteering page to find out how you can get involved in the general gardening sessions.
Drop in gardening session.
If you are new to KentCOG please follow the link above  to find out how to access our sessions.
10am - 2pm
If you are new to KentCOG please follow the link above to find out how to access our sessions.
Autumn Term
Come down to KentCOG and help get the garden growing by joining our May seed sow activity.
Plant this month's seeds in seed trays and compost to grow in the polytunnels on site.
No experience necessary.
Date tbc
1st Wednesday of the month Bring along your sick or neglected houseplants and we will try to resuscitate them and provide you with any resources you might need.
Usually occurs first Wednesday of each month.
Drop in between 12- 1pm
Monthly
Spend an hour up close to nature by taking part in the monthly Bumblebee Walk.
We will be identifying and recording bumblebees we see and reporting our results to Bumblebee Conservation Trust.
Learn as we go.
12pm - 1pm
Read about our plans, governance and values.
Find out more about the project, who we are, our values and our plans for the future.
Our ambitions and values for embedding sustainability throughout the garden.
Our plans for communicating about the project and guidelines for partners, press or comms teams.
Read our Terms of Reference to see who is on the group and what they are responsible for.
Hear directly from some of the people who are part of the project about what KentCOG means to them, what they get out of the project, and the kinds of things they get up to when taking part.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-support/seeking-support:
The easiest way to contact Student Support and Wellbeing is by emailing reception on KentSSW@kent.ac.uk.
Counselling works a bit differently: If you would like to sign up for counselling, please contact us at counselling@kent.ac.uk in order to request a registration form link.
If you have a known medical or mental health condition, or think you could benefit from support with learning differences, neurodiversity, long term health conditions, mobility or sensory disabilities, or mental health issues, you can register with Student Support and Wellbeing so we can help get your support in place.
Even if your condition is suspected rather than confirmed, we can still book you in with the appropriate advisor.
For support with mental health issues, and known ADHD.
Support with learning differences (eg dyslexia and ADHD), autism, disability and health conditions.
For support with bullying, harassment, or sexual assault.
If have, or you think you have, a specific learning difference condition such as dyslexia, dyspraxia or ADHD you can discuss your options with your adviser.
This might include support seeking a diagnosis if you don't already have one.
During the appointment:
More information on specific learning difference support .
With evidence of your condition, we can create an Inclusive Learning Plan (ILP) to help manage your disability during your studies.
More information on: autism support , disability support and long-term health condition support .
We have specialist staff providing practical support and advice to students reporting sexual assault, harassment or rape , and discrimination, hate incidents or bullying .
If you'd rather not speak to a receptionist to make an appointment, you can report an incident and request support via our online platform, REPORT + SUPPORT .
The relevant Specialist Wellbeing Adviser will then contact you and discuss next steps, which could also include a face-to-face appointment.
There are ways to get immediate support if you find you need help right away not during office hours (Monday to Friday, 09:00-17:00 UK time) or without an appointment.
Ask Nexus for help about accommodation, course queries and admin, KentOne card issues, e-learning, finance, IT support, where to go for careers advice, how to contact Kent Union, and more.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/guides/student-support-ilp-visual-guide:
Inclusive Learning Plans (ILPs) specify reasonable adjustments for the programme of study, including assessments, and exams.
You will usually be asked to provide medical evidence.
You should contact Student Support and Wellbeing as soon as possible if you think you might need adapted arrangements for exams.
Find out about how ILP setup works below, or have a look at our Seeking Support page to learn about the process of approaching Student Support and Wellbeing for the first time.
For 2025/26 exam adjustments, you need to apply for an ILP by 7 November 2025 .
Go to Kent Vision and click on the Current Students tab.
Go to My Student Support and click on View my ILP.
If you haven't already, register with Student Support and Wellbeing online .
Provide medical evidence or Specific Learning Difficulty (SpLD) report to Student Support and Wellbeing.
You'll have a meeting with your Disability, Mental Health, and/or SpLD adviser to discuss your ILP.
Your Adviser will write your ILP, which will be communicated to your School.
If you need changes or additions to your ILP, you can review it with your Adviser.
Find out more about the help available from Student Support and Wellbeing.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/guides/counselling:
Counselling is not a crisis service, so if you need urgent mental health support, please take a look at our emergency support page for appropriate services.
Counselling offers a safe space to address issues concerning you, and you can help get thoughts, feelings, behaviour and your perspective on life back in balance again.
Our counsellors are all registered members of BACP, BABCP or UKCP, and adhere to ethical guidelines.
We offer in-person appointments and online appointments.
You can talk about an array of issues, including adjusting to university life, study pressures, relationships, sexuality, grief and loss, illness, traumatic experiences, low self-esteem, and general depression or anxiety.
Where needed, we can also refer you to external counselling services.
We work within the UK judicial system and as such we are unable to
provide therapy to those who are living outside of the UK on Study Abroad
courses.
For students living outside of the UK we will arrange for counselling
to take place with an appropriate external provider.
We
are unable to offer counselling to students who are on intermission; if a
student has already started counselling sessions and then intermits we will
continue with their remaining sessions.
We can offer single-session or short-term counselling or Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT).
We also run specialist support groups.
Single-session counselling is designed to address your immediate issues, with a follow up session available if needed to review how things are going.
This option can offer you help at the point of specific need.
For many students this may be all that is needed to get you back on track.
Short-term counselling or Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) is available if you require further support.
Short term counselling (up to five sessions) is available if you're experiencing problems such as anxiety, depressed feelings, and emotional difficulties that may or may not be connected to student life.
Counselling can be conducted in person as well as online via Teams.
A mutually convenient day and time for 50 minute sessions will be agreed with your counsellor, to be carried out once a week Monday-Friday between 09:00 and 16:00.
We have a small provision for counselling outside of these hours with an external service if you've got a particularly intense timetable.
We also offer support groups and workshops, including mindfulness and specialist wellbeing support groups.
After getting in touch with Student Support and Wellbeing, you'll be emailed a link to access a form to collect some basic details and understand your circumstances.
In some instances, Kent's counselling service may not be suitable for your needs, but we'll support you into the appropriate care.
If you'd like to take up the offer of counselling, please contact us:
From my first email through to weekly sessions with a counsellor, everything was swiftly organised.
Student counselling is independent of academic assessment procedures and no information is passed to tutors and/or organisations external to the University unless you request it.
In some circumstances we may need to breach this confidentiality if we feel your safety or the safety of others is at risk; however you will be supported and advised of this.
Counselling is not a crisis service, so if you need urgent mental health support, please take a look at our Emergency Support page for appropriate services.
Counselling is provided by Student Support and Wellbeing , who also have teams of experts supporting students with disabilities and chronic conditions, Specific Learning Difficulties such as dyslexia, and students with mental health concerns.
We also run peer support groups, events and workshops on common issues such as anxiety to help everyone get the most out of their university experience

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/guides/mental-health:
The Mental Health Team consists of Mental Health Advisers and Mentors, who can help you with issues such as stress, anxiety, depression, adjusting to university life, and relationship difficulties.
We also offer frequent workshops, groups and events to enhance and maintain your wellbeing throughout the year.
Please contact Student Support and Wellbeing to make an appointment with a Mental Health Adviser.
If you feel you need urgent
support during office hours (Monday-Friday 09:00-17:00) please phone on 01227 823158 or email on KentSSW@kent.ac.u k and ask for urgent wellbeing support.
We will ensure that you are contacted by a
Mental Health Adviser to discuss your concerns and direct you to the most
appropriate help and support as soon as possible.
Mental Health Advisers are specialist practitioners who can offer mental health advice and support.
They can provide short term focused interventions to promote wellbeing and support you to develop coping strategies.
Mental Health Advisers can signpost you to further information and support, and identify necessary reasonable adjustments where mental health difficulties may be impacting on academic studies.
My Mental Health Adviser has helped me deal with and ride out the ups and downs in my mental health.
Inclusive Learning Plans (ILPs) are created by Mental Health Advisers, and specify reasonable adjustments for the programme of study, including assessments, and exams.
Mental Health Advisers can discuss whether you might benefit
from regular support from a Mental Health Mentor, which can be accessed through
the Disabled Student's Allowance (DSA) .
For international students , we’ve got
an international mentoring programme.
Our Specialist Wellbeing Team can offer support and advice on sexual assault and harassment, bullying and hate incidents , and tailored support for care-experienced students, care-giving students, and students estranged from their families .
After contacting us , we’ll organise an initial meeting with
either a Mental Health Adviser or counsellor to find out what may be the best
form of support.
You can discuss with your Adviser how your difficulties are
affecting you.
The Mental Health adviser can arrange relevant support, advice
and practical assistance to help whilst studying.
If it's difficult to come to our offices in Canterbury or
Medway, online or telephone appointment appointments can be requested.
All Kent students have access to phone, text and WhatsApp
support from trained mental health professionals via our in-the-moment, 24/7
support partner Spectrum Life .
We also provide access to Togetherall , an online
peer-support platform moderated by professionals, where you can talk about a
range of issues and access short wellbeing courses.
We also work with colleagues at the University Nursing
Service and Campus Security to provide in-person support and assistance outside
of office hours.
You can also find a list of useful services and information linked to from our self-help resources page .
Does someone close to you seem really down?
Might they be thinking about suicide?
The only way to know is to ask.
It’s safe to talk about suicide.
For a web page with comprehensive information on talking about this difficult subject, and where to seek support for yourself or others, please click the button below:
Mental Health support is provided by Student Support and Wellbeing , who also have teams of experts supporting students with disabilities and chronic conditions, Specific Learning Difficulties such as dyslexia, and Autistic students.
We also run peer support groups, events and workshops on common issues such as anxiety to help everyone get the most out of their university experience.
Follow the link below to see how you can make the most of a range of support from different university departments who are working together to help all students throughout the summer term.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/guides/specialist-wellbeing-support:
There is also further information and specific guidance on Sexual Assault and Harassment and Discrimination, Bullying and Hate Incidents .
This leaflet is to help you to know what to expect from your upcoming appointment with a Specialist Wellbeing Adviser.
REPORT + SUPPORT is our online platform where you can report an incident and get follow-up support.
You are able to get
support from the Specialist Wellbeing Team about any next steps that you would
like to take.
You are able to report the incident formally.
These options can
include:
There
        is no obligation to report, and the Specialist Wellbeing team can
        provide support regardless of reporting.
The self-help resources page has information on external organisations that offer support for harassment, assault and bullying.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/guides/addiction-support:
Addiction and substance (mis)use is a complex issue that can
affect anyone.
If you feel like your use of drugs, alcohol, pornography, gambling or gaming is getting too much, there are various support services available to
provide a safe and confidential space to talk about concerns.
If you're worried about a friend or housemate, you could suggest they look at the resources below to find help and support.
You can access confidential counselling from Student Support and Wellbeing at any time during your studies, and speak to a Mental Health Adviser about what you need to stay on track.
To stay informed about upcoming support groups, keep an eye on the Student Support and Wellbeing events calendar .
Besides support at Kent, there are lots of resources online, including straightforward information so you can make informed decisions.
We have gathered a list of self-help resources from external providers .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/guides/specific-learning-differences-support:
If you've got a specific learning difference (sometimes known as an SpLD), or think
you might, you can register with Student Support and Wellbeing and make an
appointment with your Adviser .
If we're your 'Firm' choice on UCAS and you've disclosed
that you've got a Specific Learning Difficulty, we'll contact you over the
summer so we can implement support before you start.
I meet with students with learning differences to discuss their strengths, difficulties and preferences, and write an Inclusive Learning Plan tailored to their needs.
To access support for learning differences at the University of Kent, you'll need
to provide evidence of diagnosis
Evidence can include:
We’ll use the diagnostic assessment to create an Inclusive
Learning Plan (ILP) detailing your support arrangements, including any exam
arrangements.
You can log into the online portal, KentVision at any time to
check what arrangements are in place for you.
We might recommend that you apply
for the Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA) if you haven't already.
If you're eligible for DSA you can apply online or with a
paper form.
Your funding provider (e.g., Student Finance England) will then be
in touch to ask you to have a study needs assessment.
You'll be sent a DSA
entitlement letter confirming the funding and the contact details for the
nominated equipment and training providers.
If the University is nominated to provide any study skills
or mentoring, you'll be contacted by us to make arrangements for this.
If your
DSA report recommends a computer, we may be able to pay the required financial
contribution.
If you're not eligible for DSA funding (e.g., if you are an
international student) we can arrange other support for you.
Please get in
touch with us .
If you haven't received a full assessment but suspect you might have a specific learning difference, or had exam arrangements in school, you may still be able to access support and exam arrangements at Kent.
We can arrange a screening for you, and could organise for you to have an appropriate diagnostic assessment.
Specific learning differences support is provided by Student Support and Wellbeing , who also have teams of experts supporting students with disabilities and chronic conditions, Autistic students, and students with mental health concerns.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/guides/autism-support:
Before you start university, we can provide induction into university life via orientation programmes.
Once you have applied, you can arrange an initial meeting with a Disability Adviser to register for support.
This can happen over the summer before you arrive, or after you enrol.
The Disability Adviser will assist you to plan and organise your support, and will provide links to mental health specialist teams.
We can be contacted at any stage in your academic progress.
To access autism support, you need to register with Student Support and Wellbeing .
You'll be asked to provide written evidence of your diagnosis.
You can arrange an appointment to meet an SSW Adviser - either by emailing KentSSW@kent.ac.uk , caling 01227 823158.
I meet regularly with students 1:1 to develop strategies to manage the impact of neurodivergence on academic study.
The neurodivergent community at the University of Kent is proactive and we welcome new ideas and activities.
To make suggestions, please contact AutismSupport@kent.ac.uk
The 'University of Kent Autistics' group (UoKA) is a student-led group who meet for two hours a week.
'So You're Autistic?' is an eight week support programme teaching those with a diagnosis, awaiting a diagnosis, or who think they might be autistic, how to be their authentic autistic self, and to understand what being autistic means for you.
Look at our Student Support and Wellbeing Events Calendar for peer support group meetings coming up.
See the self-help resources page for information on external organisations that offer autism support.
Autism support is provided by Student Support and Wellbeing , who also have teams of experts supporting students with disabilities and chronic conditions, Specific Learning Difficulties such as dyslexia, and students with mental health concerns.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/guides/disability-support:
Student Support and Wellbeing have advisers who work with all UK and international students with long-term medical conditions, physical mobility and access issues, hearing loss, visual impairment, and those on the autistic spectrum.
We offer online and in-person one-to-one meetings, provide support plans, and liaise with Divisional support teams.
If we're you're 'Firm' choice on UCAS and you've disclosed that you've got a disability, we'll contact you over the summer so we can implement support before you start.
If you're a UK student, we encourage you to apply for the Disabled Students' Allowance (DSA) with medical evidence to gain funding for specialist support and equipment.
The Disability Team can advise and help you with your DSA application or other non-funded support.
Inclusive Learning Plans (ILPs) are created by SSW Advisers, and specify reasonable adjustments for the programme of study, including assessments, and exams.
You will be asked to provide medical evidence.
Disabled students can apply for full time undergraduate and postgraduate accommodation.
You're encouraged to disclose specific and/or complex personal care needs at the point of application.
Prospective students can contact Student Support and Wellbeing to arrange a visit to campus, and together we can identify and accommodate learning and living needs, including necessary reasonable adaptations prior to arrival, and any support from outside agencies.
If you've got mobility difficulties or use a wheelchair, we offer ground floor rooms with adapted bathrooms.
Accessible toilet facilities and vehicle parking spaces for disabled students are available throughout the campus.
At Canterbury, we have a range of accessible rooms.
At Medway, Pier Quays have studio rooms available for students and we recommend a visit to Pier Quays.
We aim to design content to be as accessible as possible.
We can provide alternative formats for academic reading lists on demand, and we have a number of tools and resources you can use to convert material yourself.
Our Accessible Information Team can provide specialist advice and support in accessing materials and software.
For autistic students , we’re able to provide a consistent mentor during your time at Kent.
Your mentor can help with time management, organising and planning work, and personal issues such as social anxiety.
Learning Support Assistants (LSAs) provide one to one support in lectures and seminars, additional library-based support, or accessibility assistance.
My Disability Adviser helped me get support.
All of my lectures are wheelchair accessible, and I have an Inclusive Learning Plan suited to me.
International students with disabilities can request extra support throughout their time at Kent, take a look at our dedicated page for internationals for support to suit you.
Disability support is provided by Student Support and Wellbeing , who also have teams of experts supporting Autistic students, Specific Learning Difficulties such as dyslexia, and students with mental health concerns.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/guides/long-term-health-condition-support:
In this section, the term chronic illness will be used, but the terms chronic condition, chronic disease, life-long disease/condition, long-term disease/condition are all commonly used interchangeably.
They refer to conditions that are often life-long and can be limiting in terms of quality of life.
The following table shows examples of common chronic illnesses but is by no means exhaustive.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Epilepsy
Myalgic Encephalomyelitis (ME).
Crohn’s Disease.
Fibromyalgia.
Osteoporosis.
Diabetes.
Haemophilia .
Rheumatoid Arthritis.
Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome.
HIV/AIDS.
Ulcerative Colitis.
Endometriosis.
Hypertension.
Hypothyroidism.
Sickle Cell Dis ease.
Cancer and/or rehabilitation from cancer treatment.
Post-orthostatic Tachycardia Syndrome (POTS).
Chronic illnesses can vary significantly in their symptoms and effects, and the symptoms and effects experienced by the individual can change significantly over even short periods of time, such conditions are usually referred to as ‘fluctuating medical conditions’.
Where improvements and worsening of an individual's condition is usually referred to as a period of remission and period of flare.
Whether you’re looking at attending university or looking at what support will be available for you once you start, we’d strongly advise you take a look at resources available from the charities that represent your individual condition.
There are a vast amount of resources out there, but here are some examples...
Long Term Health Condition support is provided by Student Support and Wellbeing , who also have teams of experts supporting Autistic students,  Specific Learning Difficulties such as dyslexia, and students with mental health concerns.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/guides/support-for-care-experienced-students:
Please be assured that your care status will be held confidentially unless you choose to share it with others at the university.
Short video (1 min
15 seconds, closed captions available) of a student
explaining how Student Support and Wellbeing helped them during their time at
Kent.
We can answer any queries you have about the University, and can also make arrangements for you to visit if you would like to have a look around before term starts.
We
 will contact all students who have ticked the care-experienced box on their 
UCAS form informing them of the support available.
The University will 
only share this information with those who need to be informed, e.g.
the
 member of staff who supports care leavers post-registration.
You can request a meeting with the care leaver support staff and your Personal Advisor before you start at the University, or at any time during your degree, to ensure you are receiving all the support that would be helpful for you.
Contact Student Support and Wellbeing.
Care Experienced and Estranged Student Travel Bursary
The University of Kent is pleased to offer a Care Experienced and Estranged Student Travel Bursary to ensure that care experienced and estranged students can access open days and offer holder events at the university.
This bursary will cover return travel to any of our open days or offer holder events at Canterbury or Medway campus.
To find out more and apply, please complete the Care Experienced and Estranged Student Travel Bursary enquiry form
Insight Visits
An exciting opportunity for care experienced and estranged students and their supporters to come to visit University of Kent’s Canterbury or Medway Campus.
They will meet with the Pre-registration Designated Member of Staff and have the opportunity to ask questions about support available at university, accommodation, student finance etc.
There will be an opportunity to go on a tour of the campus with a Student Ambassador, who can give insights into university life.
Each Insights Visit is bespoke, and requests to see or find out particular things can be discussed.
To find out more and apply, please complete the Insight Visit enquiry form .
Applicant Event Buddy
For students attending open days or offer holder events alone, we have the opportunity for a student ambassador to meet with you and spend the event with you.
They will be able to share insights into university life and answer your questions, as well as attend all your events with you.
To find out more, please email Michael Blackburn, M.D.Blackburn@kent.ac.uk or Emma Coombe, E.Coombe@kent.ac.uk.
For information on the activities we run please see below.
Activities for care-experienced / estranged students - Schools and Colleges - University of Kent
We
 have a dedicated member of staff in our Wellbeing Team whose role is to
 provide both practical and emotional support to all care-experienced  students.
She can help you with any questions you might have about any 
aspect of being at university including:
The member of staff for care-experienced students can make contact with your PA on your behalf if you would like them to, and they can also attend meetings with you and your PA if they visit you at the university.
Although coming to university can be an exciting time, it can also be quite a challenging time for many students, so it is really important to look after your emotional wellbeing and to seek support if you feel that you are struggling.
Before you start your degree, please contact Michael Blackburn, M.D.Blackburn@kent.ac.uk or Emma Coombe, E.Coombe@kent.ac.uk with your questions.
Arrivals Weekend takes place on the first weekend before term starts.
During this weekend, you will formally register as a new student at the university, and you will move into your campus accommodation.
The first week offers you the chance to get to know your new environment, your housemates, and the services provided at the university; you will also have introductory meetings in your Academic School.
Welcome Fair takes place during this week, where you get to see the range of university clubs and societies on offer.
We have a peer-led Facebook group for all care experienced students which you are welcome to join.
If you would like to live in university accommodation for each year of your degree, then you will be able to do so.
You can also stay on campus throughout the year, including the holiday periods.
You will need to sign up to vacation accommodation in May to make sure that you secure the extended accommodation for the summer holidays.
If your off campus accommodation provider requires a Rent Guarantor, there is a guarantor scheme we recommend, Housing Hand , for care experienced/ estranged students.
Please apply Here for Guarantor information where you wont need a second signer, the University will confer with housing.
To book accommodation on campus during the summer holiday, please email stay@kent.ac.uk
To book accommodation on campus for subsequent years, please go to your accommodation portal on the accommodation webpage.
In both cases, please specify that you are a care leaver so that the accommodation office is aware of this.
Most students apply to Student Finance England for help with costs associated with attending university.
It is best to apply for Student Finance as early as possible to ensure funds are in place for the start of the academic year.
If you require help with making the application or in receiving your funding, you can contact the Kent Union Advice Service .
Any loan you borrow from Student Finance England is repayable only when you have graduated and are earning above a threshold income.
For full details we suggest you visit the Student Loan Company's website .
You will be entitled to a one-off Higher Education Bursary of £2,000 from your Local Authority, as well as other financial support.
The amount of any additional support paid differs according to which Local Authority you have been looked after by, but your social worker or personal adviser will be able to give you more details.
Kent offers a one-off
cash bursary to care-experienced students in their first year at Kent, subject to meeting the eligibility criteria .
You should also be entitled to the Kent Financial
Support Package – this will be £1,000 for each stage of your course (starting
from stage 1).
It is paid in two instalments, in December and March.
If you are experiencing financial hardship you can considered for an Emergency Loan or for the Access to Learning Fund (a grant which would not have to be repaid).
If you need to work part time to supplement your income, Kent Union offers a Job Shop that you can register with to help find employment.
This service provides support to students in the following areas:
Advisers can write support plants known as Inclusive Learning Plans (ILPs) for students who have evidence of a diagnosed condition.
This information will be passed to their academic school.
They can also advise on additional support such as study skills and mentoring.
Most students register with the University Medical Centre , which is just at the edge of the campus.
We also have a 24-hour nursing service during term time, which includes an out of hours mental health adviser.
This service provides individual and group support for those needing guidance to study at higher education level.
They help with a variety of topics such as essay writing, referencing and revision skills.
See the SLAS website for more information.
The Student Unions at Medway and Canterbury have Advice Centre's that offer free, confidential, and impartial advice on a wide range of issues such as funding, housing, academic concerns, immigration, financial hardship, and more.
For full details on the advice provided and how to access the services visit the Kent Union website for Canterbury campus, or GKSU website for Medway campus.
The Student Unions also offer a wide range of other services/support, including representation, volunteering, sports & societies, licensed trade outlets, and much more.
We may be able to help with graduation costs.
You will be contacted directly regarding this when you are approaching graduation.
If you are under 25 years old, you should still be able to receive support from your Local Authority.
Contact your Personal Adviser who can provide further information.
Kent's Careers & Employability services are available for three years post-graduation.
University Careers & Employability services are available for three years post-graduation.
For further information see the Careers and Employability website .
Care-experienced student support is provided by Student Support and Wellbeing , who also have teams of experts supporting students with disabilities and chronic conditions, Specific Learning Difficulties such as dyslexia, and students with mental health concerns.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/guides/support-for-international-students:
Events, support and opportunities for international students at Kent.
Embrace the diverse cultures in the University and worldwide community by taking part in these great opportunities.
You can take classes to improve your English and academic skills alongside your degree.
Meet new friends, take part in activities and enjoy music and entertainment.
Join the mailing list to find out more.
Join ISAB and make sure the voices of international students are heard #YourUniYourSay
Sign up for our GOLD leadership programme to improve the student experience and learn new skills.
Try these workshops to improve your intercultural awareness and explore cultural heritage, prejudices and stereotypes.
Student-led group that meets every Thursday from 14:00-16:00.
It’s a chance to meet other international students and the group organises
trips and socials.
To find out more, email  WellbeingEvents@kent.ac.uk
Meet with the Medway Chaplain and fellow students to make new friends and improve your English.
Every Thursday in the Oasis Lounge (Medway Building) from 19:30-21:30 (term time only).
No need to book.
The KSU REMP Network aims to help create an inclusive and supportive environment where students from racially and ethnically marginalised backgrounds are seen, heard, and valued at Kent.
We run events throughout the year to help you make friends and mark celebrations from around the world.
International students can access all our amazing services at Kent including careers advice, study support and our wellbeing service.
All these services can be found on the My Kent search and App .
You can also go to Nexus helpdesk in Templeman Library with any question you have while at Kent.
Support includes:
International students face unique challenges.
My dedicated International Wellbeing Advisers have given me a foundation of support and community, and the Kent Community Oasis Garden provides a space for us to feel a sense of meaning and belonging"
A big part of starting uni is making friends.
The Uni and Kent Students' Union runs loads of events and societies to help you meet new people.
Student Support and Wellbeing has a specialist service for international students with physical disabilities, long term health conditions, hearing loss of all levels, visual impairments and autistic students.
Find out how to get your support set up before you start at Kent, or during your studies:
Get in touch
If you're an international student and think you may need additional support, please contact Student Support and Wellbeing.
After our initial meeting, you'll need to register with Student Support and Wellbeing , and provide up-to-date medical evidence.
Medical evidence should be translated into English wherever possible.
The medical evidence forms the basis of support at the university, which may include a creation of an Inclusive Learning Plan (ILP), the provision of assistive technology, and specialist support staff (e.g.
a mentor or study skills tutor), as well as a point of contact in our team throughout the degree programme.
Here are the steps you need to go through to open a UK bank account:
Choose
a bank
a.
There
are a wide range of banks in the UK offering different interest rates and
services so it’s important to do your research.
b.
It
might be useful to use a comparison website to check which bank meets your
exact needs.
It might also be worthwhile comparing internet banks.
Download
your student status letter from KentVision
To do this go to KentVision and select ‘My
Communications and Documents’ > ‘My Documents’ > Download status letter addressed to your
bank.
Email statusletters@kent.ac.uk if you are unable to download from your KentVision
portal.
Documentation
needed to open a bank account:
Passport
(and visa if required) or EU identity card
Original
letter of acceptance to the University
c.
Evidence
of programme of study and length of programme
d.
Your
room agreement *(not all banks)
e.
Status
Letter (see above).
See our Google map of shops in Canterbury and Medway .
Please note most shops close early on a Sunday (usually 16:00).
Full-time international students in
the UK are entitled to medical care through the National Health Service
(NHS).
It is important that you register with a GP .
There is a medical centre on our Canterbury Campus.
Some
GPs may be overbooked so you will need to sign up for a GP that is further
away (this mostly applies for Medway students).
If
you are prescribed something from the hospital/ GP you will need to pay £9.65
per item.
If
you are in an A&E the waiting time can be very long, around five hours on
average.
MUST check your Restricted Working Hours:
MUST have Right to Work Evidence
MUST have a National Insurance (NI) Number
Bus
There
are travel discounts for both Canterbury (Stagecoach)
and Medway (Arriva) students.
In
Canterbury, you can purchase a Student Day Rider ticket either on the bus or on
the Stagecoach app by showing your Student ID card, where you can use the bus
as many times as you like on that day.
The
main buses are the UNI1 and UNI2 that take routes past Canterbury East (UNI1)
and Canterbury West (UNI2) train stations and into Canterbury City Centre.
During term-time, these buses run regularly from bus stops across the
Canterbury campus.
Train
Students
are able to purchase a 16-25 Railcard (including Mature students) to give you
1/3 off train tickets.
Campus Shuttle
You
can book a free space on the Campus Shuttle to travel between the Canterbury
and Medway campuses during term-time.
See our student immigration webpages and team for information on visa requirements and more.
There are plenty of savings to be had, from discounts on your travel to savings in local restaurants and shops.
See our student discounts webpage for more.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/guides/disability-support/applying-for-funding:
If you have a disability, specific learning difficulty, or other additional needs such as a long term medical condition, you may be eligible for the Disabled Students' Allowance (DSA).
Student Finance England are responsible for assessing whether you are eligible for DSA, and how much you will receive.
If
 agreed, your DSA can fund the support required to enable you to better 
access your course, as a direct result of your additional needs.
The 
allowance might help with the costs of specialist equipment, non-medical
 helpers, specialist tuition, mentoring and other costs as recommended.
You should send completed forms and evidence to Student Finance England, PO Box 210, Darlington, DL1 9HJ
It is recommended that you 
apply for this allowance as soon as possible.
This will help to ensure 
the support you require can be funded at the commencement of your 
course.
Further information and the DSA application form can be found on the government disabled student allowances page .
You can apply through us by booking an 
appointment to discuss your requirements.
We can help you with any 
queries that you may have,  complete the DSA form with you and send it 
to Student Finance England.
Please contact us to book an appointment..
Or if you prefer, you can apply yourself at Student Finance England where you can access information and download the DSA application forms or telephone them on 0845 300 5090 (textphone 0845 604 4434) for an application form.
Students can apply for Disabled Students' Allowances now...
please see the Student Finance website for details
Under current regulations for the Disabled Students’ Allowance (DSA), students are required to contribute the first £200 towards a computer when this is recommended in their DSA needs assessment report.
The University recognises that, for some students, this is a barrier to them accessing the DSA, which means that they do not then benefit from the support which has been recommended.
In recognition of this, the University has created a fund to which eligible students can apply.
For more information on eligibility and to apply for funding, please download our DSA Contribution Fund form.
If you would like help applying for Disabled Students’ Allowance, please make an appointment with your disability, wellbeing or SpLD adviser.
Please note that the Disabled Students’ Allowance process (from application to receipt of equipment) can take up to 14 weeks to complete, so we recommend apply ing for this as soon as possible, ideally before starting university.
For full details for external DSA study needs assessors please download our DSA Study Needs Assessors Reference Document below.
Disability support is provided by Student Support and Wellbeing , who also have teams of experts supporting Autistic students, students with Specific Learning Difficulties such as dyslexia, and students with mental health concerns.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/guides/accessible-content/kent-inclusive-practices:
The KIPs were created
by Student Support and Wellbeing in conjunction with the Directorate of
Education.
They were agreed by the University’s Education and Student
Experience Board, and they have been sponsored by the Deputy Vice Chancellor
(Education and Student Experience).
The KIPs complement the Equality, Diversity
and Inclusivity Strategy and Digital Accessibility Policy, and were designed to
comply with relevant legislation such as the Equality Act (2010), Public Sector
Bodies Accessibility Regulations (2018), British Sign Language Act
(2022) and European Accessibility Act (2025).
Line managers, team
leaders, and divisional heads are expected to ensure that they are shared with
all staff so that they can be embedded in practice across the University.
It is
recommended that KIPs form part of all staff inductions and that local teaching and content creation practice guidance makes reference to them.
This guide is designed to
highlight the requirements of all staff to embed accessible practices
and to provide practical guidance and tools to enable this.
These inclusive
practices are a simple but powerful way to make your teaching/support delivery
more inclusive, because:
They're explained in more detail below.
Choose digital resources over print when
creating reading lists and recommending academic resources.
If it is not
possible to offer a digital version, contact the Accessible Information team as soon as possible, to ensure
an accessible copy can be made available.
Why: e-resources can quickly
and easily be converted into more accessible formats using
software such as SensusAccess .
In contrast, print material
needs more work to make it accessible and can take days or sometimes weeks to
convert.
Make sure your Moodle module is
up to date and that information is clearly structured and easily found.
If you
are unsure about the accessibility of your module, contact the E-Learning team .
Why: students get vital
information about the course from Moodle so it needs to be clearly structured
and up to date to ensure they can easily access what they need.
Use lecture capture and make sure your videos are
accessible .
Automated captioning is enabled by default in all KentPlayer
recordings.
Make sure that you save your recordings in the correct module
folder so that they are automatically uploaded to the Moodle module for
students to access.
This applies to both undergraduate and postgraduate lecture-style teaching.
Why: this helps with notetaking
and revision, especially for students with ILPs.
It is also vital for
those who have to miss lectures due to a long term health condition or
disability.
Share reading lists on the Library’s TALIS
system at least 4 weeks in advance.
Clearly show the importance
of readings using the Library’s criteria; core (must read), recommended
(should read) and background (could read).
Be mindful of how many resources you
are requiring/suggesting students read.
Why: it helps those with
reading difficulties to prioritise, supports slower readers and allows time to
make alternative formats if needed.
It also ensures
that the Library can check stock and the availability of digital copies, and
notify the Accessible Information team if any manual accessible versions need
to be created.
Share digital versions of
outlines and slides in a timely way:
Why: this particularly helps
part-time, distance and commuting students and students with notetaking
difficulties.
It also helps students and those supporting them prepare for each session, which is
especially important if they are neurodivergent, use British Sign Language, or have comprehension or focus
issues.
Why: so that they are easy to
read and can be understood by screen readers and other assistive technologies,
and to support comprehension.
Glossaries are particularly helpful for
international users or for British Sign Language interpreters.
Give text alternatives for the
key teaching points in images, tables, graphics, videos and audio.
Why: a text version, with
searchable terms and correct spelling of complex names, is essential for
students with visual impairments, deafness or hearing loss.
It's also useful to
reinforce the learning for everyone.
Vary assessment methods and make them appropriate
to learning outcomes.
Make sure your methods of
evaluation don't negatively impact students with disabilities.
When writing module specification
documents, consider the different
assessment types most
frequently requested in the past and the rationales for using them.
Some students need extra time
arrangements.
Do the number, length and timing of assessments take this
into account, such as time given for laboratory practical assessments or
written tests?
Have you checked if any students in your class have an ILP that includes extra time for in-class assessments and factored this into arrangements?
Are spelling, punctuation, and
grammar an appropriate part of the assessment criteria?
Why: to make sure you are
assessing the student's knowledge, skill and understanding, not their
disability.
The University
Guide has a number of tips and resources to help you embed more accessible
practices into your teaching and content.
There are also links to resources and
advice on the Accessibility
webpage .
The Accessible
Information team in Student Support and Wellbeing provide training
for colleagues on accessible practices.
Users can download some
alternative formats of readings and resources directly from Moodle using a
plug-in called Ally, by clicking on the A↓ icon next to the material they want.
You can also convert materials using websites like SensusAccess .
Students who use British Sign
Language (BSL) as their first language can get interpreters for teaching
sessions and can also have specific core learning materials translated into
BSL.
The Accessible Information team can also support staff in
BSL-friendly teaching or communication practices.
The University’s software finder lists tools which may help with learning,
productivity and with unlocking educational content.
Examples are
text-to-speech, speech recognition or mindmapping software.
The Accessible Information team provide training for students on
the use of assistive technology.
Microsoft packages such as Word, Excel and PowerPoint have in-built
accessibility checkers under the ‘review’ tab.
These can highlight any major
accessibility issues and give tips for rectifying them.You can also check materials by uploading them to Moodle, which will
generate an accessibility report and guidance on fixing issues.
There’s further information about checking your content on the Staff
Guide.
Tip: Create a team/departmental sandbox module on Moodle where you can
test materials using the accessibility report.
Also, writing ‘this document has
been checked for accessibility’ at the bottom of files is a great way to show users
that you have considered their needs.
When you upload documents or resources to Moodle, it will automatically
generate an accessibility report, which looks like a coloured speedometer.
If
the icon is red or amber you may wish to take a look at the report, which will
highlight any issues and give you guidance for how to rectify them.
The E-learning and Library Liaison teams can support you to choose,
source and use accessible resources.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/paris:
Specialist Master's programmes, taught in English and provided by a top UK university.
Master’s courses in the Humanities that draw upon the resources of a world capital.
Find out why you should join our vibrant and creative academic community in the heart of Europe.
Meet our inspirational academic staff and support team.
Paris School of Arts and Culture students talk about the benefits of studying in the city
What you need to do before moving to Paris.
Find out more about the scholarships and bursaries available to Paris students.
Contact us if you have any questions or queries.
Keep up-to-date with our latest news and events.
Alice Helliwell, History and Philosophy of Art MA

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/237/accounting-and-finance-with-a-year-in-industry:
Ready to shape the financial future?
Accounting and finance underpin every business decision and drive progress across global industries.
If you want a career that blends analytical rigour with real-world impact, this course is your gateway to opportunity.
You’ll explore how money flows through markets, how businesses stay accountable, and how ethical finance can transform lives and societies.
From the rise of FinTech to the regulation of global economies, you’ll dive into the issues that matter today and tomorrow.
Our BSc Accounting and Finance degree is more than just numbers.
It’s about influencing big decisions, understanding global trends, and building a career where your insights count.
At KBS, you’ll learn from expert academics and financial professionals, apply your knowledge to real data, and graduate with the skills, confidence and professional credentials to thrive in an evolving global landscape.
Whether your goal is to lead in the boardroom or advise on the future of finance, your journey starts here.
We are currently working with ACCA, CIMA, ICAEW and CIPFA to make sure these modules meet industry standards and retain this course's accreditations.
Management accounts act as a constant for businesses in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment, making them crucial for success and valuable to organisations.
You'll apply management accounting tools and techniques to assist managers in making profit planning decisions, controlling company performance, and evaluating long-term investments to grow.
Through developing skills in how to become a business partner, analytical problem-solving and decision-making skills you’ll be ready to analyse economic results, identify growth opportunities and advise managers on how to drive sustainable performance across their organisation.
Strategic management helps guide the smallest start-ups through turbulent markets, empowering them to navigate complexities and innovate.
It can also steer the largest corporations towards sustainable success by optimising resources, envisioning the future, and charting a course towards growth and sustainable global impact.
Management accountants are the strategic business partners who can help companies thrive and succeed.
How do they do so, and with what tools?
In this module, you’ll use management accounting tools and techniques to help managers assess companies’ performance and evaluate long-term investments.
You’ll develop analytical, problem-solving and decision-making skills which will allow you to analyse economic results.
This will help you identify growth opportunities and advise managers on how to drive sustainable business performance.
What are the legal responsibilities of businesses and individuals towards customers, suppliers, the environment, the workforce, and the public?
This module covers key aspects of contract, negligence, company, and employment law.
It looks at the formation, control, and performance of legally compliant contracts, organisational structures, employee treatment, and duty of care.
You’ll learn to apply legal knowledge to business-related client disputes.
In the process you’ll enhance your problem-solving skills and boost your confidence in analysing and debating legal issues.
By applying the law to real-world business scenarios, you’ll deepen your understanding of relevant business law and gain insight into making and supporting responsible business decisions.
All students spend a year in industry in the UK or internationally, supported by a dedicated Employability and Placement teams.
The course is designed to ensure that students gain experience in the functional areas and industries of their choice.
For students taking one of the specialist pathways, our strategic partnerships provide opportunities for placements in specific areas.
Unique to Kent Business School, you can take a Self-Employed Placement year during which you develop your initial business idea into a feasible business plan.
The ‘Selfie’ programme students are supported by an in-house entrepreneur who acts as your specialist mentor.
The placement allows you to experience, first hand, many of the issues addressed in the taught programme and to use the tools, techniques and applications in a real business setting.
It will become a vital component of your CV and will give you a distinct advantage over other business graduates.
Many large companies operate as groups and are required to prepare consolidated financial statements.
In this module, you’ll develop a critical understanding of the principles and practices that underpin the preparation and interpretation of these reports, and learn how to apply international financial reporting standards.
When preparing these reports, you’ll also make ethical assessments of managers’ stewardship and examine the information needs of various stakeholders.
This module will help you deepen your financial accounting knowledge and help you develop your technical and analytical skills which you can use to address complex accounting standards and current issues in financial reporting.
Auditing of companies' financial accounts help increase transparency as it assures stakeholders and potential investors that companies' accounts are reliable, unbiased, and faithful representations of companies' financial performance.
You'll gain a thorough understanding of a range of auditing topics together with an appreciation of the regulatory and social environment within which auditing process takes place.
Through real-life case studies, you will gain technical knowledge and critical thinking skills that will help you undertake efficient auditing processes and provide assurances to all interested stakeholders.
Study over three evenly paced terms per year, with two focused modules per term.
Teaching is delivered face-to-face through a combination of interactive lectures, workshops, and seminars that help you engage with theory, practice, and real-world business scenarios.
Apply your knowledge to real-time business data projects, case studies, and simulations.
Learn how to analyse financial reports, use industry-standard tools, and communicate key insights.
Modules cover core themes like corporate finance, taxation, auditing, and management control.
You’ll be assessed through a variety of methods, including individual and group presentations, problem sets, reports, case analyses, and examinations.
These assessments are designed to reflect real-world financial challenges and the skills employers demand.
Our compact timetable gives you time to study, gain work experience, and enjoy student life.
You'll also benefit from three feedback points per year and a personal academic adviser to support your growth.
Mathematics grade 5 / B
Whether you aim to become a chartered accountant, investment banker, or financial consultant, this course gives you the skills and credibility to succeed.
Roles that accounting and finance graduates typically go on to:
Supply and demand

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/3724/accounting-and-finance-and-economics-with-a-year-in-industry:
Develop the specialised skills and knowledge to drive your career as an economist or banking and finance professional
Do you want to understand the forces that shape the world’s economies and financial systems?
Are you curious about how markets behave and how financial decisions can impact businesses, governments, and society?
If so, our BSc Economics and Finance course is designed for you.
You’ll combine the study of economics and finance giving you the tools to analyse real-world challenges and shape the future through effective solutions.
You’ll develop strong analytical skills and a deep understanding of how markets and financial systems operate, from corporate finance to global economic policy.
Through this, you’ll learn to navigate data, construct models, and evaluate the impact of decisions on businesses, governments, and society.
Our focus is on ethical and sustainable decision-making, so you can launch a successful career making a meaningful difference.
Through interactive lectures, workshops, and hands-on projects, you’ll gain practical skills to solve problems in a rapidly changing world.
For those seeking professional experience, an optional Year in Industry offers an opportunity to apply your knowledge in the workplace and build your career network all before graduating.
Whether you’re aiming to work in financial analysis, economic consultancy, policymaking, or beyond, this course equips you with the expertise, confidence, and adaptability to thrive in a rapidly expanding field.
Your second year allows you to enhance your understanding of financial systems and core areas of accounting while expanding your learning in key areas of micro and macroeconomics.
You’ll explore the worlds of international financial reporting and taxation and gain an understanding of financial markets to set you up for success for the rest of your degree.
How do financial markets work?
Who are the major players?
How do central banks’ monetary policies affect financial markets?
You’ll develop a broad understanding of the financial system and how the market works within it.
You’ll also examine the roles of financial intermediaries and various financial instruments, and explore how these are connected with the wider economy.
By the end of this module, you’ll have the knowledge and skills to be able to analyse current developments in financial markets and the wider economy, a crucial skill for a successful career in finance.
Understanding how markets work is a crucial skill for those working in the finance industry.
It can enhance strategic decision making in finance and management by allowing business leaders to better recognise and take advantage of market opportunities when they arise.
This module introduces the theoretical foundations of microeconomics with examples of their applications and an emphasis on policy issues and controversies.
You’ll learn to analyse the way in which the market system functions as a mechanism for coordinating the independent choices of individual economic agents.
You'll focus on the behaviour and decision making of consumers and firms, and evaluate the efficiency and equity implications of competition and other market structures.
You’ll also explore how the government can address market failures and incentivise socially beneficial economic behaviour.
You spend a year in industry, supported by a dedicated placement team and a programme designed to ensure that students gain experience in the functional areas and industries of their choice.
Your final year allows you to develop your specialist knowledge with the flexibility to choose modules to shape your course to your interests.
Choose to do modules with an accounting and finance focus and look more closely at topics like taxation, auditing, financial and management accounting or choose to do options with more of an economic focus and look at topics including econometrics, financial economics, and economic trends (e.g.
financial crises).
You’ll also have the opportunity to pick modules from our wider portfolio of business-related topics.
This allows you to develop your competencies in areas that matter to you and tailor your degree to suit your career goals.
Topics in Advanced Macroeconomics builds on the Stage 1 teaching of macroeconomics and provides a comprehensive framework for understanding short-run fluctuations in economic activity.
You will integrate theoretical concepts and recent real-world examples, with a focus on examining the emergent policy implications.
You’ll develop your extant analytical skills which will enable you to assess the key determinants of economic fluctuations and evaluate the range of policy responses to stabilise the economy in the presence of shocks.
You start by examining stylised facts about business cycles, such as the alternating phases of expansions and contractions in economic activity, fluctuations in output, employment, and inflation.
A key part of the module is learning about how and whether policymakers should respond to these fluctuations using monetary and fiscal policy.
Through exploring these questions, you will learn how to distinguish between demand and supply drivers of these fluctuations, and how the appropriate policy response differs in these two cases.
In open economies, we show how important it is to understand the behaviour of exchange rates, and how they both affect and are affected by macroeconomic policy.
We also cover in detail macroeconomic research on the modelling of economic agents’ expectations about the economy and the crucial contribution this has made in allowing us to understand how macroeconomic policy affects wages, prices and employment.
Teaching is delivered via a variety of learning activities, including cohort workshops, practical sessions, engaging lectures, interactive seminars, and personalised individual consultation and supervision.
Assessments include, but are not limited to, written assignments (such as research papers, blog posts, essays, technical reports), presentations, exams, problem-solving assessments, and computer-based exercises (programming and data work).
The University will consider applicants holding BTEC National Diploma and Extended National Diploma Qualifications (QCF; NQF; OCR) on a case-by-case basis.
Please note that these qualifications are not normally accepted without accompanying A levels.
There may be additional costs associated with the Year in Industry such as travel or accommodation, which will need to be covered by the student.
Our Economics and Finance graduates have excellent prospects, and we are committed to helping you achieve success.
Your combination of skills sets you up for a range of roles in areas such as: accountancy, banking and finance, journalism and management consultancy.
Some of the top employers for our graduates include:
UK economics graduate salaries

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/6/actuarial-science-with-a-year-in-industry:
Our year in industry course enables you to gain paid industry experience in addition to being taught by our professionally qualified actuaries and internationally-renowned statisticians to ensure you are fully prepared for your future career.
AAB including Maths at A but excluding Use of Maths.
If taking both A level Mathematics and A level Further Mathematics:
ABB including Maths at A and Further Maths at B but excluding Use of Maths.
Grades Distinction Merit from the BTEC National Extended Diploma plus A Level Mathematics at A (but excluding Use of Maths).
136 tariff points from your IB Diploma, including Mathematics or Mathematics: Analysis and Approaches at 6 at HL, typically H6, H6, H6 or equivalent.
A typical offer would be to obtain the Access to HE Diploma in a suitable subject with a minimum of 45 credits at Level 3, with 39 credits at Distinction and 6 credits at Merit.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/82/ancient-history:
Explore Ancient History and trace the connections between the societies of the past and ours today
At Kent you will develop new skills, and gain valuable experience ready for a wide range of careers, from archaeology to the heritage industry - or further afield - a degree in ancient history from Kent is the first step to wherever you want to go.
Join world-leading experts, including practising archaeologists and historians.
You'll study history from the shores of Roman Britain to Byzantium, and from Egyptian temples and Near Eastern empires to the Greek city states.
From day one you will explore new perspectives on topics such as migration, gender, identity, and religion in the ancient world.
You will delve into classical cultures and build an understanding of them as living traditions to discover how they continue to shape our world.
You also have the option to study an ancient language, or take an internship in the heritage or museum sector.
Our broad remit at Kent means you are free to turn your passions into expertise and make your degree your own.
This course offers an optional pathway in archaeology, leading to the degree of Ancient History with Archaeology.
You will receive training in excavation techniques on dig sites with our practicing field archaeologists, and may make your own discoveries that contribute to our knowledge of the ancient world.
You will be introduced to archaeological equipment in our state-of-the-art archaeology lab, and will have the opportunity to build your network of professional contacts within the industry.
If you choose to accept your offer of a place on BA Ancient History at Kent you will be automatically sent instructions on how to register for the Archaeology Pathway prior to enrolment in September.
This course offers a pathway in archaeology leading to the degree in Ancient History with Archaeology.
It provides an opportunity for you to develop wide and in-depth skills, training and knowledge in archaeology.
If you choose this pathway you'll have different module options to the main study route, outlined below.
You take all compulsory modules then select two from a list of optional modules.
What were the major works and genres of Greek literature?
How were stories told in Ancient Rome?
This module is an introduction to Classical history, literature and culture.
Spanning almost two thousand years from the Bronze Age Mycenaeans to the Greeks living under the Roman Empire, you'll explore the major events, developments and themes of ancient Mediterranean history and civilisation and will gain an introduction to key historical evidence.
There will be a strong focus on Greek literature.
You’ll be asked to consider and discuss the role of literature as a vehicle for power, persuasion and public debate throughout Greek history.
You’ll also examine themes such as democracy, justice, religion, rationalism, violence, war, displacement, the body, and gender.
Using Greek literature as a lens by which to examine the ancient world, and trace the connections to our own.
What tools do archaeologists use to investigate the ancient world?
And how are technological developments changing this process?
This module covers classical archaeology chronologically— from the Minoans to Late Antiquity— and methodologically, covering the evidence and non-invasive research methods archaeologists use to tell the story of Mediterranean societies.
You’ll explore key issues such as Greek colonisation, Roman conquest, Romanisation and resistance, the nature of Minoan palaces, and the city of Rome.
You’ll develop practical skills and discover topics such as military archaeology, numismatics, epigraphy and ceramics, and examine major sites of Classical archaeology, from Thera, Knossos, and Lefkandi, to Athens, Vergina, and Rome.
Part of your learning will focus on heritage issues surrounding the appreciation and looting of Classical Greek and Hellenistic art.
You’ll explore the role of texts, from the use of Homer to discover the world of ancient Troy, to the handling of Greek inscriptions and Roman coins.
This module stretches the boundaries of traditional Classical archaeology.
It includes temples and sculptures of classic Greek sites and rich material evidence of modern Roman archaeological sites such as wrecks, battle sites, amphora dumps, villas and mines.
So you delve into the areas you are most passionate about.
What can we learn from the centuries of crisis that led to the rise of populists who overthrew Rome’s democracy?
What mirror does the history of Rome hold up to our own times, and how does this knowledge empower us to shape our future while learning from the past?
This module will explore these questions through the lens of Roman history, from the overthrow of the first Roman monarchy and the foundation of the Roman Republic (509 BCE) to the dramatic rise and fall of Julius Caesar’s autocracy (44 BCE), and finally the near-collapse of the Roman Empire in the third century CE.
On the way, you’ll learn how to rethink the past beyond just facts and dates.
You’ll explore how the Romans processed dramatic social changes and how their thinking and culture evolved.
Art and literature, politics, sexual and gender norms, class tensions, and even levels of xenophobia and anti-immigrant feelings—in other words, what it meant to be Roman—changed dramatically over a thousand years.
You’ll confront this story and, in so doing, confront the present.
Migration, whether forced or voluntary, has been a key feature of life throughout history and continues to be so in the present day.
This module investigates the topics of migration and displacement in the ancient world, exploring it in relation to phenomena such as war, violence, trauma, captivity, slavery, trade, diversity, multiculturalism, race, ethnicity and imperialism.
Rather than focusing on kings, wars and battlefields, this module takes the perspective of individuals and their lived experience.
The module will also explore how studying the ancient past can enhance our understanding of the present and empower us to make meaningful contributions to modern debates.
You'll also gain a comprehensive picture of these key themes in the ancient world, focusing on the most important civilisations of the ancient Near East, including Egypt and the Mediterranean between c.
3,500 BCE and c.
600 CE.
You will pay particular attention to ancient Egypt, Mesopotamia, the Levant, the Greek world and the Roman Empire.
Who were the Titans?
Who were the monsters and heroes of the Underworld?
This module will introduce you to ancient Greek mythology, including the mythological structure of the Greek pantheon.
You’ll reach far beyond the Olympians to explore fascinating topics such as star myths and cosmogony.
You’ll also examine the scholarship on mythology and learn to analyse myths in their ancient setting and understand their meaning and function.
You’ll explore a selection of case-study myths (represented in literature and/or iconography), which will be used to demonstrate, test, and argue the potential meanings and social functions of myth in general.
You’ll also consider the cognitive impact of mythology and the ways it helped to structure the ancient Greek cosmos and shape understanding of the world.
This understanding of myths and their function in Greek society will help you further explore and understand Greek society as a whole, enabling your to deeper explore the ancient world.
This module is your introduction to studying Egyptology, whether you are completely new to it, or if you want to pursue the subject mainly from an archaeological point of view.
Explore the diversity of methodologies and debates concerning Egyptian archaeology.
In doing so, you’ll learn aspects of anthropological and archaeological theory, as well as the relationship between theory, fieldwork, and the resulting interpretation.
You’ll gain a solid introduction to the archaeology of ancient Egypt and its culture, monuments, and civilisation.
Uncover a wide range of archaeological material encountered at Egyptian sites, demonstrating how the study of material culture greatly contributes to the understanding of important aspects of ancient Egyptian culture (history, geography, material remains and society).
The history of Egyptology and Egyptian archaeology will also be examined, including discussion of new excavations in Egypt, connecting recent work with the results of projects spanning the late 19th and 20th centuries.
Archaeology is an exciting academic discipline, covering the latest discoveries and giving a grounding in basic concepts and techniques in studying archaeological evidence.
It provides a showcase for many other Classical & Archaeological Studies topics by examining the archaeological process with examples from prehistoric, ancient, and medieval settings and is vital into gaining the skills you need to unearth the secrets of the ancient world.
You’ll gain a chronological overview of Eurasian archaeology, from the Palaeolithic to the Middle Ages, also introducing key themes.
These include dating, environmental evidence, ceremonial, religious and burial sites, settlement sites, the development of towns, trade and exchange, artefactual and landscape studies, using cases through time.
Seminars focus on methods and approaches, and the presentation of data and its interpretation, bringing artefacts into class for hands-on sessions or looking at local case studies that students can experience in their time at Kent.
These equip you with essential skills in archaeology so that you can make your own observations from reports, plans, sections, photos, and objects, and judge scholarly statements with a critical eye.
How can you gain a deep understanding of the foundations of western civilisation, literature, culture and language?
How can you improve your critical thinking, analytical skills, and problem solving?
Through a strong foundation in ancient Greek/ Latin, and the fundamentals of grammar and sentence structure, you’ll develop your ability to read, comprehend, and translate simple sentences and short passages of ancient Greek/Latin.
Not only will you be set on the path to reading the authors who built the foundations of the western literary canon, but it will become easier to grasp another language, improve your English grammar, and give you the tools to succeed in diverse disciplines such as coding and computer programming, scientific, legal or medical careers.
How can you gain a deeper understanding of the foundations of western civilisation, literature, culture and language?
By continuing to build on your foundations in ancient Greek/ Latin, and continuing to cover the fundamentals of grammar and sentence structure, you’ll improve your ability to read, comprehend, and translate simple sentences and longer passages of ancient Greek/Latin.
What do texts from antiquity tell us about the societies in which they were written?
What did the ancient Greeks and Romans think about identity and the world in which they lives?
How were these ideas incorporated into their literature.
You’ll be introduced to some of the major works of ancient Greek and Roman literature such as tragedy, the epic, satire, the novel, and poetry, developing your ability to understand and critically assess how the Greeks and Romans dealt with concepts such as love, violence, and justice.
These ideas have shaped and informed many cultural aspects of today’s society on topics such as gender, politics, and sexuality.
You’ll gain knowledge of foundational ideas and thinkers, and construct arguments to defend their own answers to crucial questions about the purpose of literature.
By the end of the first century CE, Rome was the largest city in the world: with some one million inhabitants, its population would be unmatched in Europe until Victorian London.
What made its spectacular growth possible, and what did it mean to be Roman in the most multi-cultural and multi-ethnic city in the world by 100 CE?
The history of the Early Empire is far richer than the names and deeds of emperors and ‘great men’.
In addition to studying the imperial power at the top, you’ll explore the experiences of Rome’s one million ordinary inhabitants at the bottom.
You’ll achieve this through a combination of literary sources with material and archaeological sources.
While the evidence studied will include the most important literary texts of the Imperial period—which were overwhelmingly written by, for, and about elite men—, you will equally focus on the evidence of daily life, including: surviving ‘menus’ of Roman fast food outlets; the archaeological evidence of the Roman slave market; the living quarters of enslaved people; brothels, bars and bawdyhouses; the remains of urban blocks of flats; and inscriptions and tombstones, from the very highest to the very lowliest members of Roman society.
By approaching the first century AD in this way, this you’ll learn to recognise what feels truly ‘modern’ about Europe’s first global city.
You’ll broach questions of sustainable development, democracy, popular politics, belonging and ‘othering’, and multiculturalism that are more relevant than ever for cities today.
You take all compulsory modules and then select three optional modules, which must include at least one of the following: The Rise and Fall of Athens, War and Imperialism in Ancient Rome c.350-100 BC, Egypt and the Classical World.
If you wish to take an internship during the Spring or Summer term, you must take either Heritage Studies - Exploring Key Debates or Museum Studies - Exploring Key Debates in the term before.
How does the modern world respond to, and make sense of, the ancient world?
How does the ancient world influence our own world?
This module examines key theoretical perspectives and evaluates their contributions to helping us understand the past.
You'll focus on how we use texts and material culture to study and define past societies and also analyse responses to ancient ideas (relating to imperialism, ancient myths, philosophy, and ethics) in both their ancient and modern setting.
You’ll consider evidence of the past within a contemporary intellectual framework.
Through various case studies, you’ll explore a range of cultural responses to ideas —such as  Roman responses to Greek ideas —as well as their representations across a range of media.
During the module, you’ll participate in a group project based on communicating historical themes for public engagement.
Examples of this may include the topography of Rome, perceptions of imperialism, a heritage-related project, or creating your own adaptation of a Classical myth or philosophical idea etc.
The module will reinforce awareness of both the multifaceted nature of ancient ideas, as well as the relevance of Classics to the modern world.
This is your opportunity to learn how to carry out an independent research project, in preparation for the dissertation module that follows.
You’ll develop a variety of academic skills through close engagement with source evidence (through data gathering, resource evaluation, writing, interpretation and presentation), building on the knowledge you’ve already acquired in other modules.
You can base you project on any suitable subject or evidence source that you're passionate about.
Your proposed subject will be assessed for suitability and feasibility by a module convenor, based on your course pathway choice.
Once your project has been approved, you’ll be appointed a project supervisor from CLAS staff to assist you.
You should aim to pursue projects that are distinctive, persuasive, and connect to theoretical debates.
Projects should be informed by your personal interests, your chosen pathway, the aims of the module, support from your supervisor, and the accessibility of relevant material.
If you wish to, and with support from your supervisor, you’re encouraged to explore materials, undertake practical experiments, and assemble information in new and creative ways that challenge the typical essay narrative, though you can still opt for the standard approach.
You’ll develop the project through a sequence of preparatory steps leading to the final account of the enquiry, which you’ll submit at the end of the second term.
This is a great experience for you to prepare for you dissertation and a great account of your own work.
Explore the dynamic interaction between Egypt during the Late Period and Ancient Greece.
During the 26th Dynasty, there was a significant increase in contact between the Aegean world and Egypt, marked by the establishment of commercial settlements, robust trade relations, and the influx of Greek traders, mercenaries, and travellers.
This interaction had far-reaching effects, providing crucial support for Egypt's last great independent dynasty, contributing to the rise of East Greek cities like Ionia, and influencing Greek sculpture and architecture.
Furthermore, this contact exposed the Greeks to a civilisation that they found impressive yet fundamentally different.
This perception stimulated Greek thought and historical writing, notably through figures like Herodotus.
Over time, it also shaped Western perceptions of Egypt, giving rise to myths about its ancientness, religion, and wisdom that persist in modern times and influenced the fields of traditional Egyptology and Classical Archaeology.
You’ll draw information from various disciplines such as archaeology, papyrology, history, and literature to explore ancient interactions and modern debates comprehensively.
How do you imagine Roman Antiquity?
How do the images produced for film, TV and popular fiction reflect the lives of those in Antiquity?
Can we see the everyday experience of Pliny, Juvenal or Augustine, or of those killed in the eruption of Vesuvius in AD 79?
You’ll explore everyday life in the Roman world, from haircuts, tattoos, and gestures, to everyday rites and rhythms, whether domestic, social, political, or religious, focusing on human experience, in its culturally specific organisation.
Study from Augustan Rome to Late Antique Alexandria, and draw on depictions, literary evidence (such as poems), original documents (from personal letters to minutes), inscriptions and archaeology, focusing on key sites where preservation is good, such as Pompeii, Ostia, and Sardis.
Here buildings, graffiti, occupation deposits, and other traces will allow snapshots of life to be constructed: of the houses, workshops, taverns, temples, amphitheatres, and law courts of Antiquity.
You’ll undertake both empirical studies and historical reconstructions, to understand the importance not only of describing what remains of everyday life, but of actively reconstructing it, engaging different types of evidence in a critical dialogue.
How were gender and sexuality conceived in ancient Rome?
What roles and expectations were placed on men and women?
What makes something ‘explicit’ or ‘graphic’, and why is this the case?
By introducing you to the sexual practices, behaviours, attitudes, and relationships described throughout Latin sources, you’ll understand the debates about ideas that shaped both Roman society and culture, and the modern western world.
You’ll learn about the perception of sexuality in antiquity and how that perception was translated into social and political relationships.
You’ll cover literature and social history topics, which provide a wide-ranging complement to both subjects.
You’ll analyse primary texts from a variety of literary genres such as satire, poetry, histories, letters, legal texts, inscriptions and graffiti and develop the ability to critically reflect on, and construct arguments to answer crucial questions on concepts of gender, sexuality, love, violence, and family, and illustrate how these impacted Roman society and influenced the modern world.
What were artworks and buildings like in the Greek and Roman world, how were they viewed, and what purposes did they have in society?
Explore the function of art in politics and religion as well as fundamentals like style and dating across a timespan from Archaic Greece to the Late Roman period.
Famous sites like Athens, Rome, and Delphi will be explored, including aesthetic and functional aspects as well as developments in building technology.
You’ll investigate how and why art styles changed over time, including changes resulting from contact with diverse ancient peoples and cultures beyond Greece and Rome.
You’ll gain skills in the critical evaluation of artworks and buildings, an understanding of diverse source materials, and knowledge of how the roles of artworks and buildings were both similar and different to those in today’s world.
Why is Homeric epic considered the foundation of literature in the Western tradition?
Why does it have such an influence on famous authors such as Virgil, Dante, James Joyce, and countless contemporary authors?
A study of the Iliad and/or the Odyssey introduces you to the key concepts of the world of epic, such as xenia (guest friendship), kleos (reputation), and kudos (glory).
You’ll learn to recognise, and analyse the meaning of, epic conventions such as stock epithets, type scenes, and formulaic repetition.
These concepts and conventions will enhance your understanding of the central themes of Homeric epic, such as heroism, the construction of the feminine, ethnicity, the role of the gods, warfare, peace, poetry, and conceptions of mortality.
As a result you’ll gain knowledge of how Homeric epic enriches our cultural understanding of both the ancient Greek past and our present.
You’ll also develop the ability to critically reflect upon the portrayal of epic heroism, embodied by figures such as Achilles and Odysseus, who continue to resonate in modern storytelling.
The archetypal hero’s journey with its trials, triumphs, and personal growth remains a potent narrative framework throughout modern media.
Now that you’ve acquired a foundation in ancient Greek/ Latin, and covered the basics of grammar and sentence structure, you’ll develop your ability to read, comprehend, and translate complex sentences and longer passages of ancient Greek/Latin.
This knowledge will enhance your understanding of the key themes and ideas in the text.
Not only will you be reading the authors who built the foundations of the western literary canon, but it will become much easier to grasp another language, improve your English grammar, and give you the tools to succeed in diverse disciplines such as coding and computer programming, scientific, legal or medical careers.
Now that you’ve acquired a foundation in ancient Greek/ Latin, and covered the fundamentals of grammar and complex sentence structure, you can enhance your ability to read, comprehend, and translate passages of ancient Greek/Latin.
This knowledge will enrich your understanding of the key themes and ideas in the texts.
Not only will you be reading the authors who built the foundations of the western literary canon, but you will have the tools to succeed in diverse disciplines such as coding and computer programming, scientific, legal or medical careers.
Museums all over the world are a beacon of knowledge and education and are spaces for the conservation of the most precious artefacts.
At the same time, some of them have become contested places, because they house objects acquired during colonial times, they often exclude some voices, and because their funding models rely on unethical corporations.
You’ll gain an understanding of the core principles governing the collection, interpretation, and management of objects within museum settings.
You’ll also be introduce to some of the contemporary controversies and ethical challenges facing museums, including issues of provenance, repatriation, inclusivity, and funding.
Examples from all over the world will be used, to introduce you to diverse approaches in museums.
You’ll gain the necessary skills and knowledge to undertake an internship in the museum of your choice.
You’ll emerge with a range of communication skills, essential for working in museums.
A tailored made 70-hour internship within a local, regional or national museum.
The internship opportunity gives you first-hand experience in museum work – a crucial step towards a career in the field.
During the internship, you’ll apply the concepts and principles learned in class (in the Autumn term) within the dynamic context of museums.
You’ll choose your museum as far as possible, ensuring that the internship aligns with your interests and career aspirations.
You’ll undertake a specific project, to be defined between the course leader, the museum and yourself.
The knowledge gained from the internship in a museum will be reinforced through classroom seminars, where you can delve deeper into theoretical concepts and discuss their practical applications.
Assessment methods include a blog to help students comprehend the diverse skills acquired during their internships and a final report where you will reflect on your experiences.
Examine ancient Greek history from the end of the Persian invasions (480/479 BC) to the fall of Athens in 404 BC.
You’ll focus in detail on the rise and fall of the power of Athens, the rivalry between Athens and Sparta with their respective alliances, ancient democracy, the Second Peloponnesian War and the role of the Persian Empire in Greek history in the 5th century BC.
Particular attention is given to the causes of the conflict between Athens and the Delian League, on the one hand, and Sparta and the Peloponnesian League, on the other, to the rise and decline of Athenian democracy, the Periclean age, the oligarchic revolutions at Athens, the political and military history of the last three decades of the 5th century BC and to the trial and death of Socrates.
You’ll be taught using a combination of ancient sources that include historiographic (Herodotus, Thucydides, Xenophon, Plutarch etc), epigraphic and archaeological evidence.
Explore Mediterranean life A.D.
283-650, from Diocletian and Constantine to the Arab Conquests, exploring the cultural background experienced by major figures such as Julian & Hypatia, Augustine & Monica, or Justinian & Theodora.
You’ll separate the complex changes of this period, which have often been lumped into a single model of 'decline'.
Long-term transformations, such as the centralisation of imperial power, the emergence of a Christian state, the collapse of the East, and the rise of Islam, remain major topics of interest.
Consider themes such as the emperor and court, the impact of the military, the countryside, the economy, the end of paganism, and the rise of Christianity.
These portraits draw on the extraordinary preservation in North Africa and the East Mediterranean, where cities, villages and monasteries often stand as if they had just been abandoned.
Seminars will explore textual, iconographic, and archaeological evidence, from built structures to earthquake deposits, sometimes as rich as Pompeii.
You’ll develop an understanding of both the last flowering of Greek culture and the foundations of the Middle Ages (Europe, Byzantium, and Islam), revealing an important chapter in our history, often ignored but vital to grasp.
Why is Virgil considered Rome’s most famous poet?
Why is his Aeneid still regarded as one of the greatest epics of the ancient world?
Why do its themes still have enormous impact today?
By introducing you to the world of the hero, Aeneas, and his quest to found Rome, you’ll see how Virgil connects the mythical past to his own history and his present.
Gain a deeper understanding of intertwined themes in the epic, such as morality, the role of the artist/creator, the trauma of migration and exile, and the construction of gender.
In so doing, this module develops students’ ability to understand and critically assess debates about ideas that shaped the Rome of Emperor Augustus.
You’ll be able to see, debate, and make parallels between ancient and modern themes such as the trauma of war, violence, heroism, masculinity, the construction of the female, migration, exile and identity.
In 350 BCE, the Roman Republic was a tiny city-state in Central Italy consisting of Rome and its immediate hinterland.
Two hundred years later, it stretched from Seville in the west to Cyprus in the East and ruled over 50 million people.
How can a state retain its core beliefs and traditions when its size increases dramatically?
What challenges does the growth of an empire pose for the stability of the state itself?
You’ll be encouraged to ask fundamental questions about the nature of imperial power, the ways in which it can be justified and challenged, and the relationship between military expansion on the one hand and changes in culture and politics on the other.
You’ll study the way in which Rome’s imperial boom changed almost all aspects of living in the Roman Republic: its politics and laws; its literature and art; its approach to warfare and international diplomacy; and even the motifs and symbols of civic life itself, from the grand temples of the Roman forum to the tiny silver coins an ordinary citizen would carry around the city.
Rome’s Republican empire unified the entire Mediterranean and much of continental Europe under a single banner, creating an idea of a unified Europe that would be imitated centuries later by modern dictators and politicians.
Imperial exploitation enriched the elites of the city, but ultimately led to the rise of ambitious generals and populists like Julius Caesar who destroyed the Roman Republic.
By charting that history in this module, you’ll confront the corruption of power and its enduring relevance today.
During the internship, you’ll deploy accurately the concepts and principles learned in class (in the Spring term) within the dynamic context of heritage sites.
Finally, you’ll undertake a specific project, to be defined between the course leader, the heritage site and yourself.
The systematic knowledge gained from the internship will be reinforced through classroom seminars, delving deeper into theoretical concepts and discussing their practical applications.
Assessment methods include a blog to help critically evaluate the diverse skills acquired during your internship, and a final report where you’ll critically reflect on your experiences.
Heritage sites have often been in the news as core elements of tourism, identity and sometimes of the ‘culture war’.
But what are heritage sites?
How are they conserved, managed, developed, and interpreted?
Why can they be controversial?
Throughout this module, you’ll gain a comprehensive and critical understanding of the principles of protecting, listing and conserving heritage, as well as of value-led management of heritage, with the full participation of local populations.
You’ll also gain key employment skills, as you learn about drafting management and tourism plans, while also integrating heritage within development strategies.
Using real world examples from across the globe, you’ll be introduced to diverse approaches.
By the end of this module, you will have the necessary skills and critical knowledge to undertake an internship in a heritage site of your choice.
Going abroad as part of your degree is an amazing experience and a chance to develop personally, academically and professionally.
You'll experience a different culture, gain a new academic perspective, establish international contacts and enhance your employability.
You can apply to add a Year Abroad to your degree programme from your arrival at Kent until the autumn term of your second year.
The Year Abroad takes place between Stages 2 and 3 at one of our partner universities.
Places and destination are subject to availability, language and degree programme.
You are expected to adhere to any academic progression requirements in Stages 1 and 2 to proceed to the Year Abroad.
The Year Abroad is assessed on a pass/fail basis and will not count towards your final degree classification.
You will complete a dissertation on your chosen pathway topic and then select four optional modules.
If you are pursuing the BA Ancient History, two of these must include any of the following: Cities and Empires of the Ancient Near East, Graeco-Roman Egypt, The Crisis of the Late Republic c.100-27 BC, The Hellenistic World: History and Material Culture, Early Greece and the Formation of the Classical World, Advanced Topics in Ancient History.
If you take the Ancient History with Archaeology pathway,  two of your four optional modules must include any of the following: Advanced Topics in Archaeology, Professional Archaeology: Techniques and Methods, Heritage Studies, Constantinople and the late Antique City, Roman Britain, Gods, Heroes and Mystery Cults: Religion in Ancient Greece, Barbarians in the West.
This module introduces undergraduate students to systematic research within a framework of supervised guidance.
It provides an opportunity to select a topic of their choosing, in either archaeology, history, ancient literature.
Students are invited to suggest subjects and provisional titles (topics).
Prospective topics are scrutinised for suitability and feasibility and approved by the convenor before research can begin.
Students receive instruction through a programme of timetabled guidance sessions and from the module convenor and a designated academic supervisor throughout the process.
In addition, one-to-one meetings with the supervisor enable tailored tuition, covering the selection of the precise question/s for investigation, most apt reading, and so forth.
Students prepare a short formal research proposal in the first half of the autumn term in order to formulate the question their investigation will address; this is submitted as an assignment, assessed, and feedback provided.
Two further assessed step submissions follow as the research builds: a research outline with associated bibliography and a critical evaluation of a key source material.
Students should aim to ultimately produce what is an original study.
The finalised Dissertation is submitted at the end of the second term of study.
How can you gain the fullest understanding of the civilisation, literature, culture and language of ancient societies?
How can you fundamentally improve your critical thinking, analytical skills, and problem solving?
Now that you’re proficient in languages and have covered the fundamentals of grammar and complex sentence structure, this module will enrich your ability to read, comprehend, and translate passages of ancient Greek/Latin/ Egyptian.
You’ll have a better understanding of the key themes and ideas in the texts and will see them within a broader literary and cultural context.
You’ll understand how to use relevant theme-specific scholarly tools and publications in your studies, and will have the tools to succeed in diverse disciplines such as coding and computer programming, scientific, legal or medical careers.
Takes a critical and interdisciplinary approach to ancient history and modern interpretations of ancient history.
After first developing a rich and detailed view of a key theme in ancient history, such as politics, law, migration or social justice, you'll explore how this central theme contributed in the ancient world and how it is addressed and differs in twenty-first century debates.
Dig deeper and explore advanced approaches to topics in archaeology.
After first developing a rich and detailed view of a key theme in archaeology, you will explore how this central theme contributes to our understanding of the ancient world.
You’ll gain skills in communication, critical thinking, and use of primary and secondary sources, as well as a deeper understanding of archaeology as a tool to uncover secrets of the past and inform our modern understanding of antiquity.
Take a critical and interdisciplinary approach to modern interpretations of ancient literature, culture, and art.
You’ll develop a rich and detailed view of a key theme of your choice in classical studies (e.g.
inebriation, madness, divine signs, humour, emotion, ugliness, the senses), before exploring how this theme is addressed both in the ancient world and in twenty-first century debates.
Through this exploration of the ancient world, you’ll sharpen your focus and develop skills across critical thinking, problem solving and communication to set you up for an exciting and successful career.
What is virtue?
What is knowledge?
What are the first causes and principles of reality?
What is the nature of mimesis?
You’ll explore these questions that have persisted from the ancient era to the 21st century.
Through lectures and seminar discussions you’ll gain a critical distance from normative and modern definitions of philosophical terms, in order to understand how ancient philosophy generally approached questions and problems with different suppositions and conceptions of reality, reason, and the purpose of human existence.
Through this deep discussion, you’ll discover your own answers to these critical questions through the context of ancient and modern philosophy, while developing crucial skills in analysis and reasoning to give you an edge with employers.
How did the western Roman Empire become the Early Medieval West?
What happened when large numbers of people migrated into the Roman empire from beyond the Roman frontiers?
You’ll explore the period between 300 and 600 C.E, examining the interactions between so-called ‘barbarians’ and the population of the western Roman empire.
Important sites from Italy to Britain will be examined using a range of archaeological, historical and visual evidence.
You’ll cover everything from military changes during the period to the impact of social and political breakdown on ordinary people.
Through weekly lectures you’ll build knowledge and through seminars, you’ll explore case studies on specific topics in more depth, gaining confidence in source interpretation.
Discover the end of the Roman west; what survived, and what did not of Roman culture and lifestyles in early medieval Europe.
Discover the civilisations of the Near East which developed in Mesopotamia (Iraq), Iran, Anatolia (Turkey), the Levant, and the Eastern Mediterranean Islands between the Bronze and the Iron Age (3100-550 BC).
Through exploring historical events and peoples who played a role in the formation and collapse of cities and empires you’ll gain a greater understanding of this exciting period in ancient history.
And you will explore cultural traditions and interactions through the lens of art and artefacts, writing, religion and economy to develop your knowledge of the societies and everyday lives that contributed to it.
Do you want to bring your passion for the ancient world to the classroom through teaching?
If so, this is the perfect first step for you to get there.
This module is designed for students interested in pursuing a career as primary or secondary school teachers.
You’ll take a placement in a secondary school, which will enhance your employment opportunities.
You’ll also develop your knowledge and understanding of Classical Studies and Ancient History in the secondary school context.
By introducing you to the essentials of teaching practice during seminars and workshops, you’ll gain invaluable experience.
Seminars and the internship will complement each other.
During seminars, you’ll benefit from the opportunity to discuss aspects related to your placement and receive appropriate guidance from staff at regular intervals to support your journey.
You’ll usually make weekly visits to a school and have a designated teacher-mentor.
As part of the internship, you’ll will observe real taught sessions.
Initially, students will likely concentrate on specific aspects of the teachers' tasks, and their approach to teaching a class.
As term progresses, it is expected that your role will be, to some extent, a teaching assistant, by helping individual pupils who are having difficulties or by working with small groups.
This is the perfect way to gain crucial experience and take the first step to an exciting and rewarding career in teaching.
Survey the Mediterranean city from AD 300 to 650, the period in which Constantinople was founded and became Europe’s greatest polis.
City life in this period was, until recently, poorly understood, hindered by the prejudices of classical archaeologists, who removed late levels without record, and the selective interests of Christian archaeologists who concentrated on churches.
Now, new archaeological fieldwork has revealed much greater complexity, with an urban collapse in the West but flourishing cities in the East, providing a foundation for Early Islamic urbanism.
You’ll explore this developing understanding of the ancient city through both regional and thematic patterns, visible in classic sites, such as Trier, Rome, Ostia, Sabratha, Phillipi, Ephesus, Gerasa, and Constantinople.
You’ll learn to link changes in the physical appearance of cities to wider events and processes: the effects of war, the rise of pateres and circus factions, the decline of paganism, and the urban flowering of both Christianity and Judaism.
Through seminars you’ll explore the rich source material available, whether drawn from architectural remains, stratigraphic archaeology, epigraphy, and selected text, so you can better study a range of issues for cities of any period, from topography and morphology to processions, civic regulation, and economic change.
Explore the history, archaeology and culture of the Ancient Greek world from the Late Bronze Age to the Archaic period (ca 1600 BC – 480 BC).
You’ll begin at the very start of the Ancient Greek world, covering everything from the Greek trade and colonisation on the Mediterranean, the Tyrrhenian and the Black Sea; the cultural, architectural and artistic exchanges of the Greeks with Near Eastern, North African and Italian populations; the formation of the Greek polis (city-state) and the circumstances for the invasion of Greece by the contemporary Persian Empire.
Through this you’ll develop a greater understanding of Ancient Greece and sharpen your focus on critical analysis and insights.
How did religion structure ancient Greek cosmovision?
Did religion have extensive political power?
How important was architecture and mythology to religious practice?
You’ll answer these questions and gain a comprehensive understanding of the major types of religious festivals and worship, the cults involved and the divine spheres of influence addressed through ritual, using archaeological, ancient historical, and literary material.
Explore the structure of the belief system and the ways it was used to assist in addressing uncertainties of the future.
Apart from the study of material evidence and literary sources, you’ll also focus on the cognitive underpinnings of worship and the development and role of monumental architecture in religious practice.
Explore the impact of the Classical World on ancient Egypt between Alexander's invasion and the Arab conquest, and on the nature of the civilisation which emerged under Greek and Roman rule.
Alexander entered Egypt as liberator, but his successors created a regime with Greek as the main official language and Greeks as the ruling elite.
Foreign soldiers were settled on reclaimed land, Greek cities were founded, especially Alexandria, one of the glories of the ancient world.
An elaborate system of economic regulation maximised production to support warfare, city-building and display.
New cults were created to unite the two peoples and strengthen the regime.
Native Egyptians showed their resentment in disaffection and rebellion.
Roman rule was if anything harsher and more remote.
Yet it is a mistake to see the relationship as wholly negative.
Art and architecture flourished.
In civil service, army, business the new regime offered avenues to advancement for native Egyptians.
Egyptian religion retained its prestige and was adopted by many Greeks and Romans, spreading far outside Egypt.
You’ll get hands on exploring this exciting period through rich and varied sources: temples, tombs, remains of settlements, mummies, inscriptions, sculpture, coins and an extraordinary range of papyrus documents, offering unique insights.
The Hellenistic period, saw an expansion of the Greek world into the Near East and, as a result, the profound political and cultural transformation of the whole of the Eastern Mediterranean.
This played a crucial role not just in the transmission of classical Greek civilisation but also in the shaping of the Roman Empire and its culture, particularly in the Eastern Mediterranean.
For these reasons, it is a key period in the development of Greek, Roman and later European civilisations.
You’ll undertake a general survey of the political, social, economic and cultural history of the Eastern Mediterranean in the period between 336 and 30 BC, following on from the classical Greek and in part dovetailing with and in part preparing the ground for the Roman historical modules.
You’ll explore a range of sources, historical, literary, papyrological, epigraphic and archaeological.
Particular attention will be paid to the interaction between the incoming Graeco-Macedonian and indigenous local populations and the formation of new states and cultures in order to gain a full understanding of this period of change, development and upheaval.
Monsters and monstrosity are found in all throughout Roman culture, both inside and outside mythology.
Most were inherited from Greece but adapted for new tastes and purposes.
You’ll focus on Greek and Latin literature in ancient Rome, but earlier sources and visual media may be included to support this, as well as the interdisciplinary approach of monster theory.
Your interpretation of source materials leads to a broader and deeper understanding of monsters in ancient Roman stories and thought.
If you are passionate about exploring the history of monsters and significance in Roman culture, this module is for you.
What does it take to become an archaeologist?
You’ll find out.
Explore fieldwork techniques deployed in the discovery, recording, and analysis of archaeological sites, over a combination of lectures, small-group work and practical assignments in the field, using professional grade equipment.
We aim to follow recognised professional standards so that you are ready for employment.
Topics/methods may vary year to year but typically include strategies for finding and recording sites, from the study of archive sources to geophysics, field walking, and the survey of earthworks and standing buildings, drawing on new techniques such as laser survey and photogrammetry.
Fieldwork practicals will be outside, dependent upon weather and availability, around the rich historical sites of Canterbury and its hinterland.
Explore Britain through from the Late Iron Age and the time of Julius Caesar’s visits in the first century BCE to the fifth century CE and the much debated ‘end of Roman Britain’.
Historical testimonies of the ancient authors, epigraphy, coins and the archaeological and architectural evidence of sites and artefacts provide the rich forms explored as you examine the history of the changes to the province under Rome.
The development of towns, villas, the new infrastructure and commerce are considered, as well as the deployment and impact of the Roman army and other institutions and cultural practices new to Britain.
You’ll also cover daily life in the province through indicators such as religious practice, consumption, burial, art and crafts.
This transformative time witnessed huge differences of wealth and life experience, from that of governors and elites to humble rural communities and enslaved people.
You’ll also establish the context of Roman Britain through reference to the western provinces of empire and the world of ‘barbaricum’ – Scotland and Ireland.
Processes of change are put under the microscope as ‘Romanisation’ theory, creolisation, post-colonial perspectives, and identity, ethnicity and interactions are scrutinized through the various remains.
These sources do not provide the entire picture, and you’ll learn to use them in combination and in an evaluative and critical manner as well as handing the materials themselves through practical workshops.
How can a democracy survive when it is faced by a rising tide of populism, demagoguery, and squeezed living standards for the many?
Though these same questions could be applied to our own period of history, you’ll explore this question through the dramatic history of the hundred years that led to the collapse of the Roman Republic and its transformation into a monarchy by Augustus.
To understand this dramatic and famous period of Roman history you will combine historiography, biography, political philosophy, art, coinage, architecture, and inscriptions.
By looking at the full range of this evidence from the ancient world, you can delve into themes such as: crisis theory; women and subaltern groups as political actors; rhetoric and the abuse of rhetoric; warfare; imperialism; tradition and innovation; consensus and dissensus; and the relationship between art and the political.
You’ll be challenged to explore the history of Rome in innovative ways that unlock your potential.
The assessments focus not only on demonstrating factual knowledge and understanding of the period, but on using wider passions, hobbies, and transferable skills outside of the classroom to pursue a Thematic Project, giving you the freedom to demonstrate what you have learned in your own way.
Previous Thematic Projects for this module have included TED Talks, ‘Time Team’ documentaries, short stories, epic poems, podcasts, clay portrait sculptures, coin minting, toga-making, and videogame design.
Teaching include seminars, language classes, practical training, lectures, and tutorials.
Lectures deliver essential content and guidance on key methods and approaches.
In seminars, students work independently and in groups on activities that develop and challenge thinking, foster key skills, and build confidence.
Training in specific skills and abilities is provided through appropriate methods tailored to the relevant areas.
We use assessments that offer research opportunities, integrate work-based or practical learning, and offer realistic tasks relating to both employment and research practices, for example, reflective portfolios, data assessment and report writing, blogs, creative projects, posters, and oral presentations.
To support student development, we align assessment with module learning outcomes and tailor it to appropriate levels of study.
A typical offer would be to achieve DDM.
120 tariff points - typically H5 H6 H6 or equivalent
Obtain Access to Higher Education Diploma with 45 credits at Level 3 with 24 credits at Distinction and 21 credits at Merit.
As a Kent graduate, you will be ready to construct and lead engaging arguments, be quick to recognise context and skilled to propose alternative solutions.
And your wide-ranging work with historical sources will improve your ability to think critically, take part in debate and make informed decisions, allowing you to effect change in the places you want to see it.
Career prospects for history graduates are wide ranging, with our students launching careers in everything from teaching to business, research to politics.
For ancient history, your specialisation, and modules help boost your prospects, with natural routes into the heritage, archives and museums.
The creative problem solving, critical thinking and communication skills you develop at Kent can prepare you for a career in any field.
The study of ancient history at Kent equips you with the adaptability to thrive in an exciting career in whatever area you are passionate about.
This means Kent’s ancient history graduates are ready to step into a career of limitless opportunities, from education to business, charity to government; you’ll have the talent and insight to build the career you want.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/2527/astronomy-space-science-astrophysics-year-industry:
Investigate the possibilities of life elsewhere within the universe and get involved with real space missions from ESA and NASA.
You'll also work on Hubble Telescope data and images from giant telescopes, as well as working with our own Beacon Observatory.
Access our first-class research laboratories, which are equipped for synthetic and analytical techniques ranging from soft organic polymers to nanoparticles, to highly sensitive organometallic species.
Adding a professional placement year to your degree allows you to gain valuable work experience.
Your placement can take place in the UK or abroad and many pay a salary.
Develop the transferable skills to open up a world of job opportunities, leading to careers in research, engineering, aerospace/defence, medical physics, teaching, finance and data analytics.
If you don’t have a science background or don’t meet our entry requirements, you can take our foundation year .
If you'd like to understand our world at a fundamental level, from the smallest sub-atomic particles to the large-scale structure of the universe, you'll be interested in our Physics course.
You’ll focus on the fundamentals of mathematics, physics and astronomy.
You’ll learn a broad range of subjects such as the multiwavelength universe and exoplanets, spacecraft design and operations, atomic and nuclear physics, and quantum physics.
In your final year, a combination of specialist modules and laboratory work on individual and group projects opens avenues for even deeper exploration: for example, stars, galaxies and the Universe, the Sun, the Earth and Mars and more.
If you want to explore beyond earth, your the first step is our solar system.
You'll get to grips with our closest neighbors, the composition of the Sun and planets will be placed in the context of the current understanding of the evolution of the Solar System.
You'll also study solar terrestrial physics, learning how interactions between the Sun and Earth affect life on our planet.
You will then move on to look at the terrestrial planets and the processes that have shaped them, learning first about the Earth before considering Mars, Mercury and Venus.
By the end of this module, you'll have achieved a solid understanding of the interplay of the Sun and its planetary system, and be equipped with analytical skills and interdisciplinary knowledge applicable to fields including not only planetary science but also remote sensing, environmental and earth science and space exploration.
How are data processing and analysis techniques applied to astronomical data from telescopes?
You'll learn how telescopes and CCD cameras work, and how they process astronomical images and spectra.
You'll also apply a range of data analysis and machine learning techniques using software packages.
As part of your project work, you can engage in the scientific interpretation of images and spectra of astronomical objects or numerical modelling results.
You'll get to take part in at least two observing nights with our Beacon Observatory.
This module provides a practical underpinning to the theoretical astrophysics work in other modules.
Working through the experiments provided, using authentic data, will leave you with a richer appreciation and understanding of this subject matter, equipping you with the skills to succeed as working astronomers that are, in addition, transferable to many other professional disciplines.
Teaching is by lecture, laboratory sessions, and project and console classes.
In addition, you have reading and coursework and practical reports to prepare.
For the year in industry you write a final report of the work you did during the placement and, on returning to Kent for your final year of study, present a lecture on your experiences.
A variety of assessment methods are used as appropriate, including coursework/workshop assignments, written unseen examinations, laboratory and project reports and presentations.
Your final degree result is made up of a combined mark from the Stage 2 and 3 assessments and your year in industry, with maximum weight applied to the final stage.
The University welcomes applications from international students.
Our international recruitment team can guide you on entry requirements.
See our International Student website for further information about entry requirements for your country.
If you need to increase your level of science/mathematics ready for undergraduate study, we offer a Foundation Year programme which can help boost your previous scientific experience.
For more advice about applying to Kent, you can meet our staff at a range of international events.
ABB, including A level Mathematics at B (not Use of Mathematics)
The University will consider applicants holding/studying BTEC Extended National Diploma Qualifications (QCF; NQF;OCR) in a relevant Science or Engineering subject at 180 credits or more, on a case by case basis.
A typical offer would be to achieve Distinction, Distinction, Merit.
128 Tariff points, Typically H5, H6, H6 including HL Maths/Maths Method or HL Mathematics: Analysis and Approaches at 5 or SL Maths/Maths Methods at 6 (not Maths Studies/SL Maths: Applications & Interpretations)
A typical offer would be to obtain Access to HE Diploma with 45 Credits at level 3 with 30 credits at Distinction and 15 credits at Merit.
A Science Access programme including Maths and Physics credits at Level 3 would be required.
You’ll graduate with an excellent grounding in
scientific knowledge and extensive laboratory experience, as well as a toolbox
of transferable skills highly sought after by employers.
These include
excellent communication and problem-solving skills; analytical thinking;
effective time management; and the ability to work independently or as part of
a team.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/264/biochemistry-with-a-year-abroad:
Expand your horizons and tailor your degree to suit you with a year abroad, where you'll study at one of our partner institutions for a year.
Studying abroad can help you grow in confidence, enhance your employability, plus you'll make friends in the country you're studying in and meet other adventurous students from around the world.
You experience a different culture, gain a new academic perspective, establish international contacts and enhance your employability.
Between Stages 2 and 3, you spend a year at one of our partner universities in North America, Mainland Europe or South East Asia.
For a full list, please see Go Abroad .
Places are subject to availability, language and degree programme.
Progression:
To progress to stage 2 you must achieve an overall average of 65% in Stage 1 unless you applied before July and met the conditions of the entry offer made.
Student entrants who are offered a Year Abroad placement on the basis of Stage 1 grades must maintain their academic performance through Stage 2 (achieving an overall Stage 2 average of 60%) to be permitted to take up the offer.
If these requirements are not met, you will be transferred to the equivalent 3-year programme which is identical except for the year spent away from the University.
Teaching includes lectures, laboratory classes, workshops, problem-solving sessions and tutorials.
Most modules are assessed by a combination of continuous assessment and end-of-year exams.
Exams take place at the end of the academic year and count for 50% or more of the module mark.
Stage 1 assessments do not contribute to the final degree classification, but all Stage 2 and 3 assessments do, meaning that your final degree award is an average of many different components.
On average, 29% of your time is spent in an activity led by an academic; the rest of your time is for independent study.
BBB including Biology grade B AND Chemistry grade B or Applied Science Double Award at BB, including the practical endorsement of any science qualifications taken.
Subject likely to be acceptable is Applied Science, Biomedical Science or Medical Science.
Typical offers when made are Distinction, Distinction, Merit.
120 tariff points, Typically H5, H6, H6, including Chemistry and Biology 5 at HL
Merit overall in Science with a minimum of grade B in the core (including grade B in the paper B written examination.
A typical offer would be to obtain Access to HE Diploma with 24 Level 3 credits at Distinction, 18 level 3 credits at Merit and 3 level 3 credits at Pass (assuming syllabus is satisfactory) in Combined Science.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/257/biology-with-a-sandwich-year:
Tailor your degree to suit you with a Year in Professional Practice where you’ll work in industry for a year, giving you the chance to put into practice the skills you’ve learnt and build important connections.
Taken between your second and final years, the a Year in Professional Practice provides an excellent opportunity to gain relevant work experience in industry in the UK or abroad.
During your placement you are paid by your employer and produce an independent research project.
You have the option to add a Year in Professional Practice to this course.
In the summer of your first year; placements must be secured by 31 August in your second year.
Yes, you’ll pay a substantially reduced fee, currently £1,850, which for UK students is covered by Student Finance.
Kent Union can help with any visa queries for your Year in Professional Practice.
BBB including Biology grade B or Double Award Applied Science at grade BB including the practical endorsement of any science qualifications taken.
Typical offers when made are Distinction, Merit, Merit.
120 tariff points, Typically H5, H6, H6 including Biology 5 at HL

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/2498/biomedical-engineering-with-a-year-in-industry:
Your Year in Industry takes place between your second and final years.
As well as gaining invaluable workplace experience, you also have the chance to evaluate a particular career path, and, if your industrial placement goes well, you may be offered a job by that employer after graduation.
Teaching is delivered through lectures, tutorial lectures, demonstrator-led examples classes, tutor-led small group supervisions; project work; laboratory experiments and computer-based assignments.
Problem-solving workshops allow you to develop skills in applying biomedical knowledge to the solution of problems.
Written unseen examinations; assessed coursework in the form of examples class assignments, laboratory write-ups, assessed project work, assignments and essays and class tests.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/262/biomedical-science-with-a-sandwich-year:
This four year course has Advanced Accreditation.
BBB including Biology grade B or Double Award Applied Science at grade BB including the practical endorsement of any science qualifications taken
120 tariff points, Typically H5, H6, H6 including Chemistry and Biology 5 at HL.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/5093/business-analytics-management-with-year-industry:
You spend a year in industry following your second year of study, enabling you to apply your expertise in a work setting while earning a salary.
You will graduate a confident business leader, ready to make decisions, solve problems and find innovative solutions.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/141/business-information-technology-with-a-year-in-industry:
Business increasingly takes place in digital spaces.
Our Business Information Technology degree gives you the skills you need to apply computing knowledge to areas typically found in business such as e-commerce, information systems and computer consultancy.
Business and commerce need a skilled workforce who understand the foundations of information technology and the principles of business practice.
This degree provides a balance of business and information technology and responds to industry needs, enhancing your employment prospects.
Over half our students choose to take a year in industry after the second year of the programme.
This gives you work experience, a salary and the possibility of a job with the same company after graduation.
What are the foundational principles and practices that all programmers need to know?
Designed for beginners and assuming no experience, this module equips you with essential programming concepts and skills.
The module is a blend of theoretical instruction and hands-on exercises with the Python programming language.
The skills you acquire will help you learn other programming languages such as Java and C++, to name a few.
Practical assignments and projects enable you to apply and hone your skills.
Additionally, you'll learn basic debugging techniques and best practices in coding style and documentation.
By the end of the module, you’ll emerge with a solid understanding of programming fundamentals, laying the groundwork for further exploration and mastery in the field of computer science.
Our lives are completely dependent on the correct operation of software: healthcare systems, banking and university student data systems, to name just a few, are all dependent on it.
Writing code is relatively easy, but writing code accurately and well requires the ability to solve problems and understand how the code we write is often just a small part of a bigger system.
In this module, you’ll learn how an object-oriented approach to software development allows us to think in a particular way about solving problems.
This approach increases the likelihood that our code will be well-written and reliable.
You'll also learn about abstraction and inheritance and develop a deeper practical understanding of how to program beyond simple problems.
We use large-scale web applications every day in our lives.
How much do we understand about how they are structured and deployed, and how they operate?
Web development technologies and frameworks change every year, while new ones are constantly proposed.
As web developers, how do we cut through the marketing hype to evaluate what these really provide?
In this module you’ll examine the fundamental technologies that make modern web applications work.
You’ll learn to use operating and cloud systems to deploy, configure, and monitor software.
You’ll dive into networking, from the basic principles of network latency and bandwidth to addressing and transmitting at different layers, from the datalink to the HTTP application layer.
You’ll also develop a foundational frontend web development skill set, learning how to structure web pages using HTML, style them using CSS, and develop interactive web pages using JavaScript.
Finally, you’ll develop an appreciation of web application architecture, from the web server to the most popular web stack frameworks.
You’ll learn their principles of operation and practise their deployment on the cloud at different levels of abstraction.
We use a variety of physical, digital, and virtual interfaces every day.
How many of these do we find easy, effortless, and pleasurable to use?
How many of these do we find frustrating to use?
Some interfaces are well designed and provide a good user experience, but many are poorly designed.
Throughout this module, you will learn about design quality and the need for a professional, integrated, and user-centred approach to interface design and development.
You’ll explore various analysis and design methods, understand what good interaction design is, and learn how to design easy to use, effective, and efficient interfaces.
You’ll learn about different design principles and how to apply these principles to optimise the interaction between humans and computers.
You’ll master the fundamental skills of user experience (UX) design and develop the ability to analyse designs and spot usability problems.
Mathematical reasoning underpins most aspects of computer science.
Knowing and understanding the mathematical methods, techniques and abstract reasoning skills required to solve problems and analyse data is vital for moving on to other modules in our computing degree courses.
This module demonstrates the role of mathematics in Computer Science with relevant examples.
Starting with algebra, reasoning and proof, set theory, functions, statistics and computer arithmetic, you’ll progress to the more abstract topics of matrices, vectors, differential calculus and probability.
Database systems are a cornerstone of most software.
The contact list of your phone is managed by a database, as are the custom-made applications used by small and midsized enterprises, as well as the large-scale databases of internet platforms with their billions of users.
This module introduces you to the theory and practice of database systems.
You’ll model, design, implement, and use database systems, gaining valuable skills you will need in your career as a software developer.
By the end of the module, you’ll be able to use query languages, emerging techniques, and future technologies in the field of database systems.
Embark on a transformative journey into the dynamic world of web development with this intermediate module covering internet technologies.
Designed to empower aspiring developers with the skills needed to thrive in today's digital landscape, this module offers a deep dive into the foundations of both front-end and back-end web development.
From crafting captivating user experiences with the latest browser technologies to mastering server-side programming, databases and sound design principles, the curriculum equips you with the proficiency to build robust and scalable web applications.
Join us and unlock the keys to shaping the future of the internet.
By the end of the module, you’ll become a proficient full-stack developer poised for success in the ever-evolving tech industry.
Software is everywhere you look, and modern software systems need to adapt to changes quickly.
Software teams release new versions of their software frequently to keep up with changing requirements.
You will learn about the best practices for developing such software within a team using the agile methodology.
You’ll discover the importance of customer involvement for identifying requirements, writing automated tests for verifying functionality, and code reviews for improving the quality of the codebase.
You’ll also work with your peers to develop a software product incrementally.
As you embark on your project, you’ll apply the principles of agile methodology, manage your team effectively, organise your code using version control, and resolve problems via issue tracking.
Further skills you’ll develop include learning to identify risks for software projects and following the principles of ethical software development to develop products to the highest professional standards.
You spend a year working in an industrial or commercial environment between Stages 2 and 3.
Our students go to a wide range of companies including:
They have also been to overseas employers in locations including Amsterdam, Hong Kong and the US.
The year in industry forms an integral part of your degree and contributes towards your final grade.
Assessment comprises an employer evaluation, a reflective report and a logbook/portfolio.
Although it is your responsibility to find a suitable placement, the dedicated placement team will help to identify suitable opportunities, assist with your application and prepare you for interviews.
To automatically progress onto the year in industry, you must pass Stage 2 at the first attempt.
If you fail, you must pass the first resit opportunity in the August of the same year.
Students who do not obtain a work placement will have their registration changed to the equivalent three-year programme without a year in industry.
Engaging in group projects is a crucial aspect of your computer science studies as it provides you with valuable opportunities to work collaboratively with your peers.
In the field of software development, teamwork is indispensable for achieving success as most projects require the combined effort of multiple individuals with diverse skills and expertise.
By participating in group projects, you not only enhance your technical knowledge but also develop essential teamwork skills such as communication, problem-solving, and collaboration.
These skills are highly sought after in the industry and will undoubtedly set you apart as a successful and well-rounded computer professional.
Embrace the opportunity to work in teams and take full advantage of the learning and growth experiences that come with it.
We live our lives in a digital and highly networked world.
Most (if not all) modern organisations rely on computers, the internet, cloud services or other digital devices and systems to manage their data, processes, workforce and other assets.
How can organisations manage the security of their data, systems, processes and other assets?
You’ll gain a systematic understanding of information security management, such as what standard processes and practices to follow and how to assess and manage risks.
You’ll also learn how to manage AAA (authentication, authorisation and accountability), how to understand the complicated cyber law landscape to ensure legal compliance, how to ensure security controls and processes are usable for all, and how to foster a people-centric culture for information security among staff.
By the end of the module you’ll have the necessary skills needed for becoming a confident and well-informed information security manager at any organisation you choose to work for.
Over the past few decades, video games have evolved into a mature digital medium, influenced by and driving advancements in GPU technology and AI.
The commercial success of video games has spurred the accessibility of sensor technologies, leading to the rise of immersive technologies like virtual reality, paving the way for spatial computing.
Given the significance of video games in popular culture and the cutting-edge technological advancements, delve into this video game module, where you will learn various facets within video game design and development, encompassing game physics, AI, level design, player behaviour, game rules and mechanics, and user interfaces.
This module underscores the critical role of computing law and professional responsibility in raising ethical, legal, and responsible practices within the field of computing and technology.
You will delve into how computing law in the digital age, where data is ubiquitous, the importance of privacy and security cannot be overstated.
You will learn how the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), plays a vital role in dictating the way personal data is collected, processed, and safeguarded, thereby preventing unauthorised exploitation, misuse, and security breaches.
You’ll gain knowledge on how ethical and legal standards engenders trust and confidence among users, stakeholders, and the broader public.
Critically analysing ethical principles, legal mandates.
You will delve into how prioritising the welfare of individuals and society at large, the computing sector can realise its potential as a catalyst for beneficial transformation and innovation.
Computational Intelligence (CI) techniques are essential to solve many of the real-world problems found in today’s data-driven decision making, where traditional analytical methods fall short due their complexity.
You will learn the fundamental concepts in CI, exploring how CI algorithms can efficiently navigate solution spaces to find (near) optimal solutions to complex problems.
You will develop skills in applying Genetic Algorithms and Genetic Programming to solve complex problems in Business, Economics, and Finance through hands-on exercises and case studies.
You will learn to identify and analyse problem domains suitable for Genetic Algorithms and Genetic Programming, as well as how to implement and evaluate these algorithms effectively.
This experience and the skills you develop help you stand out to employers and gain an extra edge in launching your career.
Our contemporary world is inundated with an ever-expanding pool of digital data such as signals and images, and there seems to be no limit to our insatiable appetite for collecting even more information.
Navigating through this vast sea of data, rife with noise and extraneous information, poses a formidable challenge in distilling meaningful insights.
You will master the foundational principles underlying signal, image and other types of data across diverse domains, including but not limited to acoustics, medicine, and finance.
Skills required to adeptly organise, cleanse, visualise, and analyse intricate datasets will be taught, thereby allowing you to extract valuable and actionable information.
Both classical and cutting-edge data analysis techniques will be explored, incorporating traditional methods alongside advanced approaches such as neural network-based deep learning.
Through immersive hands-on applications, you will actively tackle real-world data analysis challenges in weekly classes, fostering a practical and nuanced comprehension of the subject matter taught in lectures.
The emphasis will be on ‘how’?
i.e.
to implement the methods by leveraging a data analytics tool, minimising the need for rote memorisation of theory.
This practical approach ensures that you are well-equipped to navigate the ever-evolving terrain of data science, preparing you for the demands of the professional realm.
You’ll explore cognitive robotics, a branch of robotics in which knowledge plays a central role in supporting action selection, planning, and execution.
Through this exploration, you’ll gain an understanding of what is involved in the design of a cognitive robot.
You will master the knowledge and skills to produce working implementations for simple instances of tasks with a range of robots in the Cognitive Robotics lab.
Whether or not you have previous background in robotics, you will become familiar with core areas in robotics and principles of robotic programming, by engaging in interactive practical activities with real mobile robots and virtual simulators.
You will be introduced to common software development environments to operate mobile robots in navigating a physical and virtual map or to manipulate simple objects.
You will be exposed to different applications of the state-of-the-art in Cognitive Robotics, such as industrial robots, collaborative robots, and human-robot interaction.
You will learn about recent challenges in robotic vision and how robots can use and understand human language.
You will explore the societal impact of Socially Assistive Robots and their interaction with humans, emphasising why the body of a social robot plays a significant role in enhancing such interactions, compared to traditional computer-based virtual agents.
You’ll explore the cutting-edge technologies used in the delivery of healthcare, from wearable devices and sensors for data collection, to digital platforms used in hospitals and care environments.
You will understand the use of information technology for handling clinical data in health systems and learn different and exciting ways in which clinicians use historical and present test data to identify the best outcome for their patients.
You will explore some basic principles of machine learning algorithms for analysing medical data and learn how to create a start-up in health care domains, from proposing an innovative idea for an eHealth product and seeking funding opportunities for it, to planning the project of producing and marketing this new product.
Do you want to bring your passion for computing to the classroom?
If so, this module is for you.
Through spending one half-day per week in a school with a nominated teacher, you’ll gain an authentic experience of working in a school classroom.
Observing sessions taught by experienced teachers provides you with insights into the classroom experience and professional attributes required for such work.
Acting in the role of a teaching assistant, by helping individual pupils who are having difficulties or by working with small groups, you can begin to acquire some of the interpersonal and presentation skills required in a teaching role.
Devising a special project in consultation with the teacher and the module team deepens your understanding by providing an opportunity to put these skills into practice.
What does it mean for a computer to be creative?
How can artificial intelligence be used to generate creative behaviour?
How do we work around the social, ethical and philosophical issues that arise?
You’ll learn about key theoretical, practical and philosophical research and issues around computational creativity and creative AI.
You'll explore what computational creativity is and consider examples in different creative domains.
You’ll gain practical experience in writing creative AI software.
You’ll also tackle how to evaluate the creativity of creative computer systems and consider contextual issues around how computational creativity and creative AI can be used.
Student-led seminars allow you to develop knowledge by reading about, discussing and reflecting on current issues under debate in the area.
You'll identify a specific context to focus on in more depth and, in your chosen context, you will conceptualise, design, build and evaluate your own creative AI software.
Data mining and knowledge discovery techniques are widely used in real-world applications.
Examples of high-stakes applications include analysing data to decide whether or not a patient should undergo a surgery or a customer should be granted a loan or hired for a job.
You’ll learn in detail how data mining algorithms work to automatically extract knowledge from data, and why these algorithms – which are based mainly on machine learning (but also on statistics) – are so important for today’s data-driven society.
You’ll learn about the broader process of knowledge discovery, including the application of data mining algorithms to real-world datasets.
You’ll also prepare data for the subsequent application of a data mining algorithm and learn how to evaluate the knowledge discovered by a data mining algorithm.
This module emphasises the use of techniques that learn predictive models that can be in principle interpreted by users, as opposed to machine learning techniques that learn black-box predictive models (not directly interpretable by users).
Computing-specific and business related skills are acquired through lectures, classes and directed study.
From the start of the course, students receive guidance and gain practical experience via various styles of supervised practical classes and directed study.
As the course progresses, these skills are further encouraged by the introduction of larger-scale problems and project work.
Students develop critical reflection by discussing key themes introduced in the core modules.
We provide excellent support for you throughout your time at Kent.
This includes access to web-based information systems, podcasts and web forums for students who can benefit from extra help.
We use innovative teaching methodologies, including BlueJ and LEGO© Mindstorms for teaching Java programming.
Our staff have written internationally acclaimed textbooks for learning programming, which have been translated into eight languages and are used worldwide.
For coure aims and learning outcomes please see the course specification .
Distinction, Distinction, Merit
120 tariff points from your IB Diploma, including Maths at 4 at HL or SL, typically H5, H6, H6 or equivalent
Obtain the Access to HE Diploma with a minimum of 45 credits at Level 3, with 24 credits at Distinction and 21 credits at Merit.
You'll be on course for a big future.
Graduates who have both IT knowledge and business skills can expect excellent career prospects.
Our graduates have gone on to work in:
Recent graduates have gone on to develop successful careers at leading companies such as:

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/1398/business-and-management-with-a-year-in-industry-canterbury:
Taking a Year in Industry, supported by a dedicated team, you also gain invaluable experience from a wide-ranging list of sectors, in a year-long placement.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/869/business-marketing-with-a-year-in-industry:
All students spend a year in   industry in the UK or internationally, supported by a dedicated Employability   and Placement teams.
The programme is   designed to ensure that students gain experience in the functional areas and   industries of their choice.
For students taking one of the specialist   pathways, our strategic partnerships provide opportunities for placements in   specific areas.
Unique to KBS, students can   take a Self-Employed Placement year during which they develop their initial   business idea into a feasible business plan.
The ‘Selfie’ programme students   are supported by an in-house entrepreneur who acts as their specialist   mentor.
The placement allows you to   experience, first hand, many of the issues addressed in the taught programme   and to use the tools, techniques and applications in a real business setting.
It will become a vital component of your CV and will give you a distinct   advantage over other business graduates.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/83/chemistry-with-a-year-in-industry:
On your Year in Industry, you'll get hands on in the workplace, gaining relevant work experience and putting into practice the skills you’ve learnt.
The paid placement takes place between your second and final years and can be in the UK or abroad.
You'll also produce an independent research project.
Our distinctive course includes a set of ‘chemistry in context’ modules where you can apply your knowledge to specific case studies - in our state-of-the-art facilities - as well as the opportunity to work with our leading research teams on your own project.
It is possible to take modules that lead to the Chemistry (Forensic Science) with a Year in Industry BSc pathway course.
After successfully completing stage 1 at your first attempt, with an average pass mark of at least 60%, you have the opportunity to spend a year in industry between Stages 2 and 3.
We give advice and guidance on finding a placement.
Please note that acceptance onto the course is not a guarantee of a placement.
The responsibility of finding a placement is on the student, with help and support from the department.
If you cannot find a placement, you will be required to change your registration for the equivalent BSc programme without the Year in Industry option.
The degree is made of a combination of lectures, laboratory classes, project work and problem solving seminars.
Your year in industry mark also counts towards your final degree result.
If you need to increase your level of science ready for undergraduate study, we offer a Foundation Year programme which can help boost your previous scientific experience.
BBC including Chemistry, Biology or Physics at grade B
The University will consider applicants holding/studying BTEC Extended National Diploma Qualifications (QCF; NQF;OCR) in Applied Science at DMM.
112 Tariff points, Typically H5, H5, H6 at HL including HL Chemistry, Biology or Physics at 5
Mathematics grade C or 4
The University welcomes applications from Access to Higher Education Diploma candidates.
for consideration.
A typical offer may require you to obtain a proportion of Level 3 credits in relevant subjects at merit grade or above.
A typical offer for stage 1 would be: Access to HE Diploma 45 at level 3 Credits with 18 credits at Distinction and 24 credits at Merit and contain at least 12 Level 3 credits in Chemistry.
A science programme including Chemistry Level 3 credits would be required.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/896/classical-studies:
Explore classical narratives, myths and memories while gaining the broad skill set, knowledge and expertise that employers are looking for.
Delve into the classical world and uncover the cultures, myths, histories and legacies of the civilisations that shaped it.
At Kent you will develop new skills, and gain valuable experience ready for a wide range of careers, from archaeology to the heritage industry - or further afield - a degree in classical studies from Kent is the first step to wherever you want to go.
You'll study from the Minoan and Mycenean period, up to classical Greece, Republican Rome and early Christianity.
From day one you will be uncovering new perspectives on topics such as migration, gender, identity, and religion in the ancient world and have the opportunity to explore classical culture, from literature to drama or philosophy.
You also have the option to study an ancient language, our broad remit at Kent means you are free to follow your passions and make your degree your own.
This course offers an optional pathway in archaeology, leading to the degree of Classical Studies with Archaeology.
If you choose to accept your offer of a place on BA Classical Studies at Kent you will be automatically sent instructions on how to register for the Archaeology Pathway prior to enrolment in September.
This course offers a pathway in archaeology leading to the degree in Classical Studies with Archaeology.
You take all compulsory modules and then select three optional modules.
If you are pursuing the Classical Studies with Archaeology pathway, these must include one of any of the following: Fieldwork Practice, Museum Studies, Greek and Roman Art & Architecture, Everyday Life in the Roman Empire, Rome to Byzantium: The World of Late Antiquity.
A framework for archaeological training undertaken on a ‘placement’ project with a University of Kent training excavation and/or survey, or with approved partners.
You’ll find opportunities through guidance and instruction for you to gain practical experience and build vocational skills working and learning on archaeological sites and/or with archaeological materials, such as artefacts (cf.
post-excavation analysis).
Knowledge gained through such engagement is consolidated through classroom/lab.
workshop teaching sessions during term.
It is supported by a designated bursary allocated to the University from the government, to assist with the costs involved in participation (normally of at least 10 working days).
There are three alternative pathways: archaeological excavation, archaeological survey, or artefact/materials focused study.
The main assessment is through submission of an illustrated portfolio featuring a description of the project and an account of types of work undertaken by the student and of the records, etc.
generated through the placement.
The portfolio will aim to demonstrate a clear comprehension of the nature of the site or materials and the ways by which they can be recorded, interpreted and presented, and the reasons for doing so.
The second form of assessment relates to your engagement while on the placement.
For this, placement directors will provide feedback and a scoring on the basis of a checklist of a range of standard fieldwork, etc.
tasks and how they were undertaken and completed.
You take all compulsory modules and then select four optional modules.
If you are pursuing the Classical Studies with Archaeology pathway, these must include two of any of the following: Advanced Topics in Archaeology, Professional Archaeology: Techniques and Methods, Heritage Studies, Constantinople and the late Antique City, Roman Britain, Gods, Heroes and Mystery Cults: Religion in Ancient Greece, Barbarians in the West.
120 tariff points - typically H5 H6 H6 or equivalent.
Career prospects for classics graduates are wide ranging, with our students launching careers in everything from teaching to business, research to politics.
For classical studies, your specialisation, and modules help boost your prospects, with natural routes into the heritage, archives and museum sectors.
The study of classical studies at Kent equips you with the adaptability to thrive in an exciting career in whatever area you are passionate about.
This means Kent’s classical studies graduates are ready to step into a career of limitless opportunities, from education to business, charity to government; you’ll have the talent and insight to build the career you want.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/6530/classical-studies-with-archaeology:
Learn about the ancient world while you live in the historical city of Canterbury.
What can we learn from the ancient world?
And how is it relevant today?
At Kent, you’ll discover how the ancient world shapes today’s culture, identity and politics – and gain practical experience that prepares you for a wide range of careers.
You’ll study classical civilisation and archaeology right where Roman Britain began – with hands-on digs, heritage placements, and the chance to design your own creative project.
Through history, literature, art, philosophy and archaeology you’ll learn about the Roman Empire, Greek Civilisation and Ancient Egypt.
You’ll also consider how the ancient world is around us today in films, books, TV and video games.
Topics such as gender and sexuality, mythology and storytelling, identity, migration and religion will also be discussed in the context of the ancient world, and modern society.
At Kent, you’ll be surrounded by extraordinary heritage sites including Iron Age hill forts and Roman villas, and of course London is only one hour away with even more to offer.
You could make your own archaeological discoveries, analyse your findings in our lab, learn an ancient language, design your own computer game inspired by the ancient world, complete an internship at a heritage site or study abroad in an historical city.
Your degree is assessed entirely through coursework – no exams.
Instead, you'll engage in creative projects, collaborate with peers on presentations, develop arguments in essays, write archaeological site reports, and analyse finds in the Archaeology Lab.
Our coursework- and project-based approach gives you ownership of your learning and prepares you for a successful future.
Whatever your passion or interest, you’ll gain the expertise and skills for a career in archaeology, heritage and conservation, education, charity, government and more.
The compulsory Engagement Project requires you to choose an Archaeological / Heritage project relevant to your pathway.
Search scholarships
Alternatively, you could use your analytical and communication skills in roles such as:
Graduates have gone on to work in organisations such as:
To study Classical Studies with Archaeology pathway you first apply to the Classical Studies BA.
Your pathway modules will begin at stage 2.
Apply now

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/128/computer-science-with-a-year-in-industry:
Be part of a thriving field which is driving innovation in many industries.
Computer Science is at the heart of many of today’s advances.
Industries from healthcare to finance need computing skills to help them innovate and understand their data better – making this an exceptional route to a rewarding career.
Our BSc in Computer Science gives you the foundation to thrive in this transformative industry, through hands-on, real-world learning.
We’ve worked closely with leaders in industry to ensure that everything is designed with your career in mind.
You’ll start with the fundamentals of computing, from software engineering to statistics, and reinforce your learning with lab sessions.
You’ll also get a strong grounding in mathematics - which means even those without a maths A-level can quickly get up to speed.
You’ll learn on a campus which is well-known for its supportive feel, with on-site staff immersed in tomorrow’s breakthroughs.
Your curriculum is informed by Kent’s world-class research, in fields such as cyber security, AI, and programming languages.
You’ll also be able to pursue your passions in the final year, with a wide range of specialised options including computer game design, human computer interaction, robotics, blockchain and creative AI.
This degree has been accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT on behalf of the Engineering Council.
Accreditation is a mark of assurance that the degree meets the standards set by the Engineering Council in the UK Standard for Professional Engineering Competence (UK- PEC).
Take a year in industry and gain paid practical experience and a real advantage in the graduate job market.
Our dedicated placement team supports you through the process.
Why study Computing at Kent?
When we write software, it will eventually run on a computer system.
How does this influence what software is and how software works?
You’ll learn about the fundamental hardware and software components of a computer system, and how these components cooperate to execute software programs.
You’ll deepen your knowledge of computer systems from the lowest level of abstractions in hardware to the highest level of abstractions of modern programming languages.
For example, you’ll explore how logic circuits, machine language, programming language implementations, and high-level languages build on one another to enable useful software applications.
This will give you a deeper understanding of computers and enable you to develop high-quality software that considers the system perspective in terms of cost of abstraction and performance implications.
Algorithms are the most essential concept in computer science.
They are what allow Google to search the entirety of human knowledge in nanoseconds, answering a query for millions of users worldwide simultaneously.
Algorithms are behind GPS routing software and every successful rocket launch.
Algorithms are what allow our DNA to be replicated and passed on through generations.
Understanding algorithms and how to analyse them–both for correctness and efficiency–and learning how to develop new algorithms is the most crucial step in becoming a successful computer scientist.
Throughout the module you will develop the skills to read and interpret problem descriptions, and the knowledge you need to solve these problems.
Your deepened understanding of algorithms from runtime, to executable programmes will set you up for an exciting and successful career in rapidly expanding digital industries.
The omnipresence of Artificial Intelligence (AI) is undeniable; it is not merely a futuristic concept but a current reality that permeates almost every facet of our lives.
As we witness AI's pervasive influence, it becomes evident that it is destined to be an integral part of our everyday existence.
In this dynamic module, you will be introduced to the essential concepts of AI, setting the stage for a profound exploration into more advanced realms such as machine learning and bio-inspired computations.
Through engaging weekly classes, your understanding will evolve, seamlessly transitioning from foundational principles to the intricacies of advanced concepts.
To reinforce your knowledge, the classes incorporate exercise questions tailored to guide you through a comprehensive learning journey.
The inclusion of hands-on coding exercises, utilising a programming AI tool, further solidifies your understanding.
This practical approach not only enriches your theoretical foundation but also equips you with the skills necessary for navigating the complexities of AI development.
Emphasis on real-world considerations ensures that you emerge from this course well-prepared to tackle more advanced modules later as you will not only possess a foundational understanding of AI but also wield practical expertise essential for active participation in AI development.
Programming languages affect the way we solve complex problems, express the solutions to a computer, and communicate the ideas to others.
But how?
By introducing you to a radically new perspective on programming, we’ll reconsider the foundations of what it means to communicate our ideas computationally.
Our main vehicle will be the fundamental paradigm of ‘functional programming’: a form of programming in which functions are the central principle and in which the shape and form of data is explicit.
This paradigm is pervasive in modern software engineering; every major mainstream programming language now heavily incorporates functional programming ideas (e.g., Python, C++, JavaScript, Java, C#) and those skilled in its use are heavily sought after.
You’ll learn the core tenets of functional programming in a general setting and deepen your understanding of what it means to solve problems with a computer.
This will enable you to be a better programmer in any language.
You’ll also gain insight into foundational topics in computer science and draw deep connections between other modules in the degree.
For many, functional programming is a crucial ‘aha!’ moment in their journey towards being skilled in the art, science, and engineering of computer systems.
Although it is your responsibility to find a suitable placement, the School of Computing’s dedicated Placement Team will help to identify suitable opportunities, assist with your application and prepare you for interviews.
You will take either the Group Project or Research Project module and then choose 4 optional modules from the list.
Engaging in a research project is a fantastic opportunity for computer science students as it offers the chance to work closely with an expert supervisor in a specific discipline.
This experience not only allows you to delve deeper into a subject of interest but also helps you develop essential research skills that are transferable across various fields.
By embarking on a research project, you can enhance your critical thinking abilities, hone your problem-solving skills, and gain a deeper understanding of the world around you.
These skills are highly valuable and will undoubtedly benefit you in your future academic and professional endeavours.
Natural organisms are well adapted to solve complex problems related to their survival in very dynamic and diverse environments.
How do they solve such complex problems without using optimisation methods invited by humans?
In this module, you’ll learn in detail the main mechanisms used by natural organisms for adaptation and optimisation.
You’ll also learn how computer scientists have developed abstractions of those mechanisms to create several adaptive, intelligent algorithms to solve difficult real-world optimisation problems.
In addition, you’ll learn how organisms and living systems can process information, typically in ways that are quite different to traditional computers.
In this part of the module, you'll learn about stochastic simulation algorithms (based on statistical probabilities), which also have a wide range of applications in AI and computer science.
Finally, you’ll learn the pros and cons of different nature-inspired problem-solving and optimisation algorithms, so that you can identify the most appropriate algorithm for a given target real-world optimisation problem.
What are the foundational principles, security considerations, diverse applications, and societal implications of blockchain and other distributed systems?
Led by academic and industry experts, this module provides a comprehensive understanding of mechanics and potential impacts.
You will study architectures of blockchain and distributed systems, distributed consensus mechanisms, relevant cryptographic principles, and smart contracts.
You’ll gain insights into their security aspects, strengths, limitations, and use cases.
You’ll also engage in critical discussions about their broader implications on economics, governance, user privacy and society while examining opportunities and challenges.
By the end of the module, you’ll have a holistic understanding of their impact and be ready to responsibly leverage their potential.
Whether you’re a professional deepening your expertise or a newcomer intrigued by their transformative power, this journey offers insight into a disruptive innovation.
Engineering skills are an important asset for a successful career as a software developer.
You’ll explore critical tools and practices essential for contemporary software development and expand on previous knowledge by exploring version control, containerisation, continuous integration and deployment technologies.
You’ll learn about the principles of infrastructure-as-code for scalable and maintainable software projects and gain hands-on experience with technologies used in the industry.
You’ll learn how to use profiling and debugging techniques to enable you to analyse, correct, and optimise code more effectively.
You’ll be empowered to contribute to the complete lifecycle of complex software systems through hands-on experience with technical aspects such as build systems and a variety of approaches for effective communication, from issue tracking to versioning.
By the end of the module, you’ll be well-equipped with practical knowledge and skills, preparing you to contribute meaningfully to modern software engineering projects.
You’ll also be able to navigate the intricacies of collaborative development based on experience with real-world scenarios.
In today's interconnected world, the concepts of concurrency lie at the foundation of most advanced systems we encounter.
From cloud computing to mobile applications, from online gaming to financial transactions, the ability to handle multiple tasks simultaneously and distribute them across networks is not just desirable – it's essential.
In both industry and academia, concurrency and distribution stand as hot topics, continuously shaping the landscape of technology and driving innovation forward.
Companies are seeking skilled professionals who understand the intricacies of concurrent systems (e.g., Web APIs and services, latest CPU architectures and memory models) while researchers are pushing the boundaries of knowledge in pursuit of more efficient and reliable solutions.
Throughout this module, you'll delve into the theoretical underpinnings of concurrent behaviour, providing you with a solid understanding that transcends technicalities (e.g., programming syntax).
Based on the principles you have learned; you will be able to critically assess the properties of a concurrent system and design a system with desirable properties and behaviour.
But theory alone is not enough.
Through hands-on exercises and real-world examples, we'll show you how these concepts translate into programming languages and practical solutions across a diverse array of domains.
Machine learning is not only central to modern artificial intelligence, but across sciences and everyday life.
You will learn how computers can program themselves automatically, learning from data or from active exploration of the world.
You’ll develop the ability to make sound, rational and effective judgements and decisions about the use of the core machine learning algorithms for different types of practical problems.
Selected algorithms will be investigated in great depth, to give you deep understanding of the inner workings of machine learning, so you can better understand and utilise machine learning throughout your career.
Explore the exciting world of computer networks and communications.
You’ll begin with a deep dive into current computer networks and communication technologies, gaining and understanding of the filed and where it stands today.
You’ll conduct a full review of areas such as: network techniques; switching and multiple access; high speed local area networks; network protocols and network, transport and application layers.
Through this, you will not only deepen your understanding, you will be able to explore issues that are yet to be solved in computer networks and communications and take the first step towards finding solutions, and breaking new ground in the field.
Natural language processing (NLP) is an incredibly important and valuable component of artificial intelligence, making it a fascinating and rewarding area of study for computer science students.
In today's digital age, numerous technologies rely on NLP to interpret and generate human language, such as virtual assistants, search engines for the World Wide Web, and large language models and chatbots.
By delving into the realm of NLP, you will gain a deeper understanding of how these cutting-edge technologies work and the significant impact they have on our daily lives.
Studying NLP not only allows you to explore the intricacies of artificial intelligence but also provides you with valuable skills that are highly sought after in the tech industry.
The vast majority of software developers do not program in machine code, but they use higher-level languages that are translated to machine code (or interpreted) by tools called compilers (resp.
Interpreters).
Compilers are, therefore, a crucial technology in computer science.
Understanding how compilers work, and the code that they produce is crucial to learn to write good, optimised code.
In this module, you will learn the underpinning theory, you will build compiler analyses and/or transformations, and you will critically analyse different language design decisions, their impact in compiler implementations, and the resulting machine code.
The module will outline a whole compiler from source to machine code but will focus in depth on key algorithms and techniques.
You will experiment with writing interpreters, implementing different strategies for register allocation, you will use dataflow analyses for different program transformations and optimisations, and you will build your own extension of a compiler with a programming language feature of your choice.
Many security vulnerabilities are originated by flaws in the source code of a system.
In many cases, these are subtle bugs that are hard to find and test.
So, how can we prevent systems from having such flaws?
Formal methods are mathematically rigorous techniques that can be used to analyse and verify that systems are absent from certain classes of bugs.
You’ll learn how to use formal methods to improve the security of computer systems.
You’ll also explore the formal definition of type systems for security analysis.
You’ll learn how to reason formally about the behaviour of computer systems and how use of information flow control can prevent a system from leaking private data.
The world wide web is hugely complex and interconnected, with social networks now the primary means of human interaction on the internet.
You will develop an understanding of the web of data via weekly lectures and small group practical sessions.
This will give you the ability to model, share and reason about network information by immersion in state-of-the-art technology to query the semantic web including the resource description framework and property graphs.
You’ll learn practical methods for the visualisation of graph-based data including the widely used search-based and force-directed graph drawing algorithms.
Advance your skills in implementing algorithms to analyse graph data, including important metrics for clustering and community detection, as well as learning about the various graph mining methods to uncover useful insights about social networks.
In an era defined by interconnectedness and digital transformation, IoT stands as a linchpin technology, facilitating seamless communication and data exchange between physical devices and digital networks.
Its importance cannot be overstated, as IoT applications permeate nearly every aspect of modern life, from optimising industrial processes and enhancing healthcare delivery to revolutionising urban infrastructure and fostering sustainable agriculture practices.
Delve into the interconnected world of devices, sensors and systems that form the backbone of the IoT ecosystem.
Through a hands-on approach you will gain in-depth knowledge of IoT concepts, architectures, protocols, and applications.
You will gain knowledge and skills in a range of cross-arching topics including low-level programming, computer architecture, wireless communication protocols, integration of hardware components, integration with IoT cloud platforms.
This practical module will enable you to apply your knowledge by developing prototypes of IoT devices and give you a deeper understanding of the challenges involved in developing innovative IoT solutions.
What does it mean for a program to be ‘correct’?
What, exactly, is the relationship between the code you write and what a computer will do when you run it?
What are the implications of choosing one particular programming language over others when building software?
You’ll learn how to answer all these questions by gaining a deeper understanding of the fundamentals of programming languages.
Programming languages are the useful, friendly abstractions that stand between you, the programmer, and the intricate architectures of computer systems.
By learning about the semantics of programming languages, you’ll be able to more definitively know what the code you write actually means, and what the implications are for running your code on actual computers.
Through hands-on exercises and examples, you’ll study a variety of different programming language paradigms, learn how programming languages are formally specified, and develop the skills to evaluate different programming languages and select the appropriate language for any given task.
Along the way, you’ll also see how new programming languages are designed and learn how to design one yourself.
Starting with a simple imperative programming language, you’ll explore how to extend it with progressively more complex features, such as types, higher-order functions, concurrency and objects.
Deep learning is an approach to machine learning developed over several decades.
It draws heavily on our knowledge of the human brain, statistics and applied mathematics.
In recent years, deep learning has grown tremendously in popularity and usefulness, largely due to more powerful computers, larger datasets and techniques to train deeper networks.
You'll look into modern deep neural networks starting from the fundamentals of Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs).
You'll start by learning what is an artificial neuron and architectures like multilayer perceptron, expanding on algorithms for training ANNs such as gradient descent and backpropagation.
Examine applications of deep learning with particular attention to coding aspects during lectures and practical activities.
You'll learn how to use the most popular techniques to evaluate the performance of a model on real data.
You'll be introduced to different types of deep neural networks, from convolutional networks to recursive neural networks, and autoencoders to address different problems with a particular focus on computer vision topics.
They are integral to many applications such as autonomous vehicles, medical diagnosis, document processing, biometric security, surveillance, etc.
At the same time, you’ll be exploring various supervised and unsupervised classification techniques (including neural networks) for object recognition.
You’ll study several real-world applications of image analysis and also learn through lab-based exercises and a mini-project.
Mathematics grade 4/C
Our course has been created with the guidance of employers, enabling our graduates to secure well-paid jobs and begin exciting careers.
We welcome students with diverse backgrounds, experiences and interests.
Our graduates take a variety of paths, from joining well-known companies to starting their own business.
Roles include:
Students have secured roles at companies including Amazon Web Services, Bank of England, Deloitte, Deutsche Bank, Microsoft, Sky, Rockstar Games and Disney.
The average starting salary for a computer science graduate is

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/6514/computer-science-artificial-intelligence-with-a-year-in-industry:
The science to reshape our world.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is increasingly successful in solving complex and key problems from self-driving cars and medicine to information retrieval and games.
Recent advances exploit machine learning techniques where AI systems extract patterns from vast amounts of examples (big data) using large-scale computing infrastructure, such as the cloud.
Your year in industry takes place between your second and final years.
You gain invaluable work experience, earn a salary and there may be the possibility of a job with the same company after graduation.
You take all compulsory modules then select one from a list of optional modules
You take either Group Project or Research Project, plus the remaining compulsory modules, then select 60 credits from a list of optional modules.
Teaching is based on lectures, with practical classes and seminars, but we are also introducing more innovative ways of teaching, such as virtual learning environments and work-based tuition.
Work includes group projects, case studies and computer simulations, with a large-scale project of your own choice in the final year.
We use innovative teaching methodologies, including BlueJ and LEGO© Mindstorms for teaching programming.
Assessment is by a combination of coursework and end-of-year examination and details are shown in the module outlines on the web.
Project modules are assessed wholly by coursework.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/4397/computer-science-cyber-security:
Learn to protect society’s most precious infrastructure with this future-focused degree.
Connected systems power so many crucial areas of our lives, from banks to hospitals and even our own workplaces.
So it’s never been more vital to have skilled professionals to identify threats, and guard our data.
Our BSc in Computer Science (Cyber Security) combines the broad teaching of our Computer Science BSc with a strong focus in cyber security.
Kent is a Gold Award recipient from the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC), which makes us an exceptional place to train as a cyber security expert.
You’ll become familiar with security principles and risk management - and delve into the worlds of ciphers, cryptography, blockchain technology and cyber insurance.
You’ll also be able to expand your horizons in your final year, with modules covering entrepreneurship, quantum computing, Natural Language Processing, Creative AI and more.
We ensure you apply everything you learn as you learn it.
Get hands-on with lab sessions, group projects, and industry-led challenges.
Several of our students also opt to undertake a year in industry , working with companies in many different sectors.
Every second counts in cyber security.
We get you ready to act with confidence.
You’ll learn the fundamentals of computer science with our range of compulsory modules.
Cyber security affects everyone, both at an individual level and the society as a whole.
There are many open problems in cyber security.
Under the guidance of a world-class academic, you will lead an original investigation into a particular problem in cyber security that you want to explore and solve.
Through this investigation, you will deepen your knowledge in computing and cyber security.
You may choose to conduct research by identifying a gap in the literature, leading to improved insights into a previously studied research question: for example, what security vulnerabilities exist in smart home devices?
Or, you may choose to master your practical skills by developing a software artefact: for example, a digital forensics tool that can help investigate cyber crime.
Through such research and development, you will deliver a project that can impact society and make you stand out to employers.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/4418/data-science-with-a-year-in-industry:
Data science combines powerful computing technology, sophisticated statistical methods, and expert subject knowledge to analyse and gain practical insights from huge amounts of data produced by modern societies.
Our specialist BSc Data Science programme combines the expertise of internationally-renowned statisticians and mathematicians and computer scientists and machine learners to ensure that you develop the expertise and quantitative skills required for a successful future career in the field.
Your year in industry takes place between your second and final year, giving you invaluable work experience.
You earn a salary and there may be the possibility of a job with the same company after graduation.
Mathematics underpins many of the methods and techniques used in data science.
You’ll be equipped with the mathematical foundations necessary to excel in numerous areas in data science including data analysis, interpretation, modelling, and machine learning.
You'll develop fundamental knowledge of calculus and linear algebra and learn how to use these concepts in Python coding applications to solve challenging problems.
Lectures and problem- solving classes are complemented with readings, exercise sets, worked examples, assessments, and Python code, to support your learning.
Python code is used to illustrate techniques to solve equations, work with functions, and compute and apply derivatives and integrals.
On completion of the module, you’ll leave with a solid mathematical foundation, enabling you to start developing skills in mastering complex data science problems with confidence and proficiency.
What are the foundational Bayesian algorithms within the realm of probabilistic machine learning?
Discover cutting-edge techniques applicable across diverse domains including natural language processing, image recognition, and fraud detection.
You’ll delve into fundamental Bayesian Inference concepts, including prior and posterior distributions, Bayesian estimation, Bayes factor, model selection, and forecasting.
You’ll learn various posterior sampling algorithms and see how to apply them through real-world instances in linear regression and classification.
You’ll also learn about the latest trends in the field including variational Bayes and online learning.
Through a combination of lectures and practical computer-based sessions, you’ll gain hands-on experience and theoretical insights, and gain a deep understanding of probabilistic machine learning methodologies.
Propose your own project and explore the subject in depth using the data science methods that you have studied in the earlier modules.
We’ll guide you through planning the project, providing you with initial comments, and then you will prepare and give a presentation describing your initial findings.
Our feedback will help you to carry out your subsequent analyses in an effective way.
Throughout the project you'll be guided by a member of academic staff who will supervise your analyses based on their particular expertise.
You’ll describe your work in an extended written report, which will be evidence of your abilities in data science that you can show to potential employers.
By delving into the realm of NLP, you can gain a deeper understanding of how these cutting-edge technologies work and the significant impact they have on our daily lives.
120 tariff points from your IB Diploma, including Maths at 4 at HL or SL, typically H5, H6, H6 or equivalent.
Mathematics grade 6/B
You graduate with a solid grounding in the fundamentals of data science and a range of professional skills, including:
To help you appeal to employers, you also learn key transferable skills that are essential for all graduates.
These include the ability to:
You can also gain extra skills by signing up for one of our Kent Extra activities, such as learning a language or volunteering.
An industrial placement can greatly enhance your studies and have a dramatic impact on your graduate choices.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/4411/digital-design-with-a-year-in-industry:
Design and build interactive products of the future.
Digital Design at Kent combines both, allowing you to solve design challenges whilst gaining expertise to work in the creative industries.
You'll take a practical and theoretical approach to digital design, allowing you to design and build interactive products and services of the future whilst equipping you with skills sought after by employers.
You can apply to companies offering either design or technology-oriented placements, depending on your own interests.
As well as gaining invaluable workplace experience, you also have the chance to evaluate a particular career path, and, if your placement goes well, you may be offered a job by that employer after graduation.
If you aspire to pursue a career in 3D - in industries such as film, Visual Effects (VFX), product visualisation, gaming, or advertisement - your first step into this world is to learn the fundamental principles of 3D.
Through a combination of engaging lectures and interactive workshops, you’ll learn the theoretical underpinnings and hands-on practical skills required to conceptualise ideas, model, UV map, create and manipulate materials, and texture 3D assets.
In addition, you’ll learn how to showcase your work effectively and in a form that meets industry expectations, to boost your future employment prospects in the future.
This involves understanding the principles of creating digital cameras, lighting, rendering, and compositing.
Unlock your creative potential through this practice-based module where you will bring your ideas to life.
You’ll learn fundamental skills in the development of creative digital content, from design fundamentals such as composition and colour to audio and visual production techniques.
You’ll develop technical skills in industry-standard software tools whilst also demonstrating your creativity and problem-solving abilities.
You’ll learn to conceptualise and execute design briefs with confidence, and engage in reflective practices to evolve as a versatile creative professional.
Whatever field of digital design you’re passionate about, this module is your gateway to unleashing the boundless potential of your creative imagination.
In the digital age, everywhere we look we are surrounded by virtual worlds.
Discover the ins and outs of designing virtual environments, and get hands-on experience creating real-time applications to showcase your skills.
You’ll learn asset development for different applications, dive into narrative and storytelling design, and explore the field of event programming for cinematic and interactive immersion.
You'll discover a range of creative tools to foster creativity and wider design practices to take your projects to the next level.
Beyond the underpinning theory, you'll put your knowledge into practice.
By the end of the module, you’ll be prepared to tackle a project that will showcase everything you've learned in this journey into virtual environment design.
What are the key digital tools and platforms that are central to interaction design?
How do these shape our daily lives?
This module is designed to blend your creativity with technical skills to improve the functionality and relevance of digital interfaces, from apps to websites.
Focused on user-centred design, it empowers you to create experiences that resonate with diverse audiences, emphasising the importance of making your designs accessible and inclusive for all.
This module takes you beyond basic usability, encouraging you to consider how your designs can have a positive impact on society.
Through studying fundamental design principles and methodologies, you'll acquire the skills needed to develop digital products and services that are both meaningful and effective.
Interacting with digital systems forms the bedrock of our modern-day existence, from turning on a light to controlling advanced robotic devices.
Here, you’ll embark on a transformative journey into the world of programming and interactive hardware, where you’ll gain essential skills and grasp fundamental concepts from the outset.
Through practice-based tuition, you'll unravel the art of image manipulation, bring realistic motions to life, and explore skills like motion sensing and speech recognition.
As you move through this module, you'll delve into the ethical and societal dimensions surrounding contemporary programming practices, acknowledging the profound impact programmers have in shaping our evolving society.
Do you dream of a career working in the diverse and exciting visual effects industry?
Whether you aspire to work in film, TV, games, architectural visualisation, or digital marketing and beyond – you’ll navigate the 3D production pipeline using the latest industry-standard tools and techniques.
Immerse yourself in hands-on lessons, learning the art and technical skills of digital visual effects and compositing.
Let your creativity thrive as you delve into practice-based workshops filled with opportunities to expand your skills and understanding.
You’ll look at everything from designing intricate models to painting detailed textures, harnessing the power of lighting effects and exploring the development of materials, seamlessly bringing them all together in precise and convincing composites.
This module enables you to develop your artistic eye and practical skill set so that you can showcase your work effectively, helping to prepare you for an exciting career in the future.
We live in interactive environments.
Sensors notice our presence when we enter a room and we use contactless cards at a counter or door.
Sensing and display technologies are increasingly embedded in the world around us, so how can we use these innovations to design interactive media experiences for the real world?
Through exposure to creative examples and the technologies used to produce them, you'll learn about the different contexts in which digital displays and interactive technologies are embedded.
You’ll also learn how they can be designed to be engaging, breathtaking and playful, such as in festivals, exhibitions, events, concerts and shows.
By the end of the module, you'll have gained conceptual and hands-on knowledge for how to develop and prototype creative outputs and design interactive media solutions for real-world scenarios.
As immersive technologies play an increasingly crucial role across diverse sectors of our economy, the ability to design meaningful user-centric experiences is more essential than ever.
This module empowers you to leverage real-time engines and immersive storytelling, guiding you to produce content that deeply engages your audience.
Tailored to support every phase of your educational journey, the lessons will elevate both your creative insight and technical expertise.
You'll explore the core principles of immersive technologies and understand the critical role of storytelling in developing compelling virtual experiences.
Moreover, you'll learn techniques for user evaluation, integrating testing and feedback seamlessly into your design workflow.
This comprehensive approach prepares you to create immersive experiences that truly make a difference for users, signifying your readiness to innovate within the fast-evolving landscapes of digital technology and interactive media.
Welcome to your first major project, where you will embark on an exciting journey working on a real-world design problem.
This substantial project challenges you to combine the theoretical and practical knowledge you have gained so far and delve deep into understanding the nuances surrounding the design problem, including the factors that contribute to and affect it.
You’ll further develop your skills in ideation, conceptualisation, and implementation - you’ll develop innovative design solutions, drawing upon the diverse technical and artistic skillset you have acquired during your studies to execute the project.
You’ll learn how to perform different testing methods to evaluate your design solution’s usability, friendliness, and quality.
Working in a collaborative environment, you’ll navigate time and resource constraints, developing project management skills vital in any professional setting.
Furthermore, you’ll explore different methods to effectively convey your project outcomes to a wide audience.
This module also emphasises the ethical aspects of design throughout the design process, such as copyright, human participation, intellectual property and data protection.
You have unique design skills, but how do you prefer to work and what personal and teamwork strengths would you bring to a start-up design agency?
You'll identify your strengths and talents, form a start-up creative agency with classmates, and pitch work to clients.
Together you’ll then formulate solid briefs and identify measurable outcomes.
Through practical application, you’ll develop an appreciation of the commercial and financial concerns of the creative business sector, and show your work to a public audience.
By the end of this module, you’ll have an insight into working for a design studio, what it means to be ‘employable’, understand the changing creative job market, and be well-placed to make appropriate career decisions.
More importantly, you will have started to develop your professional network.
Data visualisation transforms data and information into graphical representations.
What tools do designers use to ensure the resulting visualisations are simultaneously accurate and compelling?
You’ll explore the theory and practice of transforming sometimes complex datasets into compelling visual narratives.
You’ll also learn to interpret and communicate data effectively, exploring various visualisation techniques and tools.
The teaching emphasises understanding the principles of information design, including hierarchy, clarity and accessibility, as well as data ethics and the importance of accuracy in creative solutions.
By the end of this module, you’ll be able to analyse datasets and generate stories around them, honing your ability to distil insights and engage audiences through visually impactful designs.
You’ll be proficient in creating data-driven design solutions that inform and engage.
You’ll also emerge with a heightened understanding of the role of graphic design in shaping perceptions and facilitating understanding in an increasingly data-driven world.
Advanced 3D allows you to enter into the creative world of 3D animation and effects simulation!
You will be equipped with industry-leading advanced tools and techniques tailored for animation and simulation pipelines.
Underpinned by theory, the application of practical skills is your gateway to mastering essential industry-standard applications and elevating your critical eye to be aligned with demanding industry expectations.
Gain a comprehensive understanding of the wider production process, furthering your knowledge of 3D animation and digital effects simulation.
Here, you'll learn to breathe life into your creations and create stunning visual experiences.
Take newly acquired skills and understanding to a cross platform level, embedding your learning in a broadly applicable advanced skillset.
Thinking about a career in film?
TV?
Interactive applications?
Immersive?
Games?
This module has got you covered.
Level up your skills and become a formidable force in the realm of digital effects.
Mixed reality (MR) is weaving its way into our daily lives, transforming how we learn, shop, work and play.
From interactive educational content that brings history to life, to virtual try-ons in fashion retail, remote collaboration tools that bring dispersed teams together, and gaming experiences that blur the lines between the physical and virtual worlds, MR tools are becoming indispensable.
You’ll learn how to design and implement MR systems, and uncover the potential of MR technology and its implications for designing interactive experiences that seamlessly integrate digital content with the physical world.
Through a blend of theory and practical applications, you’ll explore current trends, ethical considerations and future potentials in MR.
You’ll also engage in projects that challenge you to think creatively and critically about the development of immersive, user-centric MR applications.
This comprehensive approach equips you with the skills needed to innovate and lead in the rapidly evolving MR landscape.
Embark on an exciting journey of creativity as you dive into a self-directed project where your imagination can flourish.
Build on your skills and experience, as well as your ability to conceptualise, manage, and complete a major project to professional standard, ready to showcase your skills to employers as you prepare for graduate employment.
From research and conceptualisation, to ideation, development and testing, you’ll develop a project which fosters a deeper understanding of digital design principles and practices, pushing the boundaries of your creative and technical abilities.
You’ll navigate time and resource constraints, further developing your project management skills which are vital in any professional setting.
From interactive and immersive experiences to visual effects, you can build the project around your own interests.
This isn't just a module - it's your chance to push boundaries, to focus on an area you are passionate about, and to craft a capstone project for your portfolio that shines.
What is media’s relation to social change and how can digital media transform the world?
How have digital technologies reconfigured the media?
What are the key media-related issues that we should be concerned about today, not just as scholars but as citizens?
Focusing on the topic of ‘change’, you’ll explore the place of media in social change, and think about how economic and cultural factors shape the media.
You’ll critically examine how media follows, blocks, represents, produces or manages changes of one kind or another in our society.
You’ll also investigate a range of topics and case studies, engaging with different industry views and academic approaches for understanding media at a particularly critical moment in its development.
With the rise of social media, media itself has become more democratic, with more ways for people's voices to be heard.
An understanding of this process, and how to engage with more voices than ever before not only deepens your knowledge of media, it gives you the skills to make media go further when you break into the industry.
Why are so many films and television programmes adapted from other sources?
Why do such adaptations frequently evoke powerful responses from viewers and critics?
What role does screenwriting play in the adaptation process?
You will consider these questions as you explore the popularity of adaptations within popular culture.
The module will provide the close study of screen adaptations taken from a variety of media which may include theatre, classic novels, short stories and comics.
In doing so, you will engage with key topics from adaptation studies, considering the connections and differences between distinct media, focusing on key features such as the manipulation of time and space, characterisation, point of view, style, voice, interpretation and /or evaluation.
You will be encouraged to consider adaptation within an industrial context and the creative and practical implications of adapting works for the screen.
You’ll have the opportunity to develop your own creative interests within adaptation studies in conjunction with a deeper understanding of the key theoretical concepts underpinning the discipline.
Why do audiences flock to certain films?
How do you raise awareness of a particular film and encourage them to see it?
What kind of strategies are best suited to promoting different types of film?
These are the kind of questions faced by people working in film marketing and distribution – key figures in the industry and just as important as the content producers (filmmakers, actors) whose work they promote.
You will learn how marketing is used to mitigate risk and maximise revenue; what forms and formats film publicity takes and the purpose they serve; how distributors purchase rights and assemble lists; how distributors and marketers position individual films to certain target audiences and territories; how film audiences select which films to view; how cinematic exhibition fits within multi-platform distribution strategies and the rise of ‘non-traditional’ distribution portals (e.g.
Netflix and Amazon).
You will also learn how to market a film and gain hands-on, practical experience of creating your own marketing materials, this gives you a greater understanding of the whole process of marketing and distribution, a key skill when breaking into the industry.
The video games industry is the biggest entertainment industry in the world, with Rockstar Games’ Grand Theft Auto V the most successful entertainment product of all time.
But how well do we understand that industry?
Why do so many people play games, and what effect has video gaming had on our lives?
You will explore the history, technological development, and social issues surrounding video gaming.
We will cover the technological and industrial advances in game design over the past 50 years, as well as how video games have been presented in contemporary marketing and modern media.
This will likely be your first exploration into the field of game studies (including game theory), and how it can help us understand different game genres, game mechanics, and game content.
Across the module, you will learn about intersecting questions of narrative, interactivity, space, play, players, and representation.
This is your chance to level-up your skillset and make rapid progress in an expanding and exciting industry.
What role do the technological innovations of today play in what you will be designing in the future?
And how do these technological innovations impact on the design needs and requirements of tomorrow?
Technologies such as machine learning, mixed reality, robotics, data sharing and cybersecurity are transforming how we design services around healthcare, learning, transportation, communication, homes and workplaces.
By engaging with the social and cultural transformations brought about by the rapid developments of digital technologies, you will learn to evaluate these technologies and about how to future-proof your designs, and design with an inclusive mindset, thinking about the design requirements that will suit future needs.
We will introduce case studies of major technological and design developments and invite you to explore their impact on culture and society via a combination of face-to-face and individual research.
So, how about learning to critically engage with current socio-cultural trends and technological innovations and using those insights to help you design the future?
Most modules consist of a mix of lectures, seminars, practical work, computer sessions and private study.
The workstations in our computer suites are equipped with current industry-standard software.
Our students have 24-hour access to our extensive air-conditioned computer suites and are able to take advantage of a dedicated production studio, with green-screen, VR suite and makerspace.
BBC
Distinction, Merit, Merit.
112 tariff points from your IB Diploma, including Maths at 4 at HL or SL, typically H5, H5, H6 or equivalent
Obtain the Access to HE Diploma in Art and Design OR Creative Arts OR Creative Industries OR Design OR Film and Creative Digital Media OR Games Design, with a minimum of 45 credits at Level 3 with 18 credits at Distinction and 24 credits at Merit
Our graduates thrive in dynamic areas like immersive experiences, UX/UI design, 3D production, and creative media.
You'll master the art of visual design, user experience, and technology, enabling you to leave your mark in dynamic, ever-evolving industries.
Whether you're passionate about creating captivating visuals, immersive experiences, or exploring virtual environments, digital design equips you with the skills and connections to excel.
Our comprehensive career support includes EmpFest, a two-week Employability Festival presented by your dedicated Careers and Employability Service.
Featuring an array of presentations, workshops, guest speakers, and industry experts, EmpFest provides invaluable insights and guidance for your career journey.
You'll also have the opportunity to network with a diverse range of organisations during our Careers Fair, a highlight of the festival, where you can connect with potential employers and explore exciting job prospects.
Creative UK has recently relaunched their Student Membership which is available to all education Federation members, which means that University of Kent students can access free student membership.
The membership is designed to propel the careers of emerging creatives.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/165/film-and-drama:
By studying Drama and Film, you'll benefit from exceptional teaching and industry links that will help you to launch your career.
Covering a wide range of subjects and developing your practical skills as well as critical thinking, this dynamic course allows you to explore your own style and creativity and follow your passions and ambitions in the visual and performing arts.
We'll challenge you with theoretical and practical study, empowering you to shape your degree around your areas of interest.
From acting to directing, screenwriting to documentary filmmaking, world cinema to popular performance and many more, you'll explore your subjects alongside fellow students, creating new work and discovering new ways of seeing established works.
Our team of academics, professional practitioners and technical specialists will support you every step of the way as you analyse, create and critique, developing your understanding of drama and film, becoming a more confident performer and maker.
You'll study within an exciting and diverse environment, benefitting from our strong connections with industry and local arts venues, opportunities for workplace learning and our flagship Graduate Theatre Company scheme, all of which support you in kick-starting your career within the creative industries.
You can take this degree with a year of working or studying abroad.
Get ready to challenge yourself and be challenged, as you get to know the raw ingredients of contemporary performance.
In this first of three Making Performance modules, you’ll experiment with space, text, physical acting and ensemble devising.
You’ll encounter important practitioners and groundbreaking performances, while also gaining hands-on experience in the foundations of lighting, sound and stagecraft.
The skills you’ll develop through your first performances this term, along with introductions to key concepts and practitioners, will provide a foundation for the rest of your studies and your career in the arts.
Have you ever wanted to better understand film as a media form and learn how to make your own?
Film and Media Practice 1 draws on concepts in film and media studies to introduce you to moving image production and the principles of audiovisual language.
You’ll learn technical skills in pre-production, production and post-production along with skills applicable to both narrative and experimental screen production.
Through a combination of lectures, screenings, creative and technical workshops, and peer reviews of work in progress, this module encourages experimentation, critical reflection, independent thought, and dialogue between theory and practice.
Effective group work is integral to your success in this module.
Practical work is designed to trigger both conceptual and creative thinking, and to encourage you to consider audience responses to audiovisual language, making rapid progress in your ability as a filmmaker.
Are you passionate about plays?
Do you want to learn more about their history, and become confident understanding a variety of play texts?
In this module, you’ll explore a range of performance texts, from Ancient Greece to the 21st century.
Weekly lectures will ground your understanding contextually, and practical workshops will enable you to bring the scripts to life with embodied understanding.
This contextual understanding will culminate in two assessments: a historical essay and an in-class presentation.
This module (together with Making Performance 1 and 3) will give you a solid foundation for the rest of your degree and for a career in performance.
What is film?
What sort of questions do academics discuss in relation to this medium?
You’ll engage in the systematic exploration of film offered by film theory, including competing definitions of film and discussions around what characterises the medium, how spectators engage with film, and the social, cultural, and political conditions and ideologies that film reproduces.
You’ll discuss classical and contemporary writings on film, and develop your own arguments on exemplary films to learn how each theoretical approach offers a valuable set of tools for analysing film.
You’ll understand the major debates in relation to the medium, and be able to discuss these productively.
This exploration of film theory is critical to your development in the field.
Whether you want to find your voice as a critic, or your vision as a filmmaker, this module is a key step in getting there.
Ready to test your creative ideas in public?
Keen to understand how a theatre festival works, and to be part of the creative team that makes it happen?
In this module you will not only have the opportunity to make and perform in a themed end-of-year festival, but will also be actively involved in the planning, marketing and organisation of this exciting summer event.
In doing so, you will begin developing key skills in a number of industry-related areas ranging from pitching ideas and theatre making to event planning.
You will also be introduced to a diverse range of national and international theatre festivals from different cultures and times through a series of dedicated lectures that will enhance your understanding of a phenomenon that is as old as theatre itself.
The festival will be centred around a specific theme and allow you to playfully approach this theme from different perspectives and staging styles, drawing on what you have learnt in your first year of study.
You will come away from the module with key foundational skills in planning and realising creative events, which are valuable in a host of industries and will prepare you for the rest of your degree.
Why is editing a core element of the filmmaking process?
Through hands-on work combining creative exercises and close analysis of films, you’ll explore how combining images can fulfil various functions including shaping stories, guiding points of view, creating emotions and aesthetic effects, and generating meaning.
As well as focussing specifically on the work carried out by film/video editors, you’ll also engage with ‘editing’ as an approach to shaping raw material that extends across all aspects of film production, from screenwriting to directing and post-production.
The module will situate this focus within the broader context of ‘montage’ and ‘collage’ as principles that extend across diverse art forms, including painting, sculpture, photography, literature, music, and digital media.
A series of practical exercises will enable you to focus on the editing choices made in various fiction, documentary, experimental, found footage, and interactive films.
Giving you the chance to get hands on and develop your own editing style.
Have you got what it takes to write a film?
This module offers you an introduction to the concepts, terms, and skills involved in writing screenplays and to the craft of screenwriting.
Screenwriting is a unique form of writing with very different concerns from novels, theatre and radio.
Although the screenplay is a vital component of a film’s success, it tends to be neglected as an art form in of itself.
In this module, you’ll explore the conventions of dramatic structure, and examine new narrative forms and short film variations.
We’ll encourage you to think critically about screenwriting and you’ll have the opportunity to write your own screenplay.
We’ll take you through the writing process using a series of creative exercises, from preparation and initial concept to the final draft of a script.
By the end of the module, you’ll have gained practical knowledge and have started to develop your own creative voice - and of course, a screenplay of your own.
Developments in online streaming, film festivals and technical innovation have seen an unprecedented expansion in documentary filmmaking.
Through practical exercises and analysis of film texts, this module will introduce you to the essential components of non-fiction filmmaking.
You’ll take part in practical projects and also learn through lectures and screenings, which draw on a range of film texts and look at examples from the history of non-fiction film such as early cinema, direct cinema, cinema verité, and the film essay.
The exercises provide opportunities for you to develop your creative practice, including the development of a treatment/proposal leading to the production of a final film project.
By the end of the module, you’ll understand how theory and critical analysis can develop your understanding of – and practical skills in – documentary filmmaking.
Pursuing a career in the arts not only requires creativity and talent but also an understanding of how the UK arts sector operates.
In this module, you’ll learn about all aspects of the creative industries and the various career paths that exist for arts graduates.
Through tasks and exercises, you’ll develop both practical and critical skills, ranging from writing CVs and funding applications to managing your professional portfolio and using social media and networking to boost your career prospects and promote your work.
The module will also help you to consider and reflect on which types of creative careers align with your ambitions, and to develop a plan for pursuing your chosen path.
As well as giving you the tools to bring your plan to life and achieve you goals.
While American and European films have dominated film production and exhibition, cinema is a global phenomenon.
In this module, you’ll study the historical, cultural, political and economic determinants of ‘world’ or ‘national’ cinemas and consider their influence within domestic and international contexts.
You’ll look at case studies from various regions of the world including Latin America, Scandinavia, Eastern Europe, and East Asia.
The module will explore how filmmakers actively franchise, adopt, and rework film styles and genres.
You’ll examine how filmmakers respond to the culture and local history of different countries, and to international influences.
You’ll also explore colonial and postcolonial politics and culture.
You’ll consider how filmmakers tailor their practice to the tastes and demands of local and foreign audiences and investigate the funding structures, distribution strategies and industrial structures that incentivise certain topics and representation styles.
You’ll critically assess how cinema reflects on notions of national identity, as well as gender, sexual, and racial identity.
Alongside this, you’ll explore the place of marginalised and migrant communities in national identity and culture.
This gives you great intercultural awareness and understanding, helping you produce films as a global citizen and speak to a wider range of audiences with your work.
What makes a good actor?
Instinct?
Imagination?
Skills?
Explore the theory and practice of Naturalism through key plays of the 20th and 21st centuries, comparing different leading practitioners and culminating in performance.
You’ll study acting techniques developed by Stanislavski and his successors and learn the basic terms and concepts of mainstream rehearsal-room practice, including Uniting, Actions and Activities, Objectives, Obstacles, Stakes, and Given Circumstances.
You’ll analyse play texts from the practical point of view of an actor, working on plays from 1930 to the present, researching their original context (cultural, political and dramaturgical) and consider how they might be played today.
You’ll perform play extracts in class for feedback, produce a portfolio (a short written analysis and a reflective account of your process) and take part in a final performance.
Even if you don’t want to become an actor, you will emerge with transferrable skills of the confidence to speak directly to an audience, experience in working collaboratively towards a deadline and problem-solving and trouble-shooting skills.
Musical theatre dance is a melting pot of African, Indian, Caribbean, and Afro-Latin movement, influenced by ballet, modern, and social dance.
You’ll learn about this history and the key developers of musical theatre and jazz by dancing, as well as by analysing musicals across the 20th century.
You’ll finish the module with improved dance technique and the ability to learn and perform choreography from different periods, along with a greater understanding of musical theatre and jazz dance’s multicultural history.
Want to develop your skills in popular performance and become a more versatile performer?
Want to find out about the origins of much of today’s live entertainment industry, by learning about the politically radical DIY performance scene of Alternative Cabaret?
In this module, weekly workshops will introduce you to a range of performance skills including music making, performance poetry, stand-up comedy, sketch comedy and specialty acts, all of which involve learning how to address an audience directly and manipulate their responses.
You will also learn about 1980s Alternative Cabaret, using primary historical sources in the British Stand-Up Comedy Archive for a research essay.
You will regularly devise and perform your own acts, inspired by historical examples from Alternative Cabaret, and the module culminates in a cabaret performed to a live audience in a public venue.
You will emerge with an enhanced confidence in your ability to engage and hold an audience, whether in a theatre, comedy club, classroom or the wider workplace.
What do Matilda , The Curious Case of the Dog in the Night-Time and Noughts & Crosses have in common?
You guessed it: they are all book sources of highly successful stage adaptations.
Theatre-makers continue to reinvent canonical stories – such as Romeo and Juliet , the Mahabharata and 1001 Nights – into new plays, musicals, puppetry shows and pantomime, while audiences flock to see them.
Why, you might ask, are adaptations so popular nowadays?
And how exactly do artists create them?
By taking this module, you will gain knowledge of the foundational building blocks of storytelling, and you will understand how these can be rearranged into new shapes.
In our lectures and seminars, we will consider examples of how character, story structure, language, culture, medium, genre and ideology can evolve from one version to another.
In our workshops, we will experiment with adaptation shifts in practice.
We will also pay particular attention to the representation of race, gender and/or disability.
You will devise a practical adaptation based on a well-known source of your choice.
You will also review adaptation techniques by discussing a case study.
This module will equip you with the cultural competences, critical awareness and creative toolbox that will make you highly employable in any creative field.
“A good costume, like a good symbol, should conceal as much as it reveals”.
We will explore this quote from Aby Warburg through an interdisciplinary approach to the study of costume and fashion – the art that can be worn – to explore its roles in drama, film and the visual arts.
The social values encoded by clothes, their relation to class or sexual identity, will be discussed, along with how these assumptions inform the use of costume in adaptations or stagings of texts, or how they colour our view of a character, or of a director’s interpretation (for example, using deliberate anachronism).
The role of clothing and costume in the history of art will be analysed from artists’ representation of clothes, contemporary or otherwise, to their involvement in fashion design, giving you both a broad overview and deeper understanding of fashion within the arts.
How can cinemas, galleries, theatres and museums become more accessible to visitors with impairments?
How is disability understood and represented in contemporary culture?
By visiting and engaging with a range of arts institutions you will identify both barriers to inclusion and how they can be removed.
You will critically assess the way in which institutions respond to their context, including relevant anti-discrimination law and the history of disability.
You will conduct an access audit and review of a venue, gaining valuable training for anyone looking to work as an access officer in an arts, education or heritage context, or who wants to run events that are as accessible as possible.
Beyond this, you’ll be able to apply knowledge of accessibility and the history of disability rights and legislation to a range of work in the arts and heritage, education, community or charity sectors.
There isn’t just one way to approaches theatre and performance design.
You’ll explore different styles and methods used to design theatre, while gaining hands-on experience of how to bring a performance to life using the elements of lighting, sound, and scenography.
Through lectures you will learn key design principles and how to interpret a performance text from a design point of view, while practical workshops will teach you the fundamentals of handling equipment effectively and safely, and how to realise design ideas within budget.
By the end of the module, you will have developed your own design in collaboration with others and produce a design portfolio to demonstrate your work.
You will come away from this module with key fundamental skills in theatre design and tech, that will empower you to think more boldly about design and competently consider all key aspects of a production.
This knowledge will serve you well whether you go on to create solo performance, tour your work as a company, or work in any industry that involves live events.
How do you go about writing a play or text for performance?
What writers and playwrights inspire you?
And how can you learn from their approaches to help you find your own writing style?
You will consider and answer these questions, as you develop your skills in writing and your own creative approach.
You will have the opportunity to look at a range of performance texts and learn how to closely analyse these, to help you understand the fundamentals of writing for performance.
You will develop your skills by writing your own material and experience the results and effects of your writing by witnessing how it comes to life when it is performed by others.
Through ongoing practise, discussion and constructive criticism from peers and lecturers, you will also develop an understanding of how important revision, editing and feedback are to the evolution of a piece of writing for performance.
By the end of the module you will have developed your ability to recognise and discuss what makes a good piece of writing, produce compelling performance texts of your own, and apply your skills as a confident and creative communicator.
Do you want to explore diverse schools, techniques, and methods of cinematography, from classical to contemporary approaches?
Through a blend of theoretical studies and practical exercises and assessments, you will analyse the role of cinematography in shaping narrative, mood, and audience perception.
Hands-on experiences allow you to apply learned concepts while honing your technical skills behind the camera.
From framing and lighting to camera movement and frame composition, you will gain a comprehensive understanding of the visual language of film and cinema.
You will emerge with a refined ability to craft compelling visual narratives and a deeper understanding of the integral role of cinematography in filmmaking.
Cinema has typically been regarded as a visual phenomenon – films, it is often said, are essentially moving pictures.
Sound has, nevertheless, played an important role from the beginnings of cinema, a fact which has been acknowledged in the detailed historical, theoretical, and critical work on film music, and film sound more generally, produced over the past quarter-century.
Sound, Music, and Cinema will provide an overview of this field of research and provide you with a clearer understanding of, and greater sensitivity to, the soundtrack.
You will be given an introductory framework for understanding sound, which may include topics such as the relationship between music and other aspects of film sound (speech, ambient sound, sound effects), as well as the nature of the relationship between sound and image.
Subsequent sessions will consider topics such as: the evolution of sound technology and its impact on the aural aesthetics of film; the use of classical and popular music in film scores; the emergence of the ‘sound designer’ in contemporary cinema; and the distinctive and innovative use of sound and music by a range of cinematic 'sound stylists'.
How can you use genre within your own creative practice as a filmmaker?
This module will give you a historical overview of genre filmmaking with the aim of exploring this question and providing the opportunity for you to produce a film within the parameters of a chosen genre (or genres).
To support this process, you will explore a variety of genre forms which may include, but are not exclusive to, the following: crime, musical, horror, melodrama, western, science fiction, road movie, romantic comedy.
You will build on the practical skills established earlier on the course to further refine creative use of various technical aspects, such as camera, sound, editing and writing.
By the end of the module, you will have a better understanding of how genre influences creative decisions and the importance of this topic within larger industrial practices.
You will take one of the modules 'creative project' or 'dissertation'.
You will then choose 4 of the optional modules
Do you feel inspired to create an original performance, in a form and style of your choice?
Are you ready to apply the skills you have built across your degree to create your final show for a public festival?
This module will give you the skills to initiate and carry out an independent project, working either as a soloist or in a small student company where you choose your own collaborators.
You’ll take responsibility for devising an initial idea and bringing it to life by working with your classmates, lecturers and technical team.
You’ll produce a high-quality piece of performance within real-world budget and resource limitations while applying safe and ethical working methods.
You’ll gain project design and management skills that are essential for careers in the creative industries.
By applying the skills and knowledge that you have gained across your degree in a challenging, fully autonomous project, you’ll be taking the final step before entering the industry as a professional independent theatre maker.
Have you developed a passion for a particular topic in drama, film or media?
Do you love writing, researching, and exploring a subject deeply?
This is your chance to develop your skills and create a piece of work about the topics you are passionate about.
You’ll develop an in-depth independent investigation into a specific issue, guided by research questions, and establishing a dialogue with existing scholarship, practices and debates.
You’ll start by conceptualising your project and work with an assigned supervisor.
You’ll present your work in progress to get feedback from your peers in spring, and your final piece will be due in summer.
By building on what you’ve learnt during throughout your degree, you’ll create a new piece of research that will allow you to pursue your interests and ideas, honing your independent critical thinking skills and further expanding your employability.
Throughout its history, film has functioned as a powerful sociopolitical force.
Individuals and groups have used this medium to express their identities (whether gender, sexual, ethnic, class, political, national etc.) to various audiences, to portray their histories and current realities, to interrogate social norms, to agitate for civil rights, and to imagine more equal futures.
Film's unique capacity to reflect, refract and represent has also meant that individuals and groups have also used it to exert power or subjugate, create and reinforce stereotypes about 'the Other' or justify their own dominance in the social order.
This module focuses on this vital aspect of cinema.
You’ll focus on different case studies to enable you to critically reflect on how film feeds into and explores identities, and the political implications of this.
Recognition of the ways film can be used for suppression or liberation helps you become a better, more ethical and impactful filmmaker.
Do you love movement?
Are you fascinated by performance that sits in the crossover between theatre and dance?
Are you keen to sharpen your devising skills and create captivating ensemble performance?
Explore the world of physical theatre and key practitioners who influenced its development over the last century.
Through intensive workshops, practice-lectures, a reflective learning portfolio and a public performance, you’ll develop your understanding of movement as a communicator of meaning.
You’ll explore how material is organised to make meaning, how texts are adapted through physical work, how we can move from experimentation and improvisation to clear form and structure.
We’ll give you essential strategies for creative collaboration, including directing without dominating by giving feedback in a way that generates new possibilities, developing individual creative agency while working as part of a group and thinking about wellbeing in the creative process.
You’ll be encouraged to develop your own creative language and style so you don’t need to have any prior experience in movement techniques.
You’ll become a more confident physical performer and maker, with key transferable skills in presenting, collaboration and creative wellbeing.
Have you ever wanted to direct a play?
When you take this module you’ll explore the art of directing in a supportive pre-professional environment.
What does a director do?
Is the director’s job to ascertain what the playwright meant and to clearly convey that to the audience?
Or is the director a co-author of a performance whose intentions also inform the meaning of the work?
These are fundamental questions that you’ll consider as you develop your directing skills, as you figure out what kind of director you want to be.
You’ll study a range of political and philosophical plays, which will be contextualised by a series of lectures, and through a series of workshops you’ll be introduced to techniques to translate the ideas from page to stage.
In doing so, you’ll develop confidence in dealing with challenging concepts and using that understanding to inform the practical work.
Even if you don’t want to become a director, these skills are transferable to several careers including teaching, PR, and marketing.
How can I make an audience laugh?
How do comedians write, hone and deliver their material?
What makes a joke funny?
Does it matter what comedians say, and what we laugh at?
You’ll write and perform your own stand-up sets, before selecting one to perform in a public gig at the end of term.
Whether you’re a complete beginner performing stand-up for the first time, or a more experienced comedian developing your act and improving understanding of your craft, you’ll learn to create artistically ambitious stand-up comedy that understands and responds to its social context.
By acting as a director for your classmates and learning to analyse professional comedians’ work, you’ll gain the ability to reflect critically upon your own and others’ performances.
You’ll gain skills needed for a range of careers in the comedy industry including performing, directing, organising and managing stand-up, as well as skills that are vital for many careers.
You’ll emerge as a highly capable public speaker who can write and deliver engaging material, using a sophisticated range of verbal tools to deliver your message with clarity.
How does art impact us the way that it does?
And how do interdisciplinary researchers use the impact of art to improve people’s lives?
You will explore these questions through investigating theoretical ideas and research on the ways art is created, perceived, and applied.
By studying empirical research on visual arts (painting, architecture, popular art), performing arts (dance and theatre), music, and film, you will gain knowledge about aesthetic perception, emotion and meaning in art, creativity, social and cultural influences on art, and the practices and ramifications of arts-sciences research.
By exploring a subfield of the arts and sciences of your choice, you’ll develop interdisciplinary literacy that has a wide range of applications beyond the module while also being able to follow your passions and carve out a niche.
The primary focus will be on Western art forms, though other world art traditions and aesthetics will also be discussed.
Thinking about how to start building professional networks beyond university?
Interested in using self-reflection in practical ways towards building your future career?
Then this module is the right choice for you.
Love Shakespeare?
Frightened of Shakespeare?
Bored of Shakespeare?
All of the above?
This Acting Shakespeare module explores the performance clues in Shakespeare’s language to enable you to perform a role where YOU know what you’re saying – and so does your audience.
You will learn WHY Shakespeare writes in the way that he does: Why does he use verse?
How can you help a listener follow these complex speeches?
How do you create truthful relationships onstage with these words?
What can happen when you talk directly to an audience member – and they answer you?
You’ll begin with an introduction to the working conditions of the Early Modern acting company, which shaped the way the plays were constructed.
Lectures will provide context for practical work on voice production, language analysis and stagecraft.
In the second half of the term you will apply these skills in developing your own Shakespeare performance.
Additionally, you will produce a written portfolio reflecting your ability to deploy the techniques you’ve learned.
The module will benefit you whether you pursue a career in Acting, teaching, Public Relations, advertising, academia or the wider business sphere.
Does the idea of working with different community groups inspire you?
Do you want to extend your skills in workshop facilitation?
Can you imagine running your own theatre company with an outreach remit?
By researching and considering participatory theatre in its various forms, and the historical and social context in which it developed, you will explore several case studies and critically analyse the different creative approaches used by practitioners in their specific work.
Inspired by what you discover, you will practically explore different workshop and facilitation techniques and engage with current debates surrounding the efficacy of this type of theatre.
You will apply this knowledge to your own developing practice.
Working as a member of a pre-professional company you will, with others in your group, negotiate the planning, facilitation and management of a community project working with a group of participants in a participatory theatre context.
You will emerge from this module with a highly desirable set of transferable skills, including the ability to be flexible and think on your feet in complex circumstances, to prepare inclusive and accessible spaces and activities, and to communicate confidently and sensitively with a range of audiences.
The digital age brought significant changes to the practice of film criticism.
What are the challenges that critics face today, and how has in transformed over the years?
By exploring the history of this practice and reflecting on its present reality, you will apply your understanding of historical approaches to your own reviewing practice and learn how to pitch your reviews to different publications.
You’ll get hands-on, regularly writing reviews and offering feedback on those of your peers.
This will equip you to develop a constant flow of production, regularly revising your writing according to the learning you acquire every week.
You will critically reflect on your own practice, learn how to be constructive and collegiate, and develop skills such as time management, problem solving, and finding your own critical voice.
If you find yourself full of ideas for film, but short on budget, you aren’t alone.
Most filmmakers begin their careers from the same position.
So, learning how to make a small budget have a bigger impact is vital to establishing yourself as a filmmaker.
You will engage with key aspects of microbudget filmmaking through technical exercises and the creation of your own film.
A series of practical projects will be contextualised through lectures drawing on several films, looking at examples from the history of extremely low budget genres such as horror, crime, independent and experimental films.
Through this work, you will be able to use theoretical ideas and critical analysis to develop creative projects and understand how to conceptualise, create and refine microbudget films.
You will refine your creative practice in relation to industry practices and standards, building on the skills acquired previously on the course.
What is screen space?
Would you like to be introduced to the professional careers and practical applications of film and television space in the industry, including location scouting, shooting and production design?
Screen Space and Location Scouting investigates films and/or television series shot on location and the staging of real spaces in studio.
With a focus on cityscapes and rural landscapes, you’ll look at both topographically accurate uses of specific spaces and at creative geographies where cities, towns and streets are made to 'play' the role of other places.
This module also introduces you to mapping spatial film data (e.g., using software such as geographic information system, QGIS).
You’ll produce an academic analysis of film space as well as getting hands-on with a practice-based component focussing on real-world processes of location scouting.
Cult films, animated worlds, film festivals, cinematic cities, the gothic on screen… there is now a wealth of specialist areas to explore within film studies.
Follow your passions and take a deep dive into one such area.
Guided by the expertise of our academics, you will gain systematic knowledge of one specialist subject area for the duration of the module.
You will engage with key scholarship, rigorously interrogating the core ideas developed within the subfield and the debates that have ensued.
Note: the specialist area varies from year to year according to the convenor’s area of expertise.
(For the year's specific topic, please get in touch with the module convenor.)
Factual entertainment - one of the most widely consumed formats of television, film, podcast and other media - delivers non-fiction or unscripted scenarios in accessible, popular forms.
This is your opportunity to plan and produce an exemplary creative work.
You’ll also gain an overview of the genre’s development and its links to documentary filmmaking through several case studies.
Each week’s topic will focus either on an aspect of production or in-depth discussion of a specific sub-genre of factual entertainment, which may include true-crime, reality TV, talent shows, lifestyle series or science and nature documentaries.
Through this exploration, you’ll enhance your ability to critically reflect on debates over ethics, objectivity, the media maker’s role and/or audience manipulation.
Through exercises and presentation of ideas, you will engage with key practical considerations of making factual entertainment, which may include proposal-writing and pitching, using found/archival footage, collaborating with production companies, and analysing the implications (e.g.
political, ethical) of their production decisions.
All modules involve lectures, small group seminars and film screenings (where relevant).
Depending on the modules you select, assessment varies from 100% coursework (extended essays or dissertation), to a combination of examination and coursework.
Teaching is through workshops, seminars, lectures and practical projects.
Drama and Theatre modules are continuously assessed based on coursework, projects and presentations, performances, essays and dissertations.
A typical offer would be to achieve DMM.
We work hard to maintain strong relationships with professionals and venues, helping to launch your career in the creative and cultural industries.
You’ll be taught by leading actors, comedians and film makers with first-hand experience of what it takes to carve out a successful career in the industry.
Their continued involvement in the industry will help you as you start to build your own network.
Our graduates have developed careers as: journalists, authors, literary managers, directors, performers, scriptwriters for television, stand-up comedians, casting agents, event managers, arts administrators, community theatre officers for local councils, and drama teachers.
Some recent graduate success stories include:

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/114/drama-and-theatre:
At Kent, you will develop your individual voice and hone skills to express yourself creatively through performance.
Whether you want to be a stand-up comedian, actor, director, writer, producer, choreographer, or set designer – or even start your own theatre company – you’ll have the opportunity to explore your passions at Kent.
With a wide range of topics including acting, community theatre, musical theatre, puppetry, dance, stand-up comedy, and even alternative cabaret, there are plenty of opportunities to tailor the programme to your interests.
Theatre, drama and performance have the power to connect people, bring communities together and examine big issues.
You’ll explore all this when you join our warm and inclusive creative community.
Our strong connections with industry and local arts venues will give you the chance to put your learning and creativity into action through placements, internships and other opportunities.
You can see shows and even take part in them at our fantastic on-campus venue, the Gulbenkian Arts Centre – which puts on an incredible programme of theatre, dance, music and film.
You can also take this course with a year in industry or year abroad.
How does performance change the world, and how we see things?
How do you make work that understands and engages with its audience?
What are your strengths as a performer, writer and theatre maker?
What are your responsibilities?
By creating and analysing popular, grassroots performances in comedy, live music, storytelling and performance poetry, you’ll discover your unique strengths as a performer.
You’ll learn to become comfortable talking directly to an audience, in your own words and grounded in your own identity.
By learning to listen to audiences and respond to them in the moment of performance, and creating engaging and meaningful interactions, you’ll gain skills that are essential for a range of careers in the creative industries.
You’ll develop your ability to critically assess how popular performances respond to their social contexts, and whether they have the power to impact their societies.
You’ll reflect on what is important to you as a theatre maker and construct your own answers to crucial questions about what you do (or do not) want to bring to the stage.
This practice helps you find and develop you distinct creative voice and vision as a performer.
How do you prepare your body, voice and imagination for performance?
This module will help you develop your performance skills by exploring different approaches to working with breath, movement, imagination, and voice, as well as starting to look at playful ways of transforming into character, for example through mask work.
You’ll develop these skills during practical workshops, learn about the context and background of exercises through accompanying readings and discussion, and reflect on your own development.
Importantly, understanding the theory and practice of exercises will enable you to take responsibility for designing appropriate warm-ups for rehearsal and performance, which will serve you well for the rest of your degree and beyond.
By developing your abilities in both verbal and non-verbal communication, the module will also give you essential transferable skills that are highly valued in a range of industries, as well as the specific skills you need for a career in the creative industries.
How do you create exciting visual theatre?
What skills do you need to bring objects and puppets to life?
How do you use scenography to tell stories?
This module offers a creative exploration of puppetry and object theatre.
You’ll learn about scenic elements and staging, different types of puppets and objects, and visible or ‘invisible’ puppeteering.
Your lectures and seminars will put puppet and object performances into historical context, while you’ll learn the art of performance in practical workshops.
You’ll discover the uses and dynamics of different materials, and develop your confidence as a maker, performer, puppeteer, manipulator and/or technician.
Beyond puppeteering, you’ll come away from this module with the ability to design and make props using various techniques, giving you valuable transferrable skills in many different industry contexts and a better understanding of all elements that go into making theatre and performance.
What do Matilda, The Curious Case of the Dog in the Night-Time and Noughts & Crosses have in common?
Theatre makers continue to transform canonical stories— such as Romeo and Juliet, the Mahabharata and 1001 Nights —into new plays, musicals, puppet shows and pantomime, while audiences flock to see them.
Why are adaptations so popular nowadays?
By taking this module, you’ll discover the foundational building blocks of storytelling, and learn how these can be rearranged into new shapes.
In lectures and seminars, you’ll examine how characters, story structure, language, culture, medium, genre and ideology can evolve from one version of a story to another.
In our workshops, you’ll experiment with adaptation shifts in practice.
You’ll also pay particular attention to the representation of race, gender and disability.
You’ll devise an adaptation based on a well-known story of your choice.
You’ll also review adaptation techniques by discussing a case study.
This module will equip you with the cultural competencies, critical awareness and creative toolbox that will make you highly employable in the creative industries.
You will then choose 4 of the optional modules.
Applicants for the BA in Drama, Theatre and Performing Arts will be invited to a practical workshop and informal group interview, either in person or online.
This is designed to allow us to get to know you better, and for you to ensure that all your questions about the course are answered.
Those who attend the workshop and receive a conditional offer will receive a one-grade reduction from the published offer level, meaning that your offer would be BBC rather than BBB, or equivalent.
A typical offer would be to achieve DDM in a suitable subject.
Seeing live theatre and performance is a key part of this course, and you may want to budget around £200- £300 for theatre tickets over your period of study.
However, theatre visits are only compulsory in a few selected modules, with discounts arranged by the School (around £50 across stages 1-3).
If you choose a placement module or add a Year Abroad/in Industry to your degree, travel costs to the location of the placement are your responsibility, though some University support may be available.
Transform creative ideas into the finished product wherever your career takes you with the technical and transferable skills, confidence and knowledge you’ll gain at Kent.
Our students go on to careers in acting, performance, comedy and arts leadership but also areas such as journalism, the media and education.
Many of our graduates have gone on to set up their own theatre and performance companies such as:
Graduates have also gone on to work for:

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/392/ecology-and-conservation-with-a-year-in-professional-practice:
Delivered by the Durrell Institute of Conservation and Ecology , our undergraduate course is the longest running conservation course in the UK.
Natural science areas of focus include ecology, wildlife survey methods, rewilding, wildlife management, conservation biology, biogeography, and conservation genetics, and include an emphasis on field-trips with some lab-based training too.
Explore the human dimensions of conservation including climate change, environmental sustainability, species reintroduction, working with rural communities, human-wildlife conflict and conservation policy, so upon graduation, you can make a real difference in tomorrow’s world.
Graduate with skills in wildlife and habitat surveying, data analysis, survey design, Geographical Information Systems (GIS), and ecological project management - having planned your own dissertation research project in the final year.
Become part of the Durrell Institute of Conservation and Ecology (DICE), an award-winning research centre.
You’ll be taught by award-winning DICE staff, giving you the knowledge, skills and global networks to address modern environmental challenges.
Our extensive range of UK and overseas field trips take advantage of the UK’s rich landscapes, our beautiful green campus, and you could even venture to the forests and beaches of Costa Rica on our tropical field course.
Kent is now an epicentre of rewilding efforts in the UK, and we take advantage of our proximity to reintroduction projects including the Bison in Blean woods, just a stones throw from the University of Kent.
The year in professional practice gives you the opportunity to spend up to a year undertaking work placements with organisations relevant to your degree programme.
Placements can be at home or abroad and give you the opportunity to apply your academic skills in a practical context, offering you rare and unique experiences which will set you apart.
We are entering a period of immense environmental upheaval.
This module will introduce a range of fundamental concepts that underpin our understanding of biodiversity and, therefore, the conservation of biodiversity and associated ecosystem services.
You’ll consider the differences and similarities between the multiple definitions for the term ‘biodiversity’ and examine how scientists are trying to assess the magnitude of biodiversity on the planet.
You’ll investigate spatial and temporal patterns of biodiversity, including how past geophysical processes have shaped biodiversity as we see it distributed across biomes today.
You’ll discuss the importance of biodiversity (both use and non-values) such as the global carbon cycle, how it links to biodiversity and ecosystem service provision.
You’ll then explore contemporary threats to biodiversity and the provision of associated ecosystem services, together with a broad overview of the methods conservationists use to protect and maintain biodiversity.
This grounding in biodiversity is essential if you want to forge a career dedicated to conservation.
The environmental crisis we currently face - which results from human activities - is profoundly entangled with biological, ecological, geographical and geological processes.
To make a difference, you need to engage with the issues and debates surrounding the Anthropocene such as the speed, scope and scale of human activities on the earth as a system.
Further, you’ll look at the multi-dimensionality of the Anthropocene including environmental, social, political, and cultural issues.
A multidisciplinary approach is needed to understand and develop solutions for the current environmental crisis.
We’ll therefore investigate fundamental skill sets that academics need to engage with other academics and society as a whole.
These include skills such as data collection and analysis, accessing and critically reviewing literature, and presenting evidence in multiple formats (such as written, oral and visual).
These skills are not only needed for academic careers, but for any career where you'll be hoping to raise awareness and have an impact in fighting the climate crisis.
How can we make sense of the relationships between plants, animals and their environment (ecology) and the geographical patterns of biological diversity around the world (biogeography)?
This module explores this relationship by drawing on physical geography, evolutionary biology and reproductive biology to help understand how individuals, populations and communities are distributed, and how these organisms interact with their physical environment.
You'll begin by examining how the physiology and reproductive biology of plants have shaped the variety of habitats, ecosystems and biomes we see in the natural world.
You’ll explore how these geographical patterns have been affected by both historical and current factors.
You’ll get hands on, with practical classes and field work to study essential concepts in population ecology, community ecology and island biogeography.
By the end of this module, you'll develop the foundational knowledge you need to help you understand how biogeographical and ecological principles inform global conservation strategies, and you’ll get an insight into how to manage threats to biodiversity from climate change.
We are living in the Anthropocene: an era where human activity has become the key driver of planetary changes.
This module provides a comprehensive introduction to environmental sustainability, building on the planetary boundary concept to discuss the environmental limits that human beings can safely live within.
Using a strongly interdisciplinary approach based on human and environmental geography, we’ll discuss key environmental challenges including climate change, food systems, biodiversity loss, and pollution, among others.
We’ll explore contemporary debates around sustainable development and critically analyse these in the context of real-world issues and relevant policy and governance considerations.
You’ll examine case studies that illustrate the way human-environment relations are shaped by complex social, economic and political processes at different scales.
And through this, you will learn how you can make an impact on the drive towards sustainability.
Now is your opportunity to put your skills and experience to the test through practical fieldwork.
This module introduces you to a range of standard field techniques and help you develop skills in collecting, analysing and presenting field data.
You’ll get experience in using ecological survey techniques including biodiversity monitoring and assessment methods.
The module is spread over the term, allowing you to examine different groups of organisms as they become available for survey, meaning the dates may vary slightly from year to year.
You’ll undertake survey or monitoring projects in groups under the supervision of a member of staff.
Each project will assess the biodiversity of an appropriate taxonomic group (such as birds, amphibians, mammals or plants).
You’ll carry out a range of surveys, analyse the data and write up your results.
How can we evaluate geographical patterns and processes occurring within urban and rural systems?
Learning through introductory lectures and seminars, you’ll develop your understanding of the dynamics of urban and rural change and the underlying economic, social, cultural and environmental processes that drive their geographical expression.
Your teaching will consider how social-spatial processes in urban and rural environments can be interpreted and assessed in light of different values and priorities.
The module also considers wider questions of environmental sustainability, social justice and economic prosperity.
Each section of the module provides the context for understanding these systems, which you’ll then investigate empirically through field-based observation, interpretation and analysis.
This allows you to explore many different systems and areas while developing your skills and knowledge more broadly.
What topics, debates and controversies are shaping the field of conservation science today?
Considering this question not only helps us understand the key issues in conservation but also helps develop conceptual and critical thinking.
Some of the topics you’ll critically evaluate include how to detect new threats to biodiversity, developing sustainable use strategies for over-exploited species, the pollinator crisis, the wildlife trade, the roles of zoos in conservation, conservation in the UK, hunting and defaunation, the impact of emerging infectious diseases, and the impacts of food production on biodiversity.
Each week an exciting topic is introduced in the lecture and discussed in the interactive seminar later in the week.
This allows you to explore lots of different areas in separate deep-dives, so you wont only gain specific knowledge, you'll develop skills that can be applied across many different fields - allowing you to be agile and effective in your career.
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) are increasingly being used in many disciplines, including geography, ecology and conservation, to help solve a wide range of real-world problems using spatial data.
As these disciplines moves towards the analysis of large spatial datasets, employers often report shortages of relevant GIS skills among graduates.
This module will introduce the use of GIS as a means of solving spatial problems providing you with marketable skills relevant to research and commercial needs.
You'll cover a range of methods for the collection, presentation and analysis of spatial data and hands-on training in the most commonly used GIS software.
In the first half of the module you’ll be introduced to the major concepts of GIS —data sources and methods of data acquisition—and you’ll learn how to create and transform maps.
In the second half, you’ll cover more advanced GIS operations such as manipulation of spatial data, spatial analysis of vector and raster data, and remote sensing.
No prior knowledge of GIS, statistics or programming is required as the module is designed for students from any discipline to make rapid progress in their understanding of GIS, so you can stand out to employers.
Through combined lecture/practicals using computer software, this module will provide you with a solid foundation in practical data analysis and interpretation.
Introductory topics will include types of data, descriptive statistics such as measures of central tendency, frequency distributions, the normal distribution, variance (standard error, standard deviation), and how sample parameters and null hypotheses apply in real data.
Inferential statistics include analysis of differences between two groups (e.g.
t-tests and non-parametric equivalents), differences between multiple groups (ANOVA and non-parametric equivalents), variable relationships (correlation and regression), and variable associations (e.g.
chi-squared test).
The role of probability in data analysis will also be considered, as will its application to scientific questions.
Throughout, you will focus on the practical application of statistics, and when and how they are applied.
You will be able link the theory presented with the practical sessions and data collection components.
As part of this you will collect and analyse your own data.
By the end of the module, you will have a knowledge of the underlying principles of statistics, be able to conduct statistical tests in statistical software, critically evaluate the results, and have a sound appreciation of the benefits and limitations of different statistical techniques.
Examine the way in which conservation and environmental activities are widely implemented in practice and on-the-ground, including by organisations for which conservation and the environment is not a primary focus.
explore relevant regulatory and voluntary principles that govern the conservation actions of businesses and governments, alongside some of the more influential multilateral environmental policies.
The pathways by which scientific evidence is synthesised and integrated into policy and practice will be illustrated using case studies.
Consultation processes, as well as the role of government and non-government organisations in formulating and implementing policy and practice will be explored.
You'll be better equipped to practice conservation and environmental protection when you graduate.
If you want to stand out from other graduates in today’s highly competitive global job market, spending time in the workplace as part of your degree can be invaluable.
Many students find that prospective employers are very interested in their professional practice experience.
During your placement, you work under the direction of a line manager within the host organisation, with additional support via a member of academic staff from the University.
You work on one or more tasks agreed in advance; for example, a management plan, a policy report, consultation process, a piece of applied research, or development of a set of educational materials.
This is your chance to conduct an independent and comprehensive research project under the guidance of a research supervisor, focusing on a topic within ecology, conservation, environmental science, or geography, aligned with your degree program and interests.
The opportunity to engage in personal research is  an essential element of academic training in all disciplines, whether this be through desk-based study, practical fieldwork or laboratory work.
The primary aim of the research project is to cultivate your proficiency in the organisation, analysis, and presentation of research.
The approved investigation may be novel, i.e.
one that has not previously been carried out, or it may repeat previously executed work for comparative or control purposes.
It will typically involve some bespoke, project-specific training in practical skills, and will require you to generate research questions, hypotheses and/or theoretical frameworks for their project.
You could choose to involve the collection of new data or be based on existing information, and consider quantitative or qualitative analysis of results, depending on the discipline investigated.
You will be expected to showcase your findings through a research seminar and a dissertation written in the form of a scientific paper - this acts as proof of your knowledge and skills, to help you stand out to employers.
We are entering a time of environmental upheaval.
As such, conservationists and geographers must continually analyse relevant and topical issues in a broad, real-world context.
This includes understanding contemporary research, critically evaluating its ecological, environmental and interdisciplinary basis, and using this information to inform effective solutions to key problems that are embedded in social, political and economic reality.
You’ll use and apply knowledge and skills gained throughout your degree during in-depth discussions of how current research programmes, fit into the wider conservation, geographical and environmental context.
In addition, you’ll write up these evaluations as a series of ‘News and Views’ style commentary articles, as published in the top international journals such as Nature.
This experience of operating in the way leading researchers and conservations do helps you make rapid progress and demonstrates your skills and knowledge to employers.
Tropical rainforests are the most biologically diverse habitats on Earth and the loss of rainforest is of tremendous conservation concern, both due to loss of diversity as well as its consequences for global warming.
You’ll gain first-hand experience of ecological processes, biodiversity and conservation issues associated with humid tropical environments when you spend time in a field studies centre in a rainforest.
You’ll cover rainforest structure and defining characteristics of pristine and disturbed habitats, take practical training in ecological techniques and survey methods for a range of terrestrial taxonomic groups, consider interventions such as protected area management and local community issues and learn about anthropogenic factors affecting rainforests including, fragmentation, global warming and agriculture.
You’ll learn in a field studies centre at a rainforest location where there is an adequate infrastructure to ensure logistical support and health and safety conditions.
You’ll spend time working in forest systems, and there will be an emphasis on practical training in ecological survey and assessment methods.
Teaching on conservation will be integrated with short visits to surrounding sites to gain direct appreciation of the issues, problems and solutions surrounding rainforests and their wildlife.
Participation in the module will be dependent on maintaining a clean disciplinary record during registration on the degree course prior to the module.
Our teaching is research-led as all our staff are active in their fields.
In addition to lectures and seminars, we run laboratory-based practicals and field trips.
You also have an opportunity to conduct a field-based research thesis in your final year.
This gives you practical experience of developing a research proposal and research questions, finding appropriate methods, conducting research, analysing and interpreting results, writing up a full research project and giving an oral presentation, all with the support of a dedicated project supervisor.
We offer you the opportunity to conduct your research project either in the UK or abroad – for example, many students have taken part in the annual expedition to the Peruvian Amazon, one of the most biodiverse regions on Earth.
BBB including one of Biology, Geography, Chemistry, Environmental Science, Psychology, Geology, Physics, Maths or any Joint Science at grade B or above.
Distinction, Distinction, Merit in Countryside Management, Animal Management or Applied Science.
Other subjects will be considered on a case-by-case basis
120 Tariff points from your IB Diploma, Typically H5, H6, H6 or equivalent.
Mathematics grade C / 4
Obtain Access to HE Diploma with 45 Credits at level 3 with 24 credits at Distinction and 21 credits at Merit.
One day trips that are compulsory to a module are financially funded by the School.
Optional or longer trips may require support funding from attendees.
The conservation and environmental sector is an expanding area for employment opportunities.
Employers include ecological surveying, local, regional and national government departments, conservation organisations and the private sector, as well as international conservation and environmental organisations.
Our recent graduates have found work as:

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/3127/economics-management-year-industry:
Combine the study of two core elements of business on our Economics and Management joint honours course.
You'll gain the skills and knowledge essential for managing key areas of organisations and develop an understanding of economic processes and practices.
You'll discover how economists and business leaders think and learn how to use the tools that economists have developed in financial and money markets, enabling you to analyse real economic problems.
Our degree is your first step to a wide range of careers, from accountancy and banking, to journalism and business.
Your year in industry takes places between your second and final year.
This gives you the opportunity to apply your academic skills in a practical context and greatly enhances your CV.
The law expects businesses to be governed responsibly, and individuals within them to be mindful as to how they fulfil their legal obligations to their customers, the environment, their workforce and the public.
This module covers essential aspects of business law, such as negligence, company, employment, and discrimination law, emphasizing responsible governance and fulfilling legal obligations to customers, the environment, the workforce, and the public.
Through real-world case studies and analysis, students gain insights into legal impacts on stakeholders and learn to make ethical business decisions.
By fostering critical thinking and integrity, students prepare for future careers in business.
You can opt to take a year in industry with the Economics and Management joint honours programme, which contributes towards your final degree classification.
The year in industry is taken between the second (Stage 2) and third years (Stage 3) of the degree.
See Economics and Management with a Year in Industry for more details.
The placement must be with a suitable employer, but the reference to 'in industry' is intended to cover employers in any service sector as well as in manufacturing.
In previous years students have worked at:
Students are responsible for finding their placements, but the School offers structured support for the application process in the form of a non-contributory module, 'Preparing for a Placement'.
All of our modules are taught by a combination of lectures and small group sessions, which include seminars, computing practicals, problem sets, debates and role-play games.
We are committed to making sure that you leave Kent with much more than just a degree in Economics.
We put great emphasis on the development of transferable skills, including numeracy, analytical problem solving, data analysis, and written and oral communication, as well as subject-specific skills for further study at postgraduate level.
The modules are assessed by a mixture of coursework and written examinations.
Our Economics and Management graduates have excellent prospects, and we are committed to helping you achieve success.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/3126/economics-and-politics-year-industry:
By understanding the relationship between economics and politics, you will open doors to a range of careers from consultancy and banking, to national, international and local governments.
Gain the modern tools economists use to analyse real economic problems, and the tools used in politics to understand how ideas and political systems shape what citizens, businesses, and governments do.
This degree gives you analytical, data, and communication skills, and a unique perspective on the way the world works.
This unique - and informed - perspective on the world is valuable not only to you, but to employers.
The understanding of the context our world operates in gives you a head start in any career you are looking to jump into.
More specifically, we give you the ideal skillset, knowledge and confidence to go into careers where you can make a real difference.
Your future could be in banking, NGO's, government or the UN, but whatever you do, you'll be able to effect change in the places you want to see it.
This programme includes an opportunity to spend a year working in industry between Stages 2 and 3.
This greatly enhances your CV and gives you the opportunity to apply your academic skills in a practical context.
What makes political systems tick?
How can we understand, assess and make sense of politics?
This module introduces you to the empirical study of the key structures, institutions, processes, outcomes and behaviours in political systems.
You’ll become familiar with the content and shape of political life, and how academic scholars study it.
The module also introduces the data, methods and techniques that give you the tools to study politics.
You’ll learn how to conduct basic political research to learn about political life.
You’ll also build your capacity to explore political phenomena independently and be able to apply your skills to empirical evidence commonly found in policy reports and academic work.
What should a democracy look like?
Can an unequal society be just?
When is it legitimate to resist a government?
By introducing you to debates regarding these foundational issues in political theory, this module will help you develop your knowledge of foundational ideas and thinkers.
You'll also develop the ability to critically reflect upon, and construct arguments to defend, your own answers to crucial questions about the nature of politics.
Lectures introduce these ideas and provide opportunities for you to debate their significance.
Workshops provide opportunities for you to become familiar with the reading, critically discuss its significance, and develop the writing skills required to successfully engage in arguments on political theory.
By the end of the module, you'll have developed knowledge of key concepts in political theory and gained experience of applying them in academic and non-academic contexts.
What does doing politics with words mean?
Politics is about power, which is constructed through language and discourse.
In this module, we critically interrogate how political actors construct language, the motives behind these discursive constructions and the political realities and possibilities they create.
We look at the hidden meanings behind words and language and challenge you to think critically about who is saying them, in what contexts they are being said and for what purposes.
You’ll learn to apply various qualitative research methods and techniques such as interviews, focus groups, participant observation, and thematic and discourse analysis.
The module enables you to read, interpret and critically assess arguments and data drawing on qualitative methods in political science and international relations.
You’ll be introduced to the logic of empirical research in the social sciences, and to basic concepts and techniques of qualitative interpretive approaches.
You’ll be able to apply your skills to empirical evidence commonly found in policy and academic work.
Explore the politics of the global climate crisis at the international, national and local level.
Whether it is global climate change governance, national or local climate adaptation policy making and plans, or individual attitudes and behaviour, we need to understand what motivates actors and how a combination of motivations and structure translate into climate action in various contexts and societies.
You'll gain the tools to explain the politics of the global climate crisis at the international, national and local level.
You'll draw from a variety of debates from political science, international relations, human geography and urban studies.
In addition to an overview of key policy documents driving the discourse, you'll explore interdisciplinary theorisations across the social and natural sciences that help rethink the arguments in renewed ways.
This includes the critical role of cities and an understanding of how key concepts such as the Anthropocene and adaptation and mitigation shape the global climate emergency agenda.
Why did a diverse group of states embark on a process that has led to the world’s most extensive example of international integration, the European Union?
Since its inception the European Union has grappled with changes in global politics as well as economic and political challenges, many of these multiplying in recent years.
There has never been a more important and interesting time to learn about the EU and its politics.
You'll learn and understand how the European Union has reached where it is today, how its political system works, how it makes policy, its strengths and weaknesses and how it has been driven by the politics and economics of its member states as well as its place in the international system.
In exploring these elements, you'll develop your own answers to the questions of why states pursue cooperation and integration at the European level and what the EU’s future might be.
What is democracy?
How can it be measured?
Is populism a threat to democracy?
Is democracy likely to survive?
You'll consider these questions by first exploring the nature of democracy as a form of government and reviewing the way it has been conceptualised and measured across countries and over time.
Review how and why some countries have become democratic while other have not and what factors can explain variation between countries.
Assess to what extent democracy is under threat, the nature of threats such as populism, their roots and how they could be countered.
Conclude by trying to predict its likely trajectory in the foreseeable future.
You'll gain an analysis of the past, present,and future of democracy and its significance in contemporary politics.
With the world's largest economy and most powerful armed forces, the United States sets the world stage.
Yet, according to many critics, the US’s own political system is in crisis and turmoil, polarised on hot-button culture issues but also witnessing an attack on democracy itself by an ex-president and his loyal acolytes.
Trump challenged both our notions of who could be elected to the most powerful job and our long-established theories about how the US government can and should work and Biden has struggled to make significant legislative reforms in the face of implacable Republican opposition in Congress.
The US, like many other nations, faces serious public policy questions on the economy, health, energy, education, guns, crime, poverty and immigration, among others, but can its seemingly dysfunctional political system rise to the challenge?
You'll take a critical look at US politics and formulate your own answer to this and other questions through this comprehensive introduction to the politics and government of the United States.
How should the relationship between economic forces and world politics be understood?
This module explores change and continuity in the world economy and gives you the tools to understand the nature of the link between economics and international relations.
Through the lens of political economy, which pertains to the complex relationships between society, the state and the market, you'll debate and analyse the economic dimensions of contemporary international relations.
Major themes of the module include: governance; globalisation; institutions; interdependence; power; conflict; cooperation; hegemony; and crisis.
Specific content may shift year-to-year depending on current events, possibly covering: trade; development; poverty; global health; the financial sector; foreign investment; hunger; the energy sector; climate change; and the relationship between political economy and conflict.
Across these topics, you will critically examine the interests, relationships and conflicts of individual actors in the global political economy.
This allows you to better to economic issues on a national stage into an international context, so you are better able to asses situations with all of the contributing factors to them, giving you the insight to find solutions.
What dynamics shape foreign policy, and how does foreign policy shape international relations?
You’ll examine the foreign policies of nation-states and in doing so learn how to study foreign policy in a rapidly changing international environment.
Investigate the dynamics of foreign policymaking in the context of major events and crises in international politics.
Specific case studies will vary from year to year, but are likely to cover issues of diplomacy, war and security, economic competition, and institutional cooperation.
You'll gain insight into the complex relationship between the analysis and practice of foreign policy.
Cases are explored via different international actors (including states but also examining the role of specific leaders), the foreign policy environments they inhabit (internal and external, structural and institutional), and the motivations that inform policymakers’ actions and interactions.
You’ll compare and contrast different theories, enabling you to critically assess your advantages and weaknesses by applying them to real world examples.
This application of your knowledge and skills demonstrates to employers that you are able to take complex theory and put it into practice, a valuable skill in a fast paced, ever changing international landscape.
What does the modern state look like?
How has the legitimacy of the state, as an institution, been justified in the history of political thought?
How have ideas shaped and influenced revolutionary movements?
How have revolutions in turn shaped the thinking of those who lived through them?
When are revolutions ever justified?
By critically analysing the key thinkers and texts in the history of political thought, you’ll gain the key tools needed to think through two of the most important forces that have shaped modern politics: the rise of the state, and the revolutions that followed it.
This allows you to better understand the process that has led to the nation states of today, and explore the question as to what will happen next, will revolutions and their ideals 'wither away'?
Or is there another stage to come?
Negotiations are essential in building and sustaining international cooperation and peace.
You'll gain a comprehensive understanding of negotiation concepts and the practical skills essential for effective negotiation in professional and personal contexts.
Through a combination of theoretical insights, case studies, and interactive exercises, you'll explore key negotiation theories, strategies and techniques.
These include bargaining strategies, power dynamics, communication skills, and ethical considerations.
You'll engage in simulated negotiation scenarios to apply theoretical concepts in practice, honing your negotiation skills and developing your ability to analyse and navigate complex negotiation situations.
By the end of the module, you'll have gained valuable insights into negotiation theory and acquired practical negotiation skills that are applicable across a wide range of fields and industries.
Many of the political ideas we take to be the most important were developed in early modern, or even ancient periods.
Can concepts like democracy, liberty and justice help us understand the distinct political problems posed by issues such as global warming, artificial intelligence, or decolonisation?
You’re introduced to a range of cutting edge issues within political theory, and your ability to use theory to respond to pressing political issues is developed.
You’ll explore how political theorists are conceptualising contemporary political questions and shaping the way that we are responding to them.
In doing so you will gain knowledge of contemporary political thought and develop your ability to understand how theorists make sense of rapidly changing circumstances in politics.
You’ll become familiar with advanced work at the forefront of the discipline of political theory, while being encouraged to consider how these ideas might be applied and communicated in non-academic contexts.
This development of critical insight and the knowledge on how to apply it is crucial as you step into a career focused on finding solutions to contemporary problems.
Advanced democracies face a range of policy challenges that need to be dealt with to ensure prosperity, sustainability, civic engagement and the effective operation of the political system.
Analyse the current policy challenges facing Britain, and explore what solutions might be implemented to address these challenges.
You’ll consider a range of different pressure-points facing the country, which might include issues around territorial governance (eg.
the integrity of the UK; the UK’s place in the international system), complex policy issues (eg.
environmental protection; economic fairness) and patterns of citizen behaviour (eg.
levels of political engagement).
For each pressure-point, you’ll explore the nature of the policy challenge, identifying potential policy solutions and assessing the costs and benefits associated with these solutions.
Through coverage and assessment, you’ll enhance your ability to identify, analyse and solve complex policy problems facing British politics today.
In democratic systems, policy decisions are supposed to reflect citizens’ opinions or preferences.
The nature of public beliefs is thus a central concern of policy-makers and a focus for political analysis.
Yet what are citizen opinions and how are they formed?
The democratic ideal sees expressions of public opinion as reflecting citizens’ true preferences and a ‘rational’ processing of information.
Yet people’s opinions may not meet these ideals.
Instead, individual opinions may be shaped by a range of external influences, and information may be interpreted in a selective and one-sided manner.
If so, this raises questions about whether people’s opinions can be manipulated, and suggests the presence of biased beliefs and potentially of misinformation.
Public debate in countries like Britain and the US shows many signs of belief manipulation, partisan biases and misinformation.
You’ll explore why public discourse might suffer from these problems and what might be done to overcome them.
In doing so, you’ll grow your understanding of the role of citizens in contemporary democratic systems, and enhance your evaluative and analytical skills.
Dictatorships are rising around the world.
According to the Varieties of Democracy Institute, in 2022 just over one quarter of the world’s population were living in a full democracy, a number that has fallen dramatically in the 21st century.
But what is dictatorship, autocracy, authoritarianism?
You will analyse the different forms that non-democratic rule takes and will examine the rise of these kinds of regimes and their leaders, as well as the support and the resistance of their citizens.
Explore how dictatorships persist, why they fall, and the role of the international community.
You’ll use case studies of dictatorship from China to Iraq, and draw on films, documentaries, books, and cutting-edge political science studies.
With the rise of dictatorships, your understanding of them will help you work across the globe in politics or international relations, and your experience will be increasingly relevant and valuable to employers.
What does the future look like?
Who is it for?
What do emerging technologies, such as social media, artificial intelligence, and changes in working conditions mean for the future of political institutions?
Many texts of literature and political theory - from dystopia, to utopia - make claims about what the future will look like, even if speculatively.
You’ll be introduced to recent developments in political theory, utopian and dystopian literature and science fiction which have made claims about the future, developing your ability to think critically about these claims, and allowing you to creatively consider how political thought might help us understand the relationship between the past, present and future of political events.
How does who we are influence how we understand and engage with politics?
Is identity always political?
Should political decision making take our identities into account?
Evaluate contemporary debates about identity politics, and develop your own responses to these and other questions.
You will explore scholarly literature on identity politics as well as certain key texts from a range of approaches that explore the significance of identity with the field of Politics and International Relations.
Bringing these together, you will then be able to assess how these traditions may inform contemporary debates about ‘who we think we are’ while also investigate ways in which we may think about ourselves at the limits of, or even outside of, those traditions.
You will be encouraged to apply this material in two ways: as a framework for reflecting upon your own identity and as a way of critically understanding how or if we should judge the identity of others.
You’ll develop your knowledge of identity politics and the relationship between them with a view to being able to apply these to your own sense of identity in relation to other people.
This makes you a far better communicator across issues where identity is key, allowing you to help bring new solutions to these problems and drive positive change.
How can we understand the Middle East?
Why have states in the region experienced conflict and instability?
Should the solution to violence come from outside the region, or can problems only be resolved from the inside?
You’ll answer these questions through understanding of the societies, cultures, spaces and political systems of the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), with their diversity, histories and complexities.
You’ll explore different themes related to MENA politics, using different states and societies from the region as case studies.
Gain insights into the root causes of conflicts; the persistence of authoritarian regimes; the rise of youth protest movements; tradition versus modernity; and urbanism versus periphery.
An interdisciplinary approach is applied to the study of the region, bringing in insights and methods from politics, geography and anthropology.
You’ll take a comparative approach, placing the MENA region in a broader context and applying lessons from other parts of the world to better understand the region.
Your ability to study the region and put it in the context of the rest of the world and across different disciplines and approaches demonstrates to employers that you are able to make critical insights to a wide range of issues and offer new insights and solutions to enduring problems and questions.
The Indo-Pacific is arguably the world’s most economically and politically dynamic region.
But despite nuclear, territorial, and historical tensions, growing superpower competition, and cross-border threats from crime to the environment, the region has remained relatively peaceful and stable since 1945.
You'll seek to understand the most urgent security issues in the Indo-Pacific region and develop the knowledge and skills to provide nuanced and concise policy advice on them.
You’ll begin by exploring the puzzle of the region’s stability by practically applying lessons from international relations theories and analyse what rising US-China competition means for regional states and the future of the region.
Move on to analyse three key security challenges in the region in depth: the risk of war over the Taiwan Straits; nuclear proliferation on the Korean peninsula; and territorial disputes in the South China Sea.
You’ll develop skills delivering policy advice about these challenges through group exercises about hypothetical and real-life crises, as well as developing your own written policy memos and briefings.
This experience helps you demonstrate to a wide range of employers that you not only have knowledge of international relations, but that you also have the skills to apply that knowledge and find solutions to emerging problems.
Politics and International Relations is a fast moving, dynamic field of study.
You’ll gain the opportunity to work at the cutting edge of the discipline by studying emerging issues and problems.
Learning is structured around a topic or topics that draw on current research from one or more of the school’s main, informal pathways: behaviour and institutions, the world, and political ideas.
You’ll be encouraged to take a lead in your own learning by making sense of issues which are either not fully understood, under dispute, or that have unclear significance.
In doing so you will establish yourself as a critical independent learner who can engage with emerging issues within the field.
Being at the forefront of new developing problems gives you the ability to explore new urgent issues in future.
This adaptability and critical insight makes you stand out to employers and opens the door to a wide range of careers.
The modules are assessed by continuous assessment of coursework throughout the year and an end-of-year exam in the final term.
A number of modules at each stage are assessed solely through coursework.
Our main teaching methods are lectures, seminars, working groups, PC laboratory sessions and individual discussions with your personal tutor or module teachers.
Assessment is through continuous feedback, written examinations, assessed essays and oral presentations.
We hold a weekly extra-curricular Open Forum organised by our School research groups, where students and staff have the opportunity to discuss and debate key issues of the day that affect higher education and politics in the world today.
Our Economics and Politics graduates have excellent prospects, and we are committed to helping you achieve success.
Your combination of skills sets you up for a range of roles in areas such as: accountancy, banking and finance, journalism and government.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/6501/electrical-and-electronic-engineering-with-a-year-in-industry-beng:
The Year in Industry gives you the opportunity to gain experience as an engineer working in a professional environment and to develop employment-related skills.
The placement year develops your technical skills, employability, and soft skills as well as increasing your awareness of the future context for employment.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/4423/electronic-and-computer-engineering-with-a-year-in-industry-beng:
The additional aims of our Year in Industry option are to give students an opportunity to gain experience as computer systems engineers working in a professional environment and to develop employment-related skills.
The placement year develops students’ technical skills, employability, and soft skills as well as increasing their awareness of the future context for employment.
You take all compulsory modules then choose one from a list of optional modules.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/88/english-language-and-linguistics:
Investigate how language and literature shapes and is shaped by the social, political and cultural contexts in which it is used, and explore the many facets of linguistics and literature from a global perspective.
Our English Language, Linguistics and World Literature degree offers a unique opportunity to study at the crossroads of these exciting subjects.
Over the course of your degree, you have the opportunity to examine linguistic patterns in human languages, the relationship between language and thought, the links between literature and history and the contributions of literature from around the globe to our understanding of the contemporary world.
At the same time, you will gain expertise and experience in project development and data analysis that will help prepare you to work confidently in any career, from labs to offices and from classrooms to boardrooms.
Taught by world-leading experts, you’ll develop the multidisciplinary skill set needed to succeed in a world where understanding different cultures and languages is pivotal.
In a city renowned for its cultural heritage, the dynamic and tailored curriculum ensures that by graduation, you will be in the lead for your chosen career path, having the knowledge, skills, confidence and agility to make your career your own.
Gain a solid framework for the areas of study you'll cover as you progress, with this introduction to human language.
You'll identify the core properties of language that make it unique among other human abilities and examine how these core properties can be explained by understanding the human mind and the functions of language in the world.
You'll be introduced to core concepts and debates in the study of language (including language universals, the nature of language learning, the relationship between language and thought, the relationship between sound and meaning and the differences between language and communication more broadly).
Explore a constellation of literary works, engaging with different genres, periods, styles, cultures and traditions.
You’ll study the richness of literature in global contexts and engage with the concept of World Literature.
The relationship between national and global literatures will also be explored, alongside important questions about language, translation, adaptation and reception.
You’ll learn how cultural contexts can shape literary texts and how themes travel across national boundaries.
You’ll also consider the dynamics of power in the formation of literary canons, thinking particularly about centres and peripheries.
This introductory module allows you to read literature in global and national contexts, cultivate different methods of literary analysis and formulate ideas critically and analytically.
Gain a solid foundational knowledge in the core levels of language study: phonetics, phonology, syntax, semantics and pragmatics.
You'll be introduced to a range of technical and formal mechanisms for analysing and describing language and the skills you will need to be able to apply your knowledge.
You'll develop analytical tools for understanding and constructing arguments about linguistic structure.
Through being provided with a conceptual framework for description and analysis, you will gain a deeper understanding of language.
You'll also gain insight into how they can apply the theoretical concepts they are learning to their own communication.
You'll gain awareness of some of the key areas of debate and consensus in linguistics from multiple theoretical traditions.
This will prepare you to take subsequent modules that extend your theoretical knowledge and allow you to apply your understanding to areas of language study such as teaching, clinical linguistics and literary analysis.
How has storytelling evolved over the last 4000 years?
We'll take you on a literary journey from classical literature to fairy tales and, finally, to the modern short story.
Taking the idea of intertextuality as its theoretical starting point, you'll explore ideas about transmission and transformation, thinking particularly about how stories and motifs travel from one culture to another, changing in shape and emphasis as they go.
Corresponding questions about originality, adaptation and appropriation will also be considered.
The central aim is to explore the deep-rooted connections that exist between literatures from around the world, allowing us to learn important lessons about human cultures, histories and societies.
You'll practise different methods of literary analysis, including close reading and comparative study.
Students will engage with a range of relevant theoretical material, employing psychoanalytic, feminist and structuralist approaches to unlock symbolic meanings in the primary material, equipping them with the literary knowledge and analytical tools necessary for further study.
What is the role of language in society?
You'll be introduced to  the notions of ‘language’ or ‘dialect’ in relation to the creation of social identity, by exploring how an individual’s conscious or unconscious language choices position them in the social groups they interact with.
Historical and contemporary examples of language use impacting societal issues will be examined, including the role of language in social and political movements, the functions of linguistic choices in multilingual societies, and the role of language policy in education.
Fiction can create worlds, dissolve and unite images into new forms and capture the excesses and limitations of reality.
It has the capacity to push the boundaries of the known and accepted in order to reveal hidden truths about humanity and the wider world.
Nowhere is this potential more apparent than in fantasy literature, broadly understood to include fairy tales and fables, magical realism, the Gothic, the Fantastic and Science Fiction.
These brands of literature are able to harness the power of the imagination, distorting real life to show something of its true nature.
Engaging with a range of theoretical perspectives and fiction from around the world, the module will be centrally concerned with the various ways that the conventions of non-realist modes of writing can contribute to the production of meaning.
You'll explore the symbolic function of the supernatural, the marvellous, and the outright strange, connecting these motifs to the wider cultural and historic periods from which they emerge.
You're given the opportunity to reflect on the nature and power of fiction, the relevance of genre as a means of categorisation and the symbolic potential of fantasy literature.
What is Comparative and World Literature and how does it work?
You're encouraged to cultivate modes of comparative critical reading, to consider the discipline’s history and definitions, to engage with some of its key theories and methods, and to embrace the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead.
Among the modes of reading explored are hermeneutics, structuralism, and deconstruction.
Areas discussed include the theory and practice of translation, gender studies, literature and the emotions, exile and migration, text and image, ecocriticism, and digital humanities.
You'll have the opportunity to study a range of theoretical writings alongside a selection of short primary works (poems, novellas, photographs and illustrations, extracts from novels and films).
You reflect on a discipline that keeps reinventing itself by studying some of its most significant theoretical and methodological trends, and to identify and explore the avenues of critical thinking we might want to pursue in the future.
Gain a broad range of skills useful for the collection, analysis and presentation of language data.
Topics covered will include: the nature of behavioural and corpus data, principles of data collection, introduction to quantitative and qualitative analysis; ethical considerations in data collection.
An exciting opportunity to develop an individual project in a topic of your choice, under the expert guidance of your supervisor.
Expand your creative, analytical, critical, and organisational skills through the creation and completion of an independent project within a supportive learning environment.
By means of a series of enriching and stimulating workshops, lectures, and supervisory meetings, you’ll be equipped with the methods and training required to succeed in creating an independent project.
The project will not only expand your intellectual horizons as a student, but also prepare you for future careers through the transferable skills and personal development you’ll gain as a result.
You’ll benefit from structured learning progression that includes: formulating a proposal in consultation with your supervisor, delivering a mini-presentation on your proposed topic in a friendly student environment, and culminating in the final submission of your project, showcasing your journey as an independent and accomplished learner.
Track the linguistic development of neurotypical children from birth to four years of age.
Stages of development covered will include: babbling; segmentation, categorisation and mapping; one-word utterances; two-word utterances, grammatical morphemes; negation and question formation.
With the child’s linguistic trajectory in place, you'll assess the extent to which different theoretical approaches can account for the acquisition patterns they have observed.
Investigate representations of gender and identity in a selection of texts by women writers from different temporal, cultural, and linguistic backgrounds.
In particular you'll explore the way in which representations of “self” and “other”, love and desire, madness and motherhood reflect the respective socio-cultural contexts and the situation of women therein.
Corporeal aesthetics, patterns of behaviour labelled as feminine or masculine, representations of transgressive conduct, and relations of power will be investigated, drawing on classic feminist and queer theory and historiography, psychoanalytical thought, narratology , genre-theory, subject-theory, and studies in visual culture.
You'll engage with the significance of images and representations of women and men proliferated through literature.
These representations provide or question role models and perpetuate or problematize stereotypical versions of female/male goals and aspirations.
Furthermore, emphasis will be placed on close readings of the selected literary and cinematic works, on cultural differences and variations, and on how conceptions of sex and gender are changing in the course of time.
Are you considering a career in publishing?
Gain an introduction to the nuts-and-bolts of the publishing process in a supportive and intellectually stimulating academic environment.
Skills gained range from proofreading, editing, marketing, and other useful techniques taught in conversation with comparative and world literature methods.
Workshops featuring guest speakers (professionals, as well as alumni) sharing their knowledge, expertise, and personal journeys in the world of publishing are an important component of the module.
The assessment gives you the opportunity to design their own independent project with the guidance of an academic supervisor.
Projects may range from creating your own blog, magazine, and book series to writing book reviews and fiction and non-fiction blurbs.
Switch roles from sitting behind the desk to standing in front of a class, as you're introduced to the complexity of language learning and teaching.
You'll develop other transferable skills such as public speaking, writing objectives and assessing outcomes, creating pedagogical materials, evaluating and analysing methodology, and synthesising linguistic knowledge into a creative application.
You'll explore different aspects of language pedagogy, language acquisition, general education and classroom practice.
You'll apply theoretical aspects of language teaching and planning in the implementation of a lesson, as well as evaluative skills applied in the formal assessment of a speaker’s level.
You'll be introduced to proficiency scales including, but not limited to, CEFR and ACTFL, and will discuss and evaluate language proficiency descriptors.
With a focused teaching practice, you'll use the practical and theoretical knowledge gained in class to conduct short mini-lesson practices in groups.
This includes writing and crafting learning objectives and structuring an effective a lesson plan.
Take the opportunity to experience what it takes to be on the other side of the classroom.
The year in industry takes place between your second and final year.
It is a great opportunity to gain workplace experience, increase your professional contacts and acquire new skills, and is a valuable addition to your CV.
You can take the year in industry in the UK or abroad with a wide range of employers in areas including the arts, education and cultural heritage.
While you are responsible for finding your placement, we offer support and guidance through the application process.
Tuition fees for the placement year are greatly reduced and employers may offer expenses or a salary.
The year in industry is assessed on a pass/fail basis and does not count towards your final degree classification.
An extended, independent project on a topic determined by you in consultation with the module convenor and project supervisor which builds on all your gained knowledge and skills.
You'll write a proposal for their project and are assigned a supervisor accordingly.
You'll be led through the development of your project by a combination of one-to-one supervisions, and a series of lectures and workshops designed to hone the ideas and skills tyou need to fulfil your project.
During the development of the project, you'll submit plans and literature reviews, and offer a presentation on your work as it progresses.
The Final Year Project presents a chance to devote a sustained period of time to an area for which students feel enthusiasm, curiosity, and passion.
You'll focus on an in-depth scrutiny of a subject through primary and secondary research and writing.
You have the opportunity to put the research skills and training developed earlier in their degree into practice and will gain transferable skills such as organisation, independence and project management.
Compare the language skills of neurotypical individuals with individuals who have social, cognitive, linguistic or physical differences that impact upon their language development.
Because of a different or delayed developmental path, these individuals may process language in diverse ways or have non-typical linguistic representations.
You'll examine behavioural data (comprehension and production) in phonological, morphological, syntactic and pragmatic domains, learning how to relate these data to the profiles of the individuals concerned.
Critical cases will include a selection from the following: profoundly Deaf individuals, individuals with official diagnoses (e.g.
Down Syndrome; Autism; Developmental Language Disorder), neurotypical children and adults.
These cases will provide the backdrop against which students can consider key theories and debates in the psychology of language.
Explore interdisciplinary approaches (relevant disciplines: linguistics, anthropology, sociology, philosophy) to the notion of 'culture' and 'intercultural communication', with a special focus on concepts and methodologies from the areas of Pragmatics, Sociolinguistics, and Discourse Analysis.
You'll cover phenomena such as indexicality, (im)politeness, humour, non-literal language, miscommunication, while also discussing a range of discourse contexts (classroom, healthcare, business, media).
You are encouraged to reflect critically upon the definition of culture, linking it to identity, social variables and, of course, language and communication.
The module’s scope is not limited to examining instances of communication between members of different linguistic communities (or national cultures), but also expands to any communicative event where participants’ varied backgrounds and cultural identities come into play.
We'll provide you with a methodological toolkit that allows you to analyse and dissect the intricacies of any communicative event.
You'll learn the principles of Conversation Analysis, as well as working with a sociolinguistic model of analysis (Hymes’ SPEAKING model).
The two assessments for this module are aimed at enhancing your analytical skills, research skills, reporting and academic writing.
The Fieldnotes assignment encourages you to carry out a systematic collection and recording of spontaneous interactions in intercultural environments, while the Case Study assignment builds on you previous data collection and allows you to gain experience in writing in the style and format of an academic paper.
Explore bilingualism and multilingualism from linguistic, social and cognitive perspectives.
You'll consider contemporary definitions of bilingualism and multilingualism; the critical roles of age and type of exposure in second or third language acquisition; the social and cognitive consequences of multilingualism; the phenomena of language transfer and code-switching and what each tell us about second language processing and lexical representations; the multilingual brain.
Past and current theories of multilingualism will be introduced and critiqued throughout the discussion of these key topics.
Explore a range of issues relating to mental health and neurodiversity as they manifest in literature from around the world.
You'll explore the representation of conditions ranging from depression and anxiety to psychopathy, schizophrenia, autism and hysteria.
Drawing on relevant theoretical material, including interventions from neuroscience, psychiatry, philosophy and psychoanalysis, you'll consider both symptomology and symbolism.
You're encouraged not just to diagnose fictional characters with neurological conditions, but to consider the symbolic potential of neurodiversity and mental health, particularly in relation to issues of power, gender, social cohesion, and the alienation of the self.
Importantly, you'll be asked to consider the ways that attitudes to mental health have changed over time, from the earliest references in the ancient world, to associations with demonology and, later, the development of psychiatry and psychoanalysis.
Foucault’s influential ideas about madness as a social construction and mechanism of power will also be evaluated.
Through close engagement with the primary material, you have the opportunity to develop tyour thinking around these complex, topical, and often highly sensitive issues.
What makes certain books more adaptable than others?
Explore how books are adapted and interpreted for the screen.
You’ll analyse how certain books lend themselves to multiple reshapings, such as F.
Scott Fitzgerald’s The Great Gatsby.
You’ll also analyse lesser-known works that have gone on to become Hollywood blockbusters, like the stories of Jorge Luis Borges, masterfully adapted by Christopher Nolan in Inception.
Adaptations directed by internationally recognized filmmakers will be examined with a view to eliciting an understanding of their particular approach to, and filmic vision of, written texts.
Through these analyses, we aim to understand the distinct cinematic visions and approaches of filmmakers from around the world toward literary adaptations.
Through these discussions, you’ll explore theories of adaptation intermediality and film criticism, as well as questions of class, identity, gender, power, migration and race that underpin both the literary works and their filmic adaptations.
Explore the notions of exile, travel and migration by focusing on an international corpus of texts and films from the nineteenth to the twenty-first century that concern the transnational movement of European and non-European writers across the globe.
Travel trajectories will be studied in relation to the specific historical and cultural contexts out of which the texts originated and that concern complex issues of race, identity, gender and imperial history.
You'll gain an international and comparative methodology for studying the phenomenon of travel, exile and migration narratives.
You'll also be equipped with a critical framework that will allow you to interrogate and problematise Eurocentric and exoticizing perspectives of Asian, African, and Latin American countries, particularly what critics have theorised as the imperial gaze and orientalism respectively.
Build on the idea that writing creatively entails an interest in the ‘expressive mechanics’ of language.
A more in-depth understanding of this will benefit your writing in many ways, for example by giving you a precise taxonomy with which to describe fictional, poetic and dramatic techniques and aiding critical reflection on creative practice.
The module is designed to appeal not just to those with an interest in writing, but to anyone who would like to explore further and in a ‘hands on’ fashion the insights into the expressive functions of language and literature offered by stylistics.
SYou'll be ‘doing stylistics’ in the broadest sense of that phrase.
You're introduced to various stylistic and narratological topics (e.g.
linguistic deviation, deixis, cognitive poetics, focalization, ways of representing thought/speech, and metaphor) produce creative exercises which implement and explore them.
Various ‘input’ texts (poetry, fiction and drama) will also be used as examples of the techniques and concepts under discussion, and some as the basis for textual intervention exercises (critical-creative rewriting).
Students then produce a portfolio of creative work (which may be one or more complete stories, a selection of poems, a dramatic text, or a mixture), accompanied by a stylistics-informed critical reflection on practice.
You'll engage with learning via lectures, seminars, workshops, and independent study.
Lectures enable you to learn from leading researchers in language and literature, while discussion-based seminars and independent reading affords you the freedom to further pursue your own interests.
Small group work in seminars develops your ability to work in teams and to communicate ideas effectively.
Your knowledge and understanding of how literature and language works and how we communicate will open doors to lots of exciting careers.
Whether you have a specific career in mind or haven’t thought beyond university, we can help you plan for success.
As an English Language, Linguistics and World Literature graduate, you will have developed the key skills that employers look for, including the ability to think critically, communicate your ideas and opinions, and work independently and as part of a team.
We offer several modules with direct relevance to the world of work, including options that focus on teaching, writing in the media, or speech and language therapy.
Your knowledge and understanding of how language works, how we communicate, and how to work with linguistic data will open doors to lots of exciting careers.
There are lots of opportunities for you to gain extra skills such as learning a language or volunteering.
Outside of your studies our employability team also offer a comprehensive programme of workshops, CV clinics, mock assessment centres, alumni talks and careers events specifically to help you succeed when you graduate.
The study of literature and language at Kent equips you with the adaptability to thrive in an exciting career in whatever area you are passionate about.
This means you leave Kent ready to step into a career of limitless opportunities, from education to business, charity to government; you’ll have the talent and insight to build the career you want.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/3753/english-literature:
From the traditional canon to the innovative contemporary novel, our BA English Literature programme empowers you to identify how the world is perceived and informed through literary narratives.
We will give you the confidence and support to apply your understanding of literature to today’s world, gaining critical and creative skills that allow you to effect change and shape your own future.
Tailor your studies according to your interests, choosing from a broad range of literary periods, topics, and themes.
You can explore the written word across poetry, drama and prose, but also through narrative forms in queer zines; films; artist books; and video games.
Your studies will sharpen your critical tools and nourish your unique creativity in a supportive academic environment.
Our curriculum is designed set you up for a successful and exciting career across wide range of fields.
How free are writers to make and break literary forms?
How do literary forms shape our understanding of selfhood, history, and society?
Gain an introduction to the relationship between form and context in literary studies as you explore a rich variety of literary forms from the medieval period down to the present, including poems, plays, novels, and short stories.
In lectures and seminars, you will examine how forms produce aesthetic effects and relate to ideologies, with a particular attention to the roles of innovation and adaptation in literary history.
TYou'll also gain a thorough grounding in the writing and research skills necessary for studying English literature at university level.
There is another world, which is this world.
Dystopias, futures and other forms of speculative writing offer us a new clarity on the some of the most pressing issues we face in our world today.
Through examining four thematically structured units over the course of the term, you'll discover how the study of narratives that exist in ‘other worlds’ can offer insightful and nuanced analyses of complex questions involving environmental, political, historical, and/or societal concerns.
You'll also consider how these broader contexts and concerns can be utilized to further interrogate the texts tyou read.
Generic terms such as ‘dystopian fiction,’ or ‘science fiction’ will be understood both broadly and generatively and your studies will therefore cover both literary and paraliterary examples, as well as works in other media.
TYou'll have the opportunity to respond to the other worlds you explore through creative and critical means.
What are the key ideas you need to become a literary critic?
What are the different approaches to interpreting a literary text?
In this module, students will learn about some of the most important thinkers in the history of literary criticism, understand how their ideas and methods changed the way we study literature, and put them into practice in your own writing.
They will study revolutionary ideas about class and capitalism, explore dreams and the unconscious, and discuss landmark texts in the history of thinking about race, gender and sexuality.
They will also be guided in developing their own writing skills as a literary critic, learning how to use evidence and judgement to make arguments.
By the end of the module they will have the knowledge, understanding and skills they need to embark on your own journey towards becoming a literary critic.
How can nature be invented?
Before the Romantic era, writers such as Daniel Defoe talked of the horror, ugliness and ‘unhospitable terror’ of the Lake District.
One hundred years later, the reputation of the region had been completely transformed into a place of beauty and contemplation.
Discover what happened to the idea of the natural world in the century between Defoe and Wordsworth and how the debates produced during the period are still relevant today.
You will examine how the legacy of Romanticism influences our understanding of global warming and climate change, mechanisation, technology and urban living.
The poetry, fiction, and essays you encounter will explore how the Romantics saw the newly-emergent natural world as: restorative; political, even revolutionary; the place where our bodies belong; an analogue of the mind; a reminder of who we are as a species and the threat of extinction that results in our forgetting it.
By reading Romantic texts in conversation with nature writing and ecological debates of our own time, you'll see that Romanticism is still with us, as are its concerns about the environment.
How do writers emerge from, work within, speak to and challenge their cultural and creative contexts?
How do those contexts shape our creative identity and practice?
What are the varied professional practices and communities that form part of a critic and/or writer's work?
You'll be introduced to a range of methodologies to help you develop your identity and interests as a writer, be that critical, creative, or a mixture of the two.
You'll explore approaches to creating and developing your own writing through conversation and exchange, broadly understood, as a starting point.
This will include using research; intertextual practices; collaborative and editorial exercises; interviewing; and reviewing.
You will reflect upon and analyse the current literary and publishing landscape, and how your work might respond and enter into it.
Your final portfolio of texts may include a range of forms, such as book reviews, manifestoes, short essays, articles, and your own poetry, fiction or creative non-fiction.
You will learn skills that are essential to the work of a professional writer, and begin to situate their own writing in a 'creative commons’ of shared intellectual resource and exchange.
How does class feature in contemporary literature today?
How do writers tell their class stories?
You'll consider British working-class writing in an environment of global economic crisis, insecurity, and austerity, and the context of the marginalisation of working-class voices.
Examine how questions of class belonging, community, and identity shape contemporary culture, and how class interacts with other forms of non-class social exclusions.
Developing a critical language to talk about class that speaks to the new realities of global contemporary society, you'll survey the various styles in which contemporary class identifications are made, and the issues tied up with these identifications, from work to community, from place to prejudice.
How does language speak power?
How does it speak against it?
Consider these questions in relation to the world’s superpower, the US, from the times of the Puritan settlers to the age of Donald Trump.
Look at how certain forms of speech, specific rhetorical manoeuvres and particular metaphors have structured power — as well as how they have been mobilised to challenge a status quo.
In so doing, you'll be given the necessary tools to understand and critique the aesthetic, political and rhetorical choices of a range of important cultural and political figures including Thomas Jefferson, Martin Luther King and Sylvia Federici.
You'll also analyse the social factors that give rise to these texts, surveying a range of key historical events and struggles in US history, from Independence to the Civil Rights Movement, from the Protestant work ethic to the rise of the alt-right.
What were the key literary forms developed in premodern English literature?
You'll examine key literary texts from around 200 years before the publication of Shakespeare’s sonnets and the performance of his plays, to late in the century of his death, the seventeenth century.
You'll explore narrative poetry, from Chaucer’s pioneering Canterbury Tales, to Milton’s Paradise Lost .
TYou'll also examine lyric poetry, from the courtly love motifs of the late medieval period into the extraordinary early modern vogue for the sonnet form.
We will trace the diversity of premodern drama, from the extraordinary spectacle of community-led cycle plays in cities across England, to the professionalisation of English drama, and the establishment of London theatre.
Overall, you'll understand the forms we see in Shakespeare within their deeper temporal and cultural contexts.
How did literature become global?
What is the significance of translation to modern literature?
You're introduced to selected literary forms and texts from the eighteenth century through to today, focusing on the global origins of the modern world.
You'll study the rise of European colonialism and slavery, the impact of wars and decolonisation across the Global South, and the spread of globalisation.
Introducing debates surrounding the contested category of ‘world literature’ thinking about issues such as authorship and literary tradition, the migration of peoples and cultures across continents, and how we read texts in translation.
Connecting each week is an exploration of how the production, circulation, and consumption of literature is bound up with the social and cultural changes that have shaped the way we live today.
To have the right to the world is to have the right to write, read and construct the world; the right to make a different world.
In this project-based module you'll investigate a range of literatures and arts that focus on the right to the world as related to displacement, movements and actions.
Drawing on Lefebvre’s ‘right to the city’ and ‘right to difference’, you'll interrogate who has the right to the world, and explore the ways authors and artists have struggled to claim the right to construct the world they inhabit.
In doing so, you reflect on the world we live in, and highlights the relationship between rights and internal/external displacement, social movements and political action that relate to local, national and global practices of creative activism.
In order to equip students with an understanding of the right to the world and creative activism across contemporary and past struggles, the module introduces works in diverse forms (e.g.
fiction/non-fiction, written, performative/audio-visuals, archival) that transitions between key moments, movements, mobilities.
You'll finish by creating a self-devised creative or critical project that writes to the world and raises public awareness.
What has it meant to be modern in the United States, and how does literature help us to understand modernity?
You will study key texts in US literature from 1930 to the present day, examining what they tell us about the possibilities of literature and the state of America.
You will focus in particular on fiction about two great cities of this era – New York and Los Angeles – while also studying examples from other genres such as poetry and non-fiction prose.
You’ll consider narratives of movement and displacement from rural to urban spaces in the Great Depression and Great Migration as well as the advent of mass culture in Los Angeles.
Examine how extreme wealth inequality is addressed by literary texts, and discuss representations of racial segregation and assess how economic and social shifts in the late-twentieth century have changed urban life and its representation in literature.
You’ll develop your understanding of the particular cultural features of New York and Los Angeles through comparison, and achieve a more sophisticated understanding of modern American literature.
What were the texts that forged the US literary tradition?
What role did literature play in shaping US national identity in the era of the Civil War and its aftermath?
You’ll track the emergence of American literature over a one-hundred-year period, from the tales of Edgar Allan Poe to the publication of F.
Scott Fitzgerald’s The Great Gatsby in 1925.
You’ll study a series of groundbreaking novels, experimental poems, essays, speeches and tales in order to answer these questions.
You will consider the great conflicts that divided American society over slavery, race, class and gender.
You will read broadly across the range of American experience, from scenes of war and violence to solitude and contemplation, from the sacred to the profane, and from the American wilderness to its developing cities.
The authors you will study cover the spectrum of American society, including early feminists, formerly enslaved people, outsiders, mystics and dandies.
You will discover some of the most influential literary texts ever written in English, and arrive at a new understanding of the cultural formation of the modern United States.
What kinds of encounters shaped and characterized literature in English in the pre-modern period?
Looking at a range of literary forms, you’ll explore literature composed between c.
1350 and 1700, focusing on the idea of encounter.
Encounters include those between peoples and races, individuals and landscapes, political, social and gendered encounters, and encounters with the divine and the supernatural.
You will interrogate those moments of contact, of exchange and of challenge, and discover how literature engaged and grappled with the shifting concepts of social, political and cultural power, as well as the dynamics of selfhood, including theories of sexuality, national identity, religion, race and disability.
Covering a period of dynamic change in the history of British and world politics, you’ll examines the diverse literary response to these changes and exposes students to the theoretical modes used to analyse them, including postcolonial, material culture, space and place, ecocriticism, gender and critical race theories.
You’ll learn some of the most innovative early-twentieth-century literature including novels that pioneered the 'stream-of-consciousness' technique, experimental modernist poetry, African American modernism, Futurist writing and art.
This period is characterised as much by its lively and often strident artistic manifestos as it is by its monumental literary works, and we take a close look at this climate of literary debate in its historical and theoretical context.
You’ll analyse modernist form against the background of changing social, sexual and political attitudes and examine the connections with other artistic developments.
Focal points include questions of subjectivity, interiority and identity; gender and nation; the modernist work as a collage; the ways in which modernist texts challenge conventions of representation; and the relation between the artwork and its creator.
How did the Victorians use literature to come to terms with the shocks of modernity?
To what extent are we still living in a world constructed by the Victorians, and understanding it through the aesthetic forms they developed?
You’re introduced to a range of major Victorian texts and literary forms, with a particular emphasis on how they have shaped our contemporary understandings of capitalism, empire, democracy, the modern city, feminism, queer sexualities, evolutionary science, and religious belief.
You’ll explore the big, multi-plot realist novel; the modern essay form; the invention of the dramatic monologue; the emergence of the genres of crime and science fiction; and the Victorian revival of fairytales and the Gothic.
You’ll also learn current critical debates about Victorian literature and culture and invite them to reflect on the legacies of the Victorian period in contemporary Britain.
What does it mean for literature to be contemporary?
What are the concerns of contemporary writing and what interventions does it make in the world today?
You’ll gain critical ideas and theoretical concepts that will help you to understand the literature of the twenty-first century.
You will be introduced to texts from a range of genres, including fiction, poetry, non-fiction prose and the essay, and encouraged to consider new ideas in contemporary theory and philosophy.
Texts will be selected from the US and UK, Syria and continental Europe.
The frame for studying them will be international in scope, and students will be encouraged to think about how contemporary concerns such as migration, climate change, economic crisis and global capitalism exceed national borders.
You’ll study a range of aesthetic developments and departures, such as the turn to creative non-fiction and the re-emergence of the political essay.
Overall, you’ll learn how writers are responding to the present period, how your work illuminates and reflects current cultural concerns.
Before 1660 there was no English novel, and by the end of the eighteenth century there was Jane Austen.
How and why did this happen?
You’ll learn how such a literary revolution was possible and investigate the rise of professional authorship in an increasingly open marketplace for books.
With commercial expansion came experiment and novelty.
Genres unheard of in the Renaissance emerged for the first time: they include the periodical essay, autobiography, the oriental tale, amatory fiction, slave narratives and, most remarkably, the modern novel.
Ancient modes such as satire, pastoral and romance underwent surprising transformations.
Many eighteenth-century men and women felt that they lived in an age of reason and emancipation - although others warned of enlightenment's darker aspect.
Seminar reading reflects the fact that an increasing number of women, members of the labouring classes, and enslaved people wrote for publication; that readers themselves became more socially varied; and that Britain was growing to understand itself as an imperial nation within a shifting global context.
You’ll reflect, as eighteenth-century writers did, upon the literary, cultural and political implications of these developments.
You are expected to adhere to any academic progression requirements in Stages 1 and 2 to proceed to the year abroad.
If the requirement is not met, you will be transferred to the equivalent three-year programme.
The year abroad is assessed on a pass/fail basis and will not count towards your final degree classification.
For further information, please see Go Abroad .
Have you ever wanted to research a subject in depth and change the way we look at an issue through literature?
Write your own novel or poetry collection?
Across two terms, you'll create a guided independent project exploring your personal and/or professional interests.
You'll take a guided strand relevant to your chosen project and complete your course having created piece of work that can exist independently.
You could be guided to make and publish your own book, to write your own dissertation on a topic of your choice, or write a new portfolio of creative texts.
You'll explore your own subject matter, develop your independent research skills, enhance your creative/critical skills and lay claim to an area of study in your chosen form.
You'll write a proposal for your project and are assigned a supervisor accordingly.
Feasible project proposals depend on being able to match projects with an appropriate supervisor, so may shift in scope from year to year depending on staff availability.
Yuu'll be led through the development of your project by a combination of one-to-one supervisions, and a series of lectures and workshops designed to hone the ideas and skills you need to fulfil your project.
During the development of the project, you will submit plans and literature reviews and offer a presentation on your work as it progresses.
The Project presents a chance to devote a sustained period of time to an area for which you feel enthusiasm, curiosity, and passion.
The focus is an in-depth scrutiny of a subject through primary and secondary research and writing and compositional processes.
In this capstone module, you work as a literary critic or a professional writer to put the research skills and training developed earlier in your degree into practice.
The Project will also help foster transferable skills such as: organisation; independence; and project-management.
Consider women as writers, readers and the subjects of literature as the focus is put on literature written by, for and about medieval women.
You’ll see women as the consumers, compilers and scribes of books as well as the protagonists and antagonists in a variety of literary and artistic forms produced in England and Europe during the late-medieval period.
Explore how literature reflected, and helped to construct and constrain, women’s lives, bodies, sexualities, identities and experiences, and the avenues through which they expressed their thoughts, desires and fears.
You’ll examine a range of material, including lyrics and romances, devotional manuals, saints lives, plays, letters, conduct books, sculptures, iconography and the everyday objects owned by women.
In doing so, you’ll encounter women as they were and how they were supposed to be, you’ll read accounts of female friendship and same-sex desire and discover women’s diverse roles in society and in the home.
You’ll see how women’s bodies and relationships were used in polemic and political discourse, analyse their influence on prominent male writers of the period and evaluate the construction and erasure of late-medieval women’s voices in the historiography of later ages.
How has American crime fiction evolved from its beginnings in the nineteenth century to become one of the most important and popular genres of literature today?
You’ll trace the story of crime fiction in the United States from the gruesome tales of Edgar Allan Poe to the contemporary moment.
You’ll study fiction as a principal object but also discussing film and television.
Along the way, we will discuss the conventions of the whodunnit, the emergence of hard-boiled fiction in the pulp magazines of the interwar period, and the flowering after World War Two of Black, queer and feminist approaches to the genre.
You’ll consider what drives the evolution of mass genres, how they are related to their historical contexts, and how to describe and analyse their particular narrative forms.
You’ll leave with a broad knowledge of American crime fiction across periods and a deep understanding of its perennial appeal.
What is the relationship between 'animal' and ‘human’, and how is this explored through writing?
You’ll examine creaturely relations by focusing on the representations of animals in literature, alongside key theoretical and contextual material that engages with questions concerning animality and humanity.
Focus on how writers imagine distinct animal worlds as well as how they understand the role of animals in human cultures.
Using a range of novels, short stories and poems you’ll consider questions about how we look at, think with, and try to give voice to animals.
You’ll gain a firm grounding in the diverse critical field known as ‘animal studies’, whilst also considering the broader cultural, philosophical and ethical implications of how we think about the relationship between humans and animals.
While the so-called 'Brontë myth' remains potent in popular culture today, the lives-and-works model associated with it continues to encourage readers to seek partially concealed Brontë sisters in their fictions.
You’ll study the rich literary contribution made by the sisters through an intensive focus on their novels and some poetry in the context of Victorian debates about gender and the woman question, beginning and ending with the problematic of mythmaking.
Delve into the Brontë myth, examining the ways in which the sisters’ novels and poems challenge established Victorian cultural norms.
You’ll be taught to analyse narrative techniques, genre variations, and socio-political themes prevalent in the Brontës' works, as well as examining post-colonial reinterpretations of the sisters’ works on page and stage.
How are modernist and postcolonial literatures related?
Studying wide-ranging comparative issues you’ll approaches this question by examining their shared interest in the idea of the quest.
You’ll discover how the modernist and postcolonial subject embarks on odysseys in quest of origin, language and identity.
Examine how modernist experimentation with form reflects the ever-changing data of modern consciousness and evidences the ‘sickness’ of modernity, and ask how postcolonial quest literature dismantles the binaries and power hierarchies within language as a counteraction to imperialist discourse.
You’ll study modernist grail quests for an effective medium of communication, existentialist quests in a modern world in crisis, experimental postcolonial quests into the unknown and poetic quests crossing thresholds of meaning.
Primary texts will be read alongside recent critical work from a variety of mythological, philosophical, anthropological and theoretical perspectives.
How has the process of growing up been represented in literature?
Why is the coming-of-age narrative such a popular genre, especially among writers that explore ethnic and diasporic identities?
Focus on twentieth century and contemporary coming-of-age narratives from the United States, the Caribbean, Asia and Europe.
You’ll examine the form and function of these narratives in their cultural and political contexts and in relation to the conventions of the novel of individual development (Bildungsroman).
Consider how racial and ethnic identity, migration, trauma, gender and sexuality shape these stories of growing up.
Along the way you will be exposed to coming-of-age writing in literary forms such as autobiography, young adult fiction and graphic novel, and consider the genre in relation to film and film adaptation.
You’ll gain a broad knowledge of coming-of-age narratives and a deep understanding of the genre’s enduring appeal in a cross-cultural context.
British colonialism changed the world, but it also changed Britain.
How did writers of prose and poetry from across Britain, Ireland, the Caribbean, Africa, and Asia represent the consequences of imperial decline for British society and culture?
Beginning in the midst of the ‘end of empire’ and ending in the world in which we find ourselves today, you’ll explore how writers such as Bernadine Evaristo, Sam Selvon, Irvine Welsh, Abdulrazak Gurnah, and Kamila Shamsie depict such varied themes as: nostalgia for empire, racism towards migrants, their descendants, and people seeking asylum in the UK, and the impacts of the ‘War on Terror’.
You’ll also explore how literature can bring the category of ‘British’ into question and enunciate new forms of commonality that actively reject harmful and exclusionary imperial myths about racial, cultural, and national difference.
From ancient Greece and Rome to anti-colonial movements and Black Lives Matter, progressive social movements have been at the forefront of social change.
You’ll be introduced to complex relationships between theories of activism and activism itself, from antiquity to the present day.
Focus on how such theories underscore, articulate and create activism while simultaneously being transformed by it.
Centred primarily on canonical texts and contexts in the field (e.g.
critiques of populism, liberation movements, mass mobilisation movements around key issues such as labour, human rights and political action, and theories of collective action) you’ll discover the theory and practice of activism across time, place, and culture into conversation.
Together we’ll explore the roles that philosophy, imagination, moral conviction, and rhetoric play in understanding and motivating a variety of activisms.
Examine the relationship between global capitalism and the novel since the 1980s.
Discussion will focuses on the importance of money and social class in understanding modern post-colonial literature.
It shows how a lively global realism has developed, reflecting the new urban realities of large-scale migration from rural areas to cities, the growth of slums, and increasing class inequalities in the global South.
You’ll explore how neoliberal globalisation, or the integration of the world’s economies, both makes possible and is critiqued by new realist narratives of abjection and resistance from across the global South, especially from India, Nigeria, South Africa, Martinique, Chile, and Egypt.
After World War Two, a distinctive set of avant-garde traditions emerged in New York City to reshape poetry, art, fiction and music.
You’ll explore and come to understand the extraordinary innovations and experiments undertaken during this period.
Abstract Expressionist painting, early Punk, the New School of poetry and postmodernist fiction will be discussed with emphasis on the interconnection of the arts.
You’ll be encouraged to situate the New York scenes in relation to earlier and later iterations of avant-garde practice, from the European modernisms of the pre-war period to contemporary arts.
You’ll consider the distinctive importance of places and institutions in the development of artistic work and relate the evolution of creative work to the evolution of the city in its particular historical contexts.
You’ll leave with a systematic understanding of the New York avant-gardes and a comprehensive grasp of their importance.
Medieval literature, in all its generic diversity, from fantastical Saints’ lives, though moral tales and knightly chivalric romance is absolutely absorbed with representing what would now be called the paranormal.
From the people-guzzling monsters in Beowulf, the most ancient narrative poem now known in the English Language, to the demonic forces of the era’s drama, medieval literature frequently introduces matter that authors tag as ‘marvels’.
You’ll explore how medieval audiences valued such stories, as representing actual entities beyond a materialist rational experience, conveying moral principles effectively, and offering great entertainment.
The marvellous elements of medieval literature frequently find their ways into modern adaptations in multiple media, from the magic and dragons in Game of Thrones to the depictions of magic and monsters in a plethora of medievalist films and cast throughout gaming culture.
You’ll be introduced to a range of paranormal encounters in medieval literature, from the early medieval period through to the late Middle Ages, using translated versions of the earliest and most linguistically difficult texts.
There will be room for reflection on the adaptation of medieval paranormal fictions into modern contexts.
This module will introduce students to a range of paranormal encounters in medieval literature, from the early medieval period through to the late Middle Ages, using translated versions of the earliest and most linguistically difficult texts.
The module will also allow for reflection on the adaptation of medieval paranormal fictions into modern contexts.
Christopher Marlowe and William Shakespeare were born only a couple of months apart in early 1564.
Marlowe, from the cathedral city of Canterbury, was educated at the local King’s School and Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, before making his name in London’s theatrical scene in 1587.
Shakespeare, from the market town of Stratford-upon-Avon, likely ended his formal education at his local Grammar School, and, having married and begun a family, made his way to London by around 1588.
In their early careers, both wrote sensational dramatic fare that helped popularise cultural entertainment at London’s commercial playhouses.
In 1590, it is thought that the two authors collaborated in writing a series of plays about The Wars of the Roses.
You’ll have the opportunity to analyse works by both authors, thinking about how the poet-dramatists responded to each other’s writing.
You’ll shed light on the theatrical scene they established themselves within, the opportunities and challenges that scene presented, and their respective roles in contributing to the light entertainment industry of that time.
Through consideration of the communities and spaces in which these authors were a part, you’ll explore the relationship between status, place, and writing.
There has never been a better time to explore the ways in which literary and cultural texts frame and represent mental health and mental distress.
Respond to, and reflect upon, these representations and the broader social ideas they reveal as you draw on critical texts from the academic discipline of Mad Studies, alongside prose memoirs, lyric essays, poetry, film, and image.
You’ll explore, critically examine, and creatively respond to the various thematic lenses through which mental health and mental distress have been (and are) represented.
Discover approaches to neurodiversity and neurodivergence, historical perceptions of madness, gendered perceptions of mental distress, mental health and critical race perspectives, interconnections between Mad Studies and Queer Theory, the role of society in isolation, horror tropes of mental distress, and radical ideas surrounding self-care.
You’ll gain the necessary tools required to discuss issues of mental health and mental distress critically and with understanding, as well as having the opportunity to explore and reflect on these issues creatively in a range of forms.
Ever wondered what it would be like to spend months on the road, crossing borders and sailing seas?
You’ll be taken on that journey, through twentieth century and contemporary prose, poetry, film, dance, and music, which capture understudied places, people and cultures of the world.
Moving between England, Africa, the East Mediterranean/Middle East, the Caribbean, Asia, Europe and beyond, we will experience narratives about and/or by displaced and dislocated people – travelers, tourists, migrants, refugees, exiles, stateless, scattered communities – as shaped by key modern historical, political, and national processes.
Here we will see war, conflict and colonialism, feel trauma and hostility, and live in transit sites without rights – airports, border towns, refugee camps, prisons, the buffer zone.
You’ll access a range of creative works and humanitarian projects engaged in processes of solidarity, rescue, hospitality and taking responsibility for people who are destined to keep moving through places and borders of the world.
From arrival and dislocation, belonging and longing, to national movements and political realities, you’ll study the connections between places, journeys, borders within creative and critical works.
Queer literature provides a valuable space for examining and shaping personal identities.
In the emerging genre of 'coming out' stories, as well as in narratives about personal and systemic oppression and stories of resistance, queer writers in Britain and beyond have frequently used literature to respond to the widespread stigma that marginalizes them and their communities.
Examining a broad range of LGBTQ writing , you’ll fully explore the unique place that literature and art maintain in the formation of LGBTQ+ political identities, cultures, pasts and futures.
You’ll be encouraged to consider how queerness—specifically in Britain and Ireland—intersects with categories such as class, race, nationality and others.
World War Two was the most destructive global conflict in history.
Existing social structures were disrupted on a vast scale, creating extreme conditions for huge swathes of the world’s population, unleashing new technologies of violence, and testing the limits of human tolerance.
How can such difficult and uncomfortable aspects of human experience be represented?
Consider World War Two as a crisis for representation itself, asking how different forms, genres and media attempted (and sometimes failed) to engage with, register, and respond to the worlds and experiences the war created.
You’ll study a range of representations, including fiction and poetry, journalism, photography, painting and film from a variety of global locations and analyse representations of combat, nuclear warfare and the holocaust, as well as everyday life, interpersonal relationships and desires.
Close attention will be paid both to the historical dimensions of the war and to the particular formal qualities of different representations.
You’ll gain a broad knowledge of the variety of artistic and intellectual responses to the war, and a sophisticated understanding of how different methods of representation emerge from and shape human experience.
This module explores the ways in which Shakespeare’s plays and Shakespeare as a cultural icon function within historic and contemporary racial politics.
It examines intercultural appropriations of Shakespeare on stage and film and their racial and cultural meanings.
We will draw on critical race theory, postcolonial theory and contemporary performance studies in order to analyse Shakespeare’s plays on page and stage.
In doing so, we seek to identify the role that Shakespeare and his plays have in historic racial politics, global, colonial and postcolonial histories, as well as contemporary discussions (often seen in Twitter hashtags such as #ShakeRace, #RaceB4Race and #BLM).
This module will leave you with a broad knowledge of Shakespeare’s racial politics in his own period, as well as the way the racial meanings and representations have evolved over the playwright’s afterlife.
Have you ever thought about how the world might end?
In our era of climate catastrophe, extinction, and political crisis, our collective imaginations can often seem overwhelmed with visions of apocalyptic ends and what comes after.
You’ll be guided through a series of contemporary examples from fields including literature, film, television, and video games and will gain a deep understanding of how diverse forms of media have considered the end of the world.
You’ll use these speculative writings as a tool of social criticism that addresses our current moment in time.
You’ll learn about the ways in which contemporary literature and culture can help us to better understand the emotional content of our apocalyptic fantasies, as expressed through feelings like ecological anxiety, solastagia, and exhaustion.
You’ll gain a broad knowledge of how the end of the world is presented across a range of media, as well as a deeper understanding our fundamental human feelings: what we feel, how we feel, and why.
How has the Gothic retained its grasp on the literary imagination for over 250 years, remaining relevant and recognisable while undergoing a series of exhumations?
Explore the Gothic from its origins through various resurgences to its present-day incarnations.
Through seminars we’ll discuss the birth of Gothic conventions such as threatened heroines, hauntings and transgressions and consider how tropes are reworked in key literary and historical moments in the genre’s development.
You’ll think about how social, political and cultural contexts inform the Gothic’s various concerns about gender, sexuality, race, class and the law and how to use a range of theoretical lenses to analyse the texts.
Consider how adaptations across film and television contribute to the Gothic’s capacity for laying bare contemporary concerns such as marginalisation, queer identities, the body and immigration.
You’ll gain a deep understanding of the ongoing significance of the Gothic as an evolving fictional form and a broad knowledge of its functions across periods and geographies as a vehicle for political and social critiques.
How have love, desire and intimacy been articulated in the English lyrical tradition and in Western philosophy’s various theories of love?
From Wyatt and Shakespeare, to present day expressions of homosexual love and the rise of the popular love song where artists like Taylor Swift explore themes of infatuation, heartbreak, and personal growth.
Poets are studied alongside philosophers such as Plato, Roland Barthes, and Judith Butler to ask broader questions about the nature of love and its relation to language.
We explore the possible ways in which poetry both establishes and challenges dominant modes of love, how lovers interact with their social environment through poetry, and ultimately how the imagination is at the centre of how we express and explain the attraction, attachment and loss.
What kind of literature did first-wave feminism produce?
How did the late nineteenth- and early twentieth-century struggle for women’s rights articulate itself in novels, poems, plays, polemics, and memoirs?
Your focus will be British and American literature in the period between 1880 and 1920, as you explore the emergence of ‘The New Woman’: a cultural stereotype and literary character who embodied the era’s dreams and anxieties about the possibilities of feminism.
Associated reading will engage you with some of the major concerns of New Woman writing: sexuality, marriage, and motherhood; suffrage and liberalism; race, eugenics, and empire; education and labour; class and economic inequality.
At the same time, you consider how feminism drove literary experiment and shaped the transition from Victorian to modernist literature.
You’ll conclude by exploring the contemporary afterlives of the New Woman in a contemporary historical fiction and other works of imaginative history.
How do writers tackle topics that are not always easy to put into words?
We’ll explore forms of non-fiction that create space for writers to talk about the things that matter to them, including essays and lyrics essays, autobiography and hybrid memoir, autofiction and auto-theory.
You’ll learn how to write in one of these forms and reflect on the ethics and politics of writing from and about real life that can be difficult to articulate.
Alongside this you’ll consider the unconscious and the limits of language by discussing archives, desire and the hauntological.
You’ll try different methods of writing practice related to discovering alternative ways of knowing, leaving the door open to the ambiguous and the paradoxical in order to investigate how to go about finding those things the nature of which is totally unknown to us.
Learn how Woolf reimagines the novel form to encompass experimental narrative styles, hybrid genres and radical thematic concerns.
You’ll consider the various historical, artistic, cultural and political contexts that influenced Woolf’s writing, and to which her novels responded.
You’ll be introduced to the key critical debates on Woolf and modernism, featuring discussion of topics as diverse as feminism, visual art, the everyday, war, sexuality, gender, class, empire, science, the environment and animality.
With Woolf as its central focus, we’ll seeks to understand the lasting significance of the modernist novels of one of the most important writers of the twentieth century.
Teaching and assessment can vary between modules.
All modules are taught by weekly seminars.
In addition to seminars, the majority of literature modules also include a weekly lecture.
Attendance at seminars is required, and for the majority of modules, you are assessed on your seminar contribution/performance.
A typical offer would be DMM.
Whether you have a specific career in mind or haven’t thought beyond university, our courses embed employability at every turn with modules that focus on careers in growing and emerging sectors; we’ll demonstrate how your degree can give you options in the creative industries and beyond.
We help you plan for success.
Through our varied range of assessments and inspirational teaching, you will hone the digital, critical thinking, communication and leadership skills that are essential for a successful career and realising your ambition.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/132/english-literature-and-creative-writing:
Explore the rich traditions of literature while developing your distinctive voice and style as a writer.
In a city that has literary heritage including Dickens, Chaucer and Marlowe you will study a broad range of genres, styles and formats.
Whether you love Jane Austen or William Shakespeare, dystopian fiction, the gothic or modern and contemporary poetry, we specialise in the literature you are passionate about.
But English Literature isn’t just about the past - you will also consider themes and topics that are relevant today such as the environment, power and protest, the social impacts of technology or contemporary feminism.
Our unique project-based programme also allows you to experiment with format and voice.
You can shape your degree according to your interests; you might make a documentary film, script a video game, assemble a journal, compose a collection of poetry, write a novella or plan and pitch an exhibition.
Whether you want to work as an author, publisher or journalist, or perhaps you just love books, this course combines creativity and criticism and gives you essential employability skills that can be applied to a wide range of careers.
You may also be interested in BA (Hons) English Literature at Kent.
What does it take to be a creative writer today?
How can you create exciting stories and relatable characters?
And does your poetry really have to rhyme?
By introducing you to the working methods of the contemporary writer, you'll develop skills in both fiction and poetry.
Each week you'll learn an exciting new writing skill like composing a sonnet or developing plot diagrams.
The purpose of creative writing is to make other people feel things and see the world in a new way.
You'll become a much more confident writer, able to take readers on a meaningful journey.
Feminist poet and critic Adrienne Rich suggested that poetry could be a space that allows ‘the structures of power to be described and dismantled’.
Romantic poet P.
B.
Shelley called poets ‘the unacknowledged legislators of the world’.
Can poetry help us reimagine and restructure our world?
What forms might those imaginings and restructures take?
What are you and your poetry, invested in?
And what kinds of writing could your poetry be?
You'll approach these questions from different angles.
You will have the opportunity to discuss and learn how to write texts for sound performance, visual texts, traditional poetic forms, prose poems and lyric essays.
We will explore what poetry can be and where it meets prose, art, and music, looking at a range of writers: from more traditional poetic texts to contemporary and experimental writing that defies traditional form and easy categorisation as a ‘poem’, and investigating how language can be played with through writing experiments and exercises.
You'll think through the relationships between identity, intention, effect, and subject matter through a variety of different writing methods, techniques, procedures and approaches and forms.
You will learn how to apply this thinking to your own writing: how, for example, might you want to write back against something that’s made you angry?
Could a poetic procedure help you to take back or examine its power over you?
Could you erase it, collage it, reduce it to it sound?
You will be given the tools to learn how to identify how what is important to you could make an interesting writing project, and discover what forms of articulation can enable you to write this most effectively.
How do writers craft stories that are compelling, thought-provoking and original?
What are the building-blocks of successful fiction writing, and what can we learn from writers past and present — including each other?
Each week, you'll explore a key concept of story-telling, such as point-of-view; characterisation; dialogue; plot; structure and planning; voice and tone; description and imagery; location and place; editing and re-editing; theme.
You'll also take part in writing workshops, developing your skills as an editor of your own work and that of others.
You will reflect on and experiment with different choices — understanding these aspects of craft not as fixed rules, but as possibilities, frameworks and approaches that will help you to find your own voice and create robust, considered and meaningful works of fiction.
What’s the best way to begin writing a novel?
Should you plunge straight in and see where your characters and voice take you, or should you do a meticulous plan first?
What should a contemporary novel be about?
Does it have to be ‘publishable’, and what does that mean?
You’ll learn how to work with your own experience, opinion, imagination and ideas to create engaging characters, dramatic situations, immersive locations and more.
Make the post of your chance to experiment with different types of planning and writing before you commit to one project.
Halfway through the term you’ll pitch your project to the class and get feedback before beginning to write your novel in earnest.
You’ll emerge with the opening chapters of your own contemporary novel as well as a plan to complete it.
What is lyric utterance and how might one utter lyric?
What speaks when a poem speaks?
This creative writing module is an in-depth study of lyric voice, leading to the creation of your own lyric work.
You’ll explore a wide range of lyric strategies, such as refrain and image.
You’ll analyse and evaluate theories of lyric and voice, asking questions about the poetic limits of language as utterance.
Consider what we mean when we say lyric, examining lyrical poetry and prose such as the lyrical essay.
Creative workshops allow you to respond to and discuss one another’s work in seminars.
By the end of the module, you’ll have developed the skills to submit a portfolio of creative and critical lyrical responses.
You will develop crucial employability skills to succeed in any field including digital, critical thinking, communication and project management skills.
Graduates from this course go on to a variety of creative and professional roles in the following fields:

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/99/film:
Are you passionate about cinema, film and visual storytelling?
Do you want to create your own work in industry-standard facilities?
The Film BA at Kent will allow you to explore your passions and realise your ambitions for a future career in TV, film and broadcasting.
The course is designed with employability at its core.
You’ll develop skills in filmmaking, editing, sound design, screenwriting, film analysis, curation, film programming and marketing.
And get hands-on with practical projects designed to mirror industry practices, creating your own films in our industry-standard facilities.
You’ll study the history and theory of film from its silent beginnings to CGI blockbusters, independent cinema to Hollywood, avant-garde to international cinema.
You’ll explore the power of film to represent, influence and challenge the way we think about identity, race, gender, sexuality, disability, and class.
With excellent links to film bodies, such as the British Film Institute, Arts Council England, the Independent Cinema Office and Kent Film you’ll benefit from guest lectures, workshops, and placements, giving you real-world opportunities and a fantastic industry network when you graduate.
You can also add a year in industry to this degree to gain valuable work experience or combine the degree with a year of working or studying abroad .
Filmmakers across the world continue to be inspired by old films.
To create new film, knowing your history is vital.
You’ll have the opportunity to explore these film connections between past and present.
In carrying out this investigation, you’ll have access to primary and secondary sources held in the library.
You’ll also be encouraged to evaluate the films you uncover for their aesthetic, technological, economic, social and political value.
You’ll develop an appreciation of the role and value of the contextual study of film, and you’ll have the opportunity to research and write on selected aspects of film historiography.
The choice of case studies will depend on the expertise of the module convenor and is not restricted to a particular national cinema or period.
Case studies may include, for example, the history of film in terms of a particular theme or cultural context.
Your work around film histories will guide your development as a film maker, equipping you with the vital context of film as an art form.
Your knowledge of the history of film will allow you to shape its future.
How do films tell stories?
Why do they move or excite us?
Why are some films visually or aurally more striking than others?
And why do some films have a big impact and stand the test of time, while others do not?
This module is how you will understand and learn to speak the language of film.
You'll gain specific concepts and terminology, giving you a deeper understanding of how films work.
You’ll learn how films tell stories by studying the principles of narrative construction (such as cause-and-effect, point-of-view, and time) and explore the various aspects of film style (such as mise-en-scène, cinematography and sound).
You will discover the kinds of artistic choices filmmakers make, why they make them, and the effects these have.
By the end of the module, you’ll be able to analyse a wide variety of different types of films, evaluate what they are trying to do and how they achieve it, and communicate your views and opinions about a film more clearly and with greater authority.
Film and Media Practice #1 draws upon concepts in Film and Media Studies to introduce you to moving image production and the principles of audiovisual language.
You will develop technical skills in pre-production, production and post-production along with craft skills applicable to both narrative and experimental screen production.
Effective group work is integral to the success of your work on module.
Practical work is designed to trigger both conceptual and creative thinking as well as consideration of audience responses to audiovisual language.
Building on the specific skills of image production you gained in Film & Media Practice 1, this module will introduce you to other kinds of digital content creation.
Media content producers work with different mediums and in various communication formats.
This module will expand your practice-based and technical skills so you can produce various forms of narrative-based and non-fiction creative outputs.
Such content may include documentary or factual-based entertainment, podcasts, and other forms of audio-visual formats including audiovisual essays.
You’ll engage in dialogue between media theory and practice through a combination of lectures, workshops and feedback opportunities, all of which will support your development as an independent digital content creator.
You'll develop the ability to be agile and have a clear voice and message across different mediums, which is vital in launching a career in the creative industries.
Explore the emergence, consolidation, and collapse of the studio system in Hollywood, between the coming of sound in 1929 and its eventual dismantling in 1960.
You’ll cover Hollywood from all angles, including the rise of the star system; the emergence of genres; self-regulation and censorship; developments in technologies such as sound, colour, widescreen; and changes in audience.
You will examine the ingredients and evolution of the 'Classical Hollywood cinema' style of film against the backdrop of varying contexts of production, distribution, exhibition and regulation.
A focus on film genres (such as the gangster film, western and musical) in their various phases of development and permutation will help you understand the importance of standardisation and the commercial motivations of filmmaking.
You will also look at studio development and collapse within broader historical and political contexts, enabling an appreciation of the forces that motivated film production, distribution and exhibition in Hollywood during the period.
Podcasting is a digital media form that is increasing its audience reach and size year on year.
Often unbound to traditional norms of journalistic impartiality, many podcast presenters provide personal perspectives, allowing these media makers a marked degree of creative and intellectual agency.
You will employ both theory and practice-based learning to examine the podcasting format and consider how podcasts are developed; the editorial and ethical issues at stake; and how audiences are acquired and expanded.
You will have the opportunity to critically assess contemporary practitioners, companies, and the platforms used for the dissemination of podcasts.
Having an understanding of podcasting from all angles gives you an extra edge with employers, and is an incredibly useful tool to break into an exciting and expanding industry.
The digital sphere has given voice and meeting spaces to communities and activist groups, enabling social action, art and change.
You will learn to critically examine social media and digital platforms such as photo and video sharing apps, social networking apps, livestreaming services, dating apps, etc.
You’ll deepen your theoretical understanding of concepts such as participatory and collaborative culture, sharing economies, democracy, technology and surveillance.
You will learn to sustain a critical analysis and argument about how social media and digital platforms sit at the intersection of culture, politics, economics, personal expression and art making practices in the digital age.
You will then be able to apply this understanding in a portfolio of practical exercises, demonstrating your knowledge of social media and understanding of its nuances.
This is a vital skillset for whatever career you progress into, as digital platforms impacts are larger than ever, and ever expanding.
What defines a film genre?
Why do genres tend to be popular with audiences, and how do film industries capitalise on them?
Focusing on a specific genre (which can be horror, sci-fi, Western, musical, etc.), you will explore its narrative and stylistic features, alongside the history of its modes of production and reception.
You will understand the historical events that have impacted the production of the films belonging to the genre in question, from commercial to political and cultural matters.
You will also apply relevant theories to analyse a genre film’s narrative and aesthetics.
These can include theories of sound and image, representation, allegorical readings, psychoanalysis, cognitive theories, or theories of new media and the digital image, as appropriate.
By the end of this module, you will understand the significance of genre to filmmakers, audiences and film industries in the expression of artistic and commercial ideas.
What are you a fan of?
And how do you express your fandom?
Today, thanks to online communities and corporate feedback systems, the fan has more power than ever to welcome, influence, and reject media content.
Is the fan today a loyal follower or empowered shaper of the media industry?
You explore these questions, what makes a fan ‘a fan’, and how fandom has changed over the last century.
You will look at a range of media industries and their outputs - which may include film, television, animation, comics, and video games - and how those industries and media connect and interact with their audiences.
Considering how fans express themselves through different means, you are encouraged to reflect on your own fandom through creative outputs on the module.
You will critically engage with the ‘business’ of fandom, its financial worth to the entertainment industry, including the vast merchandising involved, and the opportunities for fans themselves to make money from their own passion and interests.
Using key case studies and examples, you will also critically discuss the transmedia framework behind modern entertainment, exploring, for example, how contemporary franchises reach new audiences and encourage new people to become fans.
Is gender important now?
Does it matter how we are represented in the media?
How has the depiction of gender and sexuality altered over time?
By examining Western and Global debates around gender and sexuality and how the media represents these, you’ll develop your ability to critically assess and understand cultural power dynamics.
Building upon your previous studies and knowledge of the media, you will examine how representation of gender and sexuality has changed and continues to change.
Examining a wide range of media case studies, you will consider historical, social, political, and economic contexts that will prepare you for both the current and future media industries.
You will assess and analyse the representation of gender and sexuality in the media and how that influences contemporary culture and working practices in the media and creative industries.
Through developing your own proposal based upon your research and interests within gender and sexuality you will design a media project that could be pitched to industry professionals and form a strong part of your own creative portfolio.
What is a star?
What is a celebrity?
Often used as synonyms, the two terms in fact relate to different types of media constructs.
You’ll explore stardom and celebrity as an academic field of study, reviewing the history of the rise of stardom within the Hollywood context and how the establishment of ‘the star’ became an integral part of the industry.
You’ll critically examine the ‘star system’ and its relationship to a range of topics, which may include performance, genre, the representation of gender and gendered bodies, as well as audiences and fan studies.
You’ll also trace how the stardom industry became a component within a larger network of celebrity culture.
Often characterised as a more contemporary phenomenon, the notion of ‘celebrity’ incorporates prominent figures in the public eye to whom the extension of fame is not necessarily based on any specific skill, talent or achievement.
You’ll explore this context in conjunction with the decline of the dominance of Hollywood stars, as a variety of mediated identities are promoted, consumed and commodified within diverse media landscapes.
You’ll analyse how celebrities can take on many forms, using different media platforms, such as film, television, online streaming and social media.
The importance of media technologies within both the study of stars and celebrity culture is stressed throughout the course.
This course includes an option for a year studying abroad and a year in industry .
Kent’s industry links and commitment to employability mean students graduate with not just a degree, but a portfolio of skills and experiences that prepare them for diverse careers across film, media, and the creative industries.
Graduates of this course are well prepared to navigate and contribute to a rapidly evolving media and cultural landscape.
Recent graduates have gone on to work in:
Many students also pursue roles in related fields such as arts administration, journalism, public engagement, or creative project management — where the combination of practical experience and critical insight is highly valued.
Graduates have gone on to work at:

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/3758/film-media:
Discover the meaning of film and the message of media, on our joint honours course where the dynamic worlds of film and media meet.
By studying film and media, you'll learn how these communicative forms influence us, how they can enrich our lives and how you – through creative practice and engagement with the industry – can shape them.
At the heart of our course, you'll find experienced practitioners and researchers who actively contribute to contemporary debates, appearing on national news and television.
Their engagement ensures that you remain connected to the rapidly evolving industry landscape.
Our wide range of modules hones your practical skills while fostering critical analysis, preparing you for a career in this ever-expanding industry.
Choose to add a Year in Television and Online Broadcasting and you'll add a year of real work experience to your CV.
You'll learn how to make content for TV, online and social media channels alongside experienced professionals.
This programme is also available with a year in industry or a year abroad.
You'll gain valuable experience and explore new cultures, demonstrating to employers that you are able to communicate, adapt and succeed in new and professional environments.
What are the creative and cultural industries?
Why are they important and what do they do?
How are they funded?
How do they generate and develop creative ideas and projects?
By examining real-world examples and case studies, you’ll develop your knowledge of the creative and cultural industries and how they continue to evolve in today’s digital world.
You’ll explore current debates and practices within these industries by reflecting on media theory and consider how they communicate effectively.
You’ll assess and analyse current industry trends and working methods in terms of their effectiveness and how they are informed by research and theory, which will develop your critical and reflective skills.
Developing your own mini-projects in response to professional briefs will allow you to begin building a creative portfolio, showcasing your knowledge and practical skills needed to work in modern creative and cultural industries.
How do different forms of media help create and communicate meaning?
This module will introduce you to a range of important media across history, ranging from traditional forms such as print, film and television, to newer forms such as the internet and user-generated content.
You'll consider how the medium itself shapes the meaning of media, and how we can work within or around this relationship to create meaningful and impactful media content.
You’ll explore how media has worked as a process of transmission, shaping what stories have been told over time.
You’ll also develop your understanding of everyday experiences of media as a consumer, audience member and user.
By the end of the module, you’ll have the ability to critically analyse different media texts, culture and systems.
This makes you a better critic of media, as well as a better creator when making your own content.
What are the moral responsibilities of digital content creators and social media platforms?
Can commercial success and social justice go hand in hand?
Critically reflecting on these and other questions is crucial for aspiring media practitioners and industry professionals.
To answer these questions, you’ll investigate some of the most pressing ethical issues in contemporary media culture.
You’ll use theoretical frameworks to critically examine a diverse range of media, and you’ll learn to articulate your own critical perspectives in creative ways.
By the end of this module, you’ll have the tools to engage in a range of ethical debates, evaluate media as a tool of social justice, and apply critical thinking skills to your own practice as a digital content producer.
This not only improves your ability to create content, but also your marketability as a content creator, giving you the chance to make rapid progress in your practice and later, your career.
The proliferation of mobile devices has transformed how moving images are generated and experienced.
The ease with which we can now create and share images, audio and video has had a huge impact on how stories are told and films are made.
You’ll explore some of the many new forms of moving image content creation and narrative practices that have appeared as a result of this technological and cultural change, and engage with them critically and creatively.
You’ll learn to master advanced video production techniques such as camerawork, lighting, editing, and sound.
You’ll also produce work that engages with new narrative forms, with a particular focus on producing content for the web, such as non-linear short filmmaking, social media-based storytelling, and audiovisual essays.
Your mastery of different mediums and methods of media production gives you the agile toolset you need to thrive in the industry and make your voice heard - where that is, is up to you.
This freestanding, self-contained year is open to any undergraduate student at the University at the end of Stage 2 or 3 (that is, between your second and final year, or after your final year).
The course gives you an unrivalled opportunity to spend a year working at KMTV , a commercial Ofcom-licensed television station.
It’s a great way to add a year of real work experience to your CV while learning how to make content for TV, online and social media channels alongside experienced professionals.
Your assessments will include building a practical portfolio of content produced individually and as part of a team which will become your calling card to future employers.
If successful, when you graduate your degree title includes the words with a Year in Television and Online Broadcasting.
When you work in the creative industries, a lot of your time revolves around the development of novel creative practices in an independent manner.
This module gives you the opportunity to develop your own independent project which introduces an innovation in an established area of media practice.
You'll deepen your expertise in a specific area of the media industry by critically examining the state of the art in your chosen area.
You'll identify a 'gap' in current media practice which you then address through your own innovative work.
The relevant areas of media practice will change yearly, depending on the specialism of the module convenor, but may include audio production (e.g.
podcasts); audio-visual production (e.g.
short films or video essays); creative and critical writing (e.g.
blogging, journalism, scriptwriting); and promotional media (e.g.
social media campaigns).
This module focuses on developing your career skills, including designing, delivering, presenting, pitching and critically reflecting on a creative project.
All modules involve live lectures, small group seminars, screenings and occasionally group trips to galleries, museums, libraries and festivals.
Methods of assessment vary between modules.
The majority of modules are assessed solely by coursework, while others have a mix of coursework and exams.
Typically, students attend two lectures a week of one-and-a-half to two hours in duration, as well as two seminars a week of similar length.
In addition, many modules will have screenings, readings, trips and related learning activities.
As a Film and Media student at Kent, you'll benefit from creating in advanced learning environments and industry standard facilities.
You'll join a dynamic and supportive arts community, where you work alongside your peers, academics and industry professionals.
Everyone you meet from the day you join the course becomes part of your extended network.
As a Film and Media graduate, you’ll have worked on live projects and shoots and had the opportunity to go on internships and placements, giving you the experience to realise your ambitions.
You'll also have studied the theory and ethiccs of film and media, so when you bring your innovative ideas to workplaces, they're underpinned not just by your creativity but also by wider considerations.
The creative, communication and critical thinking skills you develop at Kent prepare you for a role in the industry specifically, with opportunities to jump into creative projects you want to make a difference in.
But, we also ensure your skills are adaptable.
Your deeper understanding of communication, meaning and messaging are skills that can set you up for an exciting career in any field.
This means that you are free to explore your passions and further your ambitions, from education to business, charity to government; you'll have the talent and insight to build the career that you want.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/2495/finance-and-investment-with-year-industry:
You take a Year in Industry following your second year of study, enabling you to apply your expertise in a work setting while earning a salary.
128 Tariff points from your IB Diploma, Typically H5, H6, H6 or equivalent.
Access to HE Diploma with 45 Credits at level 3 with 30 credits at Distinction and 15 credits at Merit.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/77/forensic-science-with-a-year-in-industry:
BBB in 3 subjects including Chemistry or Biology at B.
The University will consider applicants holding/studying BTEC Extended National Diploma Qualifications (QCF; NQF;OCR) in Applied Science or Forensic and Criminal Investigation at DDM.
120 tariff points - typically H5, H6, H6 including HL Chemistry or Biology 5.
Mathematics grade C
A typical offer may require you to obtain 45 credits at Level 3 with 24 credits at Distinction and 21 credits at Merit.
This course includes an option for a year in industry.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/3766/graphic-design:
Learn to convey powerful ideas with graphic design through practical projects, industry partnerships and creative collaboration.
Design can shape the way we understand the world - from branding that builds identities to campaigns that drive social change.
At Kent, you’ll explore how visual communication can inform, inspire, and provoke, developing your personal voice and identity along the way.
Not only will you develop core graphic design skills such as typography, image-making, editorial design, UX/UI, and motion.
But you’ll also have the freedom to explore emerging trends and techniques.
You will consider graphic design in the context of major contemporary issues such as the climate crisis, digital misinformation, inclusive design, mental health awareness, ethical branding, and more.
Live projects, industry partnerships, and mentoring give you hands-on opportunities to refine your skills and build a portfolio that represents your personal style and innovative thinking while being informed by industry.
You'll use our range of specialist facilities to create your own work, respond to live briefs and industry-set challenges, deliver client pitches, and receive professional mentoring giving you the skills, experience and confidence for a career in design.
Why study Graphic Design at Kent?
As designers, how do we communicate visually across the digital realm, physically across the printed page and on a larger scale spatially and environmentally?
What are the fundamental design techniques, processes, skills, and principles that enable us to work with clients?
You’ll be introduced to a range of design fundamentals to develop your visual literacy, enabling you to confidently communicate your design concepts across a range of outputs.
You’ll explore how to interpret client briefs and be able to suggest a range of creative solutions.
Through a range of creative exercises and briefs, you’ll start to embed the core skills of graphic design which are the foundation for the entire programme.
You’ll continue to develop and deploy these skills and processes throughout your design career.
How have historical and contemporary practices and practitioners contributed to the discipline of graphic design?
And where does graphic design sit within cultural, political, and commercial contexts?
You’ll learn critical and core theories of the discipline, analysing design artefacts through the lenses of process, identity, form, affect and environment.
In doing so you’ll study a range of global design movements and outcomes from Mass Production to Postmodernism, from typographic design to political propaganda.
You’ll engage in essay writing and develop skills in research, academic referencing, and articulating arguments through writing and graphic design.
Each week you’ll explore and discuss a different design movement, gaining insights into global graphic design projects from the exceptional to the ordinary and assess their impact.
This will enable you to draw on historical design ideas to inform and inspire your future graphic design solutions.
How can play be used as a tool in the design process and what form might it take?
How can the arrangement of elements, colours and typography carry a narrative, conveying both meaning and emotion?
Through a series of workshops and briefs you’ll learn how play can be used as a methodology in the design process to ideate, explore and create original and thought-provoking outcomes.
You’ll also learn how design, narrative and storytelling are used to communicate a concept or an idea to a wider audience.
At the end of this module, you’ll be able embed a playful approach within your design work and be able to explain the use narrative as a core element of the design process and your final outcomes.
You will also be able to critique the work of your peers and respond to feedback from others.
Can imagery alone communicate ideas to an audience?
If so, how?
By creating original artwork, graphic designers have the power to synthesise and illustrate content.
What techniques and processes might you use to do so?
You’ll learn a range of creative image-making techniques and processes such as photomontage, collage, print making, photography, and mark-making.
Through experimentation and application, you’ll develop your ability to art direct and create images based on conceptual requirements – a key feature of being a successful graphic designer.
From a series of workshops and defined outcomes, you’ll add a range of image-making techniques to your skill set.
You’ll also experiment with and learn technical skills in relevant industry software to enhance and manipulate imagery ready for production.
This will give you the capacity to shape your ideas and concepts into design solutions.
How can type be used to carry meaning, language and emotion?
In what ways can type and letterforms break convention and be used to challenge function and form?
You’ll learn the attributes and language of typography, appreciating the principles of type and how it enables an idea to be written and given visual form.
You’ll examine the breaking of conventions and be encouraged to undertake type/letterform experiments, such as hand lettering, calligraphy, using type as image, type for headline, and body copy typographic detailing.
Through a series of workshops and creative briefs, you’ll experiment and challenge the function and form of type while also exploring the concept of type as image.
You’ll be given the opportunity to pursue two- and three-dimensional outcomes, both digital and physical.
How can we use moving images to bring characters and stories to life using motion and sound?
Animation is frequently used to intrigue and engage an audience with its capacity to connect linear events and moments.
What are the limitations of both physical and digital moving imagery, and how might you overcome them?
You’ll learn the core principles of animation and trial these across multiple platforms including stop-motion, flip book, kinetic typography, claymation and motion graphics.
You’ll explore visual storytelling through original image generation, sound and motion, with a focus on application in analogue and digital environments.
You’ll emerge confident in using industry-standard animation software and be able to appreciate the fluidity of moving image in graphic design.
You’ll know when and how to enhance campaigns, brands and other graphic design outcomes for increased attention and impact.
Brands are everywhere.
Increasingly we see brand identities morph into brand experiences that appeal to all the senses, but who does it best, and how can you do it better?
As consumers engage with brands online, where should designers start when crafting intuitive and engaging audience experiences?
This module delves into the theory and application of brand identity and brand experience within graphic design, emphasising both analogue and digital techniques.
Through case studies and a place-brand experience project, you'll develop your own perspectives and create alternative brand identity experiences aligned with ethical values.
You’ll explore the principles of interaction design and deepen your understanding of design for digital interfaces.
Following research, including user and audience profiling, you'll align your responses to the specific needs and objectives of a brief to generate and present industry-standard outcomes for your personal portfolio book.
How can graphic design and architecture intersect to enhance spatial navigation?
How does interdisciplinary teamwork elevate the creation of user-centric wayfinding solutions?
In this module, you’ll explore spatial navigation through interdisciplinary collaboration with students on the Spatial and Interior Design and Architecture courses.
You’ll study the principles of environmental graphic design, and focus on creating cohesive wayfinding systems that seamlessly integrate with architectural spaces.
You’ll engage in research, analysis, and hands-on design through collaborative projects which emphasise user-centred approaches to enhance the navigational experience.
You’ll develop skills in signage design, information mapping, and environmental graphics by combining graphic communication and architectural strategies.
And because of the collaborative learning environment, you’ll gain a comprehensive understanding of how design can effectively guide and inform individuals within built environments and work with practitioners from other disciplines.
Design is powerful.
It influences user interactions, emotions, and perceptions across various platforms from digital interfaces to physical spaces.
How can you adapt your existing skill set to connect with all the senses on a large scale, building environments to evoke emotions and tell stories?
Experiential graphic design is a multidisciplinary approach to building an environment which contributes to how people perceive and interact with a space.
In this module, you’ll learn where design and human experience intersect, broadening your knowledge of design principles beyond small screens and A4 paper.
You’ll engage in projects and case studies which will challenge you to conceptualise and execute super-sized designs that work in spatial environments.
By the end of the module, you’ll understand how experiential graphic design gives purpose to built environments and creates meaningful interactions with the people who pass through and inhabit them.
Are you nearly ready to fly?
Now is the time to expand your network and connect with the organisations you want to work with after graduating later this year.
This module is the culmination of your undergraduate degree, building on everything you have learned to date, and deploying strategies to make yourself and your career aspirations visible to the wider design community.
You’ll develop a self-promotion strategy and research professional career options available to you.
To aid this process, you’ll visit design studios, hear talks from professional designers and share your portfolio with prospective employers.
By the end of the module, you'll have developed a Personal Career Development Plan and should feel confident and well-prepared to launch your career, whether that be employment in entry-level graduate jobs, setting up a freelance business or embarking on further study.
How does design impact individuals, society and the planet?
Is it possible to make the world more honest and peaceful, happier, healthier and fairer through design?
Good design is not enough, and neither is ethical design.
But when blended they ensure that design can be for the good of humankind and the planet.
This module enables you to consolidate the research methods you have been using to date into a framework that supports ethical design.
You’ll propose a research methodology to develop the overall image and presence of an existing brand to consumers.
You’ll do this through critical analysis of an existing design according to a set of design-specific ethical principles.
After you finish this module, you’ll be able to propose an ethical research strategy and compile a critical assessment and report for a brand’s main stakeholders.
How do graphic designers work quickly to develop concepts and ideas for a range of briefs?
What is it like to work thoroughly, but at pace?
The Design Council describes the design process in the form of a double diamond and this module deals with the first of those diamonds: ‘discover and define’.
By working on the initial stages of a series of external, competition and self-initiated briefs, you’ll learn strategies to undertake the discovery and definition stages of the Design Council’s double diamond.
You’ll also develop your personal workflow and time management skills.
You’ll learn to choose from a range of research methods to expand your creative ideas and ensure the underpinning research for any given project is solid.
Using cross-disciplinary research, you’ll explore critical contexts and generate preliminary design directions resulting in professional standard early-stage client pitches.
Which pieces in your design portfolio best showcase your design strengths and indicate your potential to a prospective employer?
How can you demonstrate your creative design and production skills to ensure you stand out from everyone else?
The focus of this module is on the resolution, implementation and production of at least two major practical projects, which you’ll design against a critical context that you specify.
You’ll learn how to use the Design Council’s second diamond of the double diamond model to generate a range of concepts, edit, justify, and select the strongest, and generate original pieces.
By undertaking two significant design projects, being responsible for setting your own deadlines and taking responsibility for self-defined briefs, this module will help you transition from a learner to a fully independent designer ready to work in the creative industries.
BBC at A Level including Art & Design or related subject at B.
DMM in Art & Design or related subject.
112 tariff points - typically H5 H5 H6 or equivalent, including Visual Arts or Design Technology at HL 5.
Typical offer is to obtain Access to Higher Education Diploma with 45 at level 3 Credits with 18 credits at Distinction and 24 credits at Merit.
These are the necessary costs you are likely to incur on the course.
This is guidance and the overall figure may be less or more, but we would not expect any spend beyond this to be necessary to undertake the course.
Students will need to provide the materials necessary to produce hand-crafted, hand-illustrated and printed images, books, documents and reports.
Annual fieldtrips will be offered during the programme, and students are strongly encouraged to join these and will need to cover the costs of travel, accommodation and subsistance.
Year in Industry
With employability embedded throughout, you’ll graduate with the skills, experience and confidence for a career in design.
Our course is designed with industry to ensure graduates leave with the skills needed for a career in graphic design.
Employers give guest lectures, workshops, facility visits, internships and feedback on student work and assessments.
This means you have the opportunity to develop your network and explore career pathways throughout the course.
Our graduates typically work in roles such as:

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/85/history:
Immerse yourself in the past, and gain knowledge and skills that will help solve future challenges.
Why do wars and conflicts start?
How has technology impacted societies?
How and why is the past used and abused by political leaders, groups and nations?
Learning about the past can help us understand and solve many of the world’s problems today.
At Kent, you will explore over 1500 years of history in Britain, Europe and across the world.
From the fall of the Roman Empire to the 21st century, you’ll consider how political, social and cultural changes have impacted class, gender, race, injustice and power.
You will live and learn in Canterbury - a city steeped in history.
Canterbury Cathedral was founded in 597, and forms part of a UNESCO World Heritage Site in the heart of the city.
With London and mainland Europe nearby, you’ll also have the opportunity to visit sites such as the battlefield of Waterloo, trenches of the Great War and the site of the Normandy landings.
Our well-established links with the National Archives, Commonwealth War Graves Commission, British Library, Canterbury Cathedral and the Imperial War Museum will give you access to collections, artefacts and opportunities including visits and potential work placements.
You take the compulsory modules then choose one of three module pairings: 'Early Medieval History, (c.
400 – c.1050)' and 'Late Medieval History, (c.
1050 – c.
1450)'; 'The Rise of the United States Pt.
1' and 'The Rise of the United States Pt.
2'; or 'The Making of Modern Europe' and 'The Making of Modern Britain'.
Then you choose 2 more optional modules from the remaining list.
How do we navigate the juncture between history, culture, and the politics of evidence?
This module explores a series of historical controversies, in which conflicts over information and interpretation generated significant outcomes.
You’ll learn to reflect on and put into practice some of the core skills of a historian including locating, assessing, and critiquing the credibility of evidence, and considering the plausibility of arguments built around it.
You’ll explore controversies which questioned our understanding of history and challenged the rigour of historical claims.
These case studies will come from different geographies and periods, and their significance will be explained in lectures and explored in seminars.
You will address topics such as culture war divisions, political and technological revolutions, waypoints in nationalism or radicalism, and contests over heritage and colonial conflict.
The emphasis throughout the module is on putting thinking into practice, and we’ll encourage you to create your own arguments and positions, mobilising historical evidence in different ways in the process.
This will sharpen your skills of analysis, as well as your confidence in constructing your own arguments and making your voice heard.
How do historians from a range of backgrounds approach and understand the discipline of history?
What is their relationship to the past and to the archive?
You’ll learn about some key figures who have shaped how history can be written, with attention to the ideologies, assumptions, and various methods or ambitions that different authors have applied to their historical subjects.
Seminars each week are dedicated to different ‘history makers’ and will allow you to read and reflect on significant texts, legacies, and historical reputations.
Seminars are supported by lectures that put the historian and their approach in a wider context.
The module supports the transition from school study to a deeper reading of historical interpretation and identifies some patterns, tools, and 'schools' of historical practice which developed in the second half of the twentieth century and remain influential today.
This allows you to find your voice in telling history, and gives you the tools to make it heard.
What happened when the Roman Empire collapsed?
When did countries like England, France and Germany come into being?
How violent were the Vikings?
What was the Norman Conquest all about?
Were the ‘Dark Ages’ really as grim as they are often made out to be?
This module introduces you to the history of early medieval Europe (c.400–c.1100), examining the major political events and social changes that took place during this period.
You’ll consider key aspects of warfare, religious life and intellectual culture.
Coming to understand the outlines of early medieval history between the end of the Roman Empire and the transformations of the late eleventh century, as well as a sense of what daily life was like for most people.
Additionally, we’ll encourage you to engage confidently with different types of evidence that historians can use to understand this period.
Weekly lectures will guide you through the module, and seminars will provide opportunities to explore key debates and historical problems in more detail by analysing primary sources.
How were Medieval polities forged?
What role did they play in ordinary people’s lives?
This module is a survey of medieval Europe from c.1000 to c.1450.
It includes elements of political, economic, social, religious, and cultural history.
You’ll have the chance to explore topics such as the creation of kingdoms, the relationship between church and state, feudalism, monasticism, Medieval universities, Gothic art, the rise of towns, revolt, dissent and warfare.
The module will give you a foundation that will allow you to study European history at later stages with confidence.
By the end of the module, you’ll have a grounding in geography and chronology, and be familiar with a variety of methodological approaches, scholarly debates, and primary sources (both written and visual).
This allows you to follow your passions, you could delve deeper into medieval history, or use your understanding of the context of European history to explore a different era - the choice is up to you.
How did a collection of colonies become a global superpower?
You’ll answer this question by examining the chaotic history of the United States.
For much of its early history, the United States was a marvel: a country that would expand across the North American continent and emerge as a powerhouse, barely a century after its founding.
But the dynamism of the United States could not hide the republic’s powerful contradictions.
A republic forged in personal liberty had its foundations laid by the enslaved.
National expansion brought with it so many more victims than victors.
Isolationism and wars abroad and at home would mark the character of the republic throughout its early history.
We will focus on these contradictions, to understand how they developed and why they have endured.
To study the history of the United States is to study the forces that made the modern world.
How did a collection of colonies develop into a global superpower?
In this module, you’ll examine the chaotic history of the United States by focusing on the modern period: the point at which the republic came of age.
By the close of the nineteenth century, the republic had emerged out of a civil war that nearly tore the country to pieces.
In the wake of the war, the United States developed into a power in the Americas and, increasingly, in the world.
Yet, the contradictions baked into the republic from its founding remained.
If anything, growing global dominance exposed even deeper fissures at the country’s foundations.
Economic booms and busts, relentless armed conflicts abroad and tensions from within all pulled at American society, testing whether the United States would endure.
The history of the modern United States would test the republic to its limits.
You'll explore these tests and discover how they were eventually overcome.
The analysis of this period will help you develop critical skills, helping you in your studies and later, your career.
What is Europe and how did it take the shape we recognise today?
This module will cover the major events and themes of European history from c.1700 to the present, reflecting on the establishment of modern political systems and the subsequent challenges they faced during moments of intense crisis.
From the dismantling of the Ancien Regime through to the period of European integration following the end of the Cold War, this module introduces you to the impact of Enlightened Absolutism, revolutions, extreme political ideologies, war, and peace.
You understanding of the making of Europe not only supports your study of history, it also builds cultural understanding, allowing your to better communicate across cultures and work across borders in your career.
Has the expansion and collapse of imperialism over recent centuries been the single largest historical process that made the world we live in today?
You'll explore this question and critically analyse how empires have shaped the world in countless ways.
Through this, you'll gain a detailed understanding of the economic, political, cultural and social histories of empire through a close examination of their structures, instruments and consequences.
You’ll appreciate the importance of empires to networks of trade and power across multiple continents and be able to map out and critically engage with the ways in which modern economic and cultural globalisation formed and its relationship with protectionism, nationalism and xenophobia.
In doing so, you will develop a greater understanding of how these themes continue to shape our world in the twenty-first century and build a cross-cultural awareness that will serve you well in a career working globally or across borders.
How did people in the past experience health and illness and how did this differ according to gender, age, race, ability and geography?
How, why and when did professional medicine come to dominate discussions of health and treatments for illness?
And was this domination always a good thing for our health?
With a particular focus on Britain and Western Europe in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, you’ll examine themes such as epidemic disease; mental health; health environments; welfare states; the relationship between medicine and war; sexuality; and colonialism.
To explore these themes, you’ll compare wide ranging historiographies and draw on the significance of these historiographies for debates about health and medicine today.
This not only gives you an understanding of the history of the time, but also the developments of these fields to our own understanding in the modern age.
This ability to trace the links between past and present and critically examine evidence and narratives is skill that makes you stand our to a wide range of employers in any field following graduation.
From the Renaissance to the Enlightenment, you’ll survey the major events, themes, and historiographical debates in early modern history (c.
1450-1750).
During this time in Europe and the wider world, major social, cultural, political and religious changes included the Renaissance, the advent of print, the Reformations, the rise of empires, the Enlightenment, the rise of slavery and an explosion of commodities and trade.
Influencing these dramatic events were the new encounters between civilisations spurred on by trade, empire and the spread of Christianity.
In everyday life, these transformations led to new ways of thinking about gender, the body, and social hierarchies.
Through a wide variety of texts, images and objects you’ll trace the refiguring of the world from medieval kingdoms to global empires and ask whether this really was the beginning of 'modernity'.
Special attention will be paid to new material approaches to writing the history of the early modern world and how to use museums and heritage in the practice of history.
This in-depth study of the Renaissance will help you understand not only the history of the period, but the enduring impact of the events and ideas of the time on our society today.
What is modern Britain?
How was it ‘made’?
This module plots the history of modern Britain from the early nineteenth century to the end of the twentieth, taking in critical moments, movements, individuals and 'isms.' It looks at how industrialisation, urbanisation, democratic politics, war, imperialism and mass culture shaped the country and explores history from political, social, cultural, economic and environmental perspectives.
Subjects include industrialisation and its critics, public health and the city, Victorian politics and radical protest, science, nature and the non-human world, suffrage and sexuality, media and modernity, war and society, the welfare state, decolonisation and immigration, riots and policing, consensus and counterculture, nationalism, devolution and Europe, and Thatcherism and the rise of New Labour.
An understand of the making of modern Britain also provides you with an understanding of the life today in Britain, allowing you new insight into everyday life, the reasons why things the way they are, and solutions to pressing issues we face today.
How has warfare shaped modern Europe to create the world we live in today?
Join a comparative study of wars in Europe from the French Revolutionary Wars to the Second World War.
You’ll adopt the 'war and society' approach to this topic and will focus on the social composition and combat effectiveness of the armies concerned, as well as the causes of the wars, and civil-military relations.
There will also be discussion of these wars at the strategic and operational level.
You’ll consider the French Revolutionary Wars, Napoleonic Wars, the mid-19th Century Wars of Unification, the First World War, Spanish Civil War, and Second World War.
Through this, you gain an overview of the wars which shaped modern Europe and while making insights into political and economic change in this period.
This helps you position military history in Europe within the societies of the times, and our society today.
How did power manifest itself in the Middle Ages?
Was faith a political tool that could be harnessed for diplomatic ends?
How did these two forces interact when challenged by cultural clashes and population movements?
This module provides an in-depth examination of the history of Medieval Europe (c.400–c.1400), examining the sweeping political and social transformations following the collapse of the Roman Empire in the fifth century.
You’ll also explore how warfare, violence, and migration impacted the development of new social, legal, and economic practices across Medieval society and consider how this influenced the lives, religious beliefs and intellectual frameworks of ordinary people.
Intrinsic to the module is a focus on cultural exchanges and encounters of different communities and religions.
For instance, when the Saxons were converted to Christianity in the 8th century or conflicts in the Holy Land during the crusading period.
Lectures will guide you through the module, and seminars will provide opportunities to explore key debates and historical problems in more detail through the analysis of primary sources.
Allowing you to discover your own voice in the debate surrounding medieval history, and giving you the ability to make it heard.
How was our modern political, cultural and social system made?
How does it function and what historical forces are still actively at play?
This module will examine the formation of modern political culture, democracy, party politics, ideological divides, enlightenment, and secularisation between 1700 and 1990.
These are all hallmarks of the pluralist and inclusive world we prize today.
The world between the eighteenth and twentieth centuries was beset by crises.
People sensed that they lived in an exceptional moment in time when change and hope could free people from tradition, superstition, and economic exploitation.
There was a sense of dissatisfaction with existing systems of power, exclusion, capitalism and injustice.
Revolution, reform and the Cold War all became key themes in humanity’s struggle to exit the crisis of the Ancien Régime and create a better world.
This module will evaluate this key moment in history and enable you to create your own critical understanding of this transition towards modern politics, culture and society.
It will empower you to actively engage with contemporary problems by understanding their deep historical origins and confront the debate as to if history has 'ended' and what era we are living in now.
How do you identify a workable dissertation topic?
How do you formulate your research questions, define your structure, locate your sources, and identify a potential supervisor?
These are all common questions, and we are here to help walk you through all the key elements you’ll need to produce a fully-fledged dissertation proposal, which will prepare you to tackle your first major research project with confidence.
Conducting independent research and writing it up to a high standard is at the heart of what historians do.
Through a series of lectures, workshops and other guided sessions, this module will help you develop the key skills required to conduct independent historical research and to gain the knowledge necessary to successfully write it up in the form of a primary source analysis and a proposal in anticipation of the Stage 3 Dissertation module.
The skills and knowledge you gain through this module will be essential for writing your dissertation in the final year.
From 21st-century war in Ukraine, to Prague acting as a Habsburg safe-haven from the Turks in the 17th century, Eastern Europe has continually represented a complex but critical region to the balance of global power.
While the ‘global turn’ in history has focused attention on maritime encounters, the swathe of land, rivers and natural resources spanning Eastern Europe – acting as a borderland between the Holy Roman Empire, Muscovy and the Ottoman Empire – presents new insight into cultural, social, religious and political encounters.
You’ll examine the connected cultures and histories across Eastern Europe through ten objects, such as the ‘Turkish’ carpet, a Bohemian agate cameo and a Transylvanian sword.
While the focus is on the historic lands of Bohemia, Hungary, Ukraine and Poland-Lithuania in 1400 to 1700, these histories are entangled in myth-making narratives that emerged in the 20th century while the region was part of the Communist Bloc.
The object approach provides a new perspective on this region that collapses historical narratives and national myth-making.
You’ll specifically develop your skills in working with museum collections and visual and material evidence.
Examine the European experience of war during the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars.
You’ll learn the major national armies (French, Prussian, Austrian, Russian, British and Spanish) and how they were expanded and reformed in the wake of the French Revolution.
Iin seminars you’ll consider key themes, such as the nature of the officer corps, recruitment and conscription, the nature of ‘People’s War’, interactions between soldiers and civilians, developments in tactics, logistics, and discipline and morale.
The approach taken will largely be that of ‘war and society’, focussing on the social history of the armies but there will also be some consideration of operational history and cultural approaches to this topic.
While this approach moves significantly away from ‘old military history’ with its focus on generals and battles, there will be some consideration of Napoleon’s methods of warfare and how these were successfully countered by his enemies.
Why is the tank such a potent symbol of power?
Does it merit its reputation?
How has this piece of military technology changed the nature of war in the 20th Century?
You’ll explore the very nature of armoured warfare from its inception to the 21st Century and learn how quickly advocates of these new machines developed theories of armoured warfare and how these were applied to the battlefield.
Consider the supposed decline of the tank and heavy armour in the years since the collapse of the Communist Bloc, only to be given a new lease of life by the two Gulf Wars.
You’ll look at the cultural ideas behind the tank, how it has seeped into the imagination as a symbol of modernity and change: for example, the crucial importance of tanks to images of the Hungarian uprising in 1956 and to the Beijing protests of 1989.
Environmental issues are at forefront of our global challenges today – but do they have a history?
Emphatically, YES!
Examine the history of modern Britain through the analytical lens of environmental history and explore the ways humans have used, adapted, and imagined various environments over time.
Taking 1850 as the starting point, you’ll look at major transformations in British life – the social and ecological problems of the city; changing attitudes towards nature preservation and ‘rights to roam’; animal encounters from the zoo to rewilding; war, chemicals and landscapes of contamination; protest and ethics in the ‘age of the environment’; and the politics of climate change - to chart the ways in which successive generations interacted with the spaces and other species around them.
This is a story both of material changes and of cultural values – our interactions with and our imaginations of the modern world - and takes in a range of different sources from government legislation and scientific studies to film and photography to unpack the environmental history of modern Britain.
How did the British Army recover from Dunkirk to become one of the victorious armies of the Second World War?
The answer to this question is relatively simple.
The British army expanded rapidly between 1940 and 1942, established more and better equipped armoured units and, by trial and error, became an effective force.
It could also rely on effective support from the Royal Navy, Royal Air Force, and the troops of Allied nations.
However, the use of the term ‘British army’ in this context is confusing, the Dominion Forces (i.e.
those raised in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and South Africa) expanded rapidly alongside other ‘Imperial’ forces, raised in Africa and in India.
Indeed, the Indian Army became the largest volunteer force in world history by the start of 1945.
You’ll consider many aspects of the British Imperial armies in this period, including the recruitment and conscription systems used to raise them, the development of more specialist equipment, the development of special forces, discipline and morale, the expansion of women’s units, the development local defence forces (most famously the Home Guard) and leadership.
Winston Churchill’s role as a war leader is also a focus in this study.
Why did a nation built by slaves fight a war over slavery that led to the nation’s collapse?
Learn about the causes and consequences of the American Civil War.
Cutting across the middle decades of the nineteenth century, you’ll examine how and why the American republic spiraled into division, as well as the kind of republic that emerged out of the war.
During the conflict, Americans raised on the principle of small government experienced the coercive power of two modern nation-states.
After the war, a slaveholding nation became a country in which the formerly enslaved counted themselves as citizens.
Radical and revolutionary, the Civil War made the modern United States, with all its promise, its problems, and its unrealised potential.
It also left an indelible mark on the American psyche.
It is a conflict Americans continue to fight, more than a century after it ended.
You’ll be empowered to understand why the republic still bears these scars, and why the Civil War means so much to Americans now.
Why did southern Africa become one of the most dynamic and turbulent regions on earth after 1750?
You’ll understand how early encounters and conflicts between European settlers and African societies focused on land and labour and were shaped by rapid changes in local and global economies and societies.
The discovery of gold and diamonds radically transformed the region’s relations with the major imperial powers of Great Britain, Portugal and Germany.
You’ll be able to explore and understand how the Berlin conference of 1884-85 initiated a scramble for formal control of the region, its peoples and its riches, which culminated in the South African War in 1899-1902.
In doing so, you’ll learn how diverse African societies responded to interactions and conflicts with European encroachment and annexation in a range of ways.
Gain a clear understanding of the origins of settler colonialism and African resistance in southern Africa and the wider world.
The 20 years between the two world wars were some of the most tumultuous Europe has ever experienced.
It emerged from a conflict that many hoped would be the ‘war to end all wars’ but which instead unleashed new forms of violence and left much unfinished business.
The problems which faced Europe as the First World War ended were so severe that many felt that only extreme solutions were viable.
Radical ideologies on both ends of the political spectrum gained huge support and in some cases formed the basis of government in powerful states – Communism in Russia, Fascism in Italy and National Socialism in Germany.
So potent were these systems, and so committed to absolute control both within and beyond their borders, that they gave rise to many horrors – dictatorship, oppression, slavery, genocide – and eventually led to the outbreak of the Second World War.
You’ll consider these three extreme states both on their own merit and in comparison with one another, examining not only their similarities and differences, but also the ways in which they related to one another and how they shaped the international relations of the period.
The French Revolution was one of the greatest turning points of European history – it created modern politics.
Indeed the deputies of the National Assembly claimed that the year 1789 marked the beginning of a new modernity.
They consciously rejected the past by dismissing it as an 'ancien régime' or old order.
Seek to understand and question this claim.
You’ll examine critically the last decades of the Bourbon monarchy and ask if the term 'crisis' is an adequate description of this period.
You’ll then turn to the revolutionaries’ ambitious programme of reform which sought to remould not only the institutional and governmental landscape of France but the very underpinnings of daily life in order to create social justice.
The Revolution deployed rapidly a new armoury of political concepts such as: national sovereignty, liberty and human rights.
You’ll appraise the process by which an initially liberal agenda of freedom, tolerance and pluralism succumbed quickly to factional strife, international warfare and political terror.
How did a modern liberal revolution lead to political terror and show will be a key question investigated throughout.
How was the West Won?
Or was it actually lost?
Explore the American West in the 19th century, looking at the momentous social, political, economic and environmental changes which took place between 1803 – the date of the Louisiana Purchase – and 1893 – the publication of Turner’s famed ‘frontier thesis’.
An exploration of the myths and mechanisms of territorial conquest, you’ll look at images of the West in popular culture, before moving on to critically analyse key moments in Western history including the Oregon Trails, Gold Rush, Indian Wars and Cattle Kingdom.
Along the way, you’ll delve into the stories of such historical figures as General Custer, Calamity Jane and Jesse James and look at how historical and popular views on the frontier have changed over time, from the ‘mythic’ West as depicted in dime novels and Hollywood Westerns to more recent interpretations that focus on colonial conquest and give voice to diverse communities.
Visual art, literature and film are used (along with a wide range of historical sources) to unpack the American frontier as a colourful space and a contested idea.
Why was difference so endlessly fascinating to the Victorians?
The British public was entranced by individuals deemed different, and ‘enfreaked’ people have been viewed and constructed in a myriad of ways, through gender, race, disability, and behaviours.
Explore the continuities and changes surrounding those classed as different, revealing problematic interactions with the medical profession, the authorities, public and private institutions, and public opinion.
Investigate the changing nature of difference from the 1780s to the end of the nineteenth century.
Examine the body and mind as contested sites; spaces occupied by those forced to perform for their survival; the establishment of ideas of ‘normality’ versus deviance; the changing conceptions of difference over time; and the relationships between those deemed physically and mentally ‘outside’ wider society.
You’ll assess the nature of stigmatisation, abuse, philanthropy, and agency in these interactions, revealing complexity and nuance.
Using a broad range of sources, the course will trace the shifting cultural constructions of difference and deviance, and the effect on those who were forced to live on the perimeter of society.
What factors have shaped German history since the First World War?
Focusing on the history of modern Germany in the twentieth century, examine major changes and continuities in the development of a highly advanced, industrialised but also militarised European nation state which played a central role in shaping the modern European geographical and political landscape.
You’ll explore the end of the Imperial monarchy in 1918, the legacy of the First World War during the inter-war years, the political instability but also potential of the Weimar Republic, the Third Reich and the Second World War, and the legacy of the Holocaust in defining post-war German identity and society.
By examining the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) and the German Democratic Republic (GDR), you’ll take a critical look at the politics, ideology and the ‘history of the everyday’ (Alltagsgeschichte) of East and West German society during the Cold War, and explore the underlying factors which led to the fall of the Berlin wall in 1989 and subsequent German reunification.
How and why did surgery transform from a barbaric craft to a precision-based science over the last few centuries?
What role did new technologies play in allowing surgeons to pioneer innovative procedures and become heroes of the hospital operating theatre and beyond?
To what extent were these developments revolutionary?
You’ll examine major aspects of surgery in order to evaluate the extent to which a 'surgical revolution' has taken place since 1750.
Topics include the rise of pathological anatomy; dissection and body snatching; anaesthesia; antisepsis and asepsis; vivisection; war; organ transplantation; and keyhole surgery.
Adopting a social and cultural approach, students on you’ll examine these topics in line with several key themes: the surgical profession, masculinity and heroism; patients, ethics and the body; technologies and techniques; and the sciences of pathology and physiology.
You’ll also explore the dissemination of surgical history today to public audiences through analyses of museum exhibits.
Why should we study the role of the media in times of war?
This course examines how the British media reported military conflicts from the Crimean War (1853-1856) to the end of the Second World War in 1945.
Against an overview of the causes and consequences of a series of conflicts around the world, the course considers a series of case studies to provide an analysis of the development of the media such as the growth of newspapers, telecommunications, commercial advertising, cinematography, and radio broadcasting.
The developing role of war correspondents will be contextualised in tandem with the roles of various government departments and media organisations such as newspapers, newsreel companies and the BBC in influencing the flow of information to the public, to enhance your understanding of the historical developments in the reporting of conflict and the growth of the modern media prior to the dawn of Britain’s television service.
Why, and with what consequences, did the Cold War become global?
The module will consider the personal, local, national, and international dynamics that led to the onset of the Cold War and to its evolution.
It will follow a chronological and regional approach, considering the various stages that delineated this period of superpower tension and how this global reality was translated in different contexts, as well as its long-term legacies.
It will consider crisis moments as well as the impact of revolutions during the second half of the 20 th Century and give students the tools with which to measure their immediate and longer-term impact.
What were the crusades?
How do we explain their relevance in both an historical and contemporary context?
This module will investigate how the crusades were the product of an aristocratic society suffused by a martial culture and a militant religion.
Students will have the opportunity to explore revealing aspects of social relations, popular spirituality, Medieval warfare, and attitudes to violence – all of which bear a contemporary relevance for a modern world to which Holy War and ideological justification of violence are no strangers.
You’ll fully explore the events of the campaigns in the Near East, covering the experience as well as the motivations of crusaders and settlers in the Crusader Kingdoms.
Investigate the interaction over a period of two centuries between western Christians and the indigenous populations, both Christian and Islamic, in and around the states and settlements established in the East.
In recent years the Crusades have attracted a wealth of new research and debate, much of it conducted in English.
These provide you with rich and accessible secondary material against which to pit your own views.
Was modern Germany really forged through ‘blood and iron’?
These words, spoken by the Prussian Chancellor, Otto von Bismarck in 1862, have become synonymous with the decade of warfare that culminated in the unification of Germany under the house of Hohenzollern in 1871.
However, this process was far longer in the making.
While the wars against Denmark (1864), Austria (1866) and France (1870-71) proved to be the deciding factors, military success was predicated on a half century of social, political, and economic developments since the end of the Napoleonic Wars.
You’ll explore these developments and analyse their effect on the establishment of a Prusso/German military model, the application of universal conscription, the rise of the General Staff, the influence of technology on doctrine, and much more.
You’ll learn to identify the key factors that underpinned Prussian military success and relate this to diplomatic and political developments in the period.
Ultimately, this set the stage for the next Franco-German showdown in 1914.
How have successive US presidents navigated the formal and informal constraints on their power in the conduct of foreign policy in the 20th Century?
During the Second World War and ensuing Cold War, successive Presidents were given considerable leeway to forge a foreign policy in their own image.
A cooperative Congress and broad consensus about the United States’ place in the world facilitated an activist foreign policy and the emergence of what the historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr.
dubbed an “imperial presidency.” However, as this permissive domestic context began to erode in the late 1960s, the constitutional constraints on the President’s powers became more pronounced.
The module will chart the evolution of U.S.
foreign policy from Roosevelt to Obama: it will consider the substance of each incumbent’s foreign policy and assess their ability to work with existing constitutional constraints.
How important was India to Britain and its global imperial interests?
Was it really the ‘jewel in the crown’?
Explore the long and historically significant relationship between imperial Britain and arguably its most prized colonial possession – India.
You’ll gain a critical understanding of the relationship between India and the British Empire; especially the ways in which India influenced imperial policies (social, economic, military) in both metropolitan Britain and in the wider British dominions and colonies.
You’ll gain a critical historical knowledge of the British Empire against a broader global canvas.
Were vikings really just horn-helmeted, bloodthirsty pirates who killed and pillaged their way across Europe and beyond in the Middle Ages?
Vikings contributed rather more to European and global history than this caricature suggests.
They dramatically reshaped the political orders of Britain, Ireland and Francia; they fuelled the growth of international trade and urbanisation in different parts of Europe and Asia; and they explored and settled uncharted territories of the North Atlantic, even becoming the first Europeans to reach the North American continent.
Vikings were also some of the most engaging storytellers of their time.
By the time Scandinavian raiding ceased in the second half of the eleventh century, they had dramatically altered political, religious, economic and military developments across the early medieval world, from the Atlantic to Asia.
You’ll separate fact from fiction by analysing and discussing surviving written sources alongside archaeological, visual and linguistic evidence, thereby enabling students to uncover the real history that lies behind the mythical Viking Age.
War is the most destructive of human actions.
It disrupts political, economic, social, and physical environments.
You’ll focus on the history of war and medicine in Britain from 1850, which encompasses the Crimean, South African, First and Second World Wars.
Modern technological warfare had a devastating effect on the bodies and minds of combatants, and you’ll examine topics such as surgery, health and disease, fitness to fight, innovations in treatment and sanitation and new spaces such as military hospitals which were specifically established to treat the war wounded.
Some soldiers and sailors did not fully recover from their war service which left a permanent impression on their bodies and minds and the course also focuses on nursing care, rehabilitation and disabilities.
War production affected civilian’s health, as medical practitioners were called up to care for the war wounded.
Civilians on the frontlines suffered the same injuries as soldiers and benefited from some of the medical innovations designed for the war wounded.
Explore the history of medicine and war through a range of analytic frameworks including race, gender, class, disability, health, and disease.
What were the Dark Ages?
How are we to understand the murky origins of its heroes and legends, such as: King Arthur and his round table; Beowulf and his dragon, or Charlemagne and his Empire?
Whereas popular culture may have lent into the mythology of this period, the historic reality is far more complex.
This module will explore the seismic social, political and cultural changes that emerged after the fall of the western Roman Empire in the fifth century.
You’ll explore how pagan religious practices became more prevalent, while vernacular languages emerged as the dominant spoken tongue of communities across Europe.
At the same time, a fractured political landscape developed, with new polities forming, each with their own rulers, many of whom heralded themselves as kings.
These transformations are often attributed to new waves of migration and the developments of the period can only be understood fully in their broader European context.
By exploring these developments from the fifth to tenth centuries, you will be able to trace the formation of new kingdoms, assess the changing, gendered structures of society, and explore the cultural influences and practices of the period.
What does a research project look like?
Why is it so integral to the discipline of History?
This module is designed to for you to engage in exciting independent research on a historical topic, as part of your final years of study.
This module focuses on in-depth scrutiny of a subject through primary and secondary research.
You’ll also engage in primary research, in archives or online, explore the rich historiography of your chosen topic, and learn how to integrate these findings into a long-form written piece.
You’ll be supervised by a subject specialist and have the chance to discuss your ideas with peers and supervisors in lectures, workshops, and one-to-one settings.
The research project is your chance to engage in real historical research, just as a professional historian would, and to put the research skills and training you developed earlier in your degree into practice.
It will also help foster transferable skills such as organisation, independence, and project management as well as being a fantastic example of your skills to show employers.
What is the arc of the African American story?
Triumph over adversity?
Tragedy in the face of injustice?
Across the long twentieth century, African Americans shaped the republic in profound and jarring ways.
You’ll explore the traditions of organisation and protest which have long defined the black experience in the United States.
Students will also learn about how these traditions clashed with the broader historical contexts that shaped the period.
You’ll be encouraged to understand how African Americans pushed back at the forces arrayed against them, and how struggles for racial justice continue to define the United States in the present.
From militance to non-violence, from racial uplift and respectability to black power, the African American experience is the American experience.
What happened to the American West after it was ‘won’?
You’ll explore the history of this region in the twentieth century, looking at social, political, economic and environmental dynamics.
Plot the continuing evolution of the trans-Mississippi as a vibrant but contested place, with such topics as the Dust Bowl and the politics of water; tourist cultures from Vegas to Moab; the Manhattan Project and nuclear testing; Red Power and indigenous land rights; cowboy politics and the militia movement; environmental protection and radical protest.
Emphasis is placed on exploring the landscape and mythology of the West via various mediums including literature, photography and film, and on trying to understand its complicated identity in American life as a space of promise and escape, hardship and decay.
What characterises insurgency and counterinsurgency in theory and in practice?
Starting with the legacy of the irregular warfare spawned during the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars, you’ll move through a series of case-studies from the post-Napoleonic to the post-Cold War era.
Focus is placed on global, studying irregular warfare especially (but not exclusively) in British, French, Spanish and American experiences, especially in the context of imperialism, decolonisation, civil wars and policing.
Particular themes include the impact of metropolitan calculations on colonial counter-insurgency, the impact of colonial veterans on civil wars in the metropole, the motives of insurgents and the extent to which they were ‘logical’ in their use of violence and propaganda, and the extent to which counterinsurgents operated policies of ‘hearts and minds’ or ‘butcher and bolt’.
Your attention will be drawn to the policing of non-combatants in asymmetrical warfare scenarios.
Above all, you’ll question the extent to which the post-Second World War era opened up a more formidable, ideological pattern of insurgency waged against Western powers and their allied regimes, especially in relation to Marxist doctrine of ‘people’s war’ and vanguard theory (the ‘foco’).
At times, even our own bodies are difficult to understand.
Trying to figure out how bodies function and their place in the world is part of the human condition.
The body itself has a history – theoretically, metaphorically, and literally.
The ways that bodies feel, move, look, and engage with the world has changed over time, as bodies were stigmatised, politicised, revered and misunderstood.
You’ll explore the changing conceptualisation of the body in the nineteenth and the first half of the twentieth century, including the mind-body nexus, the body as lived, and the body as a source of scientific discovery.
The body itself, and how it is seen, understood and behaves is dependent on several contingent factors including time, place, identity, society, and culture.
You’ll explore the lived bodily experience of a range of people over time, and the shifting understandings with how people viewed their own and other people’s bodies, through aspects such as race, gender, sexuality, criminality, disability, health, and disease.
‘To do no harm’ is among the most well-known codes of medical ethics today, but what does this mean in practice?
What examples are there of doctors not adhering to this code and actively doing patients harm?
And to what impact and with what consequences?
You will examine these important questions through a range of modern historical case studies, including medical professionalisation, public and private health, eugenics, war and commercialisation.
By focusing on the changing relationship between doctor and patient, as well as the interventions of the state and businesses, you’ll understand the variable practices of medicine since 1800 and highlights how and why ethical medical practice takes the form it does today.
From incarceration in asylum to public declarations of mental health issues, attitudes to mental health in Britain have changed radically since 1850.
You’ll explore public, medical, and state attitudes to mental health, and how they have changed over time.
The mind has a history – theoretically, metaphorically, and literally - you’ll examine that history through case studies of mental health conditions and the people who were affected by them.
People with mental health issues have been stigmatised, misunderstood, and isolated.
The medical profession has investigated the mind and developed a wide range of treatments – from pharmaceuticals for depression to CBT for anxiety, and the course explores the medical profession’s role in understanding the ‘sick’ and healthy’ mind, and the way patients were identified, categorised, and treated.
You’ll explore the lived experience of mental health over time, and the shifting understandings of the workings of the mind, through frameworks such as race, gender, sexuality, criminality, disability, and health.
The ‘Renaissance’: a time of artistic and cultural productivity; a time, also, of ruthless politics and repeated mayhem.
The contradictions are part of its allure - and there is little chance of ignoring it, from cinema references to Machiavelli to the setting of Assassin’s Creed II.
What, though, is the historical basis for the construction of the ‘Renaissance’ that has developed since the mid-nineteenth century?
And what does that construction tell us about historians’ perceptions of ‘progress’?
You’ll be encouraged to investigate the culture of the Renaissance through engagement with primary sources, textual, visual and material.
Centred on the Italian peninsula (‘the cradle’ of innovation in arts, intellectual life and warfare) you’ll reflect on the period from the fifteenth century to the aftermath of the Sack of Rome in 1527, when German troops in the pay of the Holy Roman Emperor pillaged the ‘Eternal City’.
You’ll put Italian creativity in context when you consider the Renaissance globally by examining its debts to other cultures, both Christian and Muslim, as well as its interaction with the cultural and commercial life of other parts of Europe, and beyond.
This module enables students to investigate the culture of the Renaissance through engagement with primary sources, textual, visual and material.
Centred on the Italian peninsula (‘the cradle’ of innovation in arts, intellectual life and warfare) students reflect on the period from the fifteenth century — when the papacy was divided and the city-states at each other’s throats — to the aftermath of the Sack of Rome in 1527, when German troops in the pay of the Holy Roman Emperor pillaged the ‘Eternal City’.
Italian creativity is placed in context: students will consider the Renaissance globally by examining its debts to other cultures, both Christian and Muslim, as well as its interaction with the cultural and commercial life of other parts of Europe, and beyond.
This source-based class challenges you to consider the background, causes, and evolution of the American Revolution from both sides of the Atlantic Ocean - from the Seven Years’ War to the establishing of the Federal Constitution.
You’ll be invited to contextualise a range of primary documents - from political speeches in the British Parliament, to American pamphlets, landmark revolutionary texts, and accounts of warfare, slavery, and gender relations.
Consider the character and place of the American Revolution within European and American economic, political, and cultural development.
You’ll start by examining the conditions under which the American Revolution emerged; the part played by empire, and the distinctive combination of ideological and theological strands that produced a compelling challenge to British Parliamentary authority for the first time, culminating in war and independence.
In the second half you’ll revisit the chronology but look at specific themes, including race, gender, and loyalism.
How did European societies experience and commemorate the Great War?
The history of the Great War is a subject of perennial fascination for this war left its imprint on British/European society to an extent almost unparalleled in modern history.
No previous war matched it in scale and brutality.
You’ll discover the social and cultural upheavals of the Great War.
Explore themes ranging from ‘war enthusiasm’ in 1914 and wartime propaganda to post-war commemorative rituals and memorialisation.
You’ll move beyond a military history and examine the war’s sociocultural impact on British and European societies.
he First World War was, by definition, a transnational event and you’ll fully explore the comparative method.
How did war shape national identities in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries?
Discover the causes, developments and legacy of the longest war in the Middle Ages, known as Hundred Years' War between England and France (1337-1453).
You’ll start to understand the context for the outbreak of the war, looking at the establishment of the Angevin Empire in northern France from the mid-twelfth century and the origins of the Hundred Years' War, the causes of which have been debated at length by historians.
Following the chronological development of the war in its four phases, you’ll look at the European dimension of the war, which developed due to international alliances and attempts at pacifying the parties, mostly undertaken under the supervision of the papacy and the Empire.
Alongside the political perspective, you’ll pay attention to the defensive structures and military strategies employed during the war as well as the cultural milieu within which the war was fought that ultimately led to the growth of lay chivalric values.
Can military history be simply understood through the concept of the ‘Great Commander’?
You’ll consider those regarded as ‘Great Commanders’, including Claude Auchinleck, Napoleon Bonaparte, Douglas MacArthur and Helmuth von Moltke, while learning that the ‘nature’ of their command was shaped by the military forces they commanded, the staff systems that they operated within, and the wider strategic and civil-military parameters within which they worked.
You’ll also consider the development of command styles from ‘personal command’ to the elaborate staff systems developed by the Prussians from 1807 onwards, reflecting on the influence that developments in communications technology had.
You’ll pay attention to the different levels of command; operational and strategic, along with wider issues of civil-military relations (in particular how commanders served the interests of elected governments).
The role of the commander in coalition warfare will also be considered, most notably in Douglas MacArthur’s command in the Korean War.
While most case-studies will consider conventional warfare, the role of Gerald Templer in commanding British forces during the Malayan ‘Emergency’ will provide an example of command in counter-insurgency warfare.
How did an economic theory come to define our day-to-day lives to such an extent, that many find it hard to imagine the world without it?
This module examines the development and the ideas that underpin the system we now know as capitalism.
Few historical events in the modern world have been left untouched by it.
Global in reach, brutally efficient and disastrously wasteful, capitalism dominates and suffers no rival.
It is common to think it the greatest product of human ingenuity; as natural as breathing.
You’ll explore this idea.
Like all things, capitalism was made by people.
It has a history and is marked by deep imperfections.
Focused on its origins and rapid development in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, you will examine capitalism’s inner workings, its grand theories, and both the cultures and critiques that emerged in its wake.
From the consolidation of the global countryside to its fusion with imperialism; from the armed conflicts fought over it to the structure of the global order that sought to protect it, participants will come to understand the shape of perhaps the most dominant idea modern world.
How, when and why did England become a kingdom for the first time?
What did it mean to be English in the early Middle Ages?
What impact did vikings have on Britain?
And truly how significant was 1066 for the trajectory of English history?
This special subject is your chance to answer these questions by exploring the rich political, cultural and social histories of England from the ninth to eleventh centuries, starting with the first wave of viking invasions and the rise of the kingdom of Wessex in the ninth century, and ending with the reign of William the Conqueror and his Domesday Survey.
In doing so, we will encounter a wide variety of evidence, including documentary sources, laws, historical narratives, archaeology, sculpture and poetry.
Moreover, we will interrogate powerful yet often highly problematic discourses of national ‘origins’, and we will uncover how the historic reality of this period of English history is far more complex and fascinating than modern representations often suggest.
How true is the saying: ‘one man’s mercenary is another man’s freedom fighter’?
You’ll trace the evolving notion of 'mercenaryism' from its role in establishing the Early-Modern fiscal military state through to its modern connotation with ‘freedom fighters’ acting beyond – and often against – the defined nation state.
You’ll cover events in Europe, North America, South America, the Indian sub-continent, Africa, the Middle East, and Asia.
The continued presence of ‘foreign soldiers’ around the world poses interesting questions concerning identity, military cultures, global networks and encounters, as well as the transfer of ideas across borders.
It ties together the experience of national and colonial soldiery, international volunteerism, and statelessness within a broader context of nationalist and internationalist movements of the 19th and 20th Centuries.
You will also reflect on the use of ‘mercenary’ as a term; how it has been perceived, evoked, and moulded by society over time.
‘Mercenary’, ‘guerrilla’, and ‘franc-tireur’ are often pejorative terms used to describe combatants acting outside the established laws and customs of war.
Yet, these are not far removed from the more sympathetic terms of ‘people’s army’, ‘foreign/political exile’, and ‘freedom fighter’.
Understanding how and why these terms converge underpins your learning and helps you make further discoveries.
How was it that the British Army fought the longest campaign of its history (Operation Banner) in Northern Ireland between 1969 and 2007, yet independent Ireland (the Republic of Ireland since 1949) developed as a perpetually neutral state?
You’ll examine this paradox through detailed investigation of the various military traditions in Ireland.
These include a Protestant/Loyalist volunteering tradition, witnessed through those who defended Derry / Londonderry and Enniskillen in 1689, the Irish Volunteer movement of 1778-1792, the Yeomanry of 1796-1834, the Ulster Volunteer Force of 1913-1920, the Ulster Special Constabulary 1920-1970, Ulster Defence Regiment 1970-1992 and the various Loyalist paramilitary groups – Ulster Volunteer Force, Ulster Defence Association, Loyalist Volunteer Force, etc.
which emerged from 1966.
The Republican military tradition seen with the United Irishmen of 1792-1803, the Young Irelanders of 1848, the Fenian movement of 1858-1916, the Irish Volunteers of 1913-16 and the Irish Republican Army in the many forms it has existed since 1916.
The 'Wild Geese' tradition of Irishmen serving in foreign armies, most famously the Irish Brigade in the French army (1691-1792) and also witnessed in the Spanish Army from the early 1600s and in the American Civil War armies.
The tradition of Irish service within the British army as both regular and amateur soldiers will be considered in detail, with particularly a focus on the role of the Irish soldier in the British Empire.
The role of the Irish Army in United Nations Peacekeeping missions since 1960 will also be investigated.
How did Africans resist and eventually defeat apartheid in South Africa and white minority rule in Zimbabwe and how did this shape the world we live in today?
You’ll examine the methods by which white supremacy was institutionalised and practiced in these countries in the latter half of the twentieth century.
Learning how Africans were not passive actors in this process.
You’ll understand how the trajectory of the linked struggles developed across the twentieth century, culminating in majority rule in Zimbabwe in 1980 and South Africa in 1994.
The liberation struggle in southern Africa captivated the world.
You’ll expand the context to understand how it connected to the wider decolonisation movement and the Cold War.
In doing so, you evaluate the dynamics of anti-colonial nationalism, the tactics and strategy of armed insurrection, the gendered nature of the struggle and the ambiguities of independence.
This will equip you with the skills to evaluate the legacy of individuals such as Nelson Mandela and Robert Mugabe on the world today.
History is written by the victors, but in this module, we will explore what happens to those who lost.
This special subject addresses the loyalists during the American Revolutionary era, who for a host of reasons sought to resist the tide of movement towards US independence using any means at their disposal – ideological, economic, spiritual, physical, and emotional.
The loyalists were among the great losers during the Revolutionary War - estimates of between 60,000-80,000 departed at its end, repatriating in clusters throughout the British Empire.
They were a diverse lot, mobilised by diverse interests – including within their number thousands of Native Americans and enslaved people as well as wealthy whites, Anglicans, women, soldiers, ethnic minorities, and others who had benefited from royal patronage or who disparaged the Patriot movement.
You’ll examine the culture of royalism on the eve of the Revolution, the experiences and arguments during the Revolution (including their military history and the battles for hearts and minds), and the diasporic communities of loyalists who moved to the British Isles, Sierra Leone, Nova Scotia and elsewhere.
Besides working chronologically through these themes and issues, you will develop skills, work in, and be assessed in primary source analysis (consulting the Loyalist Claims), and digital humanities (pursuing the digital mapping of loyalists).
Today, we think of hospitals as relatively safe spaces where we go to undergo procedures, be cared for by professionals and regain our health.
In the past, people felt differently about hospitals.
Many people feared the hospital, with its unfamiliar smells, restrictive regimes and poor outcomes for patients.
From the late nineteenth century, medical spaces, including hospitals, grew significantly in number, and specialist institutions were established to treat a range of illnesses.
In the twentieth century, in addition to the increase in the number of hospitals, other spaces were repurposed where health was measured and promoted – from the workplace to the school.
New technological developments in transport, treatment techniques and innovations changed the spaces of medical care, and special institutions like asylums and children’s hospitals were established.
You will first focus on understanding the hospital in the nineteenth and twentieth century, through the eyes of the patients who were treated there, and the changing concept of hospitals, and their purpose in the community.
You will then examine themes centred around hospitals, such as environment, care, space, and gender to both broaden and deepen your understanding of medical history.
This special subject will help you evaluate the debate surrounding how Napoleon’s Empire exported the French Revolution not just to Europe but the world.
You’ll take an alternative means of engaging with the familiar historical category of 'Empire.' The focus on French expansion abroad, in the early nineteenth century, will challenge you to develop a systematic understanding of the Napoleonic Empire not in national terms; but in its Global and European repercussions.
To do this you will explore processes of acculturation and international competition the betrayal of the Revolution’s programme of human rights and liberalism.
Examining, in broad multi-national manner, the complex interaction between centre and periphery, not to mention anti-imperialist resistance to Napoleonic exploitation but military and economic.
In short, you will evaluate critically the French Empire in its many facets.
And you will be urged actively to pursue your individual interests in either war and society, Empire, political culture and/or gender to focus your studies around your own passions.
How was sexual behaviour monitored and controlled in the past?
Were the Victorians really as sexually repressed as is commonly assumed?
And have we become more sexually liberated over time?
Through examining the ways in which the state, the medical profession, the church, social commentators and others have responded to sexual change in Britain since 1800, you will explore, and look to answer these important questions.
In doing so, you will examine key political, economic, social and medical issues and events that shaped discourse, attitudes and behaviours surrounding sex and health.
In untangling public discourse and private behaviour, you will be able to consider: the extent to which the regulation of sex and health has been successful; the ways in which attitudes and behaviours changed across the period and varied according to geography, social class, sexual preference, gender and ethnicity; and how they affect our attitudes towards sex and health today.
You’ll cover subjects including contraceptive technologies; venereal disease; abortion and infanticide; eugenics; same-sex relationships; and sex crimes in historical context and in our world today.
When and how was the ‘old order’ (ancien régime) of medieval and early modern European kingdoms constituted?
Charlemagne (r.
768–814) is often called ‘the father of Europe’, and it was under the rule of his dynasty, the Carolingians, that European political institutions and culture were consolidated.
This special subject tracks the rise and fall of the Carolingian Empire (751–888), examining how Charlemagne and his successors tried to bring order to every aspect of society, including government, law, religious practice, economic activity, education, and even individual behaviour.
One feature of this drive for order was an unprecedented volume of written documentation, which allows you not only to perceive a coherent agenda but also to test the claims of the reformers.
Seen from another angle, however, Charlemagne and his family were merely brutal warlords, whose conquests and plunder enabled them to employ propagandists who could portray an oppressive regime as ordered, reforming and providential.
By considering whether these competing interpretations can be reconciled, you will uncover the remarkable history of a medieval empire which profoundly shaped the development of Europe.
Why do we care so much about the Nazis?
This is one of the core questions you will explore in this module.
You will have the opportunity to engage with the ways in which the history, memory and myths of the Third Reich – perhaps the defining historical phenomenon of the twentieth century – have been constructed and interpreted around the world since 1945.
This will be approached through four sections.
The first will consider the nature of the Third Reich itself and of its downfall; the second will delve into the thorny topic of justice and restitution; the third will think explicitly about memory and the presentation of histories of the Third Reich; and the fourth will look at the political legacies of the Third Reich, especially on the European far-right.
As this suggests, the lessons learned through this module are both timely and important, offering you the chance to think about a history which you have likely encountered on countless prior occasions in a new and innovative way.
Alongside the topics mentioned above, throughout the module, you will be encouraged to think about the countless ways in which Nazism has infiltrated the international social, political and cultural discourse since 1945.
Why, and with what consequences, did a colonial conflict in Indochina become a globally significant American war in Vietnam?
We begin in the aftermath of the Second World War with the French Indochina War and chart the United States’ growing concern with the region, the Americanisation of the war in Vietnam under President Lyndon B.
Johnson and eventual disengagement under President Richard M.
Nixon.
In addition to placing the conflicts in their regional and international contexts, you will consider the military strategies implemented in the field and the domestic challenges inherent to fighting a “limited war.” The second part of the course will focus on the domestic aspects of the American war including the role of the media, the evolution of the anti-war movement, and civil-military tensions.
In addition to acquiring substantive knowledge, you will develop core skills, including accessing and critically assessing primary sources, communicating effectively orally and in your written work, as well as collaborating on work in groups.
How has the Second World War shaped post-war Europe?
Nearly eighty years after Nazi Germany’s unconditional surrender, we are still living in the shadow of the Second World War.
The end of the Cold War has seen an upsurge in commemorative activity ranging from new memorials to court cases.
This special subject invites you to consider the impact of the Second World War on European societies between 1945 and the present day.
You’ll examine and compare the ways in which contemporaries and later generations have tried to make sense of the upheaval and horrors of the Second World War.
You’ll also explore a host of commemorative practices and media (ranging from architecture and popular histories to film and war memorials) and their socio-cultural contexts.
Methodologically, we will explore the cultural history of the legacy of war.
Cultural history here means the study of languages, practices, artefacts and gestures through which events are encoded by those who live through them or in their aftermath.
How did people understand the world around them in the period from the Renaissance to the Enlightenment?
Were the diamonds and rubies on reliquaries still filled with divine power?
How was demonic magic thought to work in an age of religious conflict?
What did the influx of new flora and fauna from the New World mean for medicine and recipes?
Through this special subject, you will approach these questions through the prism of objects and art from the period, as well as through the texts that developed intellectual approaches to the material world.
A central component of your learning will be examination of evidence from early modern collections, such as the Kunstkammer of the Holy Roman Emperor Rudolf II in Prague (in 1576-1612), as they emerge as central repositories of early modern knowledge.
You will explore early modern approaches to matter through five interconnected topics: beliefs, the body (including senses and emotions), knowledge, nature and art.
Throughout this work, you will develop specific skills in material approaches to history through working with museum collections, heritage sites and archives, object handling and close looking.
On this special subject you will study one of the most important events in interwar European history, the Spanish Civil War of 1936-39.
Stressing the military aspects of the Civil War, including its origins in the Rif War (1921-26), you’ll combine chronological with thematic approaches.
You’ll start from the beginning, studying the army rebellion of July 1936 which unleashed civil war, the subsequent revolution and terror in the government zone of control, militarisation and terror in the rebel areas of control, the Battle of Madrid, the war and the armies, the war in the air, the war at sea, the nature and impact of foreign intervention, regionalism and centralisation, the Battles of Euzkadi, Teruel and the Ebro, and the final defeat of the Spanish government in 1939.
In addition to an understanding of the ‘bird’s eye’ view of strategy and battles, you will also explore aspects of conscription, desertion, discipline, civil-military relations and morale.
You will further examine the ‘home fronts’ and the polarisation of politics associated with anarchism, socialism, communism, fascism, Carlism, monarchism and Catholicism.
This gives you an in-depth understanding of a conflict which continues to be of relevance in the modern day.
Explore the Middle Ages in c.
1200-1450 through the lens of diplomacy, war and peace.
You will focus on the diplomatic exchange and the nature of international relations in those centuries, looking at the interaction of diplomacy and war among polities.
In doing so, you will especially address the on-going Anglo-French conflicts, which characterised this period and culminated in the outbreak of the Hundred Years’ War (1337-1450).
In your first term you will be introduced to the modalities of Medieval diplomacy, specifically looking at themes such as: the historiographical debate on Medieval diplomacy; diplomacy and state formation in late Medieval Europe; conflicts; diplomatic and administrative practices; conveyance of messages; diplomatic documents; envoys and negotiators; the cost of diplomacy; gifts and gift exchange; gastronomic diplomacy.
Later, in the second term, you will look at the practice of Medieval diplomacy: war and peace-making: the Hundred Years’ War; truces; sureties, captives and ransoms: the case of Louis IX (1250); peace treaties; the exchange of hostages; guaranteeing agreements; arbitration and friendship; the role of the papacy as peace-maker in the Hundred Years’ War; Christian-Muslim diplomacy; diplomacy and conversion; the beginnings of international law; humanism and diplomacy: the Prince of Niccolò Machiavelli.
Completing your study and deepening your understand of the late Middle ages, from war, to peace.
DMM
You will enter the job market with many valued transferable skills including a high capacity for critical and analytical thought and problem-solving.
Your empathy, cultural awareness and sensitivity will help you navigate and thrive in any professional environment.
A degree in History prepares you for a wide range of careers.
You might choose to work in the following areas:
Graduates have gone on to work at the following organisations:
Get to work

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/865/international-business-bsc:
If
you're excited by the global nature of business and are motivated by the
cultural context of enterprise, then our BSc International Business is the
course for you.
You’ll
study broad topics such as management, marketing, entrepreneurship, and finance
with a focus on how they operate in a global context.
You’ll build an
understanding of international markets and trade and develop your awareness of
global business opportunities.
You’ll also cultivate the communication,
teamworking, and data-analysis skills that will allow you to succeed, no matter
your chosen career path.
Be
inspired and challenged by teaching staff in immersive seminars and workshops
where you can put theory into practice using real business data.
As a Kent
Business School graduate, you’ll be equipped with the industry-relevant skills
and essential knowledge to equip you for the challenges and opportunities faced
by global businesses in a rapidly evolving world.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/890/mathematics-with-a-year-in-industry:
ABB including Maths at A but excluding Use of Maths.
ABC including Maths at A and Further Maths at B but excluding Use of Maths.
128 tariff points from your IB Diploma, including Mathematics or Mathematics: Analysis and Approaches at 6 at HL, typically H5, H6, H6 or equivalent.
A typical offer would be to obtain the Access to HE Diploma in a suitable subject with a minimum of 45 credits at Level 3, with 30 credits at Distinction and 15 credits at Merit.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/3739/mechanical-engineering-with-a-year-in-industry-beng:
The Year in Industry opportunity develops your technical skills, employability and soft skills as well as increasing your awareness of the future context for employment.
Your Year in Industry takes place between your second and final year.
The School’s dedicated employability officer helps you to identify organisations offering placements.
Companies also visit the School to present their industrial placement opportunities and to interview candidates.
As well as gaining invaluable workplace experience, you stand a good chance of being offered a job by that employer after graduation.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/1901/media:
From cancel culture to fake news, AI to algorithms - our Media BA explores all aspects of media and culture.
This course combines digital content production with the study of how media shapes the world around us, preparing you for a career in the creative and cultural industries.
You’ll get hands-on, creating your own films, podcasts, marketing pitches and portfolios.
There’s plenty of opportunity to explore and experiment with different formats.
Customise your degree to explore your interests with modules on social media, podcasting, gaming, celebrity culture, fan studies, film-making, film marketing, and more.
And experiment with media formats of your own in our industry-standard facilities.
Our professional links and commitment to employability mean you’ll graduate with not just a degree, but a portfolio of skills and experiences that prepare you for diverse careers across the creative industries.
You’ll hear from industry professionals and make key contacts in organisations such as Google, the BBC and The Guardian at careers events, seminars and conferences.
You’ll also develop valuable critical thinking and analytical skills, exploring the impact of social media on our everyday lives and asking how we can use digital media to change the world for the better.
In your first year, you cover media and meaning, media identity and diversity, media power and/or making media (i.e.
a practical introduction to media content creation).
This gives you a solid grounding in the subject and introduces you to some of the most pressing issues in contemporary media culture and the creative industries.
How do the growing public relations, marketing and advertising industries influence today’s media landscape?
What is the relationship between new media technology, consumer culture and promotional practices in our everyday lives?
With a focus on critical analysis, creative practice and strategic thinking, you’ll develop a solid understanding of promotional media, examining its development in both historical and contemporary contexts.
You’ll evaluate current forms of promotional media and critically discuss the economic, sociological and political impact of promotional activity.
Alongside theoretical reflection and critical analysis, you’ll also build audiovisual and digital content creation skills, using your knowledge about promotional media to develop your own strategic, innovative and ethical promotional practice.
Promotional media is a rapidly expanding industry, relevant to a wide range of sectors.
With these expanding industries comes expanding opportunities for you as a graduate with a firm grasp of how the industry works.
How do media representations construct, reflect or navigate identity?
What are the social and political consequences of this mediation?
This introductory module enables you to examine the concept of 'identity' and ‘politics’ through the prism of cultural capital and media presentation.
You will be introduced to key concepts and theories surrounding issues of gender, class, race, ethnicity, sexuality, political identity, sports identity, and diversity.
These topics are considered through a series of case studies that may include theories of media stereotypes, high and low culture, consumption society, identity politics, cultural production, subculture and style, and media pluralism.
By the end of the module, you will be able to confidently examine the role that media processes play in constructing identity, diversity, community, inclusion and exclusion.
Building on the specific skills of image production gained in Film & Media Practice #1, this module will introduce you to other kinds of digital content creation.
Media content producers work with different mediums and in a variety of communication formats and through this module, you will expand your practice-based and technical skills in order for you to produce diverse narrative-based and/or non-fiction creative outputs.
Such content may include documentary or factual-based entertainment; podcasting; other forms of audio-visual formats including AV essays.
The dialogue between media theory and practice will be encouraged and sustained through a combination of lectures, workshops and formative feedback opportunities to support your development as an independent digital content creator.
The second year of your degree builds on the first.
You take a module on media ethics and choose from a huge range of modules, covering everything from podcasting, gender and digital culture, social media, digital storytelling, to photography and arts criticism, screenwriting and curating.
You can also study modules from other subjects, such as film, drama and theatre, art history, literature, history, philosophy, politics and sociology.
The final year of your degree allows you to deepen your knowledge and explore your creativity.
You take a module on media industry and innovation, choose from a wide range of modules and have the chance to complete an independent project, this could be a dissertation or a piece of media you have created.
You will also have the chance to take an internship as part of your modules and be assessed on your work in industry as part of your degree.
Media students develop the skills and creativity to work in a range of roles and industries in the creative sector and beyond.
Graduates from this course go on to careers in:
You’ll also have the skills to work independently as a content creator or freelancer.
Graduate earnings growth between age 23 and 31

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/90/military-history:
Discover how conflict has shaped nations, societies and ideology throughout history.
Explore what drives nations to go to war and people to fight them, understand how technology and propaganda has changed not only warfare, but societies as a whole.
Study war and its effects in the inspiring location of historic Canterbury, with Roman forts and Cold War nuclear bunkers on your doorstep, as well as the battlefields of the First and Second World Wars close by.
Cover hundreds of years of history, or focus on particular eras that fascinate you.
Military History is so much more than just battle tactics; you'll delve into history from the fifth century to present day, and develop an understanding of the wider social, ethical and political contexts of warfare, and how these shape our world today.
What is military history?
How has it developed and grown as an important subfield of historical enquiry?
This module introduces you to the key themes and historiographical debates that have shaped – and continue to shape – the study of war.
It will introduce the ‘war and society’ approach to military history, which considers the nature of armies as institutions and the degree to which they reflect their parent societies.
As part of ‘new’ military history, the ‘war and society’ approach will require you to engage with social history, cultural history, political and diplomatic history, race and war, gender and war, as well as environmental history.
From the macro/strategic factors that have shaped the waging of war to the micro/tactical factors of military experience on the ground, you’ll question and comment upon the fundamentals of war and conflict in the modern world.
You might already know you want to explore military history, or this might be your first step towards it, regardless, this module sets you up for an exciting journey through military history and the areas your are passionate about.
What is a decisive battle?
Have there been any truly decisive battles in world history?
How did the nature of battle change in the age of total war?
This module explores the concept of battle as the defining characteristic of military history.
It begins with a study of Agincourt (1415), one of the most famous medieval battles and progresses through early modern and modern examples (including Waterloo, 1815 and D-Day, Normandy 1944).
This is a global history and we’ll consider battles in America, Africa (Isandlwana and Rorke’s Drift 1879) and Asia (Tsushima, 1905), along with European examples.
In focusing on each battle, we’ll carefully consider the nature of the armies or navies involved.
Some were regular forces, others were made up of conscripts and others were based on feudal or tribal levies.
Each battle will be properly discussed within the wider strategic context of the war concerned.
We’ll also discuss the abilities of the respective commanders involved.
You'll get a sense of the battlefields, as well as the conditions that made them happen, and the legacies that cemented them in history.
How has the British Army been shaped as an institution?
What was its role in domestic, foreign, and imperial policy up to the 20th century?
This module will examine various aspects of the British army since its formation in 1660.
We’ve used the term ‘Army and Society’ in the title of the module to emphasise that the central focus will be a ‘new military history’ of the British army during this period.
You’ll therefore explore how the army recruited soldiers, the composition of the officer corps (pre and post-purchase), political interventions made by the army, and the role of the army in shaping the British state.
The module will include thematic studies of central issues such as the politics of the army and the survival of the regimental system, which you’ll explore in chronological order.
Building to an understanding of the British army as an army, and also as an institution in Britain.
How did the British Army withstand the challenges of total war?
This module will explore the evolving composition, role, and performance of the British Army in the 20th and early 21st centuries.
Focusing on key historiographical debates surrounding civil-military relations, generalship, technology, discipline and morale, the role of women, and combat motivation and performance, this module will enable you to analyse the British Army’s contribution to both world wars.
Additionally, you’ll have the chance to assess how the British Army performed as an imperial police force amidst financial cuts in the interwar years, how it prepared for a potential nuclear war, and how it approached counter-insurgency in the age of decolonisation, during the Northern Ireland Troubles (1969-2007) and in the ‘wars of choice’ in Iraq and Afghanistan.
You'll develop an understanding of the modern history of the British Army and it evolution as both an army and a societal institution.
How do armies, states and societies fight wars?
How are they mobilised, physically, psychologically, and politically for the struggle ahead?
By introducing cutting-edge interpretations within the field of First World War Studies, this module will help you understand, compare, and critically assess how the Great Powers fared when faced with the challenges of the world’s first modern, industrialised, total war.
Through a ‘war and society’ approach, you’ll analyse the social composition of the armies concerned and evaluate how this impacted combat performance, discipline, and morale.
You’ll critique civil-military relations and the higher strategic direction of the war, and assess the influence of technology on the battlefield and how this translated into appalling casualty rates that stretched manpower resources to breaking point.
By comparing each of the Great Powers, you’ll be able to identify common and unique trends within the respective countries’ military experiences and then construct reasoned and evidence-based arguments articulating why certain armies, states, and societies were (and are) better able than others to withstand the rigours of war.
Examine how people imagined death in Medieval Europe and how art shaped and reflected their understanding.
You will read and analyse a variety of documentary sources and focus on the visual and material culture of relics, tombs, manuscripts, and other testimonies that remember the dead, commemorate their life, and anticipate the afterlife.
You’ll begin with an overview of the cult of saints and devotion to martyrs, focusing on the extraordinary popularity of the Canterbury cult of Saint Thomas Becket, drawing on the key hagiographical and historical texts until the Black Death.
Question the 'unequivocal' role of the Black Death as a catalyst for the establishing the 'ubiquity' of the macabre.
All the while you’ll be encouraged to discuss ideas from an interdisciplinary perspective, looking at the interface of ritual, records, and memory – and asking yourself how the study of death can help to understand the experience of life and hope in the pre-modern imagination.
How widespread was vendetta or ‘blood-feud’ in the Middle Ages?
Did medieval courts really use ordeals to establish innocence?
Why did individuals sometimes voluntarily enter slavery?
What could a woman do if she wished to divorce her husband?
The Middle Ages are often portrayed as the Dark Ages, characterised by a morass of feud, violence and lawlessness.
Test this caricature by examining how Medieval rulers maintained law and order in an age when they often lacked the capacity to intervene directly to resolve conflicts.
Looking across the kingdoms that emerged in Europe between 500 and 1400, you’ll examine a wide range of documentary and literary sources which offer fascinating perspectives on a variety of social and political conflicts.
Gain a broad understanding of how the social order was kept together at a time when everything seemed to be falling apart.
Along the way, you’ll explore issues relating to crime and punishment, violence and coercion, social status, marriage and sexuality, property rights, and the power of the Church.
In so doing, you’ll be empowered to comment critically upon the issues of law and justice in the Medieval world.
You spend your year abroad at one of our partner universities.
To find out more, please see Go Abroad .
To be eligible for the year abroad, you need to adhere to any progression requirements in Stage 1 and Stage 2.
The year abroad is assessed on a pass/fail basis and does not count towards your final degree classification.
Examine the dynamic relationship between art, architecture, and devotion in Medieval Europe, focusing on the visual and material culture of some of the most the radical social, technological, and theological developments in pre-modern history.
After defining the Gothic style, you’ll retrace its development in the twelfth century around Paris, including its export to Canterbury and London, stretching until its zenith in the mid-thirteenth century.
All the while the examination of the source material is inherently interdisciplinary, working through various approaches to sacred heritage.
You will use aesthetic, religious, social, anthropological, as well as political ways of seeing to study works of architecture, sculpture, painting, manuscripts, reliquaries, music, literature, and even liturgy.
Although you focus primarily on French and English sites, the object domain sits within a wider European network.
Using diverse case studies, you’ll acquire a wealth of historical information and develop a variety of intellectual approaches to function and significance of visual culture.
You’re encouraged to think critically about the influence of art in the religious imagination.
Saints were the celebrities of medieval Europe – their extraordinary lives, gruesome deaths, and miraculous relics commanded a profound influence across culture and society.
They served as models, protectors, and sources of constant inspiration for people from all walks of life throughout the Middle Ages.
Through this special subject, you’ll explore the development of the cult of saints across a wide range of examples of charismatic cults.
Together, we will explore how the power and presence of a saint could be inscribed in reliquaries, expressed through hagiographic literature, and affirmed in archetypal works of art and architecture.
We begin in Late Antiquity up and end on the brink of the Reformation, focussing our attention on the practice of devotion and its interface with visual and material culture, including architecture, sculpture, painting, manuscripts, reliquaries, music, literature, and liturgy.
Our approach will take form as a series of case studies of specific places – from Canterbury to Paris, Castile, Rome, Prague, and beyond – set within a wider context of Christian devotional traditions.
In so doing, you will evaluate how medieval art shaped the experience of veneration and the true significance of saints, relics and churches in medieval Europe.
Teaching is through a combination of lectures and seminars.
Lectures are often used to provide the broad overview, while seminars focus on particular issues and are led by student presentations.
Lectures and seminars use a variety of materials, including original documents, films and documentaries, illuminated manuscripts, and slide and PowerPoint demonstrations.
Lectures usually last one hour and seminars are one or two hours, depending on the module.
The School also has excellent student support arrangements.
Alongside our Student Support Officer, each student is assigned an academic tutor.
All module convenors keep regular office hours, and the School has a policy of returning at least one essay on each module in a one-to-one personal meeting, allowing for additional verbal feedback and discussion.
For Military History, your specialisation helps boost your prospects, with natural routes into the armed forces, archives, or organisations such as the Commonwealth Graves Commission.
The study of History at Kent equips you with the adaptability to thrive in an exciting career in whatever area you are passionate about.
This means Kent’s History graduates are ready to step into a career of limitless opportunities, from education to business, charity to government; you’ll have the talent and insight to build the career you want.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/5089/modern-languages:
Our Modern Languages BA is unlike any other course of this kind in the UK.
Our innovative degree hones your communication and intercultural competences whilst equipping you with a range of skills across areas such as digital, teaching and communication, ensuring you are career-ready from day one.
Kent offers unparalleled flexibility and personalised language learning paths tailored to your individual learning style, your strengths, and aspirations.
This approach means whether you have studied a language for their GCSEs or A-levels, or if you are studying languages from scratch at Kent – you can expand your skills and achieve fluency.
In your first year, you can refine existing language skills or explore one or several new languages in the friendly and informal environment of our Language Lab.
With options including Arabic, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Mandarin, and Spanish, you will begin at a level suited to you, making rapid progress and setting your own pace in your studies.
You graduate with more than linguistic proficiency.
You'll leave with a comprehensive cultural, social, and political understanding of the areas where your chosen languages are spoken, and of the relations among them.
You’ll become an expert of the globalised world and be equipped with the knowledge to navigate and address crucial societal issues.
You will be prepared to thrive in diverse career paths across the globe, from international business to diplomacy, education, and beyond.
Gain the essential analytical tools and methodologies to critically assess cultural artifacts, texts, and practices.
Through lectures, seminars, in-class discussions and independent study, you'll develop a sophisticated comprehension of cultural phenomena across the globe, with a particular focus on cultural expressions in French, German, Italian, and Spanish language.
By engaging with examples from literature, music, film, and television, but also from advertising, politics and everyday culture, you'll explore and apply methodologies from philosophy, linguistics, literary, media, and gender studies and other relevant fields.
This will provide you with a solid foundation to develop a nuanced understanding of the complexities of cultural dynamics in today’s interconnected world.
Explore the political and cultural history of several countries – and of increasingly globalising contexts – through the prism of a number of frequently related social, cultural and political processes: resistance, revolution, contestation.
From political revolutions, industrial revolutions and cultural revolutions to digital revolutions, critical analysis of each case study in the module interrogates the (often violent) formation of states, the origins of modernity, and the understandings and limits of freedom and power.
At the same time, you'll survey political resistance to and cultural contestation of the prevailing political and economic order in both pre-revolutionary and post-revolutionary contexts.
By tracing the histories of revolution, resistance and cultural contestation in several settings, you'll gain a solid understanding of their local and transnational impact and legacy in the modern era heralded by the French Revolution of 1789.
Explore the historical geopolitical, economic and cultural relations between nations which shape the contemporary context of globalised business.
We focus on the political, economic, and cultural exchanges that have shaped the contemporary world through a specific lens: the production, circulation, and consumption of commodities.
How have booms in specific commodities – such as sugar, oil, or drugs – at different points during the last five centuries determined contemporary inequalities, hierarchies, and stereotypes?
How have national cultures and languages, and relations between nations, been significantly determined by the circulation of these goods?
How have individuals, whose labour often represents the commodity itself (for example in sex work, care work, and the reproductive bioeconomy), navigated these global flows, becoming part of those flows or resisting them?
Through engagement with key theories from modern languages and cultural studies, you'll gain a critical understanding of how nations, businesses and individuals communicate across geographic, linguistic, cultural and digital divides.
By analysing case studies including films, novels, and music, from contexts across the globe, you'll develop the intercultural awareness needed in global markets and the skills required to communicate effectively in multicultural business environments.
Develop the fundamental skills for your future studies in languages, intercultural communication and beyond.
Through lectures, hands-on language labs, and dynamic seminars, you'll build a solid foundation in language acquisition, cross-cultural understanding, and linguistic analysis.
Explore how language shapes identities, perceptions, and social interactions, preparing them for intercultural communication challenges.
Equipped with these foundational insights and analytical tools, you are primed to pursue further studies in languages, intercultural communication, and related fields, armed with an understanding of the complexities of human communication.
This module additionally gives you the opportunity to engage in discussions regarding their intended language(s) of specialisation for their subsequent stages of study.
The Languages Lab Project 1 is the inaugural module in a series designed to empower you with the tools and skills to delve into the intricacies of any language of your choosing.
Serving as the foundation for the Languages Lab project 2 module, and for subsequent modules in the series in stages 2 and 3, this module gives you the opportunity to embark on a language project tailored to your interests and aspirations.
Through hands-on activities, collaborative projects, and guided exploration, you'll start developing an appreciation for the complexities of language acquisition and cross-cultural communication.
You'll gain foundational language skills (or improve existing language skills) in your chosen language(s), equipping you for future studies in stages 2 and 3.
We provide the autonomy for you to develop your language skills independently and prepare for further academic exploration in subsequent stages.
By participating in Language Lab tutorials, you'll gain valuable insights and guidance to make informed decisions regarding their language selection for stages 2 and 3.
Building upon the foundational knowledge and skills acquired in Language Lab Project 1, the second iteration of our language exploration series sets the stage for academic language learning in stages 2 and 3.
In this module students delve into the intricacies of their chosen language(s), building an appreciation for the nuances of language acquisition and cross-cultural communication.
Language Lab Project 2 offers you the opportunity to build or expand their foundational language skills, or to embark on the journey of learning new languages altogether.
With a focus on autonomy and self-directed learning, this module empowers you to take charge of your language development, preparing you for the academic challenges awaiting in subsequent stages.
Throughout Language Lab tutorials, you'll receive invaluable insights and personalised guidance to aid in their decision-making process for selecting languages to pursue in stages 2 and 3.
By harnessing the expertise of our instructors, you'll emerge from Language Lab Project 2 equipped with the confidence necessary for successfully navigating your studies in the years to come.
You'll choose 60 credits from a list of language modules.
If you do not have prior knowledge of a foreign language, these will be modules in a language of your choice starting from beginners’ level in Autumn Term.
If you do have some prior knowledge in a foreign language, you choose 20 credits from a list of modules in Linguistics, Comparative Literature and other relevant subject areas in Autumn Term.
For the remaining 40 credits, you can choose either intermediate (level 5) and advanced (level 6) language modules in Spring and Summer Term or the Modern Languages Cultural Project module in the Summer Term.
Get a unique perspective on the cultural history of modern societies alongside key developments in technology and media.
This module draws on cutting-edge research in Modern Languages as well as on history, philosophy and media theory.
Topics span from the 1400s to the present day and may include: 1) How the invention of the printing press enabled the Protestant Reformation; 2) The relationship between literature and letter-writing; 3) The rise of the press and the emergence of nationalism in the nineteenth-century; 4) The impact of the press in Latin America on the abolition of slavery; 5) Social Media’s impact on popular movements such as the Arab Spring.
You'll engage with a range of historical documents, literary texts, audio as well as visual media, and analyse their impact on culture and politics in a range of national, regional and global settings.
You will also have the opportunity to present your work in both traditional and innovative forms of assessment (screencast presentations, blogs and essays).
Besides a deep analytical engagement with the culturally transformative effects of technology and media, you'll gain practical skills in the expression and presentation of their ideas, using a variety of conventional as well as digital means.
What is the environment?
What is ecology?
What is sustainability?
What are the origins of these terms, and how have the meanings evolved over time and across cultures?
While the concepts have their roots in the natural sciences, it is becoming evident that related theories and practices are of relevance in social and cultural studies as much as biophysical relationships.
The module begins with an examination of the wide-ranging definitions of the environment, ecology and sustainability and of the contribution to the discourse from Arts and Humanities subjects.
We proceed to analyse a range of case studies highlighting cultural practices ranging across time periods and geographies in which sustainable processes are key.
The module concludes with a consideration of how the case studies illustrate theories and practices of sustainability, and how in turn they may be considered catalysts for further engagement in questions of sustainability.
This module provides students with a general introduction to the analysis of a variety of cultural forms from different national contexts, paying particular attention to the specificities of different media within the visual arts (e.g.
paintings, photographs, classical and popular music), screen media (e.g.
fiction films, documentaries, TV series) and literature (e.g., poems, short stories, novels).
Lectures will introduce key theoretical and critical frameworks and seminars will consist of their application to specific texts from a variety of cultural contexts.
The module also introduces you to some of the principal artistic movements at particular historical moments in the 19th and 20th centuries such as: impressionism, realism, surrealism, modernism and postmodernism.
These will be examined across a variety of media, such as the visual arts, literature and screen media, and again in a variety of cultural and national contexts.
At the start of your degree, you will delve into the basics of French language learning, immersing yourself in the culture of French-speaking countries.
You’ll focus on honing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills, all geared towards practical communication in everyday situations, such as greetings, introductions, and personal interactions.
Additionally, you will be equipped with basic intercultural communication skills essential for navigating the cultural nuances of regions where French is spoken.
In this module, you will focus on developing communicative competence, immersing themselves in the culture of French-speaking countries.
The curriculum will therefore prioritise the development of listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills, all aimed at achieving a practical understanding of French and fostering strong intercultural communicative competence and confidence.
Moreover, you’ll have the opportunity to engage in discussions on topics relevant to everyday life, honing everyday conversational skills, including on aspects of university life and the experience of being a student.
In this module, you will undertake an advanced exploration of intercultural communicative competence, delving deeply into the cultural nuances of French-speaking countries through exploration of, e.g.
current political and social issues.
The curriculum will hone listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills, culminating in a command of French and a level of communicative prowess appropriate for the upper intermediate to advanced level.
At the start of your degree, you will delve into the basics of German language learning, immersing yourself in the culture of German-speaking countries.
The curriculum will focus on honing listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills, all geared towards practical communication in everyday situations, such as greetings, introductions, and personal interactions.
Additionally, you will be equipped with basic intercultural communication skills essential for navigating the cultural nuances of regions where German is spoken.
In this module, you will focus on developing communicative competence, immersing themselves in the culture of German-speaking countries.
The curriculum will therefore prioritise the development of listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills, all aimed at achieving a practical understanding of German and fostering strong intercultural communicative competence and confidence.
In this module, you will undertake an advanced exploration of intercultural communicative competence, delving deeply into the cultural nuances of German-speaking countries through exploration of, e.g.
The curriculum will hone listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills, culminating in a command of German and a level of communicative prowess appropriate for the upper intermediate to advanced level.
At the start of your degree, you will delve into the basics of Spanish language learning, immersing yourself in the culture of Spanish-speaking countries.
Additionally, you will be equipped with basic intercultural communication skills essential for navigating the cultural nuances of regions where Spanish is spoken.
In this module, you will focus on developing communicative competence, immersing themselves in the culture of Spanish-speaking countries.
The curriculum will therefore prioritise the development of listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills, all aimed at achieving a practical understanding of Spanish and fostering strong intercultural communicative competence and confidence.
In this module, you will undertake an advanced exploration of intercultural communicative competence, delving deeply into the cultural nuances of Spanish-speaking countries through exploration of, e.g.
The curriculum will hone listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills, culminating in a command of Spanish and a level of communicative prowess appropriate for the upper intermediate to advanced level.
At the start of your degree, you will delve into the basics of Italian language learning, immersing yourself in the culture of Italian-speaking countries.
Additionally, you will be equipped with basic intercultural communication skills essential for navigating the cultural nuances of regions where Italian is spoken.
In this module, you will focus on developing communicative competence, immersing themselves in the culture of Italian-speaking countries.
The curriculum will therefore prioritise the development of listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills, all aimed at achieving a practical understanding of Italian and fostering strong intercultural communicative competence and confidence.
In this module, you will undertake an advanced exploration of intercultural communicative competence, delving deeply into the cultural nuances of Italian-speaking countries through exploration of, e.g.
The curriculum will hone listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills, culminating in a command of Italian and a level of communicative prowess appropriate for the upper intermediate to advanced level.
At the start of your degree, you will delve into the basics of Mandarin language learning, immersing yourself in the culture of Mandarin-speaking countries.
Additionally, you will be equipped with basic intercultural communication skills essential for navigating the cultural nuances of regions where Mandarin is spoken.
In this module, you will focus on developing communicative competence, immersing themselves in the culture of Mandarin-speaking countries.
The curriculum will therefore prioritise the development of listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills, all aimed at achieving a practical understanding of Mandarin and fostering strong intercultural communicative competence and confidence.
In this module, you will undertake an advanced exploration of intercultural communicative competence, delving deeply into the cultural nuances of Mandarin-speaking countries through exploration of, e.g.
The curriculum will hone listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills, culminating in a command of Mandarin and a level of communicative prowess appropriate for the upper intermediate to advanced level.
At the start of your degree, you will delve into the basics of Japanese language learning, immersing yourself in the culture of Japanese-speaking countries.
Additionally, you will be equipped with basic intercultural communication skills essential for navigating the cultural nuances of regions where Japanese is spoken.
In this module, you will focus on developing communicative competence, immersing themselves in the culture of Japanese-speaking countries.
The curriculum will therefore prioritise the development of listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills, all aimed at achieving a practical understanding of Japanese and fostering strong intercultural communicative competence and confidence.
In this module, you will undertake an advanced exploration of intercultural communicative competence, delving deeply into the cultural nuances of Japanese-speaking countries through exploration of, e.g.
The curriculum will hone listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills, culminating in a command of Japanese and a level of communicative prowess appropriate for the upper intermediate to advanced level.
At the start of your degree, you will delve into the basics of Arabic language learning, immersing yourself in the culture of Arabic-speaking countries.
Additionally, you will be equipped with basic intercultural communication skills essential for navigating the cultural nuances of regions where Arabic is spoken.
In this module, you will focus on developing communicative competence, immersing themselves in the culture of Arabic-speaking countries.
The curriculum will therefore prioritise the development of listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills, all aimed at achieving a practical understanding of Arabic and fostering strong intercultural communicative competence and confidence.
In this module, you will undertake an advanced exploration of intercultural communicative competence, delving deeply into the cultural nuances of Arabic-speaking countries through exploration of, e.g.
The curriculum will hone listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills, culminating in a command of Arabic and a level of communicative prowess appropriate for the upper intermediate to advanced level.
Put the cultural expertise you have gained so far into practical use in small group settings you will design a public event.
The form and content of this event will be decided by you - under guidance of the module convenor.
Possible formats include: a film festival, an arts exhibition, a literature reading, an academic conference.
You will design the concept of the event, produce promotional material, devise a budget and simulate how to manage the event (produce an opening statement, moderation scripts, etc.).
This will enable you to gain valuable career-related experience and to enhance their employability portfolio.
During the first weeks of term, you will be introduced to this module and the necessary skills and methodologies through a series of lectures and workshops.
After that, you work on your projects independently but will be supported in your work through regular supervision sessions.
The module will explore principles of second language teaching.
It will investigate issues of theory and methodology, whilst maintaining a strong practical focus with invited speakers and teaching observations in schools or departmental modules (subject to availability).
The module’s main aims will be to explore topical ideas on language teaching and learning, and to appraise their strengths and weaknesses by considering those core assumptions, theories and practical classroom implications that underpin them.
During the module students will explore communicative language teaching theories, as well as methods of language teaching.
They will look at teaching and learning strategies and aspects of teaching such as: teaching grammar and translation; motivation, discipline, support; technology in language learning.
This is your chance to formulate and deliver a research project of your own making, whether it be a dissertation, a portfolio of texts, a publication, a podcast, a documentary, a short film, a performance, an app, or another form of public interaction derived from research and knowledge of modern foreign languages and cultures and advanced intercultural competence.
Supported by appropriate instruction, you'll develop independent research skills and creative practices as you engage with material of personal and/or professional interest.
Benefit from the opportunity to devote a sustained period of time to an area for which you feel enthusiasm, curiosity, and passion, and independently immerse yourself in the modern foreign language(s) you're studying.
Delve into the intricate dynamics of cross-cultural interactions and global communications through a blend of lectures, case studies, role-plays, and interactive discussions Emphasis is placed on honing linguistic skills and cultural competence to navigate diverse contexts effectively.
By analysing real-world scenarios, you will develop a nuanced understanding of verbal and nonverbal communication across cultures.
Ethical considerations are paramount as we explore strategies to bridge cultural divides in various spheres, from business to education.
Ultimately, you emerge equipped with the critical tools to foster harmony and understanding in our globalised society.
Hone and develop intercultural communication competence within the context of specific language(s).
Building upon the foundation established in Intercultural Communication 1, in this module you will refine your ability to interpret and adapt verbal and nonverbal communication nuances across cultures, with a focus on your language(s) of choosing.
Ethical considerations remain paramount as you explore advanced strategies to bridge cultural divides, applying language-specific approaches in domains ranging from business negotiations to educational settings, with an emphasis on specific linguistic settings.
You will emerge equipped with the nuanced tools and heightened cultural sensitivity necessary to promote harmony and understanding in a globalised society, and highly specialised within the cultural settings relevant to your language(s) of choice.
Compulsory language modules typically involve three to four hours of classes per week, including one hour of small group work with a native speaker.
We also make extensive use of computer-assisted language learning packages and audio and video materials.
Culture and literature modules typically involve a weekly two-hour seminar plus essay supervision.
We employ language lectors, who are all native speakers, to help students improve their fluency and make rapid progress.
At all stages, assessment is based 100% on coursework (essays, oral presentations) in the first half of the year, and a combination of coursework and examination in the second half of the year.
Credits from your year abroad count towards your final degree.
When applying you will need to indicate, under 'further details' in the 'choices' section of your application, the language or languages that you wish to study using the codes below.
For further information on completing your UCAS form, please visit the UCAS website .
It may be possible to study further languages to a lower level of proficiency than degree level in our Language Centre, subject to demand.
This is arranged once you register as a student.
You could choose to add a Year in a Language to your degree to create a four-year programme with a third language option.
Applicants wishing to study two languages should have grade B or equivalent at GCSE, ideally in one of your target languages.
This is not required of applicants wishing to study one language only.
The ability to speak more than one language  is a key asset in the global employment
market, and one that employers seek out.
This means you can flexibly work
across many fields and industries, and of course, across different countries.
Beyond your language skills, you will graduate equipped with skills such as, communication,
mediation, analysis and leadership.
These
give you confidence to offer creative solutions when faced with challenges, and
the ability to express your ideas with clarity and passion.
These are skills
that make employers take notice, and you will be able to make change happen in
the places you want to see it.
Our graduates are proof of this, going into fields as varied as:
international banking, diplomacy, publishing, journalism, interpreting and
translating, media, marketing and language teaching.
Wherever your passions and
future lie, through studying Modern Languages at Kent, you will have the tools
needed to get there.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/893/physics-with-a-year-in-industry:
You'll discover the world of quantum mechanics, relativity, electromagnetism and condensed matter and learn how physics enables breakthroughs in areas from materials science to quantum computing and medical imaging.
Combining your degree with a Professional Placement year will allow you to gain valuable work experience and discover how physics is applied in the real world.
You have an average of nine one-hour lectures, one or two days of practical or project work and a number of workshops each week.
The practical modules include specific study skills in Physics and general communication skills.
Please note that there are degree thresholds at stage 1 that you will be required to pass in order to continue onto the next stages.
A typical offer would be to achieve Distinction, Merit, Merit.
128 tariff points - typically H5, H6, H6 including HL Maths/Maths Method or HL Mathematics: Analysis and Approaches at 5 or SL Maths/Maths Methods at 6 (not Maths Studies/SL Maths: Applications & Interpretations)

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/2526/physics-astrophysics-year-industry:
Physics reaches from the quark out to the largest of galaxies, and encompasses all the matter and timescales within these extremes.
By combining physics with astrophysics, you'll use the principles of physics to explore the cosmos – from our own solar system to galaxies and cosmology – and develop your understanding of the material world.
You'll study the physical nature of bodies and processes in space, and the instruments and techniques used in modern astronomical research.
Adding a professional placement year to your degree allows you to gain valuable work experience and discover how physics is applied in the real world.
Our focus is on helping you follow your passion as well as giving you the best possible start to your future.
You'll gain a wide range of skills that will open up career pathways in the growing space industry, finance, manufacturing and technology.
Develop your work-related skills and gain experience of workplace culture.
Your placement takes place in your third year and is typically 52 weeks but must not be less than 36 weeks.
You'll be given support to secure your own placements and have access a wide range of workshops and activities to support you in the application process.
NATS5002 - Placement Performance
NATS5003 - Placement Assessment
If you need to increase your level of science/mathematics ready for undergraduate study, we offer a Foundation Year which can help boost your previous scientific experience.
The University will consider applicants holding/studying BTEC Extended National Diploma Qualifications (QCF; NQF;OCR) in Engineering.
A typical offer would be to achieve Distinction, Distinction, Merit.
128 tariff points - typically H5, H6, H6 at HL including HL Maths/Maths Method or HL Mathematics: Analysis and Approaches at 5 or SL Maths/Maths Methods at 6 (not Maths Studies/SL Maths: Applications & Interpretations).

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/5802/politics-and-international-relations-placement-year:
In a changing world, be someone who makes a difference.
Politics is everywhere.
It’s exciting, but also frustrating, messy and complex.
This is your time to make a difference.
Bring your determination to us and we will give you the skills and confidence to make a change.
Make sense of the complex world of politics and international relations.
Whether it’s climate change, the rise of tyrannical leaders, gender politics, or the misuse of artificial intelligence and big data, you will understand today’s political problems and gain the skills to pursue a career that can solve them.
You also benefit from the expertise of staff who have advised governments and conducted conflict mediation exercises.
You'll deepen your understanding and develop solutions to a range of issues, such as the impact of the pandemic on politics and political polarisation.
Tailor your degree to suit you with a placement year where you’ll work in industry for a year.
Put into practice the skills you’ve learnt and build important industry connections.
In a fast-paced and ever-changing world, our modules are designed to reflect the latest developments in politics and international relations, and the skills required by today’s employers.
With all its complexity and variety, studying Politics and International Relations can appear a little daunting.
Students develop the skills and knowledge needed for succeeding in their university studies and beyond.
You will learn about the key historical influences upon contemporary political events, such as the origin and development of the State, the beginning and end of Empire, and the nature of world order, develop key skills for academic study and research by exploring these influences and begin to critically and pro-actively reflect upon their own development as an independent learner and researcher.
Why do states behave the way they do?
How does state behaviour influence the dynamics of world politics?
You're introduced to the answers given to these questions found in the discipline of International Relations (IR).
You're given an overview of key theories, concepts and debates in IR through a discussion of topical issues and developments in global politics, with particular focus on the role and status of states as key actors.
The IR theories introduced include (but are not necessarily limited to) liberalism and realism.
Theories and concepts will be evaluated in consideration with empirical material drawn from contemporary international politics.
The precise list of issues to be covered will vary from year to year depending on the global political landscape.
An indicative list of potential topics includes: the legacies of the Cold War; the Covid-19 pandemic; conspiracy theories; counterterrorism; globalisation; empire; and the Russia-Ukraine war.
The issues chosen will be studied from multiple perspectives, creating the space for students to progress in their knowledge of key concepts and explore the merits of leading IR theories.
Britain, like many other western democracies, has undergone significant political change in recent years.
Traditional institutions have been questioned and challenged, territorial pressures have increased, patterns of citizen participation have changed and voters’ electoral choices and patterns of party support have shifted.
These changes raise important questions about the nature and effectiveness of Britain’s political system and about the nature and role of citizens’ engagement with that system.
You'll considers how we should understand the British political system in a period of change and will focus on the reasons for political change, the nature of those changes and their implications for effective policy-making and democracy.
These issues are explored in relation to citizens’ place within the political system, the territorial balance of power within Britain and the operation and effectiveness of core political institutions.
By focusing on changes in the political system and on the challenges posed to existing institutions and political practices, you'll ehnnce your analytical skills in evaluating some of the key ‘pressure points’ facing contemporary democracies.
Violence is at the heart of war, while peace is often defined as the absence of violence.
Students are introduced to these three crucial aspects of international relations and conflict and how they are inter-related.
Specifically, you'll be introduced to a) the conceptual distinctions between war and violence and how to define peace and b) the methods and skills needed to study war, violence and peace.
You'll use case studies and negotiation simulations to help students engage directly and better grasp how states go from peace to war and back to peace.
You will emerge with knowledge of the central theories and concepts of war and peace studies and with an initial set of skills (negotiation and mediation) which can be used to further understand international politics but also in their personal relationships with others.
You take all compulsory modules and then choose three from a list of optional modules.
Global institutions and regimes have become increasingly important in a world facing problems that cross borders and require multilateral action.
This module examines the institutions, norms, processes, actors, and consequences of global and regional governance across a range of issue areas.
It further addresses a number of questions, including the extent to which cooperation is possible and multilateral governance effective, while examining the roles played by states, international organisations (such as the United Nations, or regional groupings such as the European Union or the Association of Southeast Asian Nations), international non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and other actors.
Specific areas you may explore include security, human rights, the environment, and regional integration, amongst others.
Building an understanding of these institutions is crucial is you want to launch your career at an NGO or similar organisation.
Research methods are – together with theoretical frameworks and empirical material – one of the three main pillars of the study of politics and international relations.
This module unlocks the power of data analysis for students from a variety of educational backgrounds - no statistical knowledge is necessary.
In our data-driven world, understanding numbers is crucial for political science and international relations.
Doing Politics with Numbers teaches you how to sift through the noise, find the insights hidden within statistics, and uncover the real story behind the numbers often used in political science and international relations.
It will introduce you to the principles of empirical social science research and equip you with foundational statistical techniques.
You will gain the ability to confidently analyse the data driving policy decisions and academic research.
Additionally, you will develop the skills to dissect complex arguments and see the bigger picture hidden within the numbers.
You complete the FInal Year Project and then choose four from a list of optional modules.
Designing and executing long term projects is a crucial skill that will allow students to thrive once they leave university, or in further study.
You'll be guided through the development and planning of a long-term research project on a specialist interest of your choice from within the field of Politics and International Relations.
You will be introduced to the principles of research design needed for a large-scale piece of independent research.
You'll develop the sensibilities and skills required for independently identifying and responding to important problems in the discipline and for articulating a clear and convincing plan for solving them in your project.
Three types of project are available for you to pursue: a research dissertation, a policy paper and a documented civic engagement.
Each type of project embraces the same skillset to differing degrees: planning and undertaking research, evaluating and making recommendations, and assessing impact.
The overlapping themes and demands of these projects will be introduced in whole class lectures, workshops will facilitate your development of their projects and individual and group supervision will enable you to work closely with a staff member on your project.
At the end of the module, you will have developed a body of material and an outline to support the presentation and writing of your project.
This project is the showcase of all of your development throughout your time at Kent and is a great example of you dedication, knowledge and skills to show employers.
This module aims to develop your quantitative research skills into a more advanced quantitative research skillset.
These skills are highly valuable in several fields, from the social sciences to political research and beyond.
On the module you will: Learn ways to work with and manipulate data to make them ready for statistical analysis.
Critically understand the limitations of simple (OLS) regression, with particular emphasis on omitted variable bias and confounding.
Learn a number of advanced methods for investigating the social world through quantitative research (e.g.
those under the umbrella of the general linear models).
You will first consider the rationale for a method (its strengths and limitations), and then use the method in hands-on statistical analysis sessions using appropriate statistical software (e.g.
R); Learn how to communicate and present data and quantitative analysis (e.g.
with various types of data visualisations).
120 UCAS Tariff points or a final overall IB score of 33 points
The skills our students learn on this course prepares them for respected fields after graduation, including:
Recent graduate destinations include the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, NATO, the United Nations, the World Economic Forum, the British Council, and the British Medical Association.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/2528/psychology-placement-year:
This is a four-year course where you spend a year in practice between your second and final years.
You undertake project work with professional applied psychologists in organisations such as the NHS, the Prison Service or a research establishment.
You take seven compulsory modules in psychology.
These modules, together with the final-year project, are required for professional recognition by the British Psychological Society.
You spend a year on placement within an organisation that delivers a form of psychological service, such as the National Health Service, Home Office, Department for Education or social services (subject to availability of placements and achieving an average mark of 60% at Stages 1 and 2).
The marks awarded for this year are based on performance on the placement, a Reflective Diary kept by the student (marked on a pass/fail basis), a poster presentation about the placement experience, and the report of a research project conducted while on placement.
The research report and the Reflective Diary must be submitted before the autumn term of Stage 3.
128 tariff points - typically H5, H6, H6 or equivalent
Obtain Access to HE Diploma with 45 Credits at level 3 with 30 credits at Distinction and 15 credits at Merit

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/2529/psychology-clinical-psychology-placement-year:
Gain an understanding of human behaviour and open doors to a wide range of careers, at a Top 100 university for Psychology (QS World Rankings 2024).
How do we investigate and assess mental and physical wellbeing?
What are some of the ways we can treat common mental health difficulties?
Psychology with Clinical Psychology BSc at Kent offers you broad training in psychology and allows you to explore the current models used in clinical research and practice.
You’ll have access to professional laboratories and facilities, be able to participate in ongoing research and discover the key principles of psychology.
Our British Psychological Society (BPS) accredited degree is your first step to a wide range of careers, from clinical or forensic psychology to roles in marketing, public relations or human resources.
We provide you with the tools to develop interventions for hospitals, schools and businesses, making a difference to society through innovations in policy and research.
What is a Clinical Psychologist?
How do they think?
How do they work with distress?
What types of work can Clinical Psychologists do?
And most importantly, what kind of Clinical Psychologist would you want to be?
Clinical Psychologists are one of the most highly sought after mental health professionals in the UK at this moment.
We will introduce you to the theories they use to reduce distress in others, along with some of the ethical dilemmas of clinical practice and the importance of being an evidence-based practitioner.
Using a case study, we will take you through the process of assessment, formulation and intervention.
This module will show you how theories from your textbooks can be applied in real life settings.
What are the different approaches Clinical Psychologists use to reduce distress?
How do we decide which approach to use?
How can we tell how effective they are and for whom?
Gain an understanding of how clinical psychologists work with clients in a stepped-care setting from brief psychological intervention to longer pieces of work.
You'll be introduced to a wide range of psychology intervention and therapeutic approaches and encouraged to think critically about when and how you would use them.
Delve into three key models including cognitive behavioural therapy, psychodynamic therapy and systemic therapy, while also expoloring other specialist models of intervention.
The Clinical Psychology Project is the capstone of your degree, where you will bring together what you have learned in the first two years of your studies to produce a thorough, professional research report relevant to clinical psychology.
You will evaluate existing evidence in your chosen area, develop your hypotheses and research questions, and select and run appropriate statistical tests to answer these questions.
You will then present your findings in an accessible and professional style, and discuss how they fit within and build on psychological knowledge relevant to the field of clinical psychology.
Modules are taught by weekly lectures, workshops, small group seminars and project supervision.
The Psychology Statistics and Practical modules include laboratory practical sessions, statistics classes, computing classes and lectures in statistics and methodology.
Most modules are assessed by examination and coursework in equal measure.
Both Stage 2 and 3 marks and, where appropriate, the marks for your year abroad or placement count towards your final degree result.
Our assessment
methods are varied and will include, but are not limited to, examinations,
written assignments and essays, group work and oral presentations.
Our graduates currently have excellent graduate employment prospects, working in clinical, forensic and occupational psychology or in allied fields related to therapy, teaching, or social work.
Many work in communication-focused roles in marketing, public relations and publishing.
Jobs our students have gone on to work after a clinical degree at Kent:

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/3755/software-engineering-year-in-industry:
Software Engineering is an incredibly exciting field which is valuable for many areas of business.
This programme offers you a solid base of computing skills, equipping you for a wide range of future careers from programmer to systems analyst, software developer to computer scientist.
You have the opportunity to put your skills into practice on a paid year in industry placement.
This gives you invaluable work experience and offers the possibility of a job with the same company after graduation.
Accredited by BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT.
Becoming a professional software engineer requires a mix of technical and problem-solving skills, not all of which can be covered in taught modules.
In this module you will be able to practise those skills by undertaking a software project of medium complexity, in which you will develop and evaluate a software solution to an agreed problem.
You’ll be supported by a member of academic staff who will supervise and monitor your work.
Your supervisor will meet with you regularly to review your progress, check that the desired functionality is being interpreted correctly and encourage you to adopt sound software engineering principles.
The project is subdivided into two stages, with a first milestone deliverable in the first half of term and a final deliverable at the end of the module.
Towards the end of the project, you’ll prepare a technical report that describes your solution strategy, the results of your project and reflections on outcomes and on what you have learned from the project.
Our students go to a wide range of companies, including:
The year in industry forms an integral part of your degree and constitutes 10% of your final grade.
You'll be able to choose from a range of modules, so you can focus on areas that you want to explore in more depth for your chosen career path.
Obtain the Access to HE Diploma with a minimum of 45 credits at Level 3, with 24 credits at Distinction and 21 credits at Merit

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/3767/spatial-interior-design:
Learn to design with impact – shaping innovative environments that connect people to the spaces around them.
Spatial and interior design is an expanding field for creatives who want to transform the spaces we live, work and socialise in.
Whether shaping retail environments, designing experiences for festivals and events, or pioneering co-living concepts and virtual landscapes - spatial and interior design will give you the skills to bring your visions to life.
In our creative studio environment, you'll collaborate with students in architecture, graphic design, film, media, and drama - expanding your perspective and developing your creative process.
You will learn through digital tools, hands-on making, and critical enquiry, gaining experience in 2D, 3D, and 4D (time-based media), as well as emerging technologies like AI.
The course integrates theory, design history, and critical reflection to help you develop an informed, thoughtful, and original approach to spatial design practice.
Through live projects with industry partners, research-led practice, and collaboration with other creatives and experts, you’ll develop a distinctive creative voice and a portfolio that sets you apart in the job market.
Why study Architecture and Design at Kent?
Design is an exciting journey, full of exploration and creativity.
In this module, you'll dive deep into the iterative design process, gaining valuable insights into how ideas take shape.
Through hands-on activities, you'll adopt a bottom-up approach, creating a small-scale artefact in a spatial setting that challenges traditional norms, all proposed for the campus.
Beginning with careful observation, you'll search for unconventional uses of objects and discover their untapped potential.
Embracing both collaborative teamwork and individual projects, you'll transition from group dynamics to independent exploration.
By the module's end, you'll have a solid understanding of design thinking principles, enhanced collaborative skills, improved spatial thinking abilities, and refined communication skills to effectively express your design ideas.
How do you feel when you step into a room or any other space?
Fundamental elements like colour, material, lighting, furniture, textures and form shape your experience.
In this module, you’ll explore key interior design elements through weekly lectures intertwined with historical insights.
Each week, you’ll focus on one element, identifying that element in the precedents you study and presenting your discoveries to the class.
You’ll participate in an iterative design process, showcasing progression in exercises informed by your collective precedent studies.
Throughout the module, you’ll receive tutorials on photography and image-editing software.
By the end of this module, you will have mastered photography and photocollage techniques using digital tools and manual techniques for visually communicating your design ideas and testing them against various scenarios.
You’ll also refine your communication skills through weekly presentations, utilising diverse mediums for effective idea exchange.
How do contextual parameters influence what we design?
In this module, you’ll uncover the significant impact of context on architectural and interior design, equipping you to make informed decisions that resonate with your surroundings.
You'll delve into crafting a temporary installation for the vibrant city of Canterbury, engaging in detailed site visits to immerse yourself in the local atmosphere.
By employing analytical tools such as hand sketching, mapping, and diagramming, you’ll analyse and refine your design process.
Weekly group discussions and individual tasks in the studio will deepen your understanding and allow for the sharing of ideas.
You’ll also learn to produce orthographic drawings, crucial for effective communication in the design field.
By the end of this module, you will have mastered integrating context into your design projects, demonstrating a nuanced understanding of how environmental and cultural factors influence design decisions.
Additionally, you'll enhance your ability to collaborate and adapt across diverse assignments, boosting your confidence and professional readiness.
Digital tools are an essential part of any designer's toolkit, offering new possibilities and preparing you to excel in real-world professional environments after graduation.
You’ll dive into digital modelling early on, learning basic rendering skills to effectively visualise and communicate your design ideas.
You'll explore key interior elements, such as modern furniture, focusing on their geometric and material qualities, and you'll be tasked with designing your own pieces inspired by these examples.
Using accessible 3D digital modelling tools, you’ll engage in hands-on design exercises from the start, enhancing your technical prowess.
By the end of this module, you will have expanded your formal vocabulary and gained the confidence to tackle more complex design challenges.
You'll improve your ability to visualise and render ideas effectively, preparing you to meet the demands of a dynamic professional environment with a robust set of digital skills.
The designs we create significantly influence the communities and environments we inhabit.
This module unveils the intricate relationship between ethical considerations and design decisions, emphasising sustainability's essential role in crafting environmentally conscious and socially responsible spaces.
You’ll explore these concepts through lectures and seminars introducing the theoretical underpinnings of ethics and sustainability and engaging you in discussions about case studies and current events that highlight sustainable practices in the design world.
Throughout this journey, you’ll be equipped with the tools and knowledge necessary to incorporate sustainable methods into your design projects, ensuring that your creations are both innovative and mindful of environmental and social impacts.
By the end of this module, you’ll have a deeper understanding of how sustainability intersects with design, preparing you to be a conscientious designer who actively contributes to a more sustainable future.
Digital visualisation is pivotal to interior design.
It effectively conveys ideas, while the rapid growth of virtual environments creates new opportunities.
In this module, you will start with the basics of digital visualisation, learning to use AI generative tools and principles through weekly tutorials and exercises.
You’ll go on to explore the interior spaces of virtual environments, enhancing your ability to convey complex design ideas effectively.
As you progress, your focus will shift to mastering time-based media, including movie editing and the production of interior and architectural animations.
You’ll learn to manipulate camera movements to animate your designs, creating immersive experiences that engage and captivate.
By the end of this module, you will have developed a comprehensive skill set in both still image visualisation and dynamic media.
This expertise will boost your current design projects and expand your creative and professional capabilities, preparing you to thrive in modern and future design environments.
In a world increasingly focused on sustainability, the ability to adapt existing buildings to new uses is more crucial than ever.
This module takes a deep dive into major adaptation strategies in interior architecture and design, equipping you to address the fundamental challenge of reimagining existing spaces.
You will be introduced to various adaptation strategies and assigned to focus on one, conducting thorough analyses of relevant precedents to gain nuanced insights.
Throughout the course, you will share your findings with your peers, creating a rich pool of reference material to inform your project.
You'll engage deeply with the history, theory, and broader context of your discipline, while also delving into specialised areas such as lighting and furniture layouts.
Upon completing this module, you will possess advanced critical thinking skills and a strategic approach to adapting interior designs.
Armed with a comprehensive understanding of adaptation strategies and practical experience in applying these concepts, you will be well-prepared to tackle real-world design challenges, innovatively transforming spaces to meet contemporary needs and contribute to a sustainable future.
Immerse yourself in the history and theory of your discipline, examining its conventions, social context, and broader cultural implications.
By delving into these contexts, you'll enhance your studio practice with a deeper understanding of the forces shaping it.
You'll explore issues relevant to your background and identity, as you learn to reflect on your experiences critically and find connections between diverse ideas.
Through theoretical exploration and practical application, the module investigates how your discipline intersects with various aspects such as history, economy, culture, society, and the environment.
You'll challenge conventional notions, broaden your perspectives, and explore global contexts and histories often overlooked.
Additionally, sustainability, equity, and accessibility will be focal points, encouraging you to consider your discipline's broader impacts and implications.
Following the previous design module focused on adaptation, this module introduces additional complexity by involving the reuse of a historic building.
Located in the historic city of Canterbury, our university draws on its deep expertise in researching historic buildings.
Here, you'll dive deeper into site-specific research and experimentation, setting the stage for your future design projects.
Throughout the course, you'll work closely with real clients, applying your growing understanding of historical contexts and the challenges of blending new designs with old structures.
This preparation phase is essential for developing innovative, sustainable solutions that respect historical integrity while meeting modern needs.
The practical design project is shaped by lectures, seminars, tutorials, and your research, addressing technical, environmental, ergonomic, regulatory, historical, and theoretical aspects of architectural adaptation.
By the end of this module, you'll be ready for a smooth transition into the next phase of your project.
The research and strategies developed here will be crucial for your upcoming design implementations.
Engaging directly with live projects sharpens your practical skills and enriches your understanding of how history influences contemporary design, preparing you to handle complex design challenges with thoughtful, well-informed approaches.
To turn your design dreams into reality, it's essential to have a solid foundation in construction.
Through an in-depth examination of interior building construction materials and systems, this course develops your understanding of the diverse constructed assemblies that collectively form complete buildings, encompassing both structural and non-structural elements.
Linked to Design Intervention: Research and Exploration, this module will delve deeper into construction techniques and detailing to explore new design possibilities.
It also informs subsequent projects in Design Intervention: Design Implication.
You’ll address functional and environmental considerations related to building technology systems by developing 1:20 construction physical models.
The module features a mix of lectures and seminars supplemented by analytical research on building technologies, construction systems and materials.
You’ll gain an awareness of the field's interdisciplinary nature by exploring the collaboration between building technology experts, architects, interior designers, engineers and clients.
By the end of the module, you will have gained insights into fundamental and contemporary technology trends, enabling you to understand their impact on design practice.
Building on the solid foundation from previous modules, the Design Intervention module takes your skills to new heights.
With a comprehensive understanding of historical contexts and materials from previous coursework, you'll push your design concepts further, using smart materials and the cutting-edge construction techniques you learnt during Term 2.
This module presents more complex design scenarios, requiring you to consider client needs, construction demands, and regulatory constraints.
You'll be challenged to innovate and refine your designs, ensuring they meet diverse requirements while maintaining architectural integrity.
By engaging in hands-on projects and rigorous critical analysis, you'll develop a robust ability to address and solve intricate design problems.
By the end of this module, you will have mastered the art of delivering innovative solutions that exceed the demands of modern interior design environments.
Beyond the new career paths available to you as an interior designer, new avenues are constantly emerging to be explored.
In this module, led by seasoned industry experts, you'll embark on an enlightening journey through various interior design career paths.
You'll explore both emerging opportunities and traditional paths, gaining invaluable insights into diverse trajectories through captivating lectures.
Delve into the intricacies of current legislation governing interior design and construction practices, from Building Regulations to fire safety and sustainability considerations.
Analyse how these legal frameworks shape the built environment and impact design decisions and project outcomes.
Investigate your Design Intervention proposal in light of these regulations, enhancing your understanding through hands-on research and interactive sessions.
Whether you're seeking practical experience, international exposure, or personalised course tailoring, this module equips you with the knowledge and confidence to navigate your professional journey effectively, ensuring a solid foundation for your future career endeavours.
By the end of this module, you'll have acquired a broad understanding of the diverse career paths in interior design and the regulatory landscape that impacts the field.
This knowledge will empower you to confidently navigate your professional journey, fully prepared to tackle the challenges and opportunities of the industry.
Completing a major project is crucial to securing your future in the competitive field of interior design, whether you choose to pursue professional employment or advanced studies.
The ‘Big Project’ module, which unfolds over the autumn, spring, and summer terms, synthesises all the knowledge and skills you have acquired during your studies.
Starting with research based on your interests, you’ll tailor your project to meet professional standards and your own creative vision.
During the autumn term, you’ll explore experimental spatial practices to develop an abstract model which serves as a foundation for your design development in the next term.
This term concludes with you producing a concept video that articulates your design statement and documentation of your experimentation, paving the way for the next phase of your design journey.
After completing this module, you will have developed a significant piece of work that blends comprehensive research with innovative conceptualisation.
This will set the stage for further refinement and practical application in later terms.
New technologies are continuously reshaping out experiences in both physical and virtual spaces.
The 'Interior Futures' module provides a deep dive into the innovative intersection of design and technology.
You’ll explore Interactive Systems, Smart Materials, Virtual Reality (VR), and Augmented Reality (AR), analysing their transformative effects on user experience and interior spaces.
Through engaging lectures, which include insights from industry experts and guest lecturers, you'll understand how these innovations push the boundaries of creativity and enable the production of dynamic environments.
You'll also lead seminars focused on your specific areas of interest and present your research findings to the class.
The key component of your assessment will be an illustrated essay on your research area, which will also feed into your subsequent design module.
By the end of this module, you’ll emerge with a deep understanding of emerging technologies and their application in interior design.
Equipped with enhanced design capabilities and advanced technical skills, you'll be ready to innovate and shape the future of interior design, contributing your creativity and cutting-edge solutions.
Building on the foundation of your previous research and experimentation aligned with your personal interests, the second term's Big Project (Experimentation) propels your ideas into deeper exploration through innovative and immersive technologies studied in Big Project (Research).
You will apply new media and animation tools to develop immersive concepts, testing them on an actual site that you have selected.
By analysing the site at both micro and macro levels, you'll investigate its potential to embody and enhance your design concepts and speculate on new possibilities that emerge from applying your conceptual model developed in the first term.
By the end of this module, you will have mastered the art of transforming conceptual designs into tangible, innovative solutions.
With a deeper understanding of advanced design tools and techniques, you will be well-prepared to present your ideas in compelling new ways, setting a solid foundation for professional practice or advanced studies in design.
This module acts as a critical complement to THE BIG PROJECT, deepening your engagement with specialised topics that resonate within the contemporary Interior and Spatial Design landscape.
You'll explore key themes and the cultural and theoretical contexts relevant to your project through a series of lectures that connect historical and theoretical perspectives to modern practice, complemented by tailored seminars led by your designated tutor.
Assignments will vary, allowing you to align them closely with your creative and research interests under the guidance of your tutor.
As you progress, you will enhance your understanding of critical design debates and produce a comprehensive illustrated essay that showcases your ability to integrate research with design practice.
Building on the foundation of your previous research and experimentation aligned with your personal interests, the second term's 'Big Project (Experimentation)' propels your ideas into deeper exploration through innovative and immersive technologies studied earlier in the course.
As you near the end of your student journey and prepare to enter the dynamic world of interior design, this module offers an essential bridge between your academic achievements and professional ambitions.
You will be equipped with essential skills to launch and manage a design-related business, covering key areas like business planning, branding, client relations, and marketplace strategies.
You'll explore professional ethics and project management and enhance your understanding of the industry through lectures and visits to professional practices, including insights from experienced practitioners and former students.
At the same time, you’ll begin to develop your professional portfolio, carefully selecting work that reflects your career aspirations.
You’ll also create a podcast discussing the career and the practice that interests you.
By the end of this module, you’ll thoroughly understand the business aspects of design and have a meticulously crafted portfolio, setting you up for a successful career in the design industry.
BBC in art/design/technology related subjects.
Distinction, Merit, Merit in an art and design or related subject.
Obtain Access to Higher Education Diploma with 45 at level 3 Credits with 18 credits at Distinction and 24 credits at Merit.
You will need to provide the material necessary to produce hand-drawn and printed computer drawings/ images, documents, reports and written works.
The creative and technical skills you develop, and the professional experience you gain will open up a wide range of career opportunities.
Graduates tend to go into roles in:
Alumni have gone on to work with companies such as IKEA and Coty, as well as local studios and consultancies.
Many return to support current students through talks and mentoring.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/3122/sport-and-exercise-science-year-in-industry:
Our Year in Industry option gives you the chance to develop hands-on experience working in a professional environment and gain a competitive edge for future employment after you graduate.
Our course is endorsed by the Chartered Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (CASES), the professional body for sport and exercise sciences in the UK.
BBB including grade B in an appropriate subject (eg Biology, Chemistry, Sport, Physical Education, Physics, Psychology, Statistics, Mathematics, Applied Science, Human Biology)
Distinction, Merit, Merit in a sports, sports coaching or science related subject.
112 tariff points - typically H5, H5, H6 at HL including Biology/Chemistry/Physics/Mathematics, Sports, Exercise and Health Science 5 at HL or 6 at SL and Mathematics 4 at HL or SL.
Merit overall in Science with a minimum of grade B for the core components (including grade B in the core B examination) and merit overall in the occupational specialism component.
A typical offer would be to achieve 45 Credits at Level 3 with 18 credits at Distinction and 24 credits at Merit in Sports Science or Health and Applied Science.
Other courses can be considered by the Admissions Officer to ensure they hold the required Level 3 science credits.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/undergraduate/6504/sports-therapy-rehabilitation-year-in-industry:
The year in industry gives you the opportunity to gain valuable work experience.
It is your responsibility to find a placement, but we will help and support you through this process and while you are there.
If you cannot find a placement, you will be required to change your registration for the equivalent BSc (Hons) programme without the year in industry option.
Please contact our Admissions Team for more information at studynats@kent.ac.uk .
BBB including B in an appropriate subject (eg Biology, Chemistry, Sport, Physical Education, Physics, Psychology, Statistics, Mathematics, Applied Science, Human Biology)
Distinction, Merit, Merit in a Sports, Sports Coaching or Science related subject.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/go-abroad/work-abroad:
Give yourself the edge in the highly-competitive graduate jobs market
If you are on a degree course that includes a year in industry/Professional Practice, you can work abroad in your third year.
Take a look at our list of programmes with a year in industry .
At Kent, the Placement Officers in the Careers and Employabiity Service will provide useful information and guidance about finding a suitable placement.
Orla Cura, Italian BA (Hons)
Studies have shown that students who work abroad are more likely to achieve a First or 2:1.
Students who work abroad are more likely to be in graduate jobs and earn more than those who don't.
Students who work abroad develop an international network of professional and academic contacts.
By making the decision to work abroad you are demonstrating to future employers that you are flexible in your outlook and have the enthusiasm and drive to succeed in new environments.
You'll also have improved your communication skills, grown in confidence and gained valuable workplace experience.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/go-abroad/photo-competition:
Thank you to all our students who entered the 2024 competition!
See the winning entries below.
Jennifer Wong, who studied abroad in Japan
Chloe Voong, who studied abroad in Hong Kong
Sachin Rose Mount Isola, Japan
Sachin Rose
Mount Isola, Japan
Emily Copeland Spain
Emily Copeland
Spain
Carys Muirhead-Davies Musashi University, Japan
Carys Muirhead-Davies
Musashi University, Japan
Simon Frost University of South Carolina, USA
Simon Frost
University of South Carolina, USA
Maria Escubio University of Calgary, Canada
Maria Escubio
University of Calgary, Canada
Tereza Tomcíková Université Clermont Auvergne, France
Tereza Tomcíková
Université Clermont Auvergne, France
Eleanor Richards Mount Allison University, Canada
Eleanor Richards
Mount Allison University, Canada
Anna Spencer Korea University, South Korea Watch the video
Anna Spencer
Korea University, South Korea

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/go-abroad/summer-abroad:
Summer Abroad 2025 opportunities and funding applications are now closed.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/go-abroad/how-to-apply:
If you find the idea of studying or working abroad as part of your degree exciting, go to our course listing and select the subject you want to study to view the course page.
The course structure will show the Year Abroad or Year in Industry options available to you, then click on the Apply now button; it’s that simple.
For some courses, you can apply for the three year degree and then add the Year Abroad after you start here.
You can also find a list of our partner universities at each destination in our A-Z list .
If you have any questions about studying or working abroad, please contact our Go abroad team .
If you want to find out more about applying to Kent, visit our Apply web pages .
I studied at IE University in Madrid.
So far, my Spanish has improved and I have taken advantage of some of the extra academic opportunities IE offers.
I have really enjoyed meeting so many new people, experiencing a new city and having good weather.
If you are studying on a course with a year abroad, we’ll support you as you decide which country and which university you want to study in.
Stage 2 students: follow instructions to apply in October!
There are academic and attendance requirements you must meet to be eligible to study abroad:
Adding a study abroad element to your degree
If you are in Stage 1 or 2, contact your School to ensure that you have met any progression criteria during Stage 1 and to complete a Change of Course form.
Stage 2 students should enrol on our Moodle module, DP6100, and submit the Study Abroad application by the deadline.
Taking a year abroad is one of the most enriching experiences you’ll have at university.
Being able to take a step back and look at things from a different perspective, it’s something that is completely unique.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/go-abroad/costs-and-funding:
Before you go abroad, consider your own budget carefully and discuss it with relevant people (i.e.
your sponsors/parents).
Understanding your own financial position and the cost of living in your chosen country may well have an impact on whether a study placement or work placement is feasible.
Remember that in many countries, students on a work placement are often unpaid or are paid below the standard living wage.
It is particularly important that you research the following:
All year abroad students are required to register for free travel and personal accident insurance* arranged by the University of Kent with leading travel insurer Chubb Insurance.
Students will receive instructions how to register for this a few months before going abroad.
N.B.
In the case of the USA, the approved insurance policy may not cover all expenses incurred, e.g.
for counselling or regular blood tests or medical treatment, so students must be prepared to cover those costs themselves.
In serious cases, costs could reach tens of thousands of dollars.
*As part of registering for cover, students will need to complete the online travel notification form no later than 10 working days before leaving.
Details on the full benefits available to you can be found on the University's Travel Insurance webpage .
Students should keep the Chubb emergency assistance number in a safe place, ready for use in an emergency.
In addition to general student funding , there are specific sources of funding available if you're spending a year or term studying or working abroad:
Loans are available for eligible students who spend a year studying or working abroad as part of their degree course.
You may be eligible for a Travel Grant which reimburses some of your travel costs.
See the UK Government's website for more details.
Turing funding offers additional support to students who plan to study and work abroad.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/go-abroad/current-students:
Support for current students either currently studying abroad or thinking about it.
Download the Application Process guide document for more information.
All the things you need to do before you go abroad and when you arrive at your destination
All year abroad students are eligible for free insurance cover for travel and personal accident.
Before going abroad, consider your own budget and ensure you can support yourself financially.
Find out how to register with a doctor and ensure you're prepared for your time abroad.
Allow yourself time to settle in and get to know other students so you have people to talk to.
Module registration will be online from Feb/March.
You must register your choices by the deadline.
You must complete the returning student registration online.
How to apply for on-campus  or off-campus accommodation upon your return.
Employers seek graduates with employability skills to succeed in a competitive graduate marketplace.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/global/education:
An education at Kent involves study in an international community of students representing 149 nationalities from all over the world.
As a research intensive university with 97% of our research being world-leading , this has an impact on the international positioning of the education which we provide.
At Kent we have one of the highest percentages of students studying under incoming
and outgoing exchange programmes of any multi-faculty UK university.
We also offer a wealth of European and international opportunities for study, work and travel in a stimulating and effective learning community.
We are champions of global exchange and internationalisation at home to
support all students in benefitting from an international experience at Kent,
whether you are able to travel or not Kent
also has specialist study locations in Paris and Brussels
A series of wild modules with global dimensions
A co-curricular virtual exchange initiative to introduce our students to cross-cultural learning experiences
A series of short videos showcasing our academic and their international research
An app for students to reflect on and record international achievements
Embedding international features and dimensions into the curriculum
Visit our youtube channel for more experiences shared by Kent students from across the globe.
I found the experience very useful to understand certain topics from a different perspective.
Moreover, we get to know new approaches and solutions to the same problems.
I found the experience mind-opening.
An essential component of internationalisation of Higher Education
The goal of Internationalisation at Home is for all students to enjoy an internationalised student experience, not always through physical travel, but also within the bounds of their home environment.
We have a duty to help students to unpack and access the vibrant and meaningful opportunities in working with others from different cultures.
Students can benefit from the amazing resource that is our diverse campus in order to develop an internationalised experience.
Internationalisation at Home offers a broad range of activities to allow students to shape what they wish to do.
Through our virtual exchange project, students can grow in confidence, work with international teams and gain important IT skills – all of which will have a positive impact when students go into the workplace.
Kent’s approach to Internationalisation at Home is having a network of activity with a strong community feel across staff and student communities.
The University of Kent recognises that the impact of curriculum internationalisation will be more profound if this involves Internationalising learning outcomes, content, teaching and learning activities and assessment tasks.
It is recognised that in order to be successful, the approach taken needs to go beyond isolated optional subjects, experiences and activities for a minority of students and should focus on all students’ learning.
Importantly, the process needs to be undertaken in a planned, systematic and sustainable way.
In addition to reading our Curriculum Internationalisation Toolkit , you can also watch the Think Kent Video by Dr Anthony Manning which provides an overview of the principles, benefits and challenges of Curriculum Internationalisation.
Access the AdvanceHE Connect platform and to enter a cross-sector network
designed for academics and professional services staff who share an interest in
Curriculum Internationalisation and Internationalisation at Home.
This Network
has been created by Dr Anthony Manning, Dean for Internationalisation.
(You may need to register with Advance HE Connect
before being able to use the link).
For further guidance download our toolkit.
GEMs are wild modules with an international dimension, they cover a diverse range of subjects from global histories and religions to environments and cultures.
You could even learn a new language!
Discover how you can add an international dimension to your studies
A co-curricular virtual exchange initiative which has been devised to introduce students at Kent to cross-cultural academic learning experiences online to compliment their existing studies.
Explore the opportunities available to you.
Students on these projects will:
Students are able to participate in 'ready-made' virtual exchanges offered by our partner universities and organisations.
Or, staff can design bespoke projects in collaboration with our partners to meet the needs of a particular module or cohort of students.
If you have an idea for a GLO project and would like to explore further, or require assistance in framing out the project, please contact Emma Marku at E.L.Marku@kent.ac.uk .
Global Circles, Soliya, Various dates.
2-week facilitated dynamic dialogue exchange opportunities for young people on compelling social impact issues that matter across cultures and continents.
More details and to apply, please see here .
GLO with University of Bordeaux (France) - Law - Autumn Term 2023: Students will be paired with 3rd year students from the Law faculty at Bordeaux and engage in discussions, in English, on a variety of subjects arising out of their legal studies such as the differences between the two jurisdictions, comparisons between the two educational systems and how contemporary global legal issues are tackled.
Each pair will complete a logbook documenting their discussions and work towards a common project.
Only open to stage 2 and above students studying law as part of their degree at the University of Kent (including joint honours programmes) and participating students must have at least a basic level of French .
GLO with Tamagawa University (Japan) - Culture - Autumn Term 2023: The aim is to communicate and study online with students in Japan at Tamagawa University.
The joint task involves students working together to identify​ cultural interests of university students in the UK, Japan and other nations.
Only open to students who are taking Japanese modules in our Language Centre.
GLO with Kobe Women's University (Japan) - Networking - Spring Term 2024: The aim is to communicate and study online with students in Japan at Kobe Women's University.
GLO with Kyoto Sangyo University (Japan) - Cultural Research Project - Autumn Term 2024: The aim is to communicate and study online with students in Japan at Kyoto Sangyo University.
The joint cultural project involves students working together to identify​ cultural interests of university students in the UK, Japan and other nations.
Global Community Challenge with University of Calgary, (Canada) Autumn 2023.
The 8-week Global Community Challenge YYC creates opportunities for students to work in cross-cultural and cross-disciplinary teams to identify potential solutions for local organisations in the Calgary community that have an impact globally.
The challenge also includes a series of professional development workshops.
Further details can be found here .
[Application is now closed]
Hong Kong Baptist University Spring 2024: Students are able to take a module online in addition to their main studies at Kent, with our partner university, Hong Kong Baptist University.
The current list of modules available can be found here , all are taught in English.
Alongside the classes, students' virtual study experiences will be enhanced through virtual student-led activities such as buddy schemes, cultural immersion activities and talks.
Places are limited.
[Nominations are now closed]
GLO with University of North Carolina Charlotte (USA) - Working across cultures - Spring 2023: Work with students from UNCC on a project reviewing best practice in the workplace.
In your groups you will create a guide and top-tips handout on how to work in a cross-cultural context, aligning your content to the Developmental Model of Intercultural Sensitivity ( DMIS ) and Cultural Intelligence ( CQ ).
Global Citizenship, Common Purpose, Spring 2023: In this short online course you will be able to focus on one Sustainable Development Goal you are passionate about and develop the skills to equip you to take rapid action.
At the end of the course, you can earn a 'Global Citizenship' micro-credential which demonstrates that you have developed the skills to tackle complex global issues.
Connect Collaborate, Soliya 2022: Engage with peers around the world in small groups and gain practical experience in constructive communication and cross-cultural collaboration.
Each group will meet online for real-time discussion once a week for 2hrs via an online, videoconferencing platform.
In your group, you will create a social media awareness campaign, and an infographic that will accompany the campaign.
This year's focal theme will be Inequality or Technology.
For more details, see here .
Climate Movements, Sharing Perspectives Foundation 2022: Join this virtual exchange with students from across Europe and the Southern Mediterranean on this collaborative project.
Join weekly 2-hour sessions at a time convenient to you to explore themes around climate change, movement of people, climate refugees and politics of un/sustainability.
Stimulated by video lectures and audio-visual materials, participants will exchange ideas and perspectives in their intercultural, online group session.
Asian Studies with Kansai Gaidai University, Japan.
2022: Students are able to take a module online in addition to their main studies at Kent, with our partner university, Kansai Gaidai University.
You can choose from Japanese language or courses focused on Japan and Asia.
The current list of modules can be viewed here .
Participation in its Intercultural Engagement Program at least once a month and online interactions with local Kansai Gaidai students also available.
There is a non-refundable registration fee of JPY10,000 (Approx.
US$95).
Global Campus Read with West Virginia University,  2022: Join a common reading experience to foster dialogue, critical thinking, and participation which will encourage conversation and collaboration between students from West Virginia University and other universities around the world.
This asynchronous online course is based on the book, 'The Line Becomes a River: Dispatches from the Border' by Francisco Cantu.
If you need general information or have questions regarding our GLO opportunities, please do get in touch
CQ is a multi-functional and transferable skill that you can take with you anywhere!
You also earn Employability points while completing your KGP.
You can also sign up to our monthly newsletter

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/go-abroad/faq:
If you can't find the answer to your query, email the Go Abroad team who will be happy to help.
You will need to contact the Programme Administration Team to complete the Change of Course form by the Autumn Term of your Second Year.
You will also need to submit the Study Abroad application form by the November deadline.
International students wishing to add a year abroad to their course should contact the Student Immigration Compliance Team and Kent Union Advice Centre for visa advice.
Visit our Go Abroad costs and funding page for details.
You must have a minimum Stage 1 average mark of 50% and a minimum aveerage mark of 50% in the Autumn Term of Stage 2.
Please note that some host university have their own requirements.
Some Schools have short-term opportunities within a degree or as an optional extra.
Alternatively, many students participate in  extra-curricular activities abroad during the vacations, such as volunteering, summer camps or internships.
No, this isn't possible because the exchanges are linked to specific subject areas and have been approved by the appropriate Schools at Kent.
If you have not previously studied the host language, you should choose a destination which teaches in English.
If you have previously studied the host language, you must demonstrate that you have reached at least B2 level in that language on the CEFR scale in order for your application to be considered.
This is because of the challenges of studying at degree level in a second language.
Priority for places on exchanges which are taught in the host language will be given to students on degrees which require them to study that language.
You will get academic and administrative support from Kent before, during and after the year abroad:
You will also get support from your host university or employer.
Many host universities provide support services, for example a medical centre or a counselling service.
In other cases, students may access support through local medical facilities, for example through a public hospital.
Students can also access mental health support through Kent's external provider, Spectrum Life .
Study/work abroad placements which are an official part of the degree are assessed using a pass/fail system .
If you study abroad, the pass/fail mark will be based on the grades you receive from the host university.
You may have to pass a certain percentage of the modules at the host university in order to receive a pass.
Please contact your Division for further information.
If you work abroad, your Division will set the assessment criteria, such as  an essay or report.
They may also ask your employer to provide an evaluation.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/go-abroad/contact-us:
goabroad@kent.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/parents/applying-for-student-finance:
Student finance advice and guidance for parents and supporters.
UK universities charge for course tuition (known as the ‘tuition fee’).
Students based in the UK and students assessed as eligible under the Higher Education fee guidance currently pay the same tuition fee; European Union and international students pay a different scale of tuition fees.
All Kent’s tuition fees are published on our course pages .
You are not expected to pay your child's tuition fees upfront , unless you want to.
It is expected that the majority of students will apply for the tuition fee loan online.
The loan is paid directly to the university, not to your child.
Your son or daughter can also apply for a maintenance loan to help with their living costs (food, accommodation, books etc).
Maintenance loans are available to UK full and part-time students and eligible EU students .
Maintenance loans are awarded based on your household income (means-testing).
Only those with a low household income are likely to be eligible for full financial support.
Maintenance loans are paid into their bank account in three instalments – one instalment each term.
They will need to budget to make this loan last for the full length of the term (usually a university term is 12 weeks).
They will apply for their tuition fee loan and maintenance loan via the GOV.UK website
They should apply early to make sure funds are in place for when they start their course.
There is a deadline for applications, usually the third week in May.
They will have to repay their tuition fee loan and their maintenance loan.
These are added together and paid off as one and the earliest they will start making repayments is the April after the graduate.
Repayments are based on their income, not how much they borrowed.
They won’t have to repay anything until they are earning over the threshold for their repayment plan.
Find out when they start repaying .
If they are earning more than that, the Student Loans Company will calculate their repayments at 9% of their income over that amount.
They will be charged interest on their loan from the day their first payment is made to them or their university, until it’s been repaid in full or cancelled.
It’s important to remember that the amount of interest they are charged doesn’t change the amount they repay each month.
More on repayment from the GOV.UK website
Our aim at Kent is to design all of our services with inclusivity in mind - identifying potential barriers and working towards solutions to remove them as far in advance as possible.
Depending on your child's specific needs, support available may include some of the following:
Helping them create and plan a budget is one of the most useful things you can do.
There are many budgeting tools and apps available, but generally they should be considering:
Rent or accommodation costs
Mobile phone, internet and TV costs

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/parents/faqs:
If they have applied through UCAS, used all 
five choices and they aren't holding any offers, they might be able to 
apply through UCAS Extra for   another course.
In UCAS Extra, they can apply for any course with vacancies.
UCAS Extra is   open between the end of February and early July.
To use Extra they need to have:
Please note: If they decline their offers and add a UCAS Extra 
choice, they will not be   able to accept any of their original choices 
later.
Response
times vary depending on how many application we have to deal with.
We try to
get back to everyone as quickly as we can, but at busy times of year it can
take a few weeks.
Have a look at our Application Timeline for key dates and deadlines.
If they send their application to us by 30 June, we will send it to
 their chosen universities and colleges.
If we receive their application
 after this date, they will be entered into Clearing .
The University is bound by the Data Protection Act and by other 
legalisation in relation to confidentiality and disclosure of 
information.
Staff are  unable to give any information about a student  
 applying for a place at the University to a third party (including 
parents),   without that student's expressed permission.
Your role is to be positive, no matter
 what the outcome and take the lead in suggesting practical next steps if your child decides to apply through Clearing (see the next FAQ).
Practical tips:
We aim to be as flexible as possible at results confirmation and in a
lot of cases we are able to accept applicants who have narrowly missed their
grades.
However, it is not always possible in all cases.
Clearing is an opportunity for your child to explore their options and consider other possibilities if their plans have changed, or they are having second thoughts about their course.
It’s organised by the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).
Visit Kent's Clearing website
If your child wants to make an application to Kent then they need to do this themselves.
They should apply online via our Clearing website
If they can’t apply online then 
they can call us and we can make the application on their behalf.
It’s much better if we talk to your child themselves, but if they give verbal consent over the phone we can discuss their application with you.
We guarantee accommodation for every student offered a place in Clearing.
See our Accommodation FAQs for more information about University accommodation.
We appreciate that you may have been kept informed of your child’s 
progress while they have been at school or college.
All applicants to 
the University of Kent are welcomed as adults and the Data Protection Act 1998 prevents us from sharing 
information about students with you or other third parties.
University of Kent staff are unable to
give any information about a student either applying for a place at the
University or a student currently studying at the University, to a third party,
without that student's express permission.
This includes parents, spouses,
siblings etc.
If you child will be under 18 when they start their course, please refer to our Minimum age of admissions policy for further information.
All universities in the UK follow similar guidelines.
Use our ‘ Find my
room’ feature to view all our Canterbury campus rooms or filter by your
study level, facilities or catering options.
All rooms include Kent
Sport Premium Plus membership, all utility bills, Wi-Fi, and personal
contents insurance.
View
all undergraduate accommodation at Canterbury
If your son or daughter is interested
in studying at our Medway campus, they can choose to live in Pier Quays.
There’s
1,000 self-catered en-suite rooms arranged in flats, with five to eight
students per flat.
More information
about Pier Quays
See our handy application timelines for full details:
We’re proud to be able to offer a guaranteed room
offer to many of our students studying at Canterbury or Medway.
Your son or
daughter will be guaranteed a room if:
Yes, we set aside a number of rooms for returning students .
First year and returning students typically live separately, although returners can apply for any accommodation option on campus except Turing College which is reserved only for first year students.
Accommodation applications for returning students open in mid-November and students can apply with their friends so they can live together or individually.
Returning students enjoy all the same benefits as first year students such as no deposits, bills and insurance included, shorter contract offers and free Kent Sport membership.
Take a look at our Arrivals
pages for what to bring:
More information
can be found on our Accommodation
FAQ
Contact hours vary depending on the course.
Most courses will give
a suggestion of contact hours on our course pages .
The University of Kent has extensive computer suites available for all
students to use on campus.
Study bedrooms do not have a computer but do have
data points should the student wish to bring a laptop/computer, as lots of
students do, but it is not compulsory (unless told otherwise specifically for
the course)
Find out more:
We offer support
to students with disabilities, autism, specific learning difficulties and long-term
health conditions.
We also have mental health advisers, a counselling service
and peer support groups.
You can find out
more by contacting our
Student Support and Wellbeing Service or looking at the resources available on their
website .
The first point of contact is usually their academic advisor in their
academic school.
We have an extensive
range of study support resources , and your son or daughter can make an
appointment with our Student Learning Advisory Service where they can speak
to an adviser and get access to study support.
If they have a disability, specific learning difficulty or
existing mental health condition they can register with Student Support and Wellbeing before
starting at Kent so we can help them get any learning and/or wellbeing support in
place before they arrive.
More on the Student Support and
Wellbeing Service
Visit our Applying for Student Finance page
You might need to provide
information about your income if your child has applied for student finance
in England.
Your child will make their finance application via gov.uk/student-finance and will
be guided step by step through the process.
More
information is available on the UCAS website
Student loans are different from other types of borrowing because they
do not appear on your son or daughter’s credit file and their credit rating is
not affected.
However, if they apply for a mortgage, lenders may consider if they
have a student loan when deciding how much they can borrow.
There is no obligation
for you to contribute to the cost of your son or daughter studying at university.
You may wish to have a conversation with them about finding a part-time job before
they begin their studies, and most universities can also help students find
part-time work while they study.
We estimate that all students at Kent will need some financial income
outside their maintenance loan, whether that be from family, scholarships, or a part time
job, and it is important you and your child discuss this before they start their course.
We offer an extensive
programme of online career development workshops as well as 1:1 appointments with the Careers and
Employability Service These are tailored to you son or daughter's needs, and cover topics such as career and further study options, writing CVs,
cover letters and applications and preparing for interviews and assessment
centres.
Our advisers offer
objective and tailored careers support for up to three years after your son or daughter has graduated.
Read more about Careers
Employability at Kent
Finding part-time
work
Kent Union run
Jobshop, an online
employment service to assist University of Kent students in Canterbury and
Medway to find part-time, temporary and seasonal employment.
Jobshop’s mission
is to ensure that as many students as possible have access to opportunities to
gain valuable work experience, develop employability skills and earn some
additional income while they are studying.
Academic groups (groups affiliated with academic schools) are free to
join.
General societies (faith, culture, performance and interest groups) are
usually between £0 - £20
Sports clubs are more expensive and would range between £30 - £300,
although the average is around £70.
Most sports clubs run from Kent Sport
facilities, so members also need to have a gym membership which is included in
the cost of on-campus accommodation.
Find out more about each of our
student groups, along with membership prices Memberships for the 2022-2023
academic year will be available to purchase from August.
Kent Union runs an Advice Centre at Canterbury and Medway.
The Advice Service offers free, impartial and confidential advice across
 a large range of topics, from academic concerns to housing issues and 
many more.
Please let us know if this page was helpful to you.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/parents/international-students:
We’ll look after, encourage and support them.
They’re in safe hands.
Kent is a favourite destination among international students.
We offer globally recognised degrees, a cosmopolitan student community and exciting work opportunities.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/parents/jargon-buster:
Academic adviser: Every undergraduate student at Kent is assigned an Academic adviser to support their academic and professional development and encourage the development of graduate attributes and skills.
Students can find their Academic adviser by logging in to the Student Data System.
Academic integrity: the attitude of approaching academic work honestly.
( See Plagiarism )
Academic school: Each student at Kent belongs to an academic school who is responsible for their learning and teaching.
Academic year: The University year at Kent runs from September through to June.
See term dates .
Alumni: Former students of a university.
BACS transfer: Electronic payment from one bank account to another.
Bachelor's Degree: A bachelor's degree is the qualification achieved after successfully completing a three (or four) year programme of degree-level study.
Depending on the course, a student can be awarded a Bachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of Engineering (BEng) or Bachelor of Science (BSc).
BTEC: BTEC National Diploma qualifications are usually the equivalent of three A level courses - often based in practical fields.
They are graded Distinction, Merit, and Pass.
BUCS: British Universities & Colleges Sport.
The national governing body for higher education sport in the UK.
Bursary: Contributes towards student living costs.
Is often means-tested and is non-repayable.
Campus university: all facilities are based on one site (accommodation, teaching, students' union, sports centre etc)
Clearing: The process where students who do not meet the conditions of their offers may be offered places at other universities.
Combined honours: An undergraduate degree course that involves several subject areas (usually three)
Conditional Offer: An offer dependent on students reaching certain targets (eg 3 'A' grades at A level)
Confirmation: When conditional offers that have been accepted by an applicant become unconditional or are declined.
Confirmation may be dependent on an applicant’s qualification/exam results or other conditions.
Degree classification: the overall grade an undergraduate degree is given.
Deferred entry: A student can apply for a university place but request that they start it the following year, thus deferring entry.
Dissertation: An essay or report usually of several thousand words on a specific subject that is completed during a course of study, often in the final year.
Employability: a combination of skills and attributes that makes a student employable and successful in their chosen career ( See Grad goals )
Entry profiles: Comprehensive information about individual courses and institutions, including statistics and entry requirements.
Entry requirements: The required grades or qualifications a student needs to gain entrance to university.
Extra-curricular: activities that are outside the academic requirements of the course (eg membership of a club or society).
Firm offer: The offer that a student has accepted as their first choice.
First: First class honours degree - the highest grade attainable
Foundation year: If a student’s qualifications are not in the right subjects or at the right grades to meet the entry requirements for their chosen course (usually a science or engineering course), they may be able to do one year’s foundation study.
If they complete this to the required standard they will be guaranteed a place on the first year of their chosen course
Freshers: First year students are sometimes referred to as 'Freshers'.
Graduand: students attending a ceremony, who are due to graduate.
Graduate: Someone who has successfully completed a degree course and been awarded their degree.
Graduation: The ceremony where a student is officially awarded their degree and collects their certificate.
Sometimes referred to as ‘Congregation’.
HESA: Higher Education Statistics Agency.
Halls of Residence: Accommodation blocks which offer part-catered or self-catered options.
HNC/HND: Higher National Certificate/Higher National Diploma.
Honours Degree (Hons): Most degrees are split into first class honours (firsts), upper second class or 2.i (pronounced ‘two-one’), lower-second class or 2.ii (a ‘two-two’) and third class honours, or a third.
Honours degree with a foundation year: for students who do not have the qualifications, study skills or English language ability for direct entry.
Inclusive Learning Plans (ILPs): Produced by Student Support and Wellbeing .
ILPs specify 
reasonable adjustments which will enable students to have appropriate 
arrangements for their programme of study, assessments and exams ( See Specific Learning Difficulties )
Institution or HEI: A university or college offering higher education courses.
Insurance offer: The offer that a student has accepted as their second choice, in case they do not meet the requirements for their firm offer.
Integrated Master's: A four-year programme which combines undergraduate and postgraduate study into a single course.
Internship : Supervised, practical work experience.
Can be paid or unpaid.
Intermitting: A process where students can take time out from their studies for personal, medical or financial reasons.
This must be approved by the university.
Joint Honours: An honours degree where two subjects are studied on a 50:50 basis
Kitchenette: Some part-catered university accommodation will have a small kitchen, known as a kitchenette.
These are usually equipped with a microwave, kettle and a fridge.
Lecture: One of the main teaching mechanisms of universities.
They tend to be larger than a regular school class and less interactive.
Loan: See Maintenance loan and Tuition fee loan
Maintenance loan: Provided by the government to help with living costs.
These loans are partially assessed on household income.
Major/minor honours: the majority of study is in one subject and the minority in another.
For example, Law with a language.
Mature Student: Students who are over 21 when they start their course.
Means-testing: A process undertaken to assess if a student is eligible for financial assistance from the UK government.
Mitigating circumstances ('Concessions'): These are unforeseen, unpreventable circumstances which negatively affect a student's performance in assessed work.
If your son or daughter thinks they may have grounds  to apply for mitigation of 
extenuating circumstances they should speak to the  student support team 
in their academic school.
Module: Courses at Kent are divided into a number of modules (eg Stand Up Comedy is a module offered on the BA Drama and Theatre).
Each module carries a credit rating of 15, 30 or occasionally 45 credits.
National Student Survey (NSS): A survey completed by final year undergraduate students who are asked to evaluate different aspects of their course including teaching, facilities and assessment methods.
It is an excellent resource for assessing a university as it is based on actual student experience.
National Unions of Students (NUS): A national organisation that represents students' interests.
Online enrolment: Enrolment enables the University of Kent to gather essential information about your son or daughter, their programme of study, and if they are entitled to receive money from the Student Loans Company.
They will need to complete online enrolment before they arrive.
We'll send them an email letting them know when online enrolment is open.
We usually start sending these emails from early July.
(See Registration)
Open Days: Open Days are a great opportunity for students (and their parents/carers) to look around a university and speak to staff and students.
Ordinary Degree: Another term sometimes used to describe an undergraduate degree which is not at honours level.
Personal ID: A 10-digit individual number assigned to an applicant by UCAS.
The number is displayed in the format 123-456-7890.
Plagiarism: the practice of taking someone else's work or ideas and passing them off as your own.
Plagiarism is a form of academic misconduct and is taking very seriously by the University.
( See Academic integrity )
Point of entry: The applicant’s year of entry to the course, for example, 2 refers to the second year of the course.
Quality Assurance Agency (QAA): A government agency which is given the task to assess quality and standards of higher education provision.
It assesses universities and scores them according to their findings.
See also Research Excellence Framework (REF) .
Registration: Your son or daughter must register to become a member of the University of Kent.
Registration takes place over Arrivals Weekend and Welcome Week.
In order to register, they must have already enrolled online.
Registration is confirmation that 
they have taken up their place, commenced their programme of study and 
collected their KentOne card.
(See Online enrolment)
Research Excellence Framework (REF): The Research Excellence Framework (REF) assesses the quality of research in universities and colleges in the UK.
See also Quality Assurance Agency QAA .
Scholarship: A financial award in recognition of excellence to help support students through university.
Awarded purely on merit in areas of academia, music or sport, they do not have to be repaid.
Semester: Similar to school 'terms' and how the academic year is structured.
Seminar: A teaching class, overseen by a lecturer.
They are similar to tutorials but involve more students.
Single Honours: An honours degree course during which a student studies a single subject.
Specific Learning Difficulties (SpLD): Support for Dyscalculia, Dyslexia, Dyspraxia and ADHD.
Students' Union: A democratic body, with officers elected by students, who represent the views of the students to the university.
Transcript: Official statement containing a student’s module results.
Tuition fees: Tuition fees are set by the Government and paid to universities directly once a student has successfully applied for financial assistance via Student Finance England.
Tutor: Members of staff responsible for teaching and assisting students with learning.
Tutorial: Tutorials can be on an individual or group basis, where students discuss their work with a tutor.
UCAS: Universities and Colleges Admissions Service, responsible for university applications and providing general advice and guidance.
UCAS Extra: UCAS Extra is designed to provide additional choice if a student is not holding any offers through UCAS.
Unconditional Offer: Unconditional offers are often used when a student has already taken exams and achieved the required grades, as it is not dependent on reaching any specified targets.
Undergraduate: Student studying for a first degree.
Unsuccessful: The applicant has not been accepted by the university or college concerned.
Welcome Week: This is the first week of the first term of the first year of a student’s university career.
It will include lectures, tours and social events.
Welcome Week is designed to help them settle in, make friends and find their way around.
It's also sometimes referred to as 'Freshers' Week'.
Withdrawal: permanently leaving university.
Found a term you don't understand?
Let us know and we'll add it to the jargon buster.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges/resources:
Our Teachers' and Advisers' Conference has been developed for teachers and advisers working with Level 3 students and is an excellent professional development opportunity to stay updated on topical issues in higher education, get the latest insights on university admissions and develop your network of fellow professionals.
Teaching staff play a key role in supporting students, and it’s difficult to find time for your own professional development.
Our CPD and teacher training gives you advice and guidance on the application process and helps you to stay updated with any changes in higher education.
It’s all free.
And there’s something for everyone – whether you are a new teacher, approaching the UCAS process for the first time, or an experienced adviser in need of a refresher.
For more information about bespoke CPD activity, contact schoolsandcolleges@kent.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges/the-succeed-programme:
Applications for 2025 are now closed.
The Ambition to Succeed Programme provides the space and the time for you to make informed choices about your future by exploring the opportunities available through Higher Education.
The programme, aimed at young people in Kent and Medway in year 12 or the first year of a level 3 course at college, is designed to help you think about what you might want to do when you finish your current level 3 studies.
Combining information, exploration and experience, the programme will give you a broad view of university and will encourage you to decide whether it is the right choice for you.
Our aim is to help you succeed in your level 3 qualifications whatever you decide to do when leaving school or college.
The programme consists of four online workshops, three in-person campus visits and one three night residential on the University of Kent Canterbury campus.
Over a six month period, you will be introduced to different themes which take you through the key stages of deciding what your next steps should be.
Students who have completed* the Succeed Programme and have decided to apply to study at the University of Kent, will be eligible to apply for the Kent Ambition to Succeed Scholarship.
The scholarship is worth between £500-£2,000 for each stage of undergraduate study at the University of Kent.
Kent Ambition to Succeed scholarship holders will also be invited to join the Kent Ambition Scholars Programme.
As part of this programme, you will receive targeted support throughout your student journey and be encouraged to develop your employability skills by being invited to apply to different opportunities within the University,  such as becoming a Student Ambassador.
Please Note: Information on this scholarship is subject to change and scholarships information will be updated annually.
Therefore eligible participants are encouraged to review this information via the University's scholarship page in their year of entry into undergraduate study.
The Ambition to Succeed Programme is free of charge.
This includes lunch on each of the Saturday visit days and accommodation and all meals on the residential.
Those accepted onto the programme also have their travel costs reimbursed.
All interested Level 3 students can apply.
Priority is given to those who meet more than one of the following criteria:

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges/summer-schools:
The University of Kent has lots of experience running summer schools to introduce students to university life, to help them understand their options and make the choices about the next steps in their educational journey.
We also want to give participants the chance to build skills to help them succeed.
The Summer School provides the space and the support for participants to think deeply and to try new things, the chance to meet new people, to ask questions, and to express their opinions.
The Summer School is run on the University of Kent's Canterbury Campus.
Students live in University accommodation for the duration of the residential.
Our summer schools explore the theme of 'Breaking Barriers', encouraging participants to recognise barriers; personal, within their communities and in the wider world, and to re-imagine the ways in which we can support each other to overcome them.
Participants explore how learning happens at university and have the opportunity to develop their own skills, alongside experiencing different aspects of student life, participating in sports and social activities and making new friends.
Our summer schools are free of charge, including  accommodation, meals, all academic sessions and activities.
Support with the cost of travelling to the campus may also be available.
Please enquire at schoolsandcolleges@kent.ac.uk .
Our summer schools are aimed at students in year 10 who:
Eligibility criteria applies.
Please check back from January 2026 for application information!

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges/campus-visits:
We're delighted to welcome you back to our campuses.
Book your campus visit to bring your students along and visit us in person.
It's an excellent opportunity for your students to see a university campus and discover what types of facilities are available.
We can include a guided tour with current students and a structured itinerary.
Campus visits and on-campus events give your students a real taste of university life.
Come and meet us to find out more about the campuses, where our degrees can lead to, and what it's really like to live and study at Kent.
Maps and directions

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges/outreach:
At the University of Kent, we believe that anyone who has the academic ability to study at university should have the opportunity to do so.
For over 15 years, we have been committed to widening access to higher education for all those who could benefit.
We have delivered major innovation and success in this field alongside the University’s core objectives of excellence in teaching and research.
The University of Kent's Outreach and Widening Participation Team is working in partnership with schools and colleges to support the aspirations and attainment of young people from backgrounds who might not otherwise consider progression to higher education.
The majority of young people with whom we work are from disadvantaged backgrounds (in receipt of Free School Meals, and/or Pupil Premium) or have no parental history of higher education, meaning that neither of their parents or carers attended university.
We will give priority to requests from institutions that have a high percentage of students who meet the eligibility criteria.
Given the restriction on numbers for some activities, we will work with you to ensure that the majority of students targeted for outreach activities meet the eligibility criteria, and would benefit from additional support.
We are regulated by the Office for Students and in order to prove the value of the work that we do, we collect student data (name, school/college, sex, date of birth and postcode) for all participants of our outreach activities.
This enables us to track student progression to higher education and to evaluate the effectiveness of our outreach programme.
Your students do not have to provide this data, but by booking an outreach activity you agree to support us in the collection of this data.
All student data is processed in accordance with current data protection legislation.
At Kent, we believe that talented students from a variety of backgrounds should have the opportunity to study here.
That's why we have established one of the most generous financial support schemes in the UK.
In addition to the University's generous income related financial support package, a pool of scholarships is available to students who attended one of the UKAT schools, undertook an Access to HE Diploma at the University of Kent or one of the University's Partner Colleges, or who took part in the Ambition to Succeed Programme.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges/teachers-and-advisers-conference:
Monday 30 June 2025, 10:00 - 16:00
Monday 30 June 2025 10:00 - 16:00 Sibson Building, Canterbury campus
At Kent, ambition doesn't have to follow one path.
We believe that university should be available to anyone with the drive and determination to succeed.
As teachers, advisers and higher education providers, we have a shared purpose to inspire and support students to find and shape their place in the world.
That's why we have designed our Teachers' and Advisers' Conference.
A space for you to explore the latest developments in higher education, gain fresh insights into university admissions and connect with fellow professionals who are just as passionate about student success as you are.
We are delighted to confirm the keynote speaker for the conference will be Action Jackson, UK Ambassador for Happiness.
Jackson Ogunyemi, better known as Action Jackson, has established his identity as the UK’s Ambassador for Happiness over the course of his 30-year career.
A respected and acclaimed TV personality and author, Jackson is dedicated to instilling resilience within young people.
Jackson is also the bestselling author of “Shut Up & Take Action” , a no-nonsense guide to success and happiness, inspiring people to go ahead and accomplish their goals without the fear of failure.
As in previous years, the day will also include an exciting and informative array of speakers and sessions, armed with information and advice for helping your students navigate the next part of their academic journey.
Also present will be our fantastic University support services, who can update you on the myriad ways that your students will be assisted and encouraged if they take the next step into higher education.
New for this year, we’re offering visitors the chance to take part in an immersive, behind-the-scenes experience led by academic experts from across the University.
You’ll have the opportunity to explore our cutting-edge facilities, get hands-on with specialist equipment, hear about the latest research and meet the inspiring lecturers who bring these subjects to life.
Choose from a range of subject areas, including:
It’s a unique chance to experience what studying at Kent is really like, discover how we support our students and to take away ideas and insights to share with your students.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges/outreach/booking-activity:
Please complete the below form to make an enquiry about an activity or event for your students.
You only need to submit one form, regardless of the number of activities you are interested in.
We aim to get back to you within three working days of receiving your enquiry.
Further information and policy documents that may be of help when organising workshops and events within your school or college can be found further down the page.
Student Ambassadors are employed to help support and deliver activities to your school or college students.
As current University of Kent students, ambassadors are able to offer their first-hand experiences of university.
All University of Kent student ambassadors have undertaken an enhanced DBS check, and completed a comprehensive training programme to include safeguarding of children and vulnerable adults.
The below terms apply when your school or college booking has been confirmed by the University.
If you have any queries in relation to these terms, or anything else related to your booking, please email schoolsandcolleges@kent.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges/contact:
The majority of our services can be tailored specifically for your school or college.
Please get in touch with us if you would like to discuss your requirements in more detail.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/access-and-participation:
We stand for ambition and we are proud of our work to support students from all backgrounds to access, succeed in and progress from HE.
We recognise the transformational power of an outstanding university experience, and the value that a diverse student body brings to our institution.
Our ambitious Access and Participation Plan (APP) addresses the risks to equality of opportunity that we have identified and prioritised.
Our efforts and resources will be targeted to address Kent’s greatest equality of opportunity risks; we recognise that the Covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated educational disadvantage and that the cost-of-living crisis has created even greater polarisation between the most and least disadvantaged students’ progression and success within HE.
We are committed to working in partnership with schools in the local area that have Key Stage 4 results below the national average.
We are also committed to working with care-experienced students, in partnership with other local universities and other partners, to ensure equality of opportunity for all students.
For students who progress to the University of Kent, our mission is to provide a university experience that is inclusive, supportive and enables individuals to excel throughout their student journey.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/schools-and-colleges/sponsored-academies:
The University of Kent has been lead sponsor of Brompton Academy , a mixed non-selective school, since 2010.
Since 2014 Brompton Academy has been the most oversubscribed school in Medway.
In 2017 Chatham Grammar , a selective school, joined the University of Kent Academies Trust .
The two schools work closely together, and their sixth forms now run as a joint UKAT sixth form, allowing students at both schools access to a wider range of subjects and teaching facilities post 16.
The University of Kent has sought to develop a relationship with both schools which goes well beyond a formal governance role, as part of its wider civic commitment to the Medway area, as well forming a pillar of its widening participation agenda.
Kent’s ambition is to see both UKAT schools providing a well-rounded education within and beyond the classroom, supporting academic excellence as well as the wider development of students’ skills and experiences, with a particular focus on science and arts.
As part of our commitment to the University of Kent Academies Trust, students who completed their studies at either Brompton Academy or Chatham Grammar are eligible to apply for the Kent UKAT Ambition Scholarship.
The scholarship is worth £2,000 for each year of study and will be renewed on an annual basis, subject to satisfactory progress.
Kent UKAT Ambition Scholarship holders will be invited to join the Kent Ambition Scholars Programme.
As part of this programme, students receive targeted support throughout their student journey and are encouraged to develop employability skills by being invited to apply to different opportunities within the University, such as becoming a Student Ambassador.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/international/marketing-and-recruitment:
Our International Marketing and Recruitment team are here to support our applicants from outside the UK, whether you need advice on programmes, information on how to apply or a query regarding your current application, feel free to get in touch and we can assist you.
International Recruitment The Registry University of Kent Canterbury Kent CT2 7NZ, UK
Telephone: +441227 207 636 Email: enquiries@study.kent.ac.uk Message us on WhatsApp: +447700 103 785
Speak to us on Live Chat on our webpages
Visit our International applicant FAQs webpage .
All applicants: international@kent.ac.uk China: china@kent.ac.uk India: india@kent.ac.uk Nigeria: nigeria@kent.ac.uk Pakistan: pakistan@kent.ac.uk Malaysia: malaysia@kent.ac.uk
Speak to us on Live Cha t on our webpages

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/accommodation/international:
We know moving to a new country is a big adventure, and finding the right place to live is an important part of it.
This page is here to help you explore your accommodation options and discover the support available for international students at the University of Kent.
Make friends from around the world and enjoy the convenience of campus life - with study spaces, support, and 24/7 security just steps from your door.
We offer contract lengths to match your term dates.
Most international students opt for either a 38 or 52-week stay.
With no deposit to pay and all utility bills included, living on campus comes with plenty of perks for our residents.
As an international student (new or returning), you're guaranteed accommodation for all years of study if you apply by the relevant deadline.
Choose from a range of accommodation options, including self-catered, en-suite, or shared facilities, each with its own set contract length to suit different preferences and budgets.
Before you set your heart on a specific accommodation, think about how long you'll need it for.
We offer a range of contract lengths - some match your course dates, while others give you the flexibility to stay over the winter, spring, or even summer vacations.
Our meal plan accommodations follow the undergraduate term dates exactly, running from September to June - meaning the winter and spring vacation periods aren’t included in the contract.
This setup may not suit international students, as you'll need to move out during these breaks.
While belongings can stay in your room over winter, rooms are used for conference guests during the spring vacation, so everything must be packed up and stored until the third term begins.
The following en-suite accommodations are available on a 31-week lease:
Most of our on-campus accommodation is self-catered and available on a 38-week contract, running from September to June.
It aligns with undergraduate term dates and includes the winter and spring vacations, so you can stay in your room without needing to move out during the breaks.
The following accommodations are available on a 38-week lease:
*Darwin College offers more traditional, dorm-style accommodation, with bedrooms opening onto a shared landing.
Facilities are shared, and there’s a separate communal kitchen for everyone to use outside of the flat.
New for 2025/26, our en-suite flats in Giles Court are available on a 44-week contract from September to July - giving you the flexibility to stay over the vacation periods and partway into the summer break too!
If you’re looking for accommodation all year round, check out our 52-week flats and studios.
These run from September to September and cover all vacation periods, so you won’t need to move out until your contract ends.
Predominantly, 52-week accommodation is reserved for postgraduate students.
However, Giles Court is exclusively available to undergraduates , offering a 52-week contract in addition to the 44-week option mentioned above.
The following accommodations are available on a 52-week lease:
Undergraduate:
Postgraduate:
Most of our flats and houses are self-catered, giving you access to a shared kitchen where you’ll cook and connect with 5–12 other students, depending on where you live.
Two of our accommodation options include a meal plan, giving you £14 in daily credit to spend on food and drink at participating outlets across campus.
Want a bit more privacy?
Most of our on-campus rooms come with a private en-suite, giving you added comfort and convenience.
We offer affordable, self-catered accommodation with shared washrooms used by you and your house or flatmates.
Want more independence and privacy?
Our studio rooms come with their own kitchen and private washroom - everything you need in one space.
We offer accessible rooms and support for students with disabilities or complex care needs, including adjustments, help and support.
You have a busy year ahead - make sure you know what's coming up and when.
Accommodation applications open in January for September starters, and in November for those starting in January.
With no deposit to pay, what are you waiting for?
All you need is your applicant ID and an offer to study at Kent.
Apply by 30 June to guarantee accommodation on the Canterbury campus, or at Pier Quays if you're studying in Medway.
Check out our blogs and Accommodation at Kent YouTube playlist for all the information you'll need about our accommodation, including room tours and bedroom storage, advice for living at Kent,
Pre-order all your bedding and kitchen essentials from our trusted partners at UniKitOut, and have everything ready and waiting in your room when you arrive.
Book your Arrival slot, prepare for registration, see room details and Welcome Week plans.
Accommodation can not be accessed before Arrivals Weekend on 27 September.
To help you get started and turn any nerves you may have into excitement, find out everything you need to take your next steps at Kent with confidence.
In November, we will contact you to register your interest in applying for returning student accommodation.
As an international student, you'll be guaranteed returning student accommodation when you apply by the deadline.
If your accommodation contract does not cover the University's vacation times, such as our 31-week contracts in Becket Court or Keynes College, you may need to pack up your belongings and book alternative vacation accommodation.
At the end of your accommodation contract, you'll need to leave your accommodation promptly, as our accommodations are reallocated over the summer months to our conference guests!
Y our accommodation agreement will detail your departure date and time.
Our virtual experience features accommodation tours, images, and videos - everything you need to help you choose the option that suits you best.
Tips on what to pack and how much space you'll have for your belongings.
We're sure you have a big journey ahead of you.
Find out more about getting here safe and sound.
Come along to our Global Hangouts, where you'll meet other students from across the University, learn about Kent societies, and enjoy interactive and creative activities.
ResLife will help you settle into campus life with a year-round events calendar.
Meet other residents, get involved, and make the most of your new home.
Explore our Student Life pages to discover what’s happening at Kent, top days out, and more.
A Black student’s guide to life at Kent,  from where to get your hair done to the best places to find beloved ingredients from home.
Your safety is a top priority at Kent.
Our Campus Security team is here to offer support, practical advice, and works closely with local police to help keep our community safe.
We know moving to a new country can feel daunting, but we're here to help.
If you have any questions about your accommodation, just reach out to our team .
You can also follow us on Instagram and Facebook for updates.
We can’t wait to welcome you – safe travels!

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/international/agents:
We have a long history of welcoming students from all around the world.
To help us achieve this, we work with a selected number of overseas representatives globally.
We're committed to supporting our representatives both from the UK and in country.
The International Recruitment team are here to provide a bespoke service for our overseas representatives and to help you in working with the University.
If you have any queries regarding applications that you have submitted to the University, or any questions in general about Kent, please contact us.
If you are a prospective student or an applicant and would like to find details of the agents we work with in your country, please visit our country pages for contact details.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/kent-business-school/news/16275/from-accounting-to-afro-beats-the-incredible-journey-of-tiwa-savage:
Kent Business graduate Tiwatope Savage, known as ‘The Queen of Afrobeats’ has achieved an incredible music career that has produced four albums, 23 singles, and 10 music videos.
Tiwa was the first African woman to sell-out at the Indigo-02 and the first African woman to win the Best African Act at the 2018 MTV Europe Music Awards.
The Kent alum, studied an undergraduate degree in Business Administration at KBS and was awarded an honorary doctorate this week for her incredible music career.
She said: “My biggest experience since leaving Kent is coming back to receive this, actually.
It means a lot because I remember the day of graduation.
I didn’t graduate with a first, and I was disappointed because I really wanted to do that for my parents, and look where I am today.”
As a result of her music success, Tiwa became the first African woman to be a brand ambassador for Pepsi and to appear on the front cover of Billboard Magazine’s first issue devoted entirely to Africa.
With an excess of 56 million of views on YouTube for the track “Somebody’s Son (featuring Brandy)”, 15.3 million followers on Instagram – the most followed female African on social media – her work hosting Nigerian Idol, reality TV and acting, she is the very definition of a global celebrity.
Tiwa was born in Ikeja, Nigeria, her parents moved the family to Wembley, via Queens Park, London.
As a teenager, Tiwa was a gifted musician, playing the trombone in the school orchestra before she found her voice as a singer, watching and eventually performing in Church and as part of a choir.
By the age of 16, she was providing backing vocals for George Michael which led to other opportunities with artists such as Mary J.
Blige, Andrea Bocelli and Ms Dynamite.
Strong academically, with a business sense inherited from her mother, a business owner and father, an accountant, she joined the University of Kent in the late 1990s to study Business Administration, a discipline that she still uses every day.
She explains:
“Anytime I’m in boardrooms, anytime I’m looking at negotiating contracts.
I use it (my degree) in every single aspect of my career.”
Tiwa enjoyed her time at Kent, but perhaps the most significant moment was when she joined the Afro Caribbean Society.
This was her first taste of performing in front of an audience and she developed a local following – fans who would travel and eagerly await her Society performances.
This was the springboard.
The superstar says her KBS education provided her with two main qualities – An eye for detail and the ability to speak with confidence.
Even now, she displays an understanding of the profit and loss associated with her industry and business dealings and goes through contracts assiduously line by line.
“These skills are vital, regardless of the profession you find yourself in,” she says.
Her passion to write and perform was clearly a driving force and while she had a sensible career to fall back on – she gave up her job in a bank to pursue her passion.
On the advice of Keith Harris of the Black-Eyed Peas, she attended the Berklee College of Music in Boston, Massachusetts on a full scholarship, a connection she would later draw upon for her philanthropy.
After completing her music studies, Tiwa moved to New York to begin her music career, writing and recording for and with others, Tiwa signed her first publishing deal with Sony in 2009.
As a songwriter, her collaborations have received significant acclaim, and in 2010, her collaboration with Fantasia led to the artists receiving a Grammy nomination.
As a solo artist, Tiwa has forged a path that draws from her musical beginnings of mainstream pop and R&B to develop a fusion which was heavily based in the emerging afrobeats music genre, typically switching between English and Yoruba in her lyrics.
“ There’s beauty in bringing both markets together and I had the ability to do it.” She says.
She released her debut album in 2013 which was nominated for the best album of the year in Nigeria in 2014.
Her philanthropy focuses on youth engagement organisations and breast cancer screening programmes in Nigeria.
Most recently, she has been focused on progressing the development of a Music School that has a holistic offering, from music therapy to sound production, in order to give young people clearer paths into the burgeoning music industry in Africa.
Her new foundation We are Tired is registered in Nigeria and London which provides support for those facing gender-based violence.
In this project, her business background emerges once again, recognising the value of education, and business.
On a final message to the Class of 2022, Tiwa said: “I just want to say a huge, huge congratulations to all of you.
Well done.
I’m super proud!
I want you to go out there, have fun, kill it, and be the best ‘you’ you can be because you truly deserve it.”
Follow Tiwa Savage via Instagram for the latest tour dates.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/engagement/sanctuary/our-support-for-ukraine:
We have signed a twinning agreement with Kherson State University (KSU) in southern Ukraine to support an institution deeply impacted by the ongoing war.
The reciprocal agreement was completed on Tuesday 28 June 2022 – on Ukrainian Constitution Day – as part of the UK government-backed Universities UK (UUK) twinning initiative which has now seen more than 70 UK universities enter into similar twinning arrangements with Ukrainian universities.
We have launched a fundraising campaign through the Kent Refuge Fund to support Ukrainian students and all those affected by the impact of wars across the world.
We are also working with our students and Kent Union to organise and promote a range of fundraising activities.
We have increased our contribution to the Council for At Risk Academics (CARA).
With CARA reporting that the Russian invasion of Ukraine is “having a devastating effect on millions of innocent people… among them, many university academics and their families,” this increased funding on the part of the University will directly help the organisation to provide opportunities to more Ukrainian academics and their families who are at risk in the current conflict.
We have identified several staff and students from Ukraine and Russia and have taken immediate steps to support these individuals.
We are working with our students and Kent Union to organise and promote a range of fundraising activities and would urge all students and staff to consider supporting these.
We are exploring how the University can support the Government’s ‘Homes for Ukraine’ scheme which allows those interested in helping to house Ukrainians fleeing their country.
We are working closely with local partners through the multi-agency Canterbury for Ukraine group to offer practical help and guidance to those arriving from Ukraine and to coordinate local efforts to support fundraising and other activities.
We would very much like to hear about further ideas as to how the university community can support Ukraine and the Ukrainian people at this extremely difficult time for the country and its people, and if you have any thoughts, please do let us know by emailing ukraine-support@kent.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/kent-business-school/mba:
Join the next generation of business leaders.
Our AMBA accredited MBA
delivers practical and applicable knowledge to develop innovative mindsets and responsible
management skills not just for your personal development – but for the
advancement of local and global communities.
This course welcomes a diverse cohort of global business leaders who aspire to become drivers of positive change within their industry and beyond.
In addition, our MBA is accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), giving you the opportunity to gain, alongside your MBA, the Level 7 Diploma in Strategic Management and Leadership - a highly sought after qualification by employers.
If you would like to find out more about our
exciting MBA programmes, why not register for one of our virtual MBA briefings?
Like the selection of former students below, our MBA community is from all corners of the globe and hold incredible skills in a range of business disciplines.
MBA student Fauzia was the first female to serve in the Pakistani armed forces
Darren Evans has pioneered wellbeing strategy within the construction sector
Wezie runs a bread making enteprise in Malawi which was awarded a Santander grant
Kush Kanodia is a social entrepreneur, creating systemic change in major organisations.
Shubhra is Project Lead for Race Equality within the NHS
"The knowledge, insight and practical experience of our MBA builds exceptional leaders who learn to question the norm and find innovative, responsible solutions for real impact."
If you are interested in studying an MBA, or have already applied and want to find out more, then Kent Business School’s MBA online briefings offer a unique insight into the criteria and learnings of the course – if you want to get a head start on securing your place, registration is essential.
Not only will you hear directly from MBA Director, Professor Tom Chen, who will run through the programme in detail, but also you will get the chance to ask current or past MBA students questions.
Briefings generally take place on Wednesdays from 13:00 to 14:00 GMT.
Book your place on one of upcoming dates.
Our scholarships are to promote areas of leadership we feel passionately about on the MBA.
MBA Leaders in Sustainability Scholarship
MBA Women in Leadership Scholarship
MBA Entrepreneur and Innovator Scholarship
KBS Dean's Excellence Scholarship
International Scholarships
Our 2021, 2022 and 2023 MBA cohorts took their expertise to the capital city of Athens
The MBA at Kent Business School is created in harmony with global enterprise.
Through ventures like our Consultancy Weeks, here and abroad, students collaborate with charities, businesses and organisations to offer real solutions to pressing issues.
MBA students showcase their innovation skills on a Business Start-Up Challenge hosted by ASPIRE and our entrepreneurs in residence.
With the MBA, you have the option to complete your programme in one year of full-time study or combine it with work and finish in two or three years.
The programme modules are designed in single-week blocks, where full-time and part-time students benefit from integrated, collaborative study, all of the time.
Part-time students in the UK may wish to consider applying for the MBA with the support of their company, utilising the Apprenticeship Levy.
For further information, contact:
E: apprenticeships@kent.ac.uk T: +44 (0)1634 888467 www.kent.ac.uk/apprenticeships
The MBA provides a foundation for continuing responsible managerial development, and helps you enhance your business skills, define your career goals and create a personalised career action plan.
Follow Kent Business School for all the latest MBA news and events.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/virtual-visit:
Explore the Medway campus with students Amarachi and DJ and find out what they think about living in Medway.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/china/step-by-step:
准备好递交申请了么？
预科？本科？硕士？博士？根据你目前的学历和背景，首先你需要确定适合自己的学位。
请填写下方申请意向表以获得招生官进一步的协助。
名字： 名的拼音
姓氏： 姓的拼音
电子邮件： 你的邮箱地址
您建议的入学年份是哪一年？请选择你的预计入学年份
感兴趣的主题 请在列表中选择你打算攻读的学科
然后勾选最后一个问题并点击获取最新更新递交。

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/china/undergraduate:
肯特大学有着优越的地理位置 开阔的国际视野 - 校区分布全球 充足的教学与就业支持
优越的地理位置
英国肯特大学始建于1965年，主校区坐落在有着“英格兰后花园”之称的肯特郡坎特伯雷市(City of Canterbury)，距伦敦仅50分钟左右火车车程。
开阔的国际视野——校区分布全球
肯特的国际视野极广，在全球分布着多个校区，其他几个校区分别坐落在梅德韦(Medway)、汤布里奇(Tonbridge)和巴黎(Paris)。
作为一个英式古城，坎特伯雷有许多古老建筑和景点值得观赏，例如美丽的多佛白崖、坎特伯雷大教堂、特纳当代美术馆、利兹城堡等等。
在这里，你不仅能观赏美景体会英格兰风情，还能享受到现代化的教学设施和专业的教学服务。与英国其他大学不太一样的是，肯特大学不仅注重科研，还在就业方面给了学生们很多支持，从入学到毕业3年内学生都可以享受到校内的就业指导资源。经过50多年的快速发展，英国肯特大学现在已经成长为一所全球知名的研究型大学，并跻身QS、泰晤士以及世界大学2023排名均前500强。
强悍的科研实力——超罗素大学，跻身全英前20
科研方面，根据2021年英国政府官方教学质量评鉴（REF），英国肯特科研强度跻身全英前20，超过了11所罗素大学集团的成员。
专业的教授团队——全球前2%的研究者
斯坦福大学研究团队在2022年10月发布的研究报告中也指出肯特的教学者已跻身全球前2%研究者之列。所以在肯特，你不仅可以接受前沿的教学研究与知识，还能受到国际领先学术教授的指导。
英国肯特大学是一所充满活力、包容性和创新性的大学，有来自全球150多个国家的学生，国际学生占学生总人数的18%，所以在这里你可以结交来自世界各地的朋友。课程方面，英国肯特大学总共有6个学院，分别是人文艺术学院、法律社会与社会正义学院（LSSJ）、自然科学学院、人类与社会科学学院、商学院、计算工程与数学学院。其中，有些课程会提供在外学习或实践的机会。
学生支持方面，肯特大学也是极尽所能为学生提供服务，不仅提供英语语言支持和签证指导，还提供广泛的奖学金和资助选项，为具有运动和音乐天赋的学生提供专门的奖学金，另外还特设仅面向国际留学生的丰富奖学金机会。
无论你是选择继续学习你感兴趣的学科还是选择一个有利于你未来职业发展的专业，肯特大学的学位课程都能让你获得必备的知识和技能，助你实现成功。
肯特建筑与规划学院
Kent School of Architecture and planning
建筑学part1 （Architecture-BA(Hons)-ARB/RIBA Part 1）
建筑学part2 （Architecture-BA(Hons)-ARB/RIBA Part2）
空间与室内设计（Spatial and Interior Design-BA）
平面设计（Graphic Design-BA）
点击这里了解我们的建筑于规划学院
艺术学院
School of Art
舞台与戏剧 （Drama and Theatre - BA (Hons)）
电影学Film （BA (Hons)）
艺术史（Art History - BA (Hons)）
媒体研究（Media Studies - BA (Hons)）
音乐技术与音频制作（Music Technology and Audio Production - BSc (Hons)）
点击这里了解我们的艺术学院
英语学院
School of English
英语文学（English Literature - BA (Hons)）
英语文学与创意写作（English Literature and Creative Writing - BA (Hons)）
英语文学与电影（English Literature and Film - BA (Hons)）
英语文学与英语语言学（English Literature and English Language and Linguistics - BA (Hons)）
戏剧与英国文学（Drama and English Literature - BA (Hons)）
点击这里了解我们的英语学院
欧洲文化与语言学院
School of European Culture and Languages
比较文学 Comparative Literature - BA (Hons)
比较文学与戏剧研究Comparative Literature and Drama - BA (Hons)
比较文学和电影研究Comparative Literature and Film - BA (Hons)
英语语言和语言学English Language and Linguistics - BA (Hons)
现代语言学Modern Languages - BA (Hons)
现代语言与管Modern Languages and Management - BA (Hons)
点击这里了解我们的欧洲文化与语言学院
历史学院
School of History
历史学 History - BA (Hons)
电影与历史Film and History - BA (Hons)
历史与政治History and Politics - BA (Hons)
军事历史Military History - BA (Hons)
古代、中世纪和现代史Ancient, Medieval and Modern History - BA (Hons)
点击这里了解我们的历史学院
人类学与保护学院
School of Anthropology and Conservation
人类学Anthropology - BSc (Hons)
环境社会科学Environmental Social Sciences - BA (Hons)
人类生物学与行为Human Biology and Behaviour - BSc (Hons)
人文地理学Human Geography - BSc (Hons)
野生动物保护Wildlife Conservation - BSc (Hons)
点击这里了解我们的人类与保护学院
经济学院
School of Economice
经济学Economics - BSc (Hons)
金融经济学Financial Economics - BSc (Hons)
经济学与数据科学Economics with Data Science - BSc (Hons)
计量经济学Economics with Econometrics - BSc (Hons)
金融经济学与计量经济学Financial Economics with Econometrics - BSc (Hons)
经济学和管理学Economics and Management - BA (Hons)
会计与金融及经济学Accounting and Finance and Economics - BSc (Hons)
经济学和政治学Economics and Politics - BA (Hons)
社会学和经济学Sociology and Economics - BA (Hons)
点击这里了解我们的经济学院
政治与国际关系学院
School of Politics and International Relations
政治和国际关系Politics and International Relations - BA (Hons)
社会学和政治学Sociology and Politics - BA (Hons)
点击这里了解我们的政治与国际关系学院
心理学院
心理学Psychology - BSc (Hons)
商业心理学Business Psychology - BSc (Hons)
心理学与法医心理学Psychology with Forensic Psychology - BSc (Hons)
心理学与临床心理学Psychology with Clinical Psychology - BSc (Hons)
点击这里了解我们的心里学院
计算机学院
计算机科学Computer Science - BSc (Hons)
计算机人工智能Artificial Intelligence - BSc (Hons)
计算机科学-网络安全Computer Science (Cyber Security) - BSc (Hons)
软件工程Software Engineering - BSc (Hons)
商务信息技术Business Information Technology - BSc (Hons)
数据科学Data Science - BSc (Hons)
点击这里了解我们的电脑学院
工程与数字艺术学院
School of Engineering and Digital Arts
数码艺术Digital Design - BSc (Hons)
机械工程Mechanical Engineering - BEng (Hons)
电子与通信工程Electronic and Computer Engineering- BEng (Hons)
生物医学工程Biomedical Engineering - BEng (Hons)
电子与计算机系统 Electronic and Computer Systems (top-up, non-accredited) - BEng
(Hons)
点击这里了解我们的工程与艺术学院
数学、统计与精算学院
School of Mathmatics,Statistics and Actuarial Science
精算学Actuarial Science - BSc (Hons)
精算学Actuarial Science with a Foundation year - BSc (Hons)
点击这里了解我们的数学、统计与精算学院
生物科学学院
School of Biosciences
生物学Biology - BSc (Hons)
生物化学Biochemistry - BSc (Hons)
生物医学科学Biomedical Science - BSc (Hons)
点击这里了解我们的生物科学学院
运动与运动科学学院
School of Sport and Exercise Sciences
体育与健康运动Sport and Exercise for Health - BSc (Hons)
健康运动与体育管理Sport and Exercise for Health with Sport Management - BSc (Hons)
体育与运动科学Sport and Exercise Science - BSc (Hons)
体育与运动科学与体育管理Sport and Exercise Science with Sport Management - BSc (Hons)
运动治疗与康复Sports Therapy and Rehabilitation - BSc (Hons)
点击这里了解我们的运动与运动科学学院
医药学院
School of Pharmacy
药剂学Pharmacy - MPharm
药剂学Pharmacy with a Foundation Year - MPharm
点击这里了解我们的医学院
肯特法学院
法学学士Law - LLB (Hons)
法律与会计金融Law and Accounting and Finance - LLB (Hons)
法律与犯罪学Law and Criminology - LLB (Hons)
法律与经济Law and Economics - LLB (Hons)
法律与管理Law and Management - LLB (Hons)
法律与政治Law and Politics - LLB (Hons)
法律与社会学Law and Sociology - LLB (Hons)
国际法律研究International Legal Studies - LLB (Hons)
点击这里了解我们的法学院
社会政策、社会学和社会研究学院
School of Social Policy, Sociology and Social Research
社会学 Sociology - BA (Hons)
社会学和社会人类学Sociology and Social Anthropology - BA (Hons)
社会科学Social Sciences - BSc (Hons)
犯罪学Criminology - BA (Hons)
刑事司法与犯罪学-Criminal Justice and Criminology - BA (Hons)
犯罪学和文化研究Criminology and Cultural Studies - BA (Hons)
犯罪学和社会学Criminology and Sociology - BA (Hons)
文化研究和电影Cultural Studies and Film - BA (Hons)
文化研究和媒Cultural Studies and Media - BA (Hons)
文化研究和社会人类Cultural Studies and Social Anthropology - BA (Hons)
健康与社会关怀Health and Social Care - BA (Hons)
社会工作Social Work - BA (Hons)
点击这里了解我们的社会政策、社会学和社会研究学院
新闻中心 Centre for Journalism
新闻学Journalism - BA (Hons)
点击这里了解我们的新闻中心
会计金融Accounting and Finance - BSc (Hons)
管理Management - BSc (Hons)
国际商务International Business - BSc (Hons)
市场营销Marketing - BSc (Hons)
商科与管理Business and Management - BSc (Hons
金融与投资Finance and Investment - BSc (Hons)
英语语言学与管理English Language and Linguistics and Management
法律与管理Law and Management
经济与管理Economics and Management
法律与会计管理Law and Accounting and Finance
会计金融与经济Accounting and Finance and Economics
商科 Top-up  Business(top-up) - BA (Hons)
点击这里了解我们的肯特商学院
提供本科预科、语言课、夏令营、一对一英语辅导等。

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/china/postgraduate:
肯特大学在英国有两大校区，在欧洲巴黎有教学中心。
无论你是应届本科毕业生还是准备离开职场重返课堂，在肯特大学，你将与充满学术热
情学者共事，他们将带领你在领域中前往新的高峰。
生活在充满历史底蕴的城市中-坎特伯勒城市环境优美，非常适合生活。这里有一座非常著名的大教堂，也将是你未来参加毕业典礼的地方。这里历史悠久，在铺满鹅卵石的步行街道上有奇特的复古商铺和高街品牌店，同时还有酒吧，餐厅和影院。探索这个城市是非常有趣的事情，你将很快找到属于你最喜欢的地方。
在海边的一天-肯特不仅被称为“英格兰的后花园”。还拥有美丽的海岸线。肯特的遗产海岸被旅游杂志《孤独星球2022年最佳旅游》评选为10大最佳旅游胜地之一。在这里你可以去多弗尔探索令人惊叹的白色悬崖，或者跟随着查尔斯·狄更斯的脚步，去参观惠斯塔布，马盖特，以及布罗德斯泰尔等等海滨小镇
风景优美的校园-坎特伯雷校区有优美的绿化环境，这里的校园氛围安全及友好。它坐落在历史名城上方的一座小山上，拥有能够瞭望城市及大教堂的美景。校园里除了浓厚的学术氛围，舒适的图书馆环境，这里还有咖啡厅，电影院，剧院，体育中心，超市，书店以及
其他可供探索和放松的户外空间。
参观英国的首都-伦敦距离我们的坎特伯雷校区和梅德韦校区不到一个小时。因此，你将有非常多的机会去参观博物馆，艺术馆，著名的购物街，优美的公园。当然，还有著名的地标建筑，例如大本钟和国会大厦。
我们的梅德韦校区的建筑结合了历史和现代的风格，构成了一个21世纪独特的学习环境。为了支持我们以专业为重点的教学，这里有一流的教学设备，与城市里的另外两所大学共同营造了熙熙攘攘并友好的学习氛围。 查塔姆镇和罗切斯特镇及其宏伟的大教堂（你未来参加毕业典礼的地方）就在这里附近。这里的海滨为你与朋友提供了最佳户外环境。
在我们位于巴黎的艺术与文化学院学习，研究生将在这个欧洲最历史悠久的艺术名都中研究艺术与人文。在这里，学生将接受英语教学。大学的学术研究者将带领着学生通过环游城市把理论应用到现实中。学生还可以使用巴黎的图书馆，博物馆和画廊。
建筑学实践ARB part3 （Architectural Practice - ARB Part 3 – Pdip）
建筑学 - ARB/RIBA part2（Architecture - ARB/RIBA Part 2 – March）
建筑保护学 (Architectural Conservation -MSc)
建筑与可持续发展环境（Architecture and the Sustainable Environment – MSc）
建筑可视化（Architectural Visualisation – MA）
城市规划与修复（Urban Planning and Resilience – MA）
建筑与城市设计（Architecture and urban planning-MA）
电影学（Film-MA）
电影与实践（Film with practice-MA）
创意制作（Creative Producing – MA）
戏剧制作（Theatre Making – MA）
艺术策划（Curating – MA）
肢体表演（Physical Acting – MA）
艺术史和艺术哲学（History and Philosophy of Art – MA）
医学人文学（Medical Humanities – MA）
英语（English – MA）
创意写作（Creative Writing – MA）
当代小说研究（The Contemporary Novel: Practice as Research - MA）
美国研究（American Studies – MA）
美国文学与文化（American Literature and Culture – MA）
英语和美国文学（English and American Literature – MA）
后殖民主义研究（Postcolonial Studies – MA）
比较文学 Comparative Literature – MA
实验与理论语言学Experimental and Theoretical Linguistics - MA
历史学 History -MA
现代史Modern History - MA
中世纪和早期现代研究Medieval and Early Modern Studies - MA
人类学与保护学院 School of Anthropology and Conservation
保护与农村发展Conservation and Rural Development – MSc
生物学Ethnobiology (by Research) - MSc
保护生物学Conservation Biology – MSc
保护项目管理Conservation Project Management – MSc
植物学Ethnobotany – MSc
社会人类学Social Anthropology - Humanitarian and Environmental Crises – MA
生物人类学Biological Anthropology (by Research) - MSc
生物多样性管理Biodiversity Management (by Research) - MSc
法医骨学与现场复原方法Forensic Osteology and Field Recovery Methods – MSc
地理学Human Geography – MSc
经济学Economics – MSc
发展经济学Development Economics - MSc
金融经济学Financial Economics – MSc
经济学和计量经济学Economics and Econometrics – MSc
经济学转换课程Economics Conversion Programme – MSc
政治与国际关系学院 School of Politics and International Relations
国际关系International Relations - PDip, MA
和平与冲突研究Peace and Conflict Studies (International Joint Award) – MA
国际冲突分析International Conflict Analysis - PDip, MA
国际关系与国际法International Relations with International Law - PDip, MA
政治和社会思想Political and Social Thought – MA
心理学Psychology – MSc
社会心理学Social Psychology – MSc
政治心理学Political Psychology – MSc
发展心理学Developmental Psychology - MSc
法医心理学Forensic Psychology - MSc
组织和商业心理学Organisational and Business Psychology - PCert, PDip, MSc
认知心理学/神经心理学Cognitive Psychology / Neuropsychology - MSc
计算机科学-转行硕士Computer Science - MSc: conversion Master’s
计算机科学人工智能-转行硕士Computer Science(Artificial Intelligence) - MSc: conversion Master’s
计算机科学网络安全-转行硕士Computer Science (Cyber Security) - MSc: conversion Master’s
高级计算机科学Advanced Computer Science – MSc
人工智能Artificial Intelligence – MSc
网络安全Cyber Security -MSc
网络与安全Networks and Security – MSc
点击这里了解我们的
工程与数字艺术学院 School of Engineering and Digital Arts
电子工程Electronic Engineering (by Research) – MSc
机械工程Mechanical Engineering (by Research and Thesis) – MSc
数码艺术Digital Arts (by Research) – MSc
生物医学工程Biomedical Engineering (by Research and Thesis) – MSc
数学、统计与精算学院 School of Mathmatics,Statistics and Actuarial Science
精算学Actuarial Science – MSc
应用精算学Applied Actuarial Science – MSc
应用精算学Applied Actuarial Science (International Master's) -MSc
生物科学学院 School of Biosciences
生物化学Biochemistry – MSc
生物医学Biomedicine – MSc
生物技术和生物工程Biotechnology and Bioengineering – MSc
生物技术与商业Biotechnology and Business – MSc
癌症生物学与治疗学Cancer Biology and Therapeutics – MSc
细胞生物学Cell Biology – MSc
计算生物学Computational Biology – MSc
遗传学Genetics – MSc
传染性疾病Infectious Diseases – MSc
微生物学Microbiology – MSc
运动与运动科学学院 School of Sport and Exercise Sciences
体育与运动科学Sport and Exercise Science (by Research and Thesis) – MSc
体育、运动和健康科学Sport, Exercise and Health Science – SportD
医药学院 School of Pharmacy
药学实践General Pharmacy Practice - PCert, PDip, MSc
独立/补充处方Independent/Supplementary Prescribing – Pcert
药品优化Medicines Optimisation - PCert, PDip, MSc
肯特法学院 Kent Law School
法学硕士Law - LLM
人权法 Human Rights Law - LLM
国际法 International Law - LLM
刑事司法Law with Criminal Justice-LLM
知识产权法Intellectual Property Law – LLM
国际商法International Commercial Law – LLM
国际刑事司法International Criminal Justice – LLM
国际环境法与政策International Environmental Law – LLM
国际法与国际关系International Law with International Relations – LLM
儿童保护Advanced Child Protection - PCert, PDip, MA
犯罪学研究Advanced Research in Criminology-MSc
智力与发育障碍分析Analysis and Intervention in Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities - PDip, MSc
应用行为分析Applied Behaviour Analysis (Intellectual and Developmental Disability) - PCert, PDip, MSc
自闭症研究Autism Studies - PCert, PDip, MA
国际社会政策International Social Policy – MA
社会研究方法Methods of Social Research - PCert, MA
积极行为支持Positive Behaviour Support – MSc
慈善研究Philanthropic Studies (Distance Learning) - PCert, PDip, MA
新闻中心
Centre for Journalism
新闻学Journalism -MA
多媒体新闻学Multimedia Journalism - MA
国际多媒体新闻学International Multimedia Journalism – MA
The Kent MBA
国际商务与管理International Business and Management – MSc
人力资源管理Human Resource Management – MSc
市场营销Marketing - MSc
商务分析 Business Analytics – MSc
物流与供应链管理Logistics and Supply Chain Management – MSc
金融Finance
金融双硕士（香港渗会大学）Finance（Dual Award）
金融与管理Finance and Management – MS
金融、投资于风险Finance, Investment & Risk – MSc
金融技术FinTech – MSc
管理Leadership and Management – MSc
保健管理Healthcare Management – MSc
项目管理Strategic Project Management – MSc
电子营销于分析Digital Marketing and Analytics – MSc

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/china/entry-requirements:
本科预科适合中国高中毕业但没有高考成绩或高考成绩没有达到我们最低要求要求的学生。
与很多其他英国大学不同的是，我们的本科预科是我们大学自己的学术部门(国际课程中心)全程直接授课，学生也完全在我们的本校区生活学习。
成功读完本科预科的学生可以直接升读我们的本科大一。
通常入读 本科预科 ，你需要满足下列条件之一：
完成高二课程，并且均分达到70%
2.完成高三课程，并且均分达到60%
持有高考成绩，并且达到高考总分60%
持有中专/职高/技校文凭，并且均分达到75%
请注意：
*所有IFP申请人都需要证明其英语能力达到我们英语最低标准，相当于雅思5.0，所有小分不低于5.0
*完成两年高中课程可以直升本科预科课程
*高考成绩并不适用于申请所有专业
*所有文凭将做个案审核
我们大部分的本科专业都是三年学制。
通常入读大一，你需要满足下列条件之一：
1.持有国际高中文凭（比如A Level，IB 或是AP等）并且成绩达到我们的要求
2.持有高考成绩，并且达到高考总分70%
3.读完肯特大学的本科预科或肯特大学认可的第三方预科课程
4.在中国读完本科大一，并且均分达到70%（211/985/双一流大学）或达到75%（非211/985/双一流大学）
5.在中国读完2年制大专或3年制大专的前两年，并且均分达到70%
你也可以申请入读大二，你需要满足下列条件之一：
1.在中国读完本科大二，并且均分达到70%（211/985/双一流大学）或75%（非211/985/双一流大学）
2.在中国读完3年制大专
3.SQA AD 商科类文凭（要求均分为B等级）可申请Bsc Accounting and
Finance、Bsc Finance and Investment专业的大二入读
我们通常不允许直接入读大三，但是我们有一些特殊的允许学生直读大三的课程：
BA Business （top-up）
你需要满足下列条件之一：
*SQA AD 商科类（要求单科均分成绩为B等级）
*BTEC HND 商科相关专业
*完成商科类的UK Foundation
Degree（请注意这里指的不是本科预科）
BEng Electronic
and Computer Systems (top-up)
*完成中国本科前三年（电子工程/电气相关专业）
*专科学历（电子工程/电气相关专业）
*完成三年制英国本科前两年（电子工程/电气相关专业）
*SQA AD 电子工程专业（要求单科均分成绩为B等级）
*BTEC HND 电子工程或电气相关专业
3.BSc Business and
Marketing
*SQA AD 商科类（要求单科均分成绩为B等级）可申请大三入读
4.BSc Business and
Management（24年入学为Medway校区，25年之Canterbury/Medway两校区可选）
5.BSc International
Business
大多数的硕士课程都是授课型，但也有部分的硕士是研究型硕士。
我们的录取要求建立在英国本科学位制度的基础上，具体要求如下：
*2:1的专业我们要求本科均分至少70（如果是211/985/双一流大学）或至少75（如果非211/985/双一流大学）
2:2的专业我们要求本科均分至少65（如果是211/985/双一流大学）或至少70（如果非211/985/双一流大学）
*英国本科2：2学位或211/985/双一流大学均分65%、非211均分70%
*至少3年全职管理经验，如有超过10年管理经验可以酌情要求学术成绩
完成硕士课程学习并达到均分至少 70%(211/985/双一流大学 ) 或至少 75% (非211/985/ 双一流大学 )
*IELTS： 6.0（各项不低于5.5，可接受雅思单科重考成绩）
*TOEFL iBT： 80（阅读不低于20；写作不低于19；听力不低于19；口语不低于22）
*PTE Academic： 63 （各项不低于59）
*LanguageCert International
ESOL ：B2（小分不低于33）
*Oxford ELLT：6（单项不低于5）
*NCUK
English Language Test ：C（各项不低于D）
以上针对大多数课程，如需查询个别课程请点击这里查询（https://www.kent.ac.uk/courses/english-language-requirements）
预备英语课程为英语成绩未达到学位课程入读条件的学生，提供了进入学位课程学习的可能性。同时 International Programmes(国际课程中心)为学生组织的社交活动和欢迎项目也可让学生们提前感受英国的学习和生活。
*完成语言班课程并达到直接入学要求时，学生无需参加雅思考试。
对于获得肯特大学无条件录取通知书 (UF)， 并且已经达到申请专业的英语语言要求的学生，可以申请为期4 周的语言课程，该课程将培养同学们的学术技能：
课程日期：2024年8月9日 - 2024年9月6日
申请截止日期：2024年7月12日

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/china/fees-and-scholarships:
我们的每个专业主页上都会清楚的列出该专业每年的学费。另外你也可以使用我们的学费查询表浏览不同专业的学费。
肯特大学推出全新 Future Student Scholarship
高达2500镑，24年9月入读可享！ 无需申请，可自动获得！
了解该奖学金的更多信息：
本科：https://www.kent.ac.uk/campaigns/ug-future-student-scholarships-china
研究生：https://www.kent.ac.uk/campaigns/pg-future-student-scholarships-china
了解更多其他奖学金：
https://www.kent.ac.uk/international/international-scholarships

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/china/new-events:
参与资格：
满足以下要求当中任何一个的本科或授课型研究生申请人，均有机会获得免费Oxford ELLT考试的机会。
已经缴纳CAS押金； 2.
获得Conditional Offer的申请人，已经满足除语言要求外的全部conditions。
报名方式：点击下方链接报名参与。如资格审核通过且名额允许我们会在10个工作日内为你安排在线考试。名额有限，请尽快报名。
First name: 名的拼音
Last name: 姓的拼音
Email: 你的邮箱地址
What is your proposed year of entry?
请选择你的预计入学年份
Subject of interest 请在列表中选择你打算攻读的学科
然后勾选最后一个问题并点击Get the latest updates递交。

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/china/contact-us:
如果你是学生，并且还未递交申请，请发邮件至 internationalstudent@kent.ac.uk 进行咨询。
如果你是学生，并且已递交申请，请发邮件至 china@kent.ac.uk 进行咨询。
如果你是留学中介，请发邮件至 china@kent.ac.uk 进行咨询。
其他咨询者请发邮件至 china@kent.ac.uk 进行咨询。
International Officer (China)
Tongyu Zhu
china@kent.ac.uk
In-Country Officer (China)
Mengdi Liu
Aoife Wang
Cindy Zhang
肯特大学校友网络是母校联系，服务校友的重要平台，致力于全心全意服务校友，凝聚校友力量，助力校友和母校共同发展。
欢迎加入我们的校友大家庭。
并备注：
姓名+专业+城市+本/硕/博
验证入群
扫描二维码并关注肯特大学官方账号，立即获得最新最全的实用资讯，并与招生官提问互动、实时交流。

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/profiles/undergraduate/international-business-jx:
International Business BSc
It’s important to communicate with people from different backgrounds about their own ways of doing business.
In high school, I was interested in business, and we talk about business a lot within the family.
I felt that this was going to be my field and, since I’ve been studying business and talking with the lecturers and other students, I’ve grown to like it more and more.
The most important reason for me was that it is in Canterbury and I really like Canterbury!
I did a lot of research before I came to the UK and I love the fact that Canterbury is a historic city but it’s more than that too.
I very much hope that, despite the pandemic, I will be able to graduate in the Cathedral.
It was my first time coming to the UK.
I thought I would experience a big culture shock but actually I didn’t because I always met friendly people and good teachers.
I also did two foundation years in China where we learnt about Western culture, so that helped too.
I’ve especially enjoyed the cross-cultural aspects.
It’s important to have the cutting-edge expertise that you get at KBS [Kent Business School] but I also think it’s important to communicate with people from different backgrounds about their own ways of doing business, in their own countries and cultures.
I hope to explore this more by doing a Master’s degree.
I was partway through my second year when the UK went into its first lockdown, and I came back home to China last summer.
To begin with I had some technical issues with online teaching but I contacted my lecturers and they were really helpful going over the content I’d missed.
Once I got used to the new way of learning, it was fine and I don’t think having to learn online has had a negative impact on me.
Yes, we are all using social media anyway so it is not such a problem for uni students.
Even for things like group projects and presentations, we used Microsoft Teams to meet and plan our work, then we just used WhatsApp to keep in touch.
Luckily ,with my group we were able to schedule meetings despite being in different time zones.
I showed a friend from another university around the Sibson building [the base for Kent Business School] and he wanted to come to Kent!
It’s so new and big, and the facilities are so good.
I also want to emphasise how good the library is too, especially the e-learning resources.
I think our uni has invested a lot in the facilities and that helps students a lot.
Yes, in first year I lived in Keynes College .
I had an en-suite room and then shared a kitchen with seven other people from five different countries.
It was a great experience and I made some good friends.
I played badminton and sometimes basketball, and I went to the gym three times a week.
Kent Sport is so good.
I’d also recommend the food – you can get food from all over the world in Canterbury, even though the city is not that big.
There’s a Mexican restaurant that I especially like and am looking forward to being able to visit again.
Yes, I’m actually chair of the Kent Chinese Society and when we were on campus we did a lot of stuff – we had a Chinese New Year gala every year, some food festivals and a Chinese Voice night.
When the Covid outbreak began, we helped to distribute masks supplied by the Chinese embassy.
The other society I am in is called Trekent and it’s a rambling and hiking society.
I always like to explore new places, and going with other students to find beautiful views like the white cliffs of Dover was a great experience.
I have attended a lot of the careers presentations.
I really recommend the careers service to other students.
They can help with your CV, virtual interviews, even psychometric testing.
I applied for internships in China last summer and the careers team helped me to prepare my CV.
I succeeded in getting an internship doing PR work for an American company based in Shanghai.
Oh, yes!
It was hard work and a lot of pressure but I learned a lot from it about how uni study connects with the real business world.
It’s one of the main reasons why I want to go and do a Master’s because I feel there is so much more to explore to prepare me for a future career.
I would like to work for a consulting company.
Eventually, I might want to set up my own company and I have done an entrepreneurship module as part of my degree, but first I want to learn in a big company how the structures work and how people connect.
I’ve become more open minded.
Learning with people from different backgrounds – students and lecturers – has helped me to see that there is more than one way of looking at things.
And I’ve become more global too.
I have lived in China for more than 18 years and I’m looking forward to exploring new opportunities in different places.
I would say have the courage to explore and embrace different cultures and different lives.
People at Kent are so friendly, teachers are so nice and teammates are so good.
Take advantage of the resources the uni provides and don’t waste your time.
Enjoy life here!
Junhan Xu is in his third year studying International Business.
International Business BSc (Hons)

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/guides/colleges:
The Student Welfare and Community Life team is a first point of contact for students in need of support.
No matter how big or how small the issue, contact us to talk about what may be bothering you, especially when you are not sure of the options, or when things feel too difficult to manage on your own.
We are here to help with a range of circumstances and situations, and if needed we can also direct you to appropriate specialist services for additional support.
The Student Welfare and Community Life team is here to
help with a range of circumstances and situations, including:
We can help you understand the options and access support if
you are struggling with cost of living, have unexpected and unavoidable expenses, or need to consider hardship or emergency funding.
As a diverse, inclusive and safe community, we do
not tolerate any form of bullying or harassment.
We have lots of safety provision on our campuses and in the community, and we can help direct you to the support available.
Help with early resolution and advice for household disputes or disagreements, including guidance on any issues with neighbours, landlords or letting agents.
We work with campus accommodation and community services to aid your
transition to independent living at university.
We offer
informal, friendly advice and can be a first point of contact to direct you to
other specialist support services on the campuses and in your local community.
Email StudentWelfare@kent.ac.uk or
Call 01227 827010 (+44 1227 827010 outside of the UK).
Email CommunityLife@kent.ac.uk or
Call 01227 823141 (+44 1227 823141 outside of the UK).
Students may drop-in to speak to someone in-person Monday - Friday, 11:00-13:00 and 14:00-16:00.
Find us in Keynes
College Building , Room M1.12, University of Kent, Canterbury CT2 7UG.
Students may also book an appointment to speak to someone
(either in-person or online via Teams).
To schedule a meeting, please use the Student
Welfare Meeting link (please note that this link is only available to
current students).
If you do not see a date and time that will work for you,
please email the team to arrange an alternate time.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/library-it/opening-hours-and-support:
For facilities & support services in the Library
We are operating Summer Opening Hours as follows:
Monday to Friday: 08:00 – 21:00
Saturday & Sunday: 08:00 – 18:00
Closed: Bank Holiday Monday 25 August
Open to students , staff , Library members and visitors
Templeman Library, University of Kent, Canterbury, Kent, CT2 7NU, United Kingdom
View Library Café opening hours on Kent Union website.
Nexus staff can help with any student query, signposting you in the right direction.
Visit us in Templeman Library (D Block, Ground FLoor).
Find out more, including Nexus opening Hours .
We offer multiple ways for you to access efficient and reliable IT support.
Find out more, including IT Helpdesk opening Hours .
Guidance, workshops and presentations to support your research activities
Help and advice on using our books and digital resources, LibrarySearch, Open Access and lots more
Report and track your queries.
Find information and resources to help resolve your issues.
Find your way around the building.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/applicants/form:
Please complete this form ONLY if you have already received your CAS from the University of Kent.
If your CAS has not been issued yet, you will provide details of any payments made on CAS Shield.
Further details about the CAS process can be found via on our CAS web pages .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-immigration/arrivals:
UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) have launched a digital immigration system.
This means we are replacing physical documents with an online record of your immigration status which is applied to all immigration categories.
An eVisa is the online record of your immigration status and the conditions of your permission to enter or stay in the UK.
You will need to create a UKVI account to be able to access your eVisa.
Information on how to create a UKVI account will be included in your visa decision letter.
If you already have a UKVI account you can use the View/Prove service.
You, the student, complete enrolment online and our Student Administration teams will then complete registration remotely or in person, depending on your immigration status.
You cannot be registered unless you have completed enrolment.
Our detailed How to enrol guide will help you with each section.
Once enrolment is complete the Student Immigration Compliance team will look at your documents and complete registration.
Please note, if you are travelling to the UK you will not be registered until you have arrived - therefore it is very important to provide evidence of intended travel which includes your name and entry date.
All
students will collect their Kent ID card in person from the campus at which
their course is based.
PLEASE NOTE: For the purpose of this section of the enrolment task, all non-British/Irish passport holders are visa holders as you likely require immigration permission to be in the UK.
The University of Kent has an obligation to ensure all students have the Right to Study in the UK.
This means checking passport and immigration documents before registration.
It is your responsibility to ensure these are kept up to date throughout registration.
Documents that you may need to provide in this section can be found here .
If you have created a UKVI account, you will need to provide a sharecode for the Right to Study in the enrolment task for us to verify your digital status.
To get a sharecode, you will need to visit the following website and follow instructions:
https://www.gov.uk/view-prove-immigration-status
When requesting for a sharecode to be generated, please ensure you select ‘To prove my immigration status for anything else' when asked for the purpose for the code.
The screen may look like this:
Once you are shown your share code (which must begin with ' S ' for our purpose), please download it as a PDF document and upload it as ' immigration permission ' during the enrolment or re-registration tasks.
Then we can verify your digital
status.
You can normally use eGates if you:
If you have been granted an eVisa or issued a vignette (visa sticker in your passport) and can use eGates to enter the UK, you must provide proof of when you entered/intend to enter the UK in the enrolment task.
This could be a boarding pass or ticket confirmation etc which contains the date of travel and your name.
If you did not upload this in the enrolment task, you must email a photo of the ticket to the Student Immigration Compliance team .
IMPORTANT
Please note: You must not enter the UK until AFTER the Valid From date on your status/vignette .
If you do, you will have entered as a Visitor and cannot be registered without the correct immigration permission for your course.
You will have to leave the UK and re-enter within the validity of your permission.
Check if your nationality requires entry clearance through this tool: Check if you need a visa
If you do not require entry clearance to enter the UK, you will need to apply for Electronic Travel Authorisation before travelling to the UK.
If you are a visa national this means you need permission to enter the UK, usually by way of a visa sticker in your passport.
You should retain evidence of your date of arrival in the UK (such as a boarding pass or travel ticket/booking) in the event your vignette does not get stamped.
You will be required to provide this to the Student Immigration Compliance team in order to complete your registration.
If you are already in the UK and you have a pending immigration application you will be required to upload evidence in the enrolment task.
Such as a copy of either:
You can download either of these documents from your UKVI visa application portal.
IMPORTANT: We cannot register you if you have immigration permission as a Student issued under sponsorship by another institution, even if the permission is still valid.
You must have submitted a new visa application using the CAS issued by Kent and provide evidence as above .
You will also be required to sign a Combined Disclosure Form and return it to the Student Immigration Compliance Team before you will be registered.
This will give us your permission to contact the Home Office to verify and check on the status of your application to ensure you retain the right to study.
We will email you if we require you to complete a form after assessing your documents provided in the enrolment task.
If you are a distance learning/overseas campus student (for example Hong Kong Baptist University - HKBU) and are not required to come to the UK for your course, please upload a copy of your passport for the Right to Study section of enrolment and update your term time address to an overseas address.
If you are a distance learner and reside in the UK, you will still be required to provide evidence of your UK immigration permission in the task.
If you see the following message in your student portal it means we have not yet checked your Right to Study.
Please do not be alarmed if your record states 'non-compliant' or 'no visa record'.
If you are progressing to the next stage (academic year) of your course, repeating or returning from intermission, you will be required to complete Returning Registration .
You will need to confirm/provide evidence of your passport and immigration permission (current visa) in the ' Right to study in the UK ' section of the task.
Depending on your nationality and circumstances, you may need to provide a share code or additional evidence.
If you have any issues with your passport or immigration permission, please contact the Student Immigration Compliance Team .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/guides/emergency-funding/international-hardship-fund:
Applications for the 2024 / 25 academic year are now closed - an update for the 2025 / 26 academic year will be posted here in due course.
If you are experiencing an emergency funding situation and are a full time non-UK students registered at the University of Kent and eligible to pay tuition fees at the ‘overseas’ rate, you may be able to apply to the International Hardship Fund (IHF).
The IHF fund can provide up to £1000
financial support per year to students experiencing emergency situations.
Complete the application form and email it to the Financial Aid Office with all the supporting documents.
The fund cannot be used for payment of tuition fees.
Also applications are unlikely to be successful where there is an outstanding tuition fee debt.
Please note that the fund is limited.
Applications (once open) will be accepted up to 25 July 2025 or until the funds have been used, whichever comes sooner.
Applications from 1st year Tier 4/Student visa route students will be considered but it is unlikely that they will be made an award.
This is because they would have had to provide evidence that they have made adequate provision to pay their tuition fees and living costs before they started their course.
Applications are unlikely to be considered where students are in receipt of a US, Canadian or government loan or where the reason for application to the fund is due to fluctuations in exchange rates.
Students
studying with the University of Kent International College (UKIC) and partner
colleges are not eligible to apply for this fund.
Provided that an application form has been accurately completed, the appropriate documentary
evidence supplied, and an email or virtual discussion with a senior member of the Finance Office has taken
place, a decision will be made within 20 working days of submission.
Awards will be paid directly into a student’s UK bank account.
Students who are unsuccessful in their application may appeal against the decision.
Any appeal must
be made in writing within 4 weeks from the date of the original decision marked CONFIDENTIAL and
sent by email to FinancialAid@kent.ac.uk.
All information held with your IHF application will be
reviewed by the Head of Student Financial Services where an independent decision from the original
assessment will be made.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/accommodation/faqs:
Whether you've decided Kent is the place for you, you're still weighing up your options, or you're already here, we've divided up the answers to the most common questions below.
We have over 5,000 rooms for students on our Canterbury campus (about 60% are en-suite).
At Pier Quays , near the Medway campus there are over 1,000 en-suite rooms available for students.
Everyone has different priorities when it comes to their room 'must haves'.
Whether your top spot is it's distance to lectures, how many people you share a bathroom with or how much it costs these are all things you'll need to consider when making your room choices.
It can seem overwhelming but take a look at our blog which covers the four questions you need to ask yourself to find the right room for you .
We are proud to be able to offer many of our students a guaranteed room offer.
All new first-year students will receive an offer of accommodation if they:
Read our accommodation guarantee for more information.
Subject to availability, we also make the decision every year if this guarantee can be extended to late, adjustment or clearing applicants.
This information will also be available on the accommodation guarantee page when available.
Yes, we have a number of accessible and adapted rooms at both our campuses for students with disabilities or special requirements.
Please find out more about the rooms we have available and support in place on our accessible accommodation page .
You can find out all you need to know on our how to apply for accommodation blog post .
In short, you need to register your details at our website and apply for accommodation online once our applications pages go live in mid-January.
You will need to provide the following information:
Once you have successfully applied online, you will receive an automated email message confirming receipt of your application.
You will receive another email message advising you where you have been allocated University accommodation (subject to eligibility and availability).
This message will be from accomm@kent.ac.uk , so please ensure that this address is saved.
We allocate our rooms on a first come first served basis, meaning the earlier you apply the more likely you are to receive one of your top two preferences.
We do have a number of other considerations we also factor in to room allocation which you can read about via our blog: www.blogs.kent.ac.uk/accommodation/canterbury-allocation-procedure
Yes, you can change your accommodation preferences at any time before 14  July 2024 for new students, or 15 February 2024 for returning students.
All you need to do is log back into your account and amend your choices.
There are no penalties for this and any preference changes will not change your initial application date.
If you have received a room offer that you are not happy with, then please do not immediately reject your offer as this could remove your application from our systems.
Instead contact the Accommodation Team who will be able to discuss your options.
Accommodation prices are located at the top of each accommodation area's page including for Pier Quays in Medway.
All our Canterbury accommodation prices are available on our dedicated prices page as well as the price list for the previous academic year as well.
All accommodation contracts include your utilities (water, gas, electricity, heating and Wi-Fi) and Kent Sport membership.
If you live in part-catered accommodation your accommodation fees will also include the cost of your meal plan.
For many this will be your first time moving away from home and experiencing independent living.
Living at university is different from being at home as aside from living with new people the biggest change for some is getting to grips with independent living as you become responsible for everything from making dinner, what time you come home on a night out, to cleaning, but this is what moving out is all about.
Of course all home environments are different, and some of you will have already experienced independent living, so whilst life will be different, there are still some rules in place in University accommodation.
Any rules in place are to ensure that every resident and member of staff can live in an safe environment which promotes a positive experience for all.
When you move in to University accommodation you are agreeing to the terms and conditions , which are effectively the rules for you and us to adhere to.
Further information is also available in the Accommodation Handbook .
All our Canterbury campus accommodation adheres to the Student Accommodation Code (SAC) and our Pier Quays accommodation in Medway is part of the National Code of Assured Accommodation (NCAA) .
You can find out more about these independent regulators at their websites: The SAC and the NCAA
Yes, we set aside a number of rooms across our Canterbury campus and in Pier Quays at Medway for returning, full-time students and can even guarantee a room offer for early applicants!
In Canterbury, you can live in any of our accommodation options except Turing College which is reserved for first year students, and in Pier Quays we prioritise allocating returning students to phase 2 rooms (subject to availability).
We also have KMMS returning student accommodation .
Accommodation applications made directly through Kent for returning students open in mid-January and you can apply with your friends so you can live together and enjoy all the same benefits as your first year (no deposits, free sports membership, bills and insurance included, and shorter contracts to name a few).
Find out more about returning student accommodation and the great included benefits.
You will need to apply between 1 November and early-mid December (the deadline will depend on your course start date).
Learn more about application deadlines and arrival dates January starters.
Students on programmes with a term abroad should apply to live in Darwin Houses where shorter fixed term accommodation contracts are offered.
Kent and Medway Medical School students should refer to the KMMS accommodation pages.
Medway School of Pharmacy students have the choice to live at either Kent's Pier Quays accommodation or Greenwich University's hall of residences .
More information about both these options is available online .
Students undertaking a foundation year can live in any of our undergraduate accommodations, and you apply online just the same as all students seeking accommodation at Kent.
As long as you apply before 30 June and meet our criteria you will be guaranteed to receive a room offer from us.
You can also apply to live on campus for your official first year and the remainder of your course as a returning student .
In Canterbury, we have a number of accommodation blocks across all our areas set aside for students who would prefer a quieter living environment, called lifestyle moderate rooms.
Students living in these areas are expected to adopt a moderate lifestyle in respect of alcohol, amplified music and sound, and the way in which they socialise within the accommodation.
We do not guarantee a permanently quiet or alcohol-free environment, but grouping likeminded people together is intended to support this choice of lifestyle.
These areas are not monitored more closely than other accommodations, as residents are expected to independently self-manage their living environment.
However, there are mechanisms for addressing those who persistently fail to live in accordance with expectations.
There is limited availability and it is not guaranteed that all applicants will be successful, but if you would like to live in lifestyle moderated rooms you should include this in your accommodation application.
Yes, in addition to other financial support available at Kent to students, we have three accommodation specific schemes.
For new and returning students based on the Canterbury campus, you can sign up to our Open Day show rooms scheme when applying for accommodation.
If you take part will receive a 5% discount on your accommodation fees.
For postgraduate and returning undergraduate students , our ResLife Team recruit ResLife Ambassadors for each college (Canterbury and Medway).
Successful applicants receive a significant discount on their accommodation fees (50% in 24/25)
Please note, both of these schemes are popular with students meaning it is always best to apply early to increase your chances.
If you have an essential need for a specific type of accommodation due to a disability, medical condition or mobility issue, you may also be eligible for a reduction in accommodation fees.
Images across this site are for illustrative purposes only and are meant to be used as guides for what a room/kitchen looks like in that area.
Individual rooms will vary and with 5,000+ rooms on our at Canterbury campus alone there's a high chance that the room pictured won't be the room you end up moving into.
In the videos/images on our website, these rooms have either been dressed with products from our partner supplier UniKitOut and a range of high-street stores or using items brought by the student living there at the time of recording/photographing.
You can see what is included in your room for when you arrive by visiting our Canterbury Living On Campus webpage (or What's included at Pier Quays )
Accommodation offers for undergraduate students are emailed once you have an unconditional offer to study at Kent, and once you have made Kent your firm choice.
For most students this will be during the week after publication of the A Level results.
You then need to view and accept or decline the offer of accommodation within a short time of receiving the accommodation offer.
Take a look at our Medway or Canterbury application timelines for more information.
Due to the Data Protection Act 1998 the University cannot provide you with the details of your new flat and house mates.
However, many students visit the Official University of Kent Freshers Group on Facebook to meet other new students.
If you choose to use any social media to find flat mates please remember that the majority of these sites are public and anyone can view your name and possibly your address online including other personal details.
There is no parking available for students living on the Canterbury campus or at Pier Quays in Medway.
You can only bring a car on campus during the arrivals period when you/your family arrive/unpack.
For guidance on car parking, please consult the Transport website .
The UniBus runs frequently between the Canterbury campus and city centre and there is a subsidised season ticket scheme in operation for students as well as a free shuttle bus which runs between the Canterbury and Medway campuses.
Further details on local transport facilities are available from the Estates Department .
Your accommodation fees should be paid within two weeks from the start of term, or before you arrive at the University.
Payments are made online and more information is available from the Student Finance web pages.
You can read our blog ' Accommodation Fees: what they are, when they're due and how to pay them ' for more information.
What type of cooker is included in your accommodation depends on where you live.
You can apply for returning student accommodation online through the MyAccommodation Portal (same as in your first year).
Accommodation applications made directly through Kent for returning students open in mid-January and you can apply with your friends so you can live together and enjoy all the same benefits as your first year.
We are also guaranteeing a room offer for early applicants!
We also have KMMS returning student accommodation which will open for applications in February.
You will be emailed the link to book returning accommodation before the application opening date.
This will depend on where you live, however most students will arrive during the Arrivals period in September.
On your arrival date you can collect your keys (or fobs) from your college reception.
You can check reception opening hours here.
Once you have completed your e-induction within The MyAccommodation Portal you will be asked to book an arrivals slot.
You should download or print a copy of this (along with an unloading permit) before you arrive.
Should your plans change you can log back in to your MyAccommodation Portal up to 48 hours before your arrival and edit your arrivals slot (subject to availability).
If your plans change within 48 hours of your arrival contact the Accommodation Team to notify them.
Canterbury : Head to your college reception where you would collect your keys.
Once here a phone or call-point is available outside the reception which can be used to contact Campus Security (alternatively call them on +44(0)1227 823300).
Tell them which reception you are at and that you need to collect your keys and one of the team will come over to let you in.
You will need to show your Arrivals Pass to Security to collect your keys and return to reception in the morning during opening hours to complete signing in.
Medway: If you expect to arrive outside normal hours, please contact Pier Quays in advance to ensure your keys are available to collect
Knowing what to pack can be a difficult decision, but the best place to start is to check what is already included in your room so you don't double up on anything.
Further advice on what to pack and everything you need to know about arrivals from current Kent staff and students is available on our arrivals pages .
To collect your key/fob you will need:
Canterbury: You will need to have a digital/printed copy of your Arrivals Pass to collect your keys.
It is also a good idea to have a form of official ID.
Please note keys will not be issued to anyone other than the room occupant.
If you will be arriving by car then you will need an unloading permit.
You must print this before you arrive so that it can be displayed in your car whilst it is on campus.
Please make sure your Unloading Pass has a QR code clearly visible (if it doesn't please re-download from your MyAccommodation Portal )
Medway: You will need an official form of ID to collect your keys .
If you watch or record programmes as they’re being shown on TV – on any device including a laptop – you need to be covered by a TV Licence.
It’s the law.
You can see if you need a TV licence, and how to pay it online via tvlicensing.co.uk .
If your room already has a TV in it (extra large en-suite rooms in Becket Court, Keynes and Turing Colleges) your TV licence is included in the accommodation charges.
Officers make visits to check students are properly licensed, so it’s important to make sure you’re covered.
You may risk prosecution and a fine of up to £1,000.
If you don't need a TV licence you can notify them online at tvlicensing.co.uk/noTV .
Whether you can stay in your accommodation over the vacation periods depends on where you live.
If you must move out for the spring vacation all of your belongings must be removed from the room.
We also advise taking important/valuable items with you during the winter vacation as while items can still be kept in the room over this period there is no access allowed over this period is not allowed.
If you need to stay on campus over a vacation period not included in your  accommodation contract you can book this through the Accommodation Office in advance of the vacation period by following the guidance on our vacation accommodation webpage.
There has to be a degree of compromise when living in student occupied accommodation.
Inevitably there may be some disagreements from time to time between neighbours.
However there are guidelines concerning noise levels, and household routines, which are intended to be of benefit to all residents.
Should you experience frequent disturbances or other problems, from noisy or inconsiderate neighbours, that you are unable to resolve yourself there are other options.
If you live in Canterbury, please refer to the Accommodation Handbook for full details on how to move forward appropriately.
If you live in Pier Quays please follow Unite Students' protocol .
It is you and your flat mates responsibility to keep your accommodation clean.
However, we have a Housekeeping Team in every college who will help support you with advice as well as provide a deep clean once in the Autumn and Spring terms.
To help you keep your accommodation clean we provide all Canterbury campus accommodation with basic cleaning items, such as a vacuum, mop and bucket, broom/dustpan and brush.
More information and advice from our housekeeping team on keeping your room clean is available online .
You can report a fault online via our Home at Halls app.
Full information on reporting faults in your room and expected response times is available on our Home at Halls page.
This will depend on where you live.
You can find the dates you need to move in/out by logging in to the MyAccommodation Portal or our vacation accommodation webpage.
For many of you this will be your first time living away from home and with new people so there is likely to be an adjustment period for all.
Remember this when you have a problem with a house mate and try to be patient.
Clear communication amongst all your flat or house mates is key - don't let small problems build up and fester to become a big thing, as they may not be aware them.
Often regular house meetings sort everything out (such as someone never tidying up in the kitchen).
Of course, sometimes there are situations which you can't resolve yourselves and on these occasions you can approach the Student Welfare and Community Life Team who are experienced mediators and can either try and help with the situation or be able to direct you on your next steps depending on the situation (for example a room move or referral to another department).
All the laundry facilities on campus are provided by an external company called Circuit Laundry.
Sadly, this means that we cannot fix any problems you experience as you need to directly report these to Circuit for assistance.
Circuit Laundry contact information : You can contact them online or via one of their helplines as listed below.
General enquiries: 01422 820360 or 0800 032 0070, Monday to Friday, 8.30am to 5pm.
Queries about laundry cards, top-up enquiries, machine faults and breakdowns: 01442 820026, Monday to Friday, 8.30am to 5pm; Saturday 8.30am to 3pm; Sunday 8.30am to 1pm.
You will need to move out by 10am on the date stated in your accommodation agreement.
Read our top tips for things you need to do when moving out for more information.
You must return your key/fob to reception when you leave .
If reception is closed you can either use their key drop box or take your key/fob to Campus Security and email accomm@kent.ac.uk to notify us this is where you have returned your key.
Please note, even if you are returning to live on campus again next year you cannot leave any items in your room.
Sadly we do not have any storage facilities on campus for student belongings, but a number of independent local or national companies offer services that can help with storage/shipping .
If you wish to stay on campus over the summer vacation we have vacation accommodation available that you can pre-book.
We want to ensure our accommodation facilities and services meet the needs of our students, so if you have a suggestion for improvement you can always contact us to let us know or share your thoughts during one of our anonymous student surveys which happen throughout the year.
If you have a complaint then please let us know by following our complaints procedure .
When you complete your accommodation e-induction you will be asked to watch a short Fire and Safety video .
This covers the basics of fire safety in our accommodation and is a good place to start.
If you live in our Canterbury accommodation, you will also be able to download a copy of the Accommodation Handbook to read, there is lots of information including electrical, cooking safety advice within this document.
You can access both the video and Handbook via your account in the MyAccommodation Portal or in the Living on Campus important documents section of our Living on Campus page.
If you live in Pier Quays, Unite Students will have fire safety information available online for you to access.
Canterbury: We test the fire alarms in all our colleges weekly.
You can check the day and time for your area in the Accommodation Handbook .
Medway: Visit Pier Quays reception if you have any concerns about fire alarm testing.
Please note it is a violation of your student code of conduct to knowingly set off or disable a fire alarm or misuse any fire safety equipment.
If you are caught you will be punished in line with the Student Disciplinary Charter .
This will depend on the type of emergency but generally you should contact Campus Security asap either via the phone or the SafeZone app .
We do however have some specialised procedures in case of event specific emergencies (e.g.
for a bomb scare you should follow the Run, Hide Tell procedure ) so you should familiarise yourself with the information available on the Campus Security website and in the Accommodation Handbook (which includes information on fire, electrical and personal safety).
You can also check the University's safety pages for Canterbury or Medway for more information on personal safety in and around campus.
Yes for basic first aid you can visit a college reception or Campus Security .
For medical treatment you can access University Nursing Services (which is open 24/7 during term time and located next to Campus Security on the Canterbury campus and also offers contraceptive advice).
For regular nurse or GP appointments (including medication) you should register at the University Medical Centre located on the Canterbury campus near Keynes College so you can access the full medical services available to you.
If you are experiencing a medical emergency you can call Campus Security's Emergency phone line via +44 (0)1227 823333 as the closest responders or 999.
If you are based at Medway, local medical centres can be found on Kent's Health Services page .
The Student Support and Wellbeing Team are here to help.
They have a multiple services that you can access which offer offer support for a range of reasons.
These including counselling, long term health conditions, sexual assault and support groups to name a few.
For emergency support please follow the information available here.
You can bring a range of electrical items as long as they are safe ( see the relevant sections in the Accommodation Handbook ).
All electricals should be designed for 240V usage (UK electrical items).
If yours uses a different voltage (e.g an item from America) you must use a safe, suitable transformer/adapter (purchasable in all college receptions).
You cannot install any white goods (e.g.
mini-fridge or microwave) into your bedroom and are not permitted to install any additional electrical wiring, aerials or use multiple lead extensions connected together (i.e.
daisy chaining).
If an unsafe or prohibited electrical item is found during an inspection then the item shall be removed and stored by Housekeeping.
You will be notified and you will be able to collect the item before you leave campus (for vacation or at the end of term).
Please note items will need to be reclaimed before the end of the academic year due to limited storage.
Any unclaimed items are donated or recycled.
If you wish to get a small electrical item safety checked you can do so for for free on campus.
All you need to do is email Templeman Library's Helpdesk requesting an electrical safety check for the item and include your upcoming availability.
They will then reply with a time you can bring your item to the welcome desk to be checked.
Please note that this check does not qualify as a Portable Appliance Test (PAT) test.
If you are concerned about a larger electrical appliance in your accommodation, stop using the device and report this as a fault through the Home at Halls app as soon as possible so that a member of the Estates team can investigate.
If your electrical item is from abroad - you will need to use a safe transformer/adapter.
These can be purchased online or from any accommodation college reception .
Canterbury: We include personal possessions insurance for free with your accommodation.
You will have the opportunity to download your policy when completing your e-induction.
You can revisit this in the MyAccommodation Portal or you can double check what is and is not covered online via the Insurance Policy available in the important documents section of our Living on Campus Page .
At your own cost, you can also choose to extend your cover to provide you greater protection.
Medway: Unite Students also provides some insurance for students living in Pier Quays, You can find out more about the included policy online .
You can find out all you need to know about Campus Security via their website .
You can also check the university's safety pages for Canterbury or Medway for more information on personal safety.
You should also download the free SafeZone app whilst at Kent.
Canterbury: Campus Security are available 24/7 every day of the year (including vacation periods).
They provide a range of services including a walking taxi service as well as enforce regulations across campus (for example noise complaints).
Canterbury non-emergency number: +44 (0)1227 823300 Canterbury emergency number: +44 (0)1227 823333
Medway: Campus Security are also present at the Medway Campus, however an external security company are also appointed to patrol and manage Pier Quays.
They have direct links with Campus Security and if you would like to report an incident at Pier Quays you should visit reception (which manned by reception staff or Security outside opening hours).
You can check the full reporting procedure here .
You can find out more information about our personal safety measures and what you can do on our Safety Guide webpage .
Alternatively you can watch our Staying Safe video for a quick overview.
No, you may not smoke anywhere inside your accommodation or in any of the colleges.
E-cigarettes are also included in this policy.
There are designated, signposted smoking areas outside that you can utilise if you wish to smoke.
Yes, you must return all keys/fobs to your accommodation reception before departing (either for vacation, at the end of your agreement, early departure or withdrawal).
If reception is closed you can deposit your key/fob in the reception's drop box.
Alternatively you can return your key/fob to Campus Security and email accomm@kent.ac.uk within 48 hours to notify us this is where you have returned your keys.
Failure to return keys/fobs on time can result in replacement fines and additional accommodation charges.
If you want to move out but continue to study at Kent you are liable to pay your accommodation fees until a suitable replacement tenant can move in (as outlined in the Accommodation T&Cs ).
Should you still wish to leave, you will need to complete an Application for an Early Termination of the Agreement .
Please note, that completing this form does not mean your agreement will be ended early.
If there are additional factors you would like the University to consider, please send these in writing for formal consideration.
Applications on the grounds of disability, medical condition or mental health will be reviewed by Student Support and Wellbeing and must be submitted by email .
Please find further information about this in the Application for an Early Termination of the Agreement .
You must return your keys/fob to reception (or their key drop box out of hours) before you depart.
If you are also withdrawing from University read these additional instructions .
This information applies to students who applied to live in Pier Quays directly through the University rather than Unite Students.
If you applied via Unite please contact them for more information.
If you want to move out but continue to study at the University, you should be aware that as outlined in the Accommodation T&Cs , you are liable to pay your fees until a suitable replacement tenant can move in, or for the full contract period.
Currently it is unlikely you will be able to find a suitable replacement tenant.
If knowing this you still want to leave, you will need to notify Pier Quays as soon as possible.
If you're leaving due to a health need or extreme circumstance, please contact the Accommodation Team to discuss.
In order to be considered for release on these grounds we need a supporting letter from a medical professional confirming university accommodation is unsuitable for you and explaining the reasons.
If you are withdrawing from University read these additional instructions
If you are intermitting, withdrawing or deregistering, please read these additional instructions .
Please note, it is your responsibility not your school’s/division’s to notify the Accommodation Office (and Pier Quays if you live in Medway and booked your accommodation directly through the University rather than Unite Students) that you may not
be arriving on campus or vacating your campus accommodation early due to your
circumstance.
If you accepted an offer of accommodation on campus, you must complete an Application for an Early Termination of the Agreement .
If you are taking re-sits without
attendance during term-time, you will also need to complete the Application for an Early Termination of the Agreement .
If you live in Pier Quays and booked your room through Unite Students you will need to contact them direct to discuss the procedure you need to follow.
More info is available in your Accommodation T&Cs or Handbook .
Canterbury : If you are unhappy with where you live, we recommend that you contact us in the Accommodation Office who will be able to offer support and talk through your concerns.
If you have issues about room cleanliness or maintenance you can also speak to Housekeeping.
In certain circumstances, we may also be able to offer a room move.
Any student wishing to apply for a room change must contact the Accommodation Team using the online form in November.
Full information on room move dos and don'ts and how to apply is available on our living on campus page .
Once a transfer has been officially agreed, arranged and completed there is a £50 change of contract fee
Please note, informal exchanges of rooms are not permitted and may result in fines.
You can also read the Terms and Conditions of the Accommodation Agreement to find out more.
Medway: If you are living in Pier Quays and wish to move rooms you should contact Pier Quays directly to discuss your concerns.
You should always make arrangements for any items to be shipped or stored before you leave as you and all belongings are expected to have left by the end of your accommodation agreement.
However, if due to extenuating circumstances you don't think you will be able to return to campus to collect your belongings before the end of your agreement you can nominate another University of Kent student to pack up and collect your belongings, with prior consent from the Accommodation Team.
To arrange this you you will need to email the Accommodation Office with at least 3 working days notice.
In the email you should include:
There are also a number of local and national companies, independent from the University, offering storage, shipping and packing services.
See the below question for more information.
Find out more information about moving out on our webpage .
Unfortunately we are unable to offer any storage facilities for students on campus, meaning you should always make arrangements for any items to be shipped or stored that you are not taking with you before you leave.
As outlined in your terms and conditions you and all your belongings are expected to have left by the end of your accommodation agreement.
There are a number of local companies offering storage facilities (independent from the University) that can offer storage or shipping services until you are able to return with some also offering a packing service.
If under extreme circumstances you have had to leave and have arranged for a company to come onto campus to pack your belongings after you have left, you will need to email the Accommodation Office with at least 5 working days notice.
You will need to contact the Accommodation Office as soon as possible if you will not be arriving or can no longer occupy your
room to discuss your options.
Typically, your room agreement and accommodation fees will then be
ended early subject to a four-week notice period of the date of your
notification providing you have officially intermitted your studies or opted to
take re-sits without attending via your Division.
If you do not notify
the Accommodation Office of your non-arrival, you will still be considered as in need of accommodation and will continue to be charged
accommodation fees.
Students planning a year abroad or an industry placement during the academic year may request campus accommodation if their placement is in the local area.
Students placed outside the local area must confirm their placement's feasibility before accepting a legally binding campus accommodation agreement.
If they sign the agreement and later choose to pursue their year abroad or industry placement, they will not be automatically released.
Instead, they must find a suitable replacement tenant before being released from their contract.
For more details, please refer to Section 11: Termination and Suspension of the Agreement in the Accommodation Terms and Conditions 2025/2026 .
Planned building enhancements are required to improve
elements of the building fabric in terms of appearance, resilience, and
continued performance to achieve its purpose and life expectancy.
This supports
our ongoing commitment to providing safe, compliant, and well-maintained
accommodation for our residents.
The current plan is for building enhancements to take place from
September 2025 to August 2026.
As the programme detail develops, UPP will share
information with students about when and where work will be taking place in
their building.
To minimise noise, disturbance, and visual obstruction across
all of Woolf College blocks, we will aim to conduct the work in phases so that
only the blocks having enhancements will be impacted during that specific time.
Yes, it is completely safe for residents to live in Woolf College
whilst work is ongoing.
The project team will ensure that general access routes
and all fire exits are always kept open and fully accessible, managing the
works carefully to minimise any disruption.
There will be a dedicated, regular
management presence on-site during the works.
The
daily work programme is still being defined; however, working hours are
expected to be Monday to Friday 8am – 6pm and Saturdays 8am – 1pm.
Any changes
to these hours will be communicated closer to commencement of the building
enhancements.
Disruption will be kept to a minimum and monitored closely
on a periodic basis.
Access equipment may obstruct the view from your window
when work is being carried out on the block you live in.
We will
give you advance notice and abide by a strict pre-agreed protocol with student
privacy, welfare and wellbeing in mind including being sensitive to students
with specific requirements.
Access or movement within the buildings will not be impacted
during the planned building enhancement works.
Fire exits will not be blocked under
any circumstances.
Essential works are scheduled to
overhaul doors within student flats, alongside repairs within service risers
and above ceilings.
We understand that construction
activities, especially within shared living spaces, can be inconvenient.
To
help address this, each affected student will be supplied with a food voucher to
offset any disruption caused by the work.
When
the external works are carried out, measures will be taken to preserve privacy
e.g.
translucent security film may be applied externally to windows of
the buildings being worked on.
The film allows you to look out of your window
but will prevent people from seeing in, further details on these measures will be communicated to
you in due course.
The current plan is to complete the building enhancements as
efficiently as possible by working through the year including the exam period
with careful management to minimise disruption and inconvenience, however, this
will remain under review and any changes communicated to you in due course .
Additional engagement will take place with any residents having
specific needs to ensure their requirements are met.
The current plan is to offer Woolf College residents a
discount on rent during the weeks their block is undergoing building enhancements
however, the level of compensation will depend on the approach to the building
enhancements for which options are currently being developed.
Please look out for further communication regarding the preferred option.
Any agreed rental discount will be applied to your student account once the work on your block is completed.
If you are unhappy whilst work is taking place, we recommend
that you contact the Accommodation Office which will be able to offer support and
talk through your concerns.
In certain circumstances, we may also be able to offer a room
move, but this is not guaranteed.
Any student wishing to apply for a room move must apply
using the online form in November.
Full information on room moves is available on our living
on campus page .
Please note, that informal exchanges of rooms are not
permitted under any circumstances.
You can also read the Terms
and Conditions of the Accommodation Agreement to find out more.
Please contact the Accommodation Office if you have any feedback, questions,
or concerns.
This follows similar works previously
completed at Turing College.
To minimise noise, disturbance, and visual obstruction across
all of Keynes College blocks, we will aim to conduct the work in phases so that
only the blocks having enhancements will be impacted during that specific time.
Yes, it is completely safe for residents to live in Keynes College
whilst work is ongoing.
There will be a dedicated, regular
management presence on site during the works.
Any changes
to these hours will be communicated closer to the commencement of the building
enhancements.
The current plan is to complete the building enhancements as
efficiently as possible by working through the year including the exam period
with careful management to minimise disruption and inconvenience, however this
will remain under review and any changes communicated to you in due course.
The current plan is to offer Keynes College residents a
discount on rent during the weeks their block is undergoing building enhancements
however the level of compensation will depend on the approach to the building
enhancements for which options are currently being developed.
If you are unhappy whilst work is taking place, we recommend
that you contact
the Accommodation Office who will be
able to offer support and talk through your concerns.
Let us know!
We're always adding new questions so just get in touch if you haven't found the answers you need here.
Canterbury : Some of the answers to our most commonly asked FAQs can be found on one of these pages: Living on Campus , Arrivals , or Application Timeline .
Otherwise just contact us !
Medway : Try our Pier Quays page , Application Timeline , Living in Pier Quays or our Arrivals page before getting in touch directly with Unite Students .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/scholarships/search/FNADKFSPAK01:
If you are eligible, receive an offer and pay your tuition fee deposit on or before 26th August, 2025, you'll get a Scholarship of £5,000 as a discount against your tuition fee, for one year of study.
The deadline for September 2025 has passed.
Information on the scholarship for January 2026 will be published here when available.
If you are domiciled in Pakistan, you could qualify for our Kent Future Student Scholarship, worth £5,000.
Open to postgraduate taught applicants of full time UK programmes.
Applicants must have paid their tuition fee deposit by 26th August, 2025 for a £5,000 discount*.
This scholarship is for students beginning their degrees in September 2025 only.
Please note that this scholarship is only available to students assessed as self-funded overseas fee payers who are paying fees directly to the University of Kent.
Applicants who have applied for a Masters which includes an integrated pre-Masters are not eligible to receive the scholarship.
Applicants who have applied for distance learning programmes are not eligible.
Applicants who have applied for a PCert or PDip programme are not eligible.
This award is not stackable unless the applicant is coming to us through a progression agreement, in which case both the Kent Future Students Pakistan Scholarship - Postgraduate Taught and progression discount can be awarded.
Should you apply for a higher value scholarship and be successful then you will receive the higher value award.
The Kent Future Students Pakistan Scholarship - Postgraduate Taught will then be retracted.
This award is also open to international students who are normally domiciled in an eligible country, but who are currently resident in the UK for purposes of study.
*Please note that these deadlines cannot be extended under any circumstances.
If you have received your offer and have not yet paid the international deposit you can pay via our online store, which will also give you the option to pay via Flywire:
• Applicants new to Kent • Applicants who are currently studying at Kent
To help verify the deposit and confirm the scholarship, we recommend that applicants pay via a non-bank transfer option.
Once you’ve done this, no further action is required.
However, if you do pay via bank transfer you will need to email your proof of payment to international@kent.ac.uk order to be eligible for the scholarship.
There is no application process.
All eligible applicants who have paid their deposit by the stated deadlines will be contacted with a scholarship offer in due course, which they will need to accept.
If you would like to check your eligibility, to verify a deposit payment, or for any general queries regarding this award, please contact international@kent.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/scholarships/search/FNADKFSAFR01:
If you are eligible, receive an offer and pay your tuition fee deposit on or before 26th August, 2025, you'll get a Scholarship of £3,000 as a discount against your tuition fee, for one year of study.
If you are domiciled in an African country, you could qualify for our Kent Future Student Scholarship, worth £3,000.
Open to postgraduate taught applicants of full-time UK programmes.
Applicants must have paid their tuition fee deposit by 26th August, 2025 for a £3,000 discount*.
This award is not stackable unless the applicant is coming to us through a progression agreement, in which case both the Kent Future Students Africa Scholarship - Postgraduate Taught and progression discount can be awarded.
The Kent Future Students Africa Scholarship - Postgraduate Taught will then be retracted.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/scholarships/search/FNADKFSGBL01:
If you are eligible, receive an offer and pay your tuition fee deposit on or before 26th August, 2025, you'll get a Scholarship of £2,000 as a discount against your tuition fee, for one year of study.
If you are domiciled in one of the countries listed below, you could qualify for our Kent Future Student Scholarship, worth £2,000.
Open to postgraduate taught applicants of full time UK programmes domiciled in:
Applicants must have paid their tuition fee deposit by 26th August 2025 for a £2000 discount**.
This award is not stackable unless the applicant is coming to us through a progression agreement, in which case both the Kent Future Students Global Scholarship - Postgraduate Taught and progression discount can be awarded.
The Kent Future Students Global Scholarship - Postgraduate Taught will then be retracted.
* Please see ‘How to Apply’ section for USA deposit requirements.
**Please note that these deadlines cannot be extended under any circumstances.
*In accordance with US Federal and Title IV regulations, a tuition fee deposit will not be a requirement for US students to be awarded this scholarship.
The scholarship may still be awarded before a tuition fee deposit has been paid.
All international students including US students are required to pay a tuition fee deposit to secure their place, demonstrate commitment to studying, and to ensure the university can issue a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) for visa applications.
Students who are eligible and apply for a US federal student loan to cover the full cost of the tuition fees will be exempt from paying the tuition fee deposit.
Any applicant who provides verified documents confirming that they will be fully funded by a scholarship or sponsored by a national/government-based organisation, will also be exempt from paying the tuition fee deposit.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/scholarships/search/FNADKFSIND01:
If you are domiciled in India, you could qualify for our Kent Future Student Scholarship, worth £5,000.
Please note that this scholarship is only available to students assessed as self-funded overseas fee payers who are paying fees directly to University of Kent.
This award is not stackable unless the applicant is coming to us through a progression agreement, in which case both the Kent Future Students India Scholarship - Postgraduate Taught and progression discount can be awarded.
Should you apply for a higher value scholarship and be successful, then you will receive the higher value award.
The Kent Future Students India Scholarship - Postgraduate Taught will then be retracted.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/scholarships/search/FNADACEXIN01:
£3,000 tuition fee discount for the first year of study with a further £1,000 awarded in year 2 and £1,000 in year 3, conditional upon maintaining a 60% or 2:1 average.
Available to overseas fee paying entrants to undergraduate programmes starting in September 2025 who meet the required criteria by 31 August 2025.
The award will be awarded to overseas fee paying applicants of the University of Kent who meet all the criteria below.
Applicants must be domiciled in one of the following countries:
Applicants must also:
Please also note the following:
Qualifications and Grades required
Please use the UCAS Tariff calculator if needed to determine whether you will be eligible: https://www.ucas.com/ucas/tariff-calculator
A levels
ABB or A Levels equivalent to 128 UCAS tariff points, across a maximum of 3 grades.
BTEC Diploma
Equivalent to 128 UCAS tariff points
International Baccalaureate
33 Points
European Baccalaureate
76%
NCUK Foundation
NCUK International Year One
60%
INTO Foundation
63%
International Year One
Other qualifications – If you are domiciled in any of the above countries but your qualification is not listed here, please contact international@kent.ac.uk .
The University has a long tradition of welcoming international students from around the world and is pleased to be able to offer guaranteed awards for entry at undergraduate level for students who meet certain academic requirements.
The £3,000 will be paid for the first year of study and will continue at £1,000 each year for any subsequent years of study, conditional upon maintaining a 60% or 2:1 average, up to a maximum of two further years.
There is no application form to complete.
If you have applied to the University of Kent and have attained the qualifications and grades required for the award, you will receive your award letter via your KentVision portal within a few weeks of receiving an unconditional offer.
To receive the award, you must accept the terms and conditions attached to the award letter by 15 September 2025.
If you have any questions, please contact the Scholarships Office by email at scholarships@kent.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/scholarships/search/FNADGLOWEL01:
£2,500 tuition fee discount
The application deadline for this scholarship has passed.
You must meet all of the following conditions:
POINTS TO NOTE:
The Law School has established a major fund to support overseas students who study a taught LLM at the University’s Canterbury campus.
Overseas students from any country which receives Official Development Assistance (ODA) from the OECD who undertake a full-time, taught LLM at the Canterbury Campus of the University of Kent.
The list of countries is extensive, and amongst the countries included are Thailand, India, Nigeria, Kenya, Brazil, China, Turkey and many more.
This award provided a tuition fee discount of £2,500 to entrants who meet the eligibility conditions stated above.
Applications can be made via your Kent Applicant Portal before the deadline following acceptance of an offer of a place on one of the courses detailed above.
Please contact scholarships@kent.ac.uk with any general questions.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/scholarships/search/FNADSOLPRA01:
£2,000 tuition fee discount (Home Students)
£3,000 tuition fee discount (Overseas Students)
For Overseas Applicants:
Hold a valid passport demonstrating nationality of a country receiving ODA funding from the OECD.
A full list of countries can be found on the OECD website
Be classified by the University of Kent as an Overseas student for tuition fee purposes
Be fully self-funded
For ALL Applicants:
Have applied for the taught Kent LLM in Solicitors’ Practice at the Canterbury Campus of the University of Kent for entry in September 2025
Have received an offer of a place on the taught LLM  in Solicitors’ Practice by the scholarship application deadline.
Submit a scholarship application (details below) by the scholarship application deadline (please note that we are unable to consider applicants for the award without an application)
You must meet the academic conditions of entry/be accepted for entry for the award to be given.
This award cannot be held in conjunction with other awards and scholarships
Graduates of the University of Kent are eligible for the award if they meet the stated conditions
Where students are required to continue their studies beyond their original period of registration, the award will only be provided for that original period of registration.
To celebrate the inaugural year of the LLM Solicitors’ Practice Course at Kent (which complements the already established MLaw Integrated Course), and to coincide with the University of Kent’s 60th Anniversary celebrations, we are proud to offer these scholarships to all applicants who apply and satisfy the criteria outlined above.
Applications can be made before the deadline via your Kent Applicant Portal following receipt of an application for admission to the LLM in Solicitors’ Practice course.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/scholarships/search/FNADTHLLMS01:
£3,000 tuition fee discount
The Law School has established a major fund to support Thai students who study a second LLM at the University’s Canterbury campus.
The Law School has a substantial Thai student community, many of whom undertake two LLM programmes with us.
We are delighted to support our taught postgraduate Thai student community at Canterbury, and help facilitate their professional ambitions, through this award.
This award provides a tuition fee discount of £3,000 to the first 25 entrants who meet the eligibility conditions stated above.
Applications can be made via your Kent Applicant Portal before the deadline following receipt of an application for admission to one of the courses detailed above.
Please contact scholarships@kent.ac.uk with any questions.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/scholarships/search/FNADLLBGRE01:
£2,000 tuition fee discount per annum for each year of study (subject to satisfactory academic progress).
For a maximum of 2 years.
Applications can be made before the deadline via your Kent Applicant Portal following receipt of an application for admission to one of the courses detailed above.
Please contact scholarships@kent.ac.uk if you have any questions about this scholarship.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/scholarships/search/FNADINMASA02:
£6,000
The deadline for round 1 applications has now passed.
Applicants for this scholarship will need to demonstrate the following:
Please note that this scholarship is only available to students assessed as overseas fee payers.
Applicants who have applied for a Masters which includes an integrated pre-Masters are not eligible to apply.
The University has a long tradition of welcoming international students from around the world and is pleased to be able to offer a number of scholarships for entry at taught master's level.
These awards will be paid towards the cost of tuition fees and are offered to nationals of any country paying overseas fees.
There are two entry points for this scholarship.
Applicants unable to submit an application or who were unsuccessful in Round 1 of scholarships are encouraged to submit again in Round 2.
Applications for the International Scholarship must be made via your applicant portal .
Once logged in, click on the applications tab, and select your submitted application.
Click on the funding button.
You will then see a list of scholarships that you may be eligible to apply for.
You will be able to apply for the International Scholarship once you have received an offer.
Click on Apply and follow the steps to submit your application.
If you have applied for a programme with the Medway School of Pharmacy, please email scholarships@kent.ac.uk .
Scholarships will be shortlisted based on academic achievement to date.
Final decisions may also take into consideration information already provided as part of your programme application, such as your ‘Reasons for study’ statement and any references received.
The final recruitment and selection panel(s) will take place in the week commencing 28 April 2025.
Applicants will be notified of the final decision shortly thereafter.
If successful, scholarship offer must be accepted within 2 weeks of receiving the award.
The University of Kent reserves the right not to allocate the awards if the selection panel identifies no suitable candidates.
The International Scholarship is subject to full University of Kent Scholarship Terms and Conditions, which will be provided to successful candidates at the point of award.
If you have any questions regarding the International Scholarships, then please contact international@kent.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/scholarships/search/FNADIWILS001:
50% of the tuition fees for one year of study
The deadline for the 2025/26 academic year has now passed.
*Please note that the scholarship deadline cannot be extended under any circumstances.
This includes applicants that have not received an offer before 23 May.
This is not stackable with any other scholarships or discounts.
We are delighted to offer 5 scholarships which will cover 50% of the tuition fees for one year of study, to female students from India, applying to our taught Masters programmes.
This scholarship will support the increasing focus on greater representation of women in senior leadership positions in India and will build on the success of current and female previous students who have excelled in a range of courses including Business, Forensic Science and Computing.
This scholarship is administered and awarded exclusively by the University of Kent.
In order to apply for this scholarship you must have made an application for a programme of study at: https://www.kent.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/how-to-apply/index.html .
All documents must be in either Microsoft Word or PDF format, documents that are not sent in this format, will not be reviewed.
Please do NOT send documents via Google Docs or SharePoint.
Please direct any queries regarding this award to scholarships@kent.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/scholarships/search/FNADBESTWA01:
£26,000
Details for 2026/27 will be updated in 2026.
† Please note this award is not available for students applying for PhD programmes, the International Incorporated Masters, or Masters programmes that include a year in industry.
It should also be noted that this scholarship cannot be held in conjunction with any other scholarship.
Together with The Bestway Foundation we are delighted to offer 6 scholarships of £26,000 (Tuition fees plus maintenance) to students from and domiciled in Pakistan, applying to our Postgraduate one year Masters‡ programmes in Science, Technology and Mathematics.
The University of Kent has a long tradition of welcoming international students from around the world and is excited to offer this new scholarship in partnership with The Bestway Foundation.
Prospective applicants to the scholarship are requested not to contact the Bestway Foundation directly, but to contact scholarships@kent.ac.uk with any enquiries.
The Scholarships will cover tuition fees and contribute towards maintenance award for the 2025/26 academic year.
‡Please note that this includes both taught Masters programmes and Masters programmes by research.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/international-college/international-year-zero:
The International Year Zero (IYZ) is the first year of an
integrated 4-year programme.
Your first year is taught at University of Kent
International College (UK IC) on the Canterbury campus.
Once you successfully
complete this year, you will continue studying the remaining stages of your
degree at University of Kent.
During the three terms of the IYZ programme, you’ll gain
additional skills in your chosen study route and the necessary English language
skills to succeed during your studies.
This year caters specifically for the
needs of international students to develop subject-specific knowledge with a strong
focus on improving your academic English language skills in preparation for
studying at University of Kent.
Duration 4 years: 1 year pathway + 3 years degree Start dates January, September April (two term intensive)* English Language Requirement January, September - IELTS 5.5 with no less than 5.5 in each component April - IELTS 6.0 with no less than 5.5 in each component Pathway tuition fee 2023/24 January, September - £17,995 April - £12,995 *Subject to programme approval

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/international-college/international-incorporated-masters:
The International Incorporated Master's (IIM) is offered over
one or two terms and focuses on equipping you with the academic English
language skills and subject-specific knowledge you need to complete your
postgraduate study at the University of Kent.
It is designed for students who do not qualify for direct
entry to a Master’s degree - perhaps because of the grades achieved in a bachelor
degree – or if current qualifications are not directly equivalent to a UK
bachelor degree.
After successfully completing the IIM programme you will
continue onto you chosen postgraduate degree course at the University of Kent.
Duration 3 or 6 month pathway + 1 year degree Start dates One term - June, September Two term - January, April Pathway tuition fee 2023/24 One term - £6,250 Two term - £12,500 English Language Requirement One term - IELTS 6.0 or equivalent (with no skill below 5.5) Two term - IELTS 5.5 or equivalent (with no skill below 5.5)

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/student-immigration/visa:
The UK Visas & Immigration (UKVI) is a department of the Home Office.
The Home Office is the lead government department for immigration and passports.
Education
providers must be licensed by UKVI if they wish to recruit international
students.
The University of Kent is a licensed Student visa sponsor.
Depending on your nationality and personal circumstances, you may need a visa to study in the UK.
You can find out if you need a visa by completing UKVI's online checking tool .
The type of visa you will apply for depends on the length and level of your course, as well as your personal circumstances.
Overseas students may require a Student route visa (previously known as a Tier 4 visa) and are sponsored by the University.
If you hold a British passport, you will not be subject to UK immigration control (ie you will not need a visa).
The type of visa that you need to apply for is determined by your choice of programme and length of study.
Overseas students who are travelling to the UK to study at the University of Kent may need a Student visa, previously known as a Tier 4 visa.
In order to get this visa, students must first apply for a Confirmation of Acceptance of Studies (CAS) , and may require an Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) certificate .
Full information can be found on the Student visa webpage .
If you a national of a country included on the GOV.UK Appendix Visitor Visa National List , you can apply for entry clearance to visit the UK as a Standard Visitor to study a course of less than six months in length (unless it's a distance learning course).
If you are a national of a country NOT included in the list above, you can enter the UK without a visa in advance and will be admitted as a visitor upon entry (either by a stamp in your passport or via eGates if eligible).
Full information on coming to study as a visitor can be found on the Standard Visitor visa webpage.
An ETA gives you permission to travel to the UK.
You can apply now if you are a national of:
You must be a national of one of these countries and travel using a national passport.
You cannot use other types of passports or travel documents.
The Graduate visa gives international students permission to stay in the UK and work, or look for work, for at least 2 years after successfully completing a course in the UK.
It is essentially the re-introduction of a post-study work visa.
Full information can be found on the Graduate visa webpage .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/applicants/postgraduate-applicants:
We’re here to support you through your postgraduate application.
Find out about the funding on offer, our graduate community and everything that makes Kent the right place for postgraduate study.
To view your application or to ask us a question, just log in to KentVision.
You’ll need the email address you applied with, or your 8-digit Kent ID number, to log in.
Explore the options available to you via our multimillion-pound scholarship fund.
Find out what you need to do next to help you prepare for your studies at Kent.
As part of the graduate community, you can take advantage of our skills development programmes.
Our postgrad accommodation is convenient for lectures, labs and study spaces.
Find out more.
Check the visa and English language requirements needed to study at Kent, and the support we offer.
Meet us in person or online at our Open Events.
Hear from a EPSRC funded PhD student
Find out how EPSRC funding has supported Tom's research at Kent.
Learn more
Take a tour of our Canterbury and Medway campuses
Explore our fabulous Kent campuses with our virtual tour.
Take the tour
Study advanced, flexible MAs and PhDs
Our students at the Paris School of Arts and Culture talk about the benefits of studying in the city.
Discover SLAS Services and Study Guides
Study skills, writing, maths, assignment and revision support for all postgraduate students.
Meet some of our postgraduate students and discover what it's like being a student at Kent.
Come to one of our open events and imagine your future at Kent.
Find out about the policies and procedures relating to applications and admissions.
Contact us about a course, your application or other university services.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/applicants/international-applicants:
When you choose Kent for international study, you're choosing the perfect gateway to the world beyond.
A place for unlocking your ambition and achieving your goals.
You can chat to current Kent students on The Ambassador Platform.
Get the lowdown on life at Kent from the students who are living the experience first hand.
Use our student immigration information to guide you through the visa process.
We offfer a range of financial support for international students.
Find your home from home at Canterbury or Medway.
Explore your options and find out how to apply.
Our Pre-sessional courses can help you to improve your proficiency in English language.
Hear from our students about their experiences of being an international student at Kent

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/locations/canterbury/directions:
We highly recommend you plan your journey prior to travelling and check the Transport Campus Travel Updates page to keep you updated on known local disruptions so that you can stay prepared.
Assistance for planning your journey to campus for our Arrivals Weekend.
There is also B&B accommodation available in Tyler Court.
For more information or to book please visit the Accommodation page .
There are frequent, high speed train services to Canterbury from St Pancras International.
There are also direct services from London Victoria, London Charing Cross, Ebbsfleet International and Ashford International.
The University is just a short bus or taxi ride direct from Canterbury East and Canterbury West railway stations.
For more information on getting here by train, please visit the Transport Canterbury train travel page .
From Canterbury East Railway Station: This station is approximately a 45-minute walk from the campus.
You can view the journey on google maps.
From Canterbury West Railway Station: This station is approximately a 25-minute walk from the campus.
You will turn left out of the station and walk to the end of the road.
Just after the 'Goods Shed' market on your left, take the footpath on the left and take the subway under the railway line.
The University is signposted on blue signs from here.
From Canterbury Bus Station: This station is approximately a 45-minute walk from the campus.
When planning your journey to walk or cycle find the building you are visiting first on our maps page .
Insert the postcode given for the building you are visiting first within the online tool you are using to navigate.
There are some useful links to online tools and maps on our walking planning your journey advice pages.
There are buses every 10 minutes from Canterbury bus station to campus: either the Unibus 1, Unibus 2, or the Triangle services.
This journey takes approximately 15 minutes.
For more information on getting here by bus, please visit the Tra nsport Stagecoach bus travel page.
The 022 and 007 National Express service regularly operate to our campus Keynes bus stop .
This journey takes approximately 2 hours and 15 minutes.
For more information on getting here by coach, please visit the Transport coach travel page .
Refer to by Car Directions .
Rail from France, Belgium, Netherlands : take the Eurostar to St Pancras International.
Then change to National Rail service to Canterbury West.
Plan your journey: Eurostar and National Rail
Driving from France: take Le Shuttle from Calais to the Folkestone Eurotunnel Terminal.
From the terminal, follow signs to Folkestone, Dover, Canterbury and Ramsgate (M20/A20).
Stay on the A20 until instructed to join the A260 signposted Canterbury.
Plan your journey: EuroTunnel (Le Shuttle)
Ferry from Calais or Dunkirk: Ferries, including those operated by DFDS Seaways and P&O , go from the Port of Dover to Calais or Dunkirk.
Then use the National Rail Service from Dover Priory to Canterbury East Rail Station.
You will then use the local bus service , taxi or walk to the University.
Travel links to University of Kent.
The information below is for travelling by train to Canterbury.
The National Express also runs an airport transfer service .
From London Heathrow: take the underground to London Victoria then rail to Canterbury.
Alternatively, take the Heathrow Express to Paddington, underground to St Pancras International then rail to Canterbury.
Approximate journey time 2 hours 20 minutes.
Plan your journey: from Heathrow
From London Gatwick: take the train to London St Pancras International then high-speed rail to Canterbury.
Approximate journey time 2 hours.
Alternatively, take the train to London Bridge then rail to Canterbury.
Approximate journey time 2 hours 15 minutes.
Plan your journey: from Gatwick
From London Stansted: take the train to Tottenham Hale then the underground to the National Rail mainline station you intend to travel from.
Alternatively, take the Stansted Express to London Liverpool Street, then the underground to your National Rail mainline station.
From here, see the Getting here by rail section .
Approximate journey time 2 hours 30 minutes.
Plan your journey: from Stansted
From London Luton: take the train from Luton Airport Parkway to London St Pancras International then high-speed rail to Canterbury.
Plan your journey: from Luton
When planning your journey by car use the following Navigations to direct you to our Canterbury campus:
The campus is less than two miles from Canterbury city centre.
It can be accessed by road from the west via A290 Whitstable Road or from the east via St Stephen’s Hill.
From London, the North and East Anglia (via M25 clockwise): Exit the M25 at junction 2 onto the A2 Canterbury.
Continue on A2/M2 and exit at junction 7 then follow signs to Canterbury.
From the West and South-West (via M25 anticlockwise): Exit the M25 at junction 5 and continue on M26(M20) signposted Maidstone.
Exit the M20 at junction 7 onto A249 Sheerness.
Exit left onto M2 for Canterbury, exit the M2 at junction 7 then follow signs to Canterbury.
From Canterbury to the campus (v ia A2 eastbound/London): Rheims Way, London Road, Whitstable Road, University Road.
Via A2 westbound: Wincheap, Rheims Way, London Road, Whitstable Road, University Road.
There is limited parking available on campus and parking spaces cannot be guaranteed.
We would, therefore, advise visitors to use public transport wherever possible.
For more information on car parking on campus, please visit the Transport visitor parking page .
University of Kent Canterbury Kent England CT2 7ND
Tel: +44 (0)1227 76 4000
Find out how to get here and what you'll find when you arrive

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/locations/medway/directions:
Chatham and Gillingham train stations are the most accessible stations for the campus and have regular services from Charing Cross, Waterloo East, London Bridge, Cannon Street, London Victoria, London St Pancras International, Ramsgate and Dover.
The University is a short bus or taxi ride from both stations.
Chatham station is 2.3 miles from campus, approx.
45 min walk or 5 min by bus.
Gillingham station is 1.2 miles from campus, approx.
20 min walk or 10 min by bus (the bus stop is 5 min walk from the station).
A high-speed service is available from London St Pancras to Ebbsfleet International with a journey time of approx 20 minutes.
From Ebbsfleet you can catch a connecting train to Chatham which takes approx 20 minutes.
For more information on getting here by train, please visit the Transport train travel page.
From Chatham train station: Arriva buses 1, 100, and 101 leave frequently from the bus stops outside Chatham train station and take approximately 15 minutes to get to the campus.
The bus stop for these services is on Dock Road, just outside the campus entrance.
This is known as the Chatham Maritime stop or the Compass Centre stop.
From elsewhere in Medway: Arriva bus 116 travels through the Medway campus itself from Chatham waterfront bus station through to Hempstead Valley.
For more information on getting here by bus, please visit the Transport Arriva bus travel page .
From London Heathrow: take the underground to London Victoria then rail to Chatham.
Plan your journey from Heathrow
From London Gatwick: take the Gatwick Express to London Victoria then train to Chatham.
Approximate journey time 90 minutes.
Plan your journey from Gatwick
From London Stansted : take the train to Tottenham Hale station, then the underground to London Victoria.
From Victoria take the train to Chatham.
Approximate journey time two hours.
Plan your journey from Stansted
From London Luton: take the train to London St Pancras railway station, then the underground to London Victoria.
Plan your journey from Luton
National Express also runs an airport transfer service .
For more information on getting here by air, please visit the Transport international travel page.
The postcode for Pembroke is ME4 4AG, the Historic Dockyard postcode is ME4 4TY.
The postcode for Pier Quays (student accommodation) is ME7 1FL.
From London, the North and East Anglia (via M25 clockwise) and from the West and South-West (via M25 anticlockwise): Exit M25 at junction 2 signposted A2 Canterbury, where the A2 becomes the M2 at junction 1 leave the motorway and continue on the A2 signposted Gillingham.
Follow the brown anchor signs for the Historic Dockyard and Chatham Maritime via the A289 and the Medway Tunnel.
Take the first exit directly after emerging from the tunnel, turn right at the end of slip road, leading up Maritime Way towards Chatham.
The campus entrance is the first exit at the next roundabout, signposted Pembroke and Universities at Medway.
From the South-East: Leave M2 at junction 4 signposted Gillingham.
Follow the brown anchor signs for the Historic Dockyard and Chatham Maritime via the A278, A2 and A289.
Take the last exit just before the Medway Tunnel, signposted Chatham and Historic Dockyard.
At the end of the slip road, turn left up Maritime Way towards Chatham.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/visit/postgraduate-events/faqs/travel-and-parking:
To get in touch with any specific questions, please call +44 (0)1227 768896 or email information@kent.ac.uk .
All parking is free of charge for Postgraduate Information Events.
Please be aware that parking is limited and cannot be guaranteed.
We would therefore advise visitors to use public transport wherever possible.
If you plan to arrive by train or bus, you can travel from the train or bus stations to the Canterbury campus using the local bus service.
If you come by car you will be directed to a car park by our traffic marshals when you arrive.
The postcode for satellite navigation is CT2 7NP (University Road).
On arrival you will be directed to a car park by our traffic marshals.
If you require an accessible bay, just let the traffic marshals know (please bring your blue badge with you if you have one) and they will direct you to the relevant car park.
Unfortunately, we cannot reserve accessible parking bays during Postgraduate Information Events.
On arrival at the University, you will be directed to a car park by by our traffic marshals.
If you require an accessible bay, just let the traffic marshals know and they will direct you to the relevant car park.
Canterbury has two train stations - Canterbury East and Canterbury West.
The bus station is located in the city centre.
Buses depart from Canterbury Bus Station and call at Canterbury East train station shortly afterwards.
If you are arriving at Canterbury West, please exit the station, turn right and walk to the end of the road.
Cross the road at the zebra crossing and the bus stop is on the left.
Journey time to campus is approximately 15 minutes.
Train timetables are available online from National Rail or the Trainline
The University is unable to reimburse any costs incurred for travelling to the Postgraduate Information Events.
There are plenty of hotels close to the Canterbury campus.
Please visit the Canterbury tourist information website for details.
We also have a limited number of rooms available on campus at our self-catered guest accommodation Beverley Farmhouse on the Canterbury campus.
Single and double rooms are available, all with shared bathroom and kitchen facilities.
You can call our Information and Admissions team on +44 (0)1227 768896 if you have any questions regarding our Postgraduate Information Events.
Pembroke site
If you are using satellite navigation, please use the postcode for the Drill Hall Library car park on the Pembroke site, which is ME4 4TB.
On arrival, please follow the signage to the car parks, where our traffic marshals will direct you where to park.
The Historic Dockyard
Parking is free of charge for University of Kent Postgraduate Information Event visitors.
The Dockyard is across the roundabout outside the entrance to the Pembroke site.
From the roundabout, at the junction of Maritime Way and Dock Road, take the exit signposted The Historic Dockyard.
The postcode is ME4 4TY.
If you require an accessible bay, just let the traffic marshals know (please bring your blue badge with you if you have one) and they will direct you to the accessible bays.
If you are visiting the facilities for Kent Business School or the Centre for Music and Audio Technology and have stated on your booking form that you have special requirements (eg mobility) then we will email you an accessible parking permit via the email address you supplied when you made your booking.
On arrival at the Pembroke site, you will be directed to the Drill Hall Library car park by by our traffic marshals.
If you require an accessible bay, just let the marshals know and they will direct you to the accessible bays.
Chatham and Gillingham train stations are the most accessible station for the Medway campus and have regular services from Charing Cross, Waterloo East, London Bridge, Cannon Street, London Victoria, Ramsgate and Dover.
A high speed service is available from London St Pancras to Ebbsfleet International with a journey time of approximately 20 minutes.
From Ebbsfleet, you can catch a connecting train to Chatham which takes approximately 20 minutes.
Train timetables are available online from National Rail Enquiries or The Trainline
Arriva bus service number 116 runs to and from Hempstead Valley - Gillingham - Universities@Medway - Chatham and allows you to travel directly onto the Medway campus.
Arriva bus services 100, 190 and 191 leave frequently from the bus stop outside Chatham train station and take approximately 15 minutes to get to the bus stop on Dock Road outside the entrance to the Medway campus.
This is known as the Compass Centre stop or the Chatham Maritime stop.
Local bus timetables can be found on the Arriva website and taxis are available at Chatham and Gillingham train stations.
There are plenty of hotels close to the Medway campus.
Please visit the Medway tourist information website for details.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/courses/visit/postgraduate-events/faqs:
To get in touch with any specific questions, please call +44 (0)1227 768896 or email information@kent.ac.uk
Our Postgraduate events are specifically for those interested in studying for a Master's or a PhD.
You will be able to speak to academic staff, find out more about funding and our support services.
The event is very informal, and allows you to plan your time as you wish.
Once you have booked, you will receive an event ticket by email.
Once ready, the programme for the event will be available on our website
Postgraduate events at Canterbury
The campus is self contained, so all the facilities, including accommodation, are on one site.
The campus is large (over 300 acres) so we recommend comfortable footwear!
Postgraduate events at Medway
The campus has two teaching sites, Pembroke and The Historic Dockyard Chatham.
Pembroke has teaching facilities for Computing/Business Information Technology, Criminal Justice and Criminology, Journalism, Pharmacy and Pharmacology, Social Work, Social Sciences, and Sport and Exercise Sciences.
We have specialist facilities for the Centre for Music and Audio Technology and Kent Business School at the Historic Dockyard Chatham (10-15 minutes' walk from Pembroke).
The School of Sports and Exercise Sciences also has clinics, treatment rooms and other facilities at Medway Park (ten minutes from Pembroke).
Our student accommodation, Liberty Quays, is approximately ten minutes' walk from Pembroke.
If you or any of your party have a disability or require extra support or facilities at the events we are happy to help wherever we can.
Please contact us on +44 (0)1227 768896.
Staff from the Student Support service will be available on the day and you'll be able to have a chat with them about the support available at Kent.
We're well equipped to deal with a wide range of access and support needs on both of our campuses.
There is accessible parking at both the Canterbury and Medway campuses, and both sites feature fully equipped and well specified toilets.
If you would like to find out more, please contact us before the event on +44 (0)1227 768896 and we'll be happy to help.
While we would recommend attending an event wherever possible, there are other opportunities for you to visit the University:
General Open Days
Our General Open Days are for anyone who may be interested in higher education at either undergraduate or postgraduate level.
We hold events in the summer and in the autumn.
Campus tours
We offer guided campus tours at the Canterbury and Medway campuses throughout the year and you can book a place online
You can call our Information and Admissions team on +44 (0)1227 768896 if you have any questions regarding our Open Events.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/virtual-experience:
Get to know our students, courses and campuses.
University of Kent, Canterbury, Kent, CT2 7NZ
Built by Circus

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/paris/contact/visit-us:
We host regular open events throughout the year for prospective students.
You can find out more information about our programmes, life in Paris, job and internship opportunities and entry requirements/admissions procedures.
Whether you are interested in discovering more about our programmes, full or part-time study options or the teaching methods and ethos of the School, this event is an ideal chance to get a taste of what we have to offer.
Our Open Days are typically informal, relaxed events and are open to all whether you are thinking about studying with us, or are already holding an offer.
They give you the chance to meet with staff and current students in a relaxed and informal environment.
The University of Kent is pleased to invite prospective students, parents, supporters, and guests to an open evening taking place on Wednesday, 12 April from 18:00-20:00.
This event is for potential undergraduate and postgraduate students and their guests.
You can find out more information about our programmes in both Paris and the UK, job and internship opportunities and entry requirements/admissions procedures.
Open events are a fantastic way to meet our staff and students and find out how Kent can help take your ambition further.
Our Open evening will be an informal, relaxed event and is open to all whether you are thinking about studying with us or are already holding an offer.
Paris School of Arts and Culture is located in the Columbia Global Center (known as Reid Hall) in Montparnasse near the famous Latin Quarter.
The nearest metro station is Vavin.
﻿The nearest major airports to our Paris centre are Charles de Gaulle (CDG) and Orly (ORY), both with excellent transport links to central Paris.
﻿The largest railway station in Paris is Gare du Nord, where you may access Reid Hall by metro (see below).
The closest railway station to Reid Hall is Port-Royal, which is on the RER B line and links directly to Charles de Gaulle airport and Gare du Nord station.
Stop Vavin (three-minutes from Reid Hall)
﻿Reid Hall is close to the Vavin metro station.
If you are coming from the Gare du Nord, take line 4 (purple) in direction of Mairie de Montrouge.
It takes about 30 minutes to get to Reid Hall with no changes.
When you arrive at Vavin follow the exit for Bd Raspail, you will exit You will exit the métro adjacent to La Rotonde (a famous café).
Carry on along the road and cross over the road towards the sandwich bar.
Go straight on along Bd du Montparnasse past the flower shop, Hippopotamus Restaurant and Tschann bookshop.
You will see a restaurant called 'Chez Fernand' on the corner of Rue de Chevreuse.
Turn left here and Reid Hall is half way down on the left hand side.
Join the Périphérique at  Porte de Bagnolet then stay on the Périphérique to Porte d’Italie and exit here.
Take the Avenue d’Iltalie to the roundabout at Place d’Italie.
Travel down the Gobelins, up Port Royal and straight on to the Bd du Montparnasse, then in to the underground car park just outside Reid Hall.
Find out how to get here and what you’ll find when you arrive

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/transport:
Stay up-to-date with current restrictions and government advice
Be prepared for any disruptions
Discover the best ways to get to your campus
Find out if you are eligible for a parking permit and how to purchase one
Be informed with the latest news and advice on travel
Stay in the loop and get quick updates on twitter

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/transport/commute-smarter:
Be sustainable
The University actively works closely with travel providers to ensure our Travel Plan's aim to reduce single car occupancy and encourage sustainable travel to and from Canterbury City and Medway Towns are achievable.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/transport/news-advice:
The latest stories and advice on transport & travel
Be prepared before your journey as the weather can change at any time
We aim to keep you updated on known local disruptions so that you can stay prepared.
Event Safety Transport & Movement Plan guidance for all event management organisers.
The University of Kent has developed a Travel Plan for the Canterbury and Medway campuses aimed at encouraging staff, students and visitors to use alternatives to single-occupancy cars.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/transport/plan-your-journey:
Be prepared so that you can be on time, every time
Improve your wellbeing and help reduce anxiety
A defined journey plan will likely save you more fuel and money!
Be aware of disruptions and give yourself plenty of time to arrive at your destination
Having a back-up plan handy can help you stay relaxed if things change
The Transport Team
Remember that weather can change at any time.
Be prepared for this before you start your journey, no matter the mode of transport.
You don't need a car to explore Kent .
To give you the accessibility information you need to work out if a place is going to be accessible for you on campus.
Remember to ensure you are safe when travelling .

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/transport/travel-discounts:
There's a discount for everyone
Kent Students save up to 79% on Stagecoach East Kent bus tickets (Canterbury)
Kent Students save up to 73% on Arriva West Kent bus tickets (Medway)
Kent Staff can receive a 25% discount on Stagecoach East Kent bus tickets (Canterbury)
Kent Staff save up to 58% on Arriva West Kent bus tickets (Medway)
Staff can purchase a brand new bike and accessories from participating local stores at a discount
We aim to ensure that everyone has access to active and sustainable travel modes of transport to, from & around our campuses.
National Express Young Persons Coachcard 15% off National Express National Express Student Hub Stagecoach South East Arriva Megabus PlusBus
16-25 Railcard Network Railcard Disabled Persons Railcard Family and Friends Railcard Forces Railcard Senior Railcard
Staff Cycle to work Scheme Cycles UK in Canterbury offer 10% discount to Kent Students & Staff on production of your KentOne card.
The Bike Warehouse in Medway offer 10% discount to Kent Students & Staff on production of your KentOne card.
Ford Aftercare On production of UniKent ID card 10% discount on all scheduled servicing pricing 10% discount on any additional repair MOT for £40 Ford Essential Service for vehicles over 4 years old - from £220.50 Contact: Simon Etheridge simon.etheridge@haynesgroup.co.uk
On production of UniKent ID card
Contact:
Simon Etheridge simon.etheridge@haynesgroup.co.uk
Whether it's an international destination or somewhere just a bit nearer to home, UNiDAYS brings you student discount on trains, coaches, rail tickets, and other travel and transport essentials.
StudentBeans offer a wide range of discounts including savings on taxis and cheaper flights!
TOTUM is the only student discount, proof of age ID and campus life card and platform recommended by the National Union of Students.
Win rewards for doing something differently and learn how it impacts your health and society.
StudentUniverse
Skyscanner
cheapoair
How to find cheap flights
CABCO - 10% discount for staff and students
Longleys - Safe Taxi Scheme
Minicabit - 5% discount with StudentBeans

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/transport/travel-safety:
The University campuses at Canterbury and Medway are both considered very safe places to work, study and visit.
Our Campus Security team are monitoring CCTV, carrying out patrols 24/7 a day but you need to consider your safety off campus as well when you are travelling around.
The information below is a guide and provides some tips on how you can be prepared to help improve your own personal and road safety.
There are plenty of official websites that give advice about personal safety while you are travelling, including the charity Suzy Lamplugh Trust and Kent police
Travel during times of winter months is far different than the rest of the year and you need to be prepared for dark nights and changes in the weather (including ice and snow).
The weather can change after you have left home, ensure you check the weather forecast but don’t rely on that alone.
Visit our Adverse Weather pages for further information on how the university manages its campuses during adverse weather or some general tips on how to plan for travel during winter weather.
Read our top tips for being prepared and planning your journey during adverse weather.
Follow our personal safety advice and in addition to this ensure you have prepared for delays or diversions.
Plan your journey before leaving home, including your return journey.
Check if there are any expected delays and know an alternative route just in case there are any unexpected ones.
You can find some useful links on our Plan Your Journey page and ensure you are following our Social Media links that may help you with knowing what is happening on campus.
If travelling during winter months please familiarise yourself with all the information we have provided about travel during a dverse weather .
If you are unfortunate to receive poor customer service or an incident does occur then take note of the location, time, the name or number of the bus or train service and report it to the provider.
Do let the Transport Team know if it is relevant to travel to and from the university or contact the student wellbeing team if you need any support.
In the case of an emergency call 999 immediately and follow the instructions given to you by the emergency services.
If the emergency occurs on campus then call 01227 82 3333 which will take you through the Campus Security emergency line.
They will assist you by attending the site on campus immediately and call the emergency services for you.
Where possible always use recommended taxi firms and never use unlicensed taxi's or offered rides from unknown individuals.
Even if a taxi or mini cab is sourced from a trusted or recommended company, including firms such as Uber, you are getting into a stranger’s car.
You must take sensible precautions including those issued by the service provider.
Don’t forget to sign up to the Canterbury Student safe taxi scheme
Before you go out on your bike, check your bike is fit for purpose.
Always take the time to check your breaks and lights are working properly and that the reflectors are clean.
Don't forget to check your tyre pressures and tread.
The University of Kent is supporting Kent County Council, Kent Police, Kent Fire and Rescue and Canterbury City council in their Share the Road Campaign .
Kent County Council and Medway Council also provide useful advice on road safety.
The Share the road guide provides information on cyclist and pedestrian safety awareness for drivers.
The Government Think Road Safety campaign provides some great advice on safety checks for your vehicle and some helpful tips and advice to increase your safety and other on the road.
If travelling during winter months please familiarise yourself with all the information we have provided about travel during a dverse weather.
There is a guide to understand driver fatigue , this includes some useful advice for staying awake while driving.
BikeSafe is an initiative run by police forces around the United Kingdom.
They work with the biking world to provide detailed briefings on hazard awareness and to share their knowledge and safety advice by holding regular workshop events all over the world.
Their aim is to ultimately reduce the number of motorcycle casualties caused by inexperienced bikers and help you to become a safer, more competent rider.
There are university policies and procedures you must follow for your Health and Safety, including those that relate to travel and driving for your studies or business.
To check if you have followed all relevant procedures please do check with your School administrator or line manager and consider all your travel requirements and keeping you safe, including the information above.
Here are some useful links:
Travelling, working and studying overseas – provided by the Safety Health & Environment team for all students and staff travelling overseas
Travel Health information – provided by Occupational Health
Driving for work or study – this link provides information about driving for business and explains the checks that are required to use either your own vehicle or the requirement to be an authorised driver to drive university fleet vehicles.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/transport/driving-parking:
Virtual Permits for a cleaner environment
Lift Share is offering staff the ability to car-share and help reduce their carbon emissions
Brought to you by LiftShare
The University of kent is ordered each year by the BPA to enforce as an approved operator
PDF 321.06KB
PDF 731.72KB
Report a problem such as an abandoned vehicle or road issues.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/transport/international-travel:
Kent has good air connections with Europe and the world due to its proximity to several major international airports.
There are regular flights from the airports listed below to destinations all over the world.
All are easy to get to from Canterbury and Medway.
Eurostar trains are run by Eurostar International Limited .
Eurostar is the high-speed passenger train which runs via the Channel Tunnel from London St.Pancras, to Lille, Paris & Brussels.
It takes around 2 hours 15 minutes to travel 495 km (307 miles) from London to Paris.
From Canterbury West or Chatham, catch the train to London St.
Pancras to board the Eurostar.
Ferries, including those operated by DFDS Seaways and P&O , go from the Port of Dover to Calais or Dunkirk.
From Canterbury, catch either the train from Canterbury East to Dover Priory and then board the bus to Dover Eastern Docks or use the bus, Service 15A , from Canterbury bus station to the docks.
From Medway, catch the train from Chatham to Dover Priory and then board the bus to Dover Eastern Docks.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/transport/taxi:
Canterbury offers many taxi services to get you around the city, get you to an airport or other destinations.
The University works in partnership with Longley’s Taxi company to provide the Student Safe Taxi Scheme .
We encourage all students to sign up to this scheme just in case they find they need to use it.
Other Canterbury Taxi companies
Local Taxi ranks
There are a number of taxi ranks around the city centre.
Ranks can be found at:
Medway offers many taxi services to get you around the city, get you to an airport or other destinations.
Ranks can be found at all 5 train stations and many others across Medway towns; Chatham, Gillingham, Rochester, Strood and Rainham.
You may prefer to travel by taxi rather than use public transport from UK airports.
Taxis are a direct way to travel in the UK, picking you up from your location and taking you straight to your destination.
However, please be aware that taxis are considerably more expensive than public transport.
You will usually find taxis waiting in taxi ranks outside train stations and at airports.
If you do wish to travel by taxi from the airport to the University, we recommend booking it in advance, ideally as soon as you are aware of your flight times.
If you are unable to book your taxi in advance, you can use a licensed black cab located at the airport taxi ranks.
You should only use licensed taxis.
You can tell if a taxi is licensed by checking if there is a licence plate on the front and back of the vehicle.
They are usually positioned under or next to the vehicle registration plate.
Drivers of licensed taxis will also be wearing an ID badge and you can ask to see this if it is not immediately visible.
If you are travelling alone it is usual to sit in the back of the taxi.
Planning your journey in advance will help you establish if and what time to book a taxi to pick you up, have contact details of the taxi companies available or know where the taxis ranks are.
Ask the taxi company or driver how much the trip will cost and if they will accept the payment method you wish to use; you can then be assured that you have enough money.
If you have not booked a taxi in advance, you will usually find taxis waiting in taxi ranks in key locations such as outside train stations and airports.
If there are three or more of you who wish to travel, it may be cheaper to share a taxi.
Check with the taxi company that the vehicle is large enough to accommodate everyone and luggage.
If there are more than three of you, you may need a bigger vehicle which may be more expensive.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/transport/how-to-get-here/canterbury-events:
Whichever mode of travel you are using; give yourself plenty
of time to plan
your whole journey before leaving to travel to this event.
This will ensure you are prepared for any disruptions and plan where to stop for breaks and refreshments if you are travelling a long-distance.
At our Canterbury campus - for details of where to go when you have arrived onto campus; please refer to the information provided by our Recruitment Team when you signed up for the event.
To
find the building location you are visiting:
When using online tools to plan your journey to travel by public transport to our Canterbury campus, use the main University address and refer to travel advice
given below.
Southeastern
journey planning app and page are
useful tools to help with planning your journey to Canterbury by train.
Southeastern rail
serves Canterbury East and Canterbury West train
stations .
The High-Speed service from London operates to/from
Canterbury West.
From both Canterbury train stations, we recommend using the local bus service from the train stations to/from the campus.
Stagecoach Journey
Planning app and page are useful tools to help with where and when to
catch a bus within the East Kent area.
Buses
serving our campus
Campus Bus stops are located around the campus.
For
this event, we recommend you alight at one of the following bus stops:
When using National Express
planning your journey page type in University of Kent (Canterbury) as your destination.
The 022 National Express service operates to
Canterbury Bus Station and our campus Keynes bus stop .
Canterbury offers many taxi services to get you to the University from the city, an airport or other destinations.
Longley's Private Hire (student discount available)
Other Canterbury Taxi Companies:
There are also a number of taxi ranks around the city centre.
Ranks can be found at:
For more information, please visit our Taxi Travel webpage .
When planning your journey to walk or cycle find the
building you are visiting first on our maps page .
Insert the postcode given for the building you are visiting first
within the online tool you are using to navigate.
There are some useful links to online tools and maps on our walking
& cycling planning
your journey advice pages.
See directions below for free parking on Open Days, Applicant Events and Campus Tours.
Follow the University of Kent yellow parking signs, which will direct you to the relevant Car Park.
Where you can park free of charge, you do not require a permit to display for this event.
Image
of University Open Day parking wayfinding sign
Follow the University of Kent yellow Applicant Event parking signs, which will direct you to the Giles Lane Car Park , and if this becomes full you will be directed to the Sports Centre Car Park .
You can park free of charge in any car park, but require a permit to park Monday to Friday.
Image of University Applicant Day parking wayfinding sign
You can book a Canterbury Tour online .
When booking you will be asked if you are coming to campus by car.
If you select yes, you will be asked to provide your vehicle registration number.
These details are then uploaded onto our parking system and you will receive an email confirming that your parking has been arranged.
You can park free of charge in a marked bay within any car park , you do not require a permit to display for this event.
If you have time, visit Canterbury and local areas to get a feel for where you could be
studying and/or living.
The City of
Canterbury and the County of Kent offers a rich history, a variety of activities, restaurants, shopping and
nightlife for all students, as well as, countryside and beaches nearby.
If you are thinking of staying overnight, there
are plenty of places to stay within the area or even within our own University
B&B rooms .
If you decide to stay, maybe visit the Gulbenkian Arts Centre on campus or if you are
feeling active try out the ‘Pay to Play’ at our Kent Sport facilities whilst you are here.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/transport/how-to-get-here/medway-events:
This will ensure you are prepared for any disruptions
and plan where to stop for breaks and refreshments if you are travelling a long-distance.
At our Medway campus - for details of where to go when you have
arrived onto campus; please refer to the information provided by our Recruitment team when you signed up for the event.
To find the building
location you are visiting:
When using online tools to plan your journey to travel by public transport to our Medway campus, use the main University address and refer to travel advice
given below.
Southeastern
journey planning app and page are
useful tools to help with plan your journey to Medway by train.
Southeastern rail
serves 5 different main line stations in Medway, these include; Rainham, Gillingham, Chatham, Rochester and Strood.
The two stations nearest to Medway campus are Chatham and Gillingham.
From both train stations, we recommend using the local bus service from the train stations to/from the campus.
Arriva Journey
Planning app and page are useful tools to help with where and when to
catch a bus within the North Kent area.
For this
event, we recommend you alight at one of the following bus stops:
When using National Express
planning your journey page type in Hempstead Valley (Gillingham) as your destination.
From there, catch the 116 Arriva bus to campus.
The bus journey is approximately an hour.
Medway offers many taxi services to get you to the University from the city, an airport or other destinations.
Ranks can be found at all 5 train stations and many others across Medway towns; Chatham, Gillingham, Rochester, Strood and Rainham.
For more information, please visit our Taxi Travel webpage.
When
planning your journey to walk or cycle find the building you are visiting first
on our maps page .
Insert the postcode given for the
building you are visiting first within the online tool you are using to navigate.
There are some useful links to online tools and maps on our walking & cycling planning
your journey advice pages.
When planning
your journey by car use the following Navigations to direct you to our
Medway campus:
Follow the University of Kent yellow Open Day parking signs,
which will direct you to the car park.
You can park free of charge within this car park and you do not require a permit to display for this event.
Follow the University of Kent yellow Applicant Event parking signs, which will direct you to the Drill Hall car park.
You can park free of charge within this car park, but require a permit to park Monday to Friday.
You can book a Medway Tour online .
These details are then uploaded onto our parking system.
The day before your tour, you will receive a 'final details' email which informs as long as you have entered your vehicle registration number during the booking process, you can park free of charge in a marked bay within Drill Hall car park, you do not require a permit to display for this event.
If you have time, visit Medway and local areas to get a feel for where you could be studying and/or living.
Medway offers a rich history, a variety of activities, restaurants, shopping and nightlife for all students, as well as, countryside and beaches nearby.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/transport/contact:
For out of hours urgent transport problems on campus call Campus Security (+44) 01227 823300
https://zeelo.co/support
www.stagecoachbus.com/help-and-contact
www.arrivabus.co.uk/help/contact-us
www.southeasternrailway.co.uk/help-and-contact

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/transport/how-to-get-here/arrivals-weekend:
If you are an international student arriving to campus please refer to the International Students guidance on how to arrange your travel .
Arrivals Weekend is a busy time on campus, in Canterbury City and Medway Towns.
We advise you to be prepared and plan your journey using the information below.
For students living on campus:
Refer to our arriving to on campus student accommodation or for directions on how to get to unloading areas and overflow car parks visit our Canterbury Unloading Navigation page .
For students living off campus:
We advise that you use alternative travel where responsibly possible to get to and from campus over this weekend.
It is a busy time on campus and there is limited parking available.
If you already have your KentOne card you may be entitled to discounted travel .
If you travelling by car then please park in one of our overflow car parks.
Southeastern journey planning app and page are useful tools to help with planning your journey to Canterbury by train.
Southeastern rail serves Canterbury East and Canterbury West train stations .
The High-Speed service from London operates to/from Canterbury West.
Stagecoach Journey Planning app and page are useful tools to help with where and when to catch a bus within the East Kent area.
Buses serving our campus
For this event, we recommend you alight at one of the following bus stops:
When using National Express planning your journey page type in University of Kent (Canterbury) as your destination.
The 022 National Express service operates to Canterbury Bus Station and our campus Keynes bus stop .
Car
Refer to our arriving to Pier Quays (student accommodation) or for directions visit the Pier Quays webpage .
Southeastern journey planning app and page are useful tools to help with plan your journey to Medway by train.
Southeastern rail serves 5 different main line stations in Medway, these include; Rainham, Gillingham, Chatham, Rochester and Strood.
Arriva Journey Planning app and page are useful tools to help with where and when to catch a bus within the North Kent area.
When using National Express planning your journey page type in Hempstead Valley (Gillingham) as your destination.
There are some useful links to online tools and maps on our walking & cycling planning your journey advice pages.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/transport/how-to-get-here/arrivals-weekend/canterbury-unloading-navigation:
Arrivals Weekend is a busy time on campus Please ensure you have printed your Unloading Permit and completed the information before arriving to your unloading bay.
If you are an international student arriving to campus
please refer to the International
Students guidance on how to arrange your travel .
Please ensure you have booked your arrival slot and printed and
completed the details on your unloading permit.
You may be asked to produce the unloading permit to a Traffic Marshall
at any time.
When unloading or parked on
campus please ensure you have this displayed in your windscreen at all times.
Be prepared and plan your journey
Due to the number of students arriving across the weekend,
we ask that you go grocery shopping prior to your unloading time.
If you go shopping after
you have unloaded please do not return to your unloading bay area; but rather use
the overflow car parks or return after 8pm when quieter and park in a marked
bay within a car park.
Navigation to campus
Ensure you have printed and filled in your Unloading permit to present to the Traffic Marshall on your Arrival.
During Traffic Marshalls operating hours please follow directions given to you by them.
At all other times please park in a marked bay within a car park to unload.
It is a busy time and to ensure everyone can unload we have restricted the unloading of your vehicle to 20 minutes.
The driver can park in Giles Lane, Oaks or Pavilion car park once you have unloaded.
Outside of the Traffic Marshall times please park in a marked bay within any car park to unload from.
Room Key Collection point
There is no parking available at Giles Court and to ensure
there is room to unload everyone vehicle within this location the following
steps will need to be taken.
Step 1 Drive to your Key
Collection point at Keynes car park, where you will be greeted by a Traffic
Marshall.
Step 2 Collect your room key from Keynes reception
and return back to your vehicle
Step 3 The Traffic Marshall may ask for details to check
with the register, they will check your unloading permit is completed fully and
issue you with a coloured permit, to hang from the rear view mirror of your vehicle.
You will then be instructed to drive to Giles
Court.
Step 4 On arrival to Giles Court entrance there will
be another Traffic Marshall  who will be
looking to see your coloured permit in your windscreen as you approach Giles
Court accommodation.
They will then open up entrance for you to enter and park
to unload.
Step 5 Display your unloading permit within the
windscreen of your vehicle and unload your vehicle.
The Traffic Marshall may
request you to return your coloured permit.
At all other times please park in the marked bay unloading bay outside Giles Court.
If full please return later.
It is a busy time and to ensure everyone can unload we
have restricted the unloading of your vehicle to 20 minutes.
The driver can park in Giles Lane car park once you have
unloaded.
Outside of the Traffic Marshall times please park in a
marked bay within any car park to unload from.
Room
Key Collection point

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/music/whatson:
See all that's coming in the Music Department Feb - April 2025
All event details were correct at time of publishing, however some may change as the term progresses; all updates will be published here.
Download the new brochure (PDF) here .
Welcoming back former Music Award Holder, Matthew Sotillo-Cooke, singing Schumann's 'Dichterliebe.' 1.10pm.
T: free, donations welcome
The String Sinfonia performs at The Assembly Rooms, Faversham, exploring music for string orchestra.
7.30pm.
T: free, suggested donation £5
University Chorus and Orchestra in Ola Gjeilo's visionary 'Sunrise Mass' and Bizet's joyous Symphony in C.
T: £22, £18, £14, £10, £8.
A programme of French piano music for four-hands, including Chabrier, Ravel, Satie and Bizet.
1.10pm.
Choral music across the centuries, including Pergolesi's dramatic 'Stabat Mater' arranged for mixed-voice choir.
T: £15 / £8 (students)
The University Concert Band and Big Band come together in a programme from showtunes and musicals to classic swing.
Friday 30 May - Sat 7 June
Annual music festival celebrating the end of the academic year, featuring Scholars' Recitals, Concert Band & Big Band Gala, String Sinfonia and Big Band return for another concert of music from the movies, the Chamber Choir at the Cathedral Crypt, and the closing Saturday Gala featuring Chorus, Orchestra and the Cecilian Choir.
More details coming in April...
This page only contains information about Music Department concerts and events.
For all other concerts and events in the Colyer-Fergusson Hall please visit the Gulbenkian website
For information about accessibility and support around Gulbenkian / Colyer-Fergusson, please see information on the Gulbenkian website here .
Sponsors of the Lunchtime Concert series
Tickets for Colyer-Fergusson and Music Department events from: Gulbenkian, University of Kent, Canterbury, CT2 7NB Tel: 01227 769075 Free Online Booking Opening hours Monday to Saturday 12pm-7pm Sunday 1pm-7pm Opening hours can vary dependent on programme.
Special offers and discounts Groups Bringing a group?
Call the Ticket & Information office for more information.
Concessions Where advertised apply to children under 16, full and part-time students, registered unemployed, senior citizens, disabled person and a companion.
Proof of status may be required.
Student Apply to children under 16, full and part-time students.
Family concerts Where appropriate we welcome children with a valid ticket and accompanied by an adult at all times.
If a child’s behaviour starts to disrupt audience enjoyment we do ask that you take the child out of the auditorium until he or she is calmer.
Age ranges can be provided as a guide and we ask you to consider whether the concert is suitable for your child.
Disabled access To ensure the best use of our facilities please notify the Ticket & Information Office of your requirements when booking.
Wheelchair spaces available – advance booking essential.
Dedicated parking spaces Level access through automatic doors to the foyer and bar.
Disabled accessible toilets
Assistance dogs welcome Infrared audio system for hard of hearing people.
Headsets available from the Front of House Team.
Local bus services The UNIBUS runs every 8-15 minutes, Triangle bus 4X runs every 30 minutes from Canterbury Bus Station.
Both services stop at the University campus.
Visitor parking Free parking is available to Colyer-Fergusson and Gulbenkian customers after 5pm on weekdays and all day at weekends in any University car park.
Please note when parking in the Giles Lane Car Park after 5pm weekdays and at weekends, the car park barrier will lift automatically when a car approaches to allow access on entry and exit.
For customers attending concerts between Monday and Friday 8am to 5pm please park in the Visitor Pay and Display car parks on Campus.
£2 for 3 hours and £6 all day.
The nearest Visitor Pay and Display is the Central Car Park (formerly known as Gulbenkian Car Park).
Blue Badge holders must display their badge in the windscreen and free parking is available within marked bays.
Visitors with restricted mobility can reserve a parking bay by contacting transportteam@kent.ac.uk or +44 (0) 1227 823609.
Free motorcycle parking is available in motorcycle bays only.
Parking Enforcement is in operation 24hrs .
Satellite navigation postcode CT2 7NB Further information www.kent.ac.uk/estates/transport www.disabledgo.com
If you would like to be included in our e-mailing list, to be kept up-to-date with our musical events at the University, please contact us at music@kent.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/conferences-and-events/holidays/guest-information:
On behalf of the commercial services team here at the University of Kent, we welcome you to our accommodation and hope you have an enjoyable stay.
Below you'll find some essential information to help you enjoy your stay.
You can check in anytime after 15:00 at the relevant reception.
Please note, if you are checking in outside of reception hours, you can call Campus Security on +44 (0) 1227 823300 and they will check you in.
Please check out of your room by 11:00 on your day of departure, this includes handing your key or fob into reception.
Late check out is not available therefore anyone checking out late will be charged an additional fee.
(Between 11:00 and midday it's £10, after midday you will be charged another full night's stay.)
There is an reception located in each of our accommodation blocks, however their opening times will vary depending on the time of year.
If you are staying in Tyler Court or Keynes College, please report to the reception within the accommodation block.
If you are staying in Beverley Farmhouse or Becket Court, please report to the Keynes College reception to collect your room keys.
Our friendly reception team have a wealth of knowledge to help you enjoy your stay with us and can answer any queries you may have about your room or the local area.
Keynes College (for Beverley Farm & Becket Court) - open daily from 08:00-20:00 (Mon-Fri) and 08:00-13:00 (Sat-Sun) +44 (0)1227 823622
Tyler Court - open daily from 08:00-20:00 (Mon-Sun) +44 (0)1227 824480
If you need any assistance outside of our reception hours, please contact Campus Security on +44 (0) 1227 823300.
We have a wide variety of accommodation on our campus and what's included varies depending on the accommodation you have booked.
All of our rooms include towels, bed linen and complimentary toiletries.
Our guest B&B accommodation are all en-suite rooms and include tea and coffee making facilities and breakfast at a nearby catering outlet.
Breakfast is served between 08:00 - 10:00 in either Dolche Vita or the Gulbenkian Café.
You will receive a token when you check in, the colour will determine where you can redeem your complimentary breakfast.
(Black - Gulbenkian Café, Blue - Dolche Vita in Keynes College)
Our guest self-catered accommodation are either en-suite or shared facilities rooms.
You may need to share bathroom and kitchen facilities if you have picked a self-catered room.
Free guest and eduroam wi-fi is available in all of our accommodation rooms and across our whole campus for you to use.
To login to the wi-fi, select 'Wi-Fi Guest' from the network list and follow the on-screen instructions to set up a free account.
We understand that accidents can happen and you may lose your room key or fob during your stay with us.
In the result of this happening, please visit the relevant reception for your accommodation and they will sort you out a replacement key/fob.
There will be a charge billed to you for the replacement, x for a fob and x for a key.
We hope you enjoy a healthy stay with us, however, if you start to feel unwell then we ask you to please stay in your bedroom and let us know by emailing stay@kent.ac.uk (or calling your reception during opening hours) and a member of the relevant team will be able to further assist you.
Please complete our questionnaire .
All our rooms are non-smoking .
However, please be aware that we conduct weekly fire alarm testing at the following times:
If the alarm persists or sounds outside of these times please evacuate the building immediately.
Everything on site is within a 15 minute walk.
There is lots to see and do in Canterbury and our campus is well connected via public transport.
We have step-free access to all of our buildings on site.
You can find out more by visiting our AccessAble page .
Free parking is available across our campus for the duration of your stay.
Just collect your display permit from your relevant reception and pop it on display in your front window.
There are a range of EV charging points that are only a short drive away from our Canterbury campus.
You can use the Charge Finder or Zap-Map websites to find a charger of your preference that's located nearby.
Some drivers will have a preferred app/s that they use to redeem discounted charging rates at specific locations.
Our campus is well connect to the city of Canterbury and beyond via regular public transport links.
The city centre can be easily reached by foot with a 25 minute stroll with spectacular views of Canterbury Cathedral.
Southeastern operates train services across the country and it's high speed service will get you from London St Pancras International to Canterbury West in just 54 minutes.
Stagecoach and National Express also stop on our campus regularly.
There is lockable bike storage accessible for our guests upon request.
One of the benefits of staying on a university campus is that there is 24/7 security on site.
Our Campus Security team is located on our campus, patrol the surrounding area regularly and run 24/7 CCTV of our campus.
You can contact our Campus Security team on +44 (0)1227 823300 if you have any issues during your stay.
We have a wide variety of catering outlets on our campus, from cafés and bars to supermarkets and bistros.
With two co-ops and Caffé Nero, you can also enjoy branded refreshments too.
You will need to sign up for a Pay to Play membership in order to visit the Kent Sports Centre or the Sports Pavilion.
This can be done easily either online or at the Sports Centre reception.
Once you have purchased the membership , you can book onto a variety of sessions.
For instance to visit the gym or join an instructed fitness class, it's £7.50 per session.
You can also book to use one of our sports halls, courts and pitches.
The Gulbenkian Arts Centre is home to our on-site cinema and theatre at Kent.
Claim up to 50% off standard and family cinema tickets when you stay at the University of Kent.
Take some time to explore our beautiful campus and enjoy the quiet of our ancient woodlands, take in grasslands with far-reaching views across Canterbury and discover ponds and wildflower planting area.
Follow the SDG trail around central campus to discover all 17 Global Goals for a better future, or take a longer stroll around the nature trail .
Also explore Canterbury's green spaces during your stay.
We value feedback from our recent guests as it helps us continue to improve our services and ensure our accommodation is as good as it can be.
If you can spare a few minutes to let us know how you found your stay, we would really appreciate it.
We would love to welcome you back for your next visit to Canterbury.
Book direct with us for the cheapest online price and also enjoy our special loyalty discount of atleast 10% on your next booking with the promotional code 'LOYALTYBB'.
Book directly here .
Contact our team today to find out more about our venues, facilities and accommodation at the University of Kent.
We can offer delivered catering for your  events and we also have a wide range of catering outlets on site.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/transport/how-to-get-here/maps:
Train Disruptions 2023:
Please be aware that there are some disruptions to the train services.
If you are travelling, ensure you plan your journey prior to travelling, check the train times and read our blog post for further information.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/welcome/new-students:
New Student Checklist
Everything you need to do before you arrive and in your first few weeks at Kent.
Congratulations!
We can't wait to welcome you to Kent.
One of the first things you’ll need to do is enrol online, and we’ll send you an email to your personal email address letting you know when you can do this.
It's essential that you complete your enrolment as soon as possible.
It's a quick and simple process and, once it's done, we can begin registering you as a student.
After you have enrolled, you will automatically begin completing the My tuition fees screens.
This ensures that your finance record is correct.
Check out our 'How to' guides for more information:
You can collect your KentOne student ID card from 48 hours after receiving your Registration confirmation email.
We’re here to help you get started and support you in using the exceptional IT services Kent has to offer.
There's no right way to get settled in at first, but we're here to help make sure you have the best experience you can.
We offer a range of payment methods.
Find the one that suits you.
Understanding the terminology around the registration process at Kent.
All you need to know about arriving on campus and checking in to your accommodation.
Paying your tuition and accommodation fees.
Here are some of our most common questions asked by new students.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/welcome/partner-college-students:
When you start your course, you need to enrol with your college and the University of Kent in order to secure your place.
We'll let you know when you can begin the enrolment process, so look out for your How to enrol email in your applicant portal in-tray.
Studying for University partner college qualifications?
You have access to a range of services depending on their course.
More details are available from your college.
If you experience any difficulty in finding or using our services, please contact your Partnership Development Officer who will be able to help you.
Students on Partner College programmes which are franchised by the University are eligible to have a Kent IT account.
If you are unsure whether your programme is franchised, please contact your college for further information.
As a franchised student, the University will always use your University of Kent email address (e.g.
abc123@kent.ac.uk) as the primary means of communication with you.
Therefore, it is essential that you check your email regularly throughout your studies, or make arrangements to have your email forwarded to an email account which you regularly use.
When you activate your IT account you will be told what your username and your University of Kent email address will be.
Make a note of these details.
Once you have activated your IT account you can then check your Kent email.
To activate your IT account you will need to provide:
Full-time and part-time students at Partner Colleges on Franchised programmes pay their fees to the University.
All students on Validated and Validated Plus courses or programmes pay their fees to their college.
Please ensure you check with your college at the start of your course.
Please note: Students who owe fees to the University or to their college do not receive their marks and are not permitted to progress or graduate until the debt is settled.
If you are a franchised student the University will contact you throughout your studies via your University of Kent email address to discuss any issues which arise regarding the payment of your fees.
Remember to check this email account, or forward it to an email account which you check regularly.
If you require help or advice regarding your fees please contact our Financial Aid Office or call 01227 823488/ 824876 or visit GOV.UK for more information on financial help available.
Making a payment to the University >
Students on franchised courses at Canterbury College and North Kent College study programmes which are taught in the college by college lecturers, but lead to the award of University of Kent qualifications.
The University has overall responsibility for the academic level and quality of the courses.
If you are on a franchised course, you will have access to the facilities at your college, but you will also be able to use the facilities at the University's Canterbury and Medway campuses, including the Templeman and Drill Hall libraries, the Careers and Employability Service, the Student Learning Advisory Service and the extensive sports, music and arts facilities at both campuses.
You will also receive a KentOne card .
Students on validated plus courses at Canterbury College study programmes which are taught in college by college lecturers, but lead to the award of University of Kent qualifications.
If you are on a validated plus course, you will have access to the facilities at your college, but you will also have access to a range of facilities at the University's Canterbury and Medway campuses including the Careers and Employability Service, the Student Learning Advisory Service and the extensive sports, music and arts facilities at both campuses.
You will also have access to the Templeman and Drill Hall libraries, but not borrowing rights or access to online resources.
Your college will provide you with library and IT facilities.
You are eligible to apply for a Kent Associate Student card .
You must pay your fees directly to the college (not to the University).
Students on validated courses at Canterbury College and Ashford College study programmes which are taught in college by college lecturers, but lead to the award of University of Kent qualifications.
Your college is responsible for providing you with all the necessary academic and support services.
For new students on a franchised or validated plus course at Canterbury College or North Kent College.
If you are a new student studying at the University of Kent and you have a query about your student ID card, please visit our 'Where is my student ID' page or contact us at gettingstarted@kent.ac.uk
Partner college students studying for Fr anchised University of Kent qualifications are able to access facilities at both the Canterbury and the Medway campuses of the University.
However, before you can do this you need to obtain a University of Kent student ID card (the KentOne card) and agree to abide by the relevant regulations of the University.
Once you have completed your enrolment and emailed or sent your photograph to the University, your ID card will be posted to your home address.
If you do not receive your card, please contact your Partnership Development Officer .
Please take care of your card as there may be a replacement charge if you lose it, unless proof can be provided that it was stolen.
If you are studying on a Validated Plus programme you will receive an Associate Student card, once you complete the enrolment process and upload a photograph.
This card allows you access to the library (but not borrowing rights) and to other specific University services.

New sentences found on https://kent.ac.uk/welcome/responsibilities-of-the-university-and-its-students:
A University is a community of people, academics, administrators and 
students, dedicated to learning, debate and the discovery and 
dissemination of new knowledge.
The University of Kent places value on 
critical thinking, the advancement of knowledge and the pursuit of 
truth.
All education is about developing learning and enquiry, but as a 
university we focus upon areas at the boundaries of knowledge and work 
to refine those methods of reasoning and understanding which help us to 
push back those boundaries: students and staff do this both together and
 independently of each other.
At Kent we strive for excellence in 
everything that we do.
We foster staff and students' potential for high 
achievement and are committed to realising this potential in part 
through independent research and research informed teaching and 
learning; we prize and defend the special and intimate relationship 
between teaching and research in a university.
The relationship 
between students and the University, particularly in relation to the 
teaching experience, is mutually dependent.
The quality of a university 
experience is at least as much the outcome of the effort and initiative 
that you put into the experience as it is of the teaching and facilities
 provided.
Universities provide opportunities, not simply facilities and
 services, though we always wish these to be of an appropriate and high 
quality.
To achieve the maximum benefit from the teaching and learning 
experience, both students and the University must commit resources and 
effort.
Both students and the University have responsibilities to ensure
 that the learning experience is the best it can possibly be; the 
University has responsibilities to you, and you have responsibilities to
 the University and to yourself.
The University has a responsibility to ensure that your health and safety is the
top priority so that you are not 
injured by its undertakings, either while you are on its premises, or 
engaged in activities which have been organised by the University.
You are expected to
co-operate with the University to enable it to discharge that responsibility.
You should report any injuries to your supervisor 
or academic school.