# Site: https://www.lboro.ac.uk
# Pages fetched: 500
# Pages matched (phrase filter): 489
# --------

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk:
Browse our fantastic range of undergraduate courses for 2026 entry and explore what Loughborough has to offer.
Enhance your knowledge, expand your skills and advance your career with a postgraduate degree from Loughborough.
Our ongoing use of fossil fuels poses a major threat to our planet, impacting the climate and environment as well as the health of people and wildlife globally.
We are leading the movement towards a safer, sustainable future for our world.
At Loughborough University, we are working towards a more equitable future for humanity where the power of artificial intelligence (AI) technology is harnessed to combat inequity and drive common prosperity.
Find out how.
At Loughborough University, we’re taking the steps needed to define and improve living standards, for everyone.
Our research explores how sport impacts human health and wellbeing, advances sport technologies, and underpins a range of policies that safeguard everyone participating in a sport.
Using Reminiscence Theatre to encourage older people to rediscover their love of food and enjoy better health.
A new project is looking at a novel way to encourage eating among elderly care-home residents.
Our Vice-Chancellor Professor Nick Jennings on how Loughborough is working towards a cleaner, healthier, fairer world.
And how if you study, work or partner with Loughborough, you'll be joining us in the pursuit of better.
The tranquil beach on the Isle of Skye where 1 square metre of sand holds 1,000 pieces of litter
Our Materials experts are developing films with enhanced antimicrobial properties – helping to combat MRSA infections in healthcare settings
Digital waste is a growing problem, with organisations collecting and storing more data than ever before.
What is the environmental cost of dark, redundant, obsolete, or trivial data, and how can organisations reduce their digital waste footprint?
News and resources for journalists, including our list of media friendly experts.
27 August 2025
22 August 2025
21 August 2025
1
Sep
2

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal:
All current members of staff and students can nominate exceptional individuals to receive either the University Medal or an Honorary Degree.
Loughborough University is pleased to announce the appointment of two exceptional academics as Deans of the University.
The University is proud to announce that WPL2.09, the Chemical Synthesis Lab in STEMLab, has become the first laboratory at Loughborough to achieve a LEAF Gold Award, recognising their outstanding commitment to sustainability and environmental stewardship.
This is a space for staff and students to self-submit informal
              University information and opportunities.
You can use this
              noticeboard to share:
The noticeboard is not for:

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/alumni:
A group for all Loughborough graduates and retired staff
Stay in touch with Loughborough via the Alumni Association for up-to-date news about the University, fellow alumni, and to hear about the latest events.
Volunteering to share your experience and expertise with students and fellow alumni is a fantastic way to give something back to Loughborough.
Our graduates live and work around the world and our international groups are a brilliant way to network and socialise with fellow alumni.
Kind donations to the University support students through scholarships, enable amazing research projects, and fuel entrepreneurial spirit.
When you leave Loughborough, you can continue to access the support on offer from the Careers Network and the Loughborough Enterprise Network .
You can also support students and fellow alumni by sharing job opportunities .
Loughborough alumni achieve wonderful things across a range of industries and professions, with many recognised nationally and internationally for their achievements.
As Loughborough alumni, you are eligible for a range of University and corporate offers and discounts.
We run an annual programme of events for alumni to meet each other and to stay connected with the University.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/hr/jobs:
Based in the heart of the UK, Loughborough University is one of the country’s leading universities and as such we understand the importance of investing in our staff and their professional development.
Epinal Way, Loughborough Leicestershire, UK LE11 3TU
Tel: +44 (0)1509 222 222
Contact us: Contact us
Location: Campus map
Location: Find us
© 2025 Loughborough University.
All rights reserved.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study:
Our passion for teaching and research excellence combined with our leading student experience enables our students to make an outstanding contribution to the world.
Our master’s and PhD degrees are designed to challenge conventional ways of thinking in order to answer some of the world’s most pressing questions.
By starting your new adventure at Loughborough, you’ll be welcomed into a vibrant and supportive community of around 18,000 students from 130 different countries across the globe.
Our superb 523 acre single-site campus is the University’s most glorious asset, with world-class teaching and research facilities, beautiful gardens and open spaces, as well as plenty of places to eat, socialise and relax.
Established exclusively for postgraduates, Loughborough University London offers innovative and forward-thinking master’s and PhD degrees from one of the world’s most iconic cities.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research:
Our research has developed the world’s first property-level surface water forecasting tool to save lives and livelihoods worldwide
Changes to European HGV design standards enhances driver field of vision – saving lives
Saving lives and protecting infrastructure worldwide
Defining a decent standard of living and helping more people to achieve it
Discover how our researchers shape public policy, improve lives and enable business and industry to compete more successfully.
You can search by topic, academic school, established strengths and interdisciplinary challenges – you’ll be amazed at the breadth and excellence of our achievements.
We are building capacity within cross-disciplinary research clusters to tackle complex global issues aligned to the University’s strengths.
You can tap into our expertise and work with our world-leading researchers to realise your business goals – supporting growth, innovation, skills development and sustainability.
Together, we can implement solutions with far-reaching impact – and some partnership schemes are free or funded.
LUSEP supports over 90 start-ups, growing businesses, global brands and sports organisations to collaborate and engage with the University’s research expertise, facilities and talent pipeline.
We’re building on a long-established record of international research collaboration across all of our fields and disciplines.
Explore the database of our full-text research outputs including publications, journal articles, conference papers, book chapters and research degree theses.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport:
We are ranked as the world's number one University for sport-related academia by the QS Rankings.
Home to the country's largest concentration of world-class facilities across a wide range of sports.
The only place to Play, book and get involved in our sport offer.
Follow the successes of Loughborough-linked athletes who have been selected to represent their country.
Get involved in a variety of Loughborough Sport classes and activities.
Loughborough Students and the International Futsal Academy are proud to announce that Jan Meiwald has been appointed as Head Coach, beginning his new role on August 27th.
We are delighted to announce the signing of Charlotte Steggles, a versatile defender with a wealth of Tier 3 experience.
Loughborough Lightning have bolstered their squad with the triple signing of Doris Greenwood, Becky Hogg, and Lucy Cooper as they prepare for the 2025/26 campaign in Tier 3.
A single identity for all sport at Loughborough University
Highly experienced team helping with pains and injuries
Providing specialist support from a range of scientific disciplines
Enhancing your training and optimising your performance
Enhancing student experience and personal development
We are proud of our extensive sporting partnerships
The famous Loughborough Lightning franchise bring world class female sport to campus with its five sports all competing at the highest level.
Select from the following sports to find out more.
Loughborough University is the hub for sport in the UK, with a number of sports governing bodies choosing to base themselves at our East Midlands campus.
Loughborough Sport is proud to partner with organisations that match their brand values and deliver excellence in their respective markets.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events:
Loughborough Students and the International Futsal Academy (IFA) are proud to announce that Jan Meiwald has been appointed as its new Head Coach.
In the 1950s, Kenyans fought against colonial control in what came to be known as the Mau Mau rebellion.
In response, the British government announced a state of emergency in 1952 and engaged in a brutal counter-insurgency campaign to secure control of colonial Kenya.
“I’m still excited when somebody makes a movie out of something that I’ve done,” Stephen King recently told The Guardian.
This openness to exhilaration on King’s part is remarkable, given that he is such a widely adapted writer.
To date, more than 90 of his novels and short stories have been adapted for cinema and television (and more adaptations are currently in production).
We are saddened to announce that Sir David Davies CBE FREng FRS FLSW, former Vice-Chancellor of Loughborough University, has passed away at the age of 89.
International House
Hybrid - International House & Zoom Webinar
VOLUME is our online magazine, bringing together inspiring stories, showcasing our researchers' knowledge, sharing our students' experiences and providing an insight into life at our Loughborough and London campuses.
climate-change-net-zero
Vibrant and inclusive communities

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/about:
Loughborough University is somewhere anyone can realise their full potential.
The
        atmosphere and team spirit on campus inspire and empower people to achieve extraordinary things.
This
        progressive and ambitious attitude is reflected in the success we achieve, as one of the top-performing
        universities in the country.
Loughborough University is also a welcoming place where staff and students should
        feel they can be themselves.
Across everything we do, we are working together to create a better future, for
        everyone.
We are proud to be one of the UK's leading universities
In the Complete University Guide 2017-2026
QS World University Rankings by Subject 2025
International QS Stars Scheme 2023
Our achievements reflect this.
We are consistently ranked among some of the top-performing institutions in the country and hold an array of awards and accolades that evidence our strong performance across all areas of our delivery, including research, sport, student experience and facilities.
Our superb Loughborough campus is based in the heart of England and is the
          University’s most glorious asset.
With world-class facilities and plenty of green open space, it has
          everything our students, staff, and visitors need on site.
Loughborough University London is our incredible postgraduate campus.
It's part
          of an exciting community of organisations, creatives and educational providers located inside Here East, based
          on Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park.
Life at Loughborough has a strong community feel.
It is a defining feature on
      both our campuses.
It's what makes the experience at Loughborough so special.
Creating Better Futures.
Together is a bold and ambitious strategy that will guide
        the University over the next decade.
It sets out our purpose, our values and our aims.
It articulates our
        strategic priorities and what we are striving to achieve.
It recognises the impact of our actions on the world
        around us, and reflects the challenges that face us as a society.​
Loughborough University is well known for offering a life-changing experience, both academically and socially.
We deliver innovative programmes that span a broad range of disciplines and we equip our students for every aspect of their life and career, by supporting them to gain vital experience and skills.
Employers are impressed by the energy, enthusiasm and competitiveness that Loughborough graduates demonstrate.
At Loughborough we think differently; we challenge convention; we solve
        problems, and we take action.
Through our research we are finding answers, discovering the things that
        matter and adding to knowledge.
Spanning the arts, humanities, business, social sciences, sport, health,
        science, engineering and mathematics, our research is creating positive change across society.
Innovation is at the heart of all our activities.
It enhances our student
        experience, creates impact from research, and drives regional prosperity through our dynamic innovation
        community and business base at Loughborough University Science and Enterprise Park (LUSEP).
We are proud of our hard-earned global reputation for sport.
From elite-level
        athletes to trying to keep fit, we ensure that everyone at the University can enjoy sport regardless of
        ability or interest.
Through world-leading coaching, outstanding student experiences, state of the art
        facilities and superb events, we create an inclusive, positive and life-shaping sporting experience for
        all.
Our community is a diverse body of people with different perspectives,
        values and attitudes.
We are working to create an inclusive environment where such differences are shared
        and valued; where any unfair treatment or discrimination is challenged; and where all individuals can
        reach their full potential regardless of their background.
Sustainability and social responsibility are embedded into all our
        processes, operations and developments, to ensure we manage our environmental impact at both a local and
        global level.
Loughborough University's long history of success, as both a further and
        higher education institution, was established through the vision of our founding father, Dr Herbert
        Schofield.
Iconic landmarks have stood the test of time, whilst our campus has expanded around them, and
        the University has grown into one of the country's top universities.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/welcome:
Keep up to date by following us on social media.
We've got so much in store for you!
Take a look at our list of things you can do before you get here.
Some of these are important.
Get ready for your new life at Loughborough University and find out what you need to do before you arrive.
Resources to help you prepare for academic life at Loughborough and make you feel confident for the start of term.
Here you will find everything you need to know to help you get settled in.
Find out your term dates and what to expect when you arrive.
We’ve put together lots of useful and important information on what to do next and over the next few weeks before your arrival at Loughborough.
The Student Handbook has all the important information you need to know about being a student at Loughborough University.
myLboro is our handy app which has been designed specifically for you, our students.
It has lots of great features which you’ll be able to access, including your email and timetable.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate:
We have a great variety of undergraduate courses for you to choose from, so
          whether you know exactly what you want to study or you're looking for some inspiration, you'll find it
          right here.
Come and experience Loughborough for yourself
Get all the latest news and helpful application advice
Grab our quick reference undergraduate mini guide
We have an amazing reputation as one of the top 10 universities in the UK, but
              that's not the only reason you should study here.
We offer an award-winning student experience and have a
              beautiful campus.
Our campus is home to excellent learning and sporting facilities and full of
              green
              open
              spaces.
Our community spirit sets us apart and we offer a safe space for everyone to enjoy.
See what else we have to offer
Get all the facts about what your tuition fees cover and what options are available should you need some financial support.
Here you will find advice for your UCAS application, key dates, and information on how we make offers once we have received your application.
Where you live and who you live with will create some of the best memories of your university career.
We have accommodation options to suit every taste and budget.
Loughborough is a market town in the heart of the East Midlands, about
          halfway between Leicester and Nottingham and only a short train ride away from London.
Discover where Loughborough is and what it has to offer in our interactive
          tour.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate:
Experience what Loughborough has to offer
Browse our prospectus for 2025 entry
Get all the latest news and helpful advice
Follow our guidance on how to apply
The Loughborough family is made up of students from all over the world - it's part of what makes our community
        so vibrant, friendly, and inspiring.
Discover what funding options are available and what your tuition fees cover.
There is a wide selection of accommodation options available so you will be able to find the perfect place to live.
We offer careers and entrepreneurial support, professional development opportunities and networking events.
Both of our campuses offer something very different.
London is one of the world’s global cities, while Loughborough is a large market town in the centre of England.
Discover what both campuses have to offer for studying, living and being part of the Loughborough University experience.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/vco/smt/vc-prof-jennings/world-cant-wait:
Vice-Chancellor and President Professor Nick Jennings says universities have to showcase the breadth and depth of their impact on individuals, regions and countries if they’re to be valued as they should.
The UK’s universities are one of this country’s greatest assets.
We’re educators, employers, innovators and pioneers.
We shape culture and society.
We’re a global sector that’s truly worth celebrating.
But increasingly of late, universities have been under fire.
Changes to government policies, real-terms cuts to funding and an ongoing cost-of-living crisis have seen the media and politicians questioning almost everything we do, from the value of our degrees to the significance of our research.
No other multi-billion-pound sector is treated with such disdain.
Step away from the current narrative though and it’s hard to ignore the fact that universities make a hugely positive difference to so many aspects of society.
We provide students with the knowledge and skills to succeed in global workplaces.
A report by Universities UK (UUK), the collective voice for the country’s higher education institutions, estimates that by 2035 more than 11 million extra graduates will be needed to fill jobs in the UK alone.
We offer students opportunities to enrich their lives, intellectually, socially and financially; Government data shows that, on average, graduates earn £130,000 more over their working lives than those who don’t go to university, and they’re more likely to play an active part in society than those without a degree.
Universities stimulate economic growth.
Data from UUK shows universities make a £130 billion contribution per year to the UK economy and support more than 750,000 jobs.
Through our research and innovation, we make groundbreaking discoveries that tackle major societal issues such as climate change, poverty and public health.
One such example is the Minimum Income Standard, based on research by Loughborough’s Centre for Research in Social Policy , which is now used to calculate the Living Wage paid by more than 13,000 UK employers.
It has also been adopted by countries in other parts of Europe, Latin America, Africa and Asia.
However, such positive contributions are occurring in spite of the environment in which universities are having to operate.
Funding per student is at its lowest level in over 25 years.
In England, fees for UK undergraduates have been largely flat for a decade, meaning they’re now worth just over £6,500 in real terms.
It’s just not a sustainable funding model.
Our ability to attract international students is becoming increasingly challenging.
UK universities have long been the preferred choice for many international students, who are attracted by the opportunity to gain a high-quality education at some of the best universities in the world.
Initiatives such as the Graduate Student Visa route – which allows international students to stay in the UK for at least two years after completing their course – have been major contributors in the number of students opting for the UK.
From January 2024, however, the families of many international postgraduate students are no longer allowed to apply to live in the UK.
A further package of measures, including a rise in the skilled salary threshold and a review of the Graduate Route Visa, are due to come into effect this spring.
This will have a detrimental impact on the sector.
Indeed, a recent Universities UK survey found that enrolments in postgraduate taught courses at 70 universities were down by more than 40% since these changes were introduced.
In reducing our ability to recruit international students, the UK loses far more though than just the economic benefits that they and their families bring.
International students make our classrooms more diverse, and they have skills and experience that complement those of our home students.
They enrich our society culturally and socially and add a global perspective to our research and innovation – almost sixty percent of British university startups are founded by international graduates, according to research by venture capital firm Creator Fund.
And our home students welcome what our international students bring.
Students surveyed for a report by the Higher Education Policy Institute said that studying alongside international students gave them a better world view, an improved awareness of cultural sensitivities and enabled them to develop global networks.
So if we really are to cement the UK’s position as a science, technology and innovation superpower, we need to enlist the brightest and the best from the UK and around the world.
To do that universities need to turn the tide and shape a narrative that’s truly reflective of the wide-ranging impact we have on individuals, regions and countries worldwide.
This means better sharing our stories.
Telling the world about our students’ and graduates’ successes, how our research makes the world a better place, and how our innovations improve people’s lives.
Take Loughborough graduate James Roberts as an example.
In the final year of his Product Design course, James set out to help premature babies by designing a more compact, simple and cost-effective alternative to conventional incubators that is able to work in challenging environments and provides flexibility to caring for newborns.
The mOm Essential Incubator has now been piloted in four NHS hospitals and 75 have been sent to Ukraine, where they are being used to keep babies warm in hospitals and underground bomb shelters transformed into make-shift neonatal wards.
The company estimates that between 1,500 and 2,000 babies have been positively impacted by its incubators and Ukraine’s Ministry of Health has asked for another 100.
Our Aftrak project is another great example.
Loughborough’s researchers are working to provide rural communities across Africa with access to clean, green electricity to increase crop yields and the incomes of smallholder farmers who play a critical role in the continent's food and energy security and its economic growth.
By providing them with access to reliable, sustainable energy and advanced agricultural tools, our aim is to transform lives, communities and the future of agriculture in Africa.
These advances happen when universities work in partnership with others.
If we are to change people’s perceptions, universities need to work together more often and more effectively, combining our complementary strengths and harnessing our collective power.
That’s exactly what we’ve done for the ‘Universities as Drivers of Trade and Investment Pilot’, which involves Midlands Innovation and Midlands Enterprise Universities (which together represent 15 higher education institutions), local growth partners and government.
Its High Potential Opportunity programme in Rehabilitation is enabling investors to work with academic and clinical research centres, such as the Defence Medical Rehabilitation Centre and its linked National Rehabilitation Centre, the Leicester Biomedical Research Centre and the National Centre for Sport and Exercise Medicine, to develop and commercialise rehabilitation technologies that address complex trauma and chronic conditions.
It's an initiative that will make a real difference.
Every university has these types of stories – research and innovation that are changing the world, students and graduates who are making a real difference.
We need to tell them.
We can’t assume that everyone knows the breadth and depth of the impact universities have on communities, economies, and lives around the world.
The onus is on us to change the narrative.
The world can’t wait.
And neither can we.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/schools/business-school/digital-decarbonisation:
Reducing our Digital Carbon Footprint.
Together
Most people aren’t aware, or forget, that digital technology consumes vast quantities of electricity to keep huge data centres running – capturing and storing every click, search, list and image.
Digital data is generated by humans in every corner of the world.
Every second of every day, of every week.
The creation and consumption of digital data is growing rapidly.
We will miss our global 2050 net zero targets if we don’t decarbonise our digital infrastructure and our behaviours.
We want to help governments, businesses and organisations to minimise carbon emissions by adopting best practices in optimising how data is generated, processed and stored, ensuring that it aligns with sustainable practices.
In short, Digital Decarbonisation.
By promoting digital best practices, organisations can reduce the carbon footprint associated with data management and make a big contribution to the UN Race to Zero and a more eco-friendly digital ecosystem.
A pioneering research cluster comprising a transdisciplinary team of academics and five fully funded PhD studentships investigating ecosystem solutions for digital decarbonisation to help meet net zero by 2050.
One person creates 1.7mb of data a second.
That equates to 10 full DVDs in a working day.
The data industry is predicted to account for more carbon emissions than the automotive, aviation and energy sectors combined.
Up to 65% of data generated is never used and up to 15% is out of date.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre:
Read the latest thought leadership pieces our academics and Doctoral Researchers have written for The Conversation.
Please contact the public relations team for all media related enquiries and to get in touch with one of our experts.
Choose your area of interest and receive an email as soon as we publish something new.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/news/2025/august/meiwald-appointed-lboro-futsal-head-coach:
Jan’s connection to futsal began at Grimsby Town Foundation, where he combined his studies with a successful playing career in the English Football League’s Futsal Games.
His passion for the sport brought him to Loughborough in 2018 to study Applied Sports Science, where he also trained with the International Futsal Academy and became a key player for Loughborough Students Futsal Club (LSFC).
During his time as a student, Jan celebrated two British Universities and Colleges Sport (BUCS) titles, coached development squads, and played a pivotal role in the growth of the Women’s Futsal programme.
He also played a key role in leading the teams from the sidelines and creating a strong culture of excellence and progression within the women’s game at Loughborough.
After graduating, Jan took on coaching responsibilities with LSFC before moving to Manchester Futsal Club, where he made an immediate impact both on and off the court.
He was part of the squad that secured Champions League qualification in 2023/24 and contributed to Manchester’s youth system as a Pre-Academy Specialist.
Now returning to Loughborough, Jan combines top-level playing experience with a passion for developing players and teams.
His appointment will contribute to Loughborough’s established environment where players can thrive and continue to push the boundaries of the game.
Richard Allen, Director of Football, Loughborough University, said: “Jan’s appointment is an exciting step for our futsal programme.
“He knows first-hand what it means to be part of the Loughborough environment and has already shown his ability to coach successfully across both the men’s and women’s game.
“With his experience at national and European level, Jan is well-placed to drive the programme forward and help us continue to develop players and teams who can perform at the very highest level.”
Sam Skubala, from the International Futsal Academy (IFA), added:
“At Loughborough Futsal and the IFA, we are not only committed to developing players but also developing the next generation of futsal coaches in the UK.
“We are therefore absolutely delighted that Jan, one of our graduates, will now be helping to shape the players and coaches of the future in his new role as Head Coach.”
For more information on Loughborough’s futsal programme, visit www.lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/futsal/

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/news/2025/august/colonial-violence-in-kenya:
During the emergency, tens of thousands of Kikuyu, Embu and Meru – tribal groups predominantly from central Kenya – were detained without trial in camps.
These detention camps relied on torture sanctioned by government to get detainees to renounce their nationalistic ambitions.
More than one million other Kenyans were forcibly relocated into new and controlled villages.
These were frequently sites of forced labour, coercion and violence .
This was supported by the colonial policy of “rehabilitation”.
The objective was to get Mau Mau adherents to “confess” their Mau Mau activities, give up their ties to the movement and receive education to become valuable colonial subjects.
But rehabilitation became a cover for excessive violence perpetrated against those in camps and villages.
It was not just the colonial state which engaged in rehabilitation.
NGOs also employed people and spent money to help enact rehabilitation policies.
These organisations included Save the Children and the Red Cross .
My recent research looks at another organisation that became actively involved: the Christian Council of Kenya.
I am a historian of the relationship between Kenya and Britain before and after independence, and interested in the intersection between humanitarianism and decolonisation.
The Christian Council of Kenya was established in 1943 as an ecumenical group of missions and churches based in Kenya.
It involved all the major Anglican churches, but few African Independent Churches.
It was mostly made up of white European Church leaders and missionaries.
It was not a very powerful organisation until the 1950s.
This all changed with the Mau Mau emergency.
The council viewed its involvement in Mau Mau rehabilitation as an opportunity to evangelise and win converts to Christianity.
The council’s involvement reveals the variety of ways that NGOs became involved – and sometimes implicated – in policies of colonial violence.
The emergency provided the Christian Council of Kenya the opportunity to grow through a process of “ NGO-isation ”.
This involved the transformation of missionary organisations into NGOs during the period of decolonisation.
As secular NGOs emerged, and policies of development increased, missions expanded their activities.
This included employing new staff, fundraising, organising ambitious development projects, and working with governments and other NGOs.
These were all things the council first did during the emergency.
In the process, the council became part of the colonial system of violence and mass incarceration.
While sometimes directly criticising the government, it came to support the government and sanction its violence.
This was especially clear in later years when violence and torture increased but the council spoke out less against them.
Through its place on a rehabilitation advisory committee and its direct connection to the governor, the council positioned itself as an ally of government rather than a critic.
Continues…
For the full article by Dr Poppy Cullen visit the Conversation .
ENDS
Press release reference number: 25/130
Loughborough is one of the country’s leading universities, with an international reputation for research that matters, excellence in teaching, strong links with industry, and unrivalled achievement in sport and its underpinning academic disciplines.
It has been awarded five stars in the independent QS Stars university rating scheme and named the best university in the world for sports-related subjects in the 2025 QS World University Rankings – the ninth year running.
Loughborough is ranked 7th in The UK Complete University Guide 2026, 10th in the Guardian University League Table 2025 and 10th in the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025.
Loughborough was also named University of the Year for Sport in the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025 - the fourth time it has been awarded the prestigious title.
Loughborough is consistently ranked in the top twenty of UK universities in the Times Higher Education’s ‘table of tables’, and in the Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021 over 90% of its research was rated as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally-excellent’.
In recognition of its contribution to the sector, Loughborough has been awarded seven Queen's Anniversary Prizes.
The Loughborough University London campus is based on the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park and offers postgraduate and executive-level education, as well as research and enterprise opportunities.
It is home to influential thought leaders, pioneering researchers and creative innovators who provide students with the highest quality of teaching and the very latest in modern thinking.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/news/2025/august/stephen-king-life-of-chuck-celebrates-life:
Variations in the scale of his works have proved no barrier for potential adaptors of King.
The 1,100 pages of The Stand (1978) have been processed for the screen.
But so too have been the 110 of Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption (1982).
Genre shifts across the long arc of King’s work have also been accommodated by adaptors.
While early ventures in horror such as Carrie (1974) and Misery (1987) were rapidly taken up by Hollywood, equal haste has been expended recently to bring to American TV King’s crime novels featuring the likeable sleuth Holly Gibney from the Holly series .
In all of this furious adaptive activity, differences in quality are only to be expected.
For every screen treatment with the lustre of Kubrick’s The Shining (1980), there is a dull or clumsy transposition such as John Power’s two-part miniseries of The Tommyknockers (1993).
Even King’s involvement in a project is not a guarantor of success.
His role as executive producer failed to prevent Salem’s Lot (1975), his horrifying tale of vampires in Maine, from being defanged when it was adapted for cinema in 2024.
Now King is back as an executive producer, this time attached to The Life of Chuck, a film adapting one of the novellas included in his 2020 collection, If It Bleeds .
Here, however, he is working alongside something of a King specialist (if not a King obsessive), the screenwriter and director Mike Flanagan.
He has already adapted two novels by the author: Gerald’s Game (1992) and Doctor Sleep (2013).
Happily, The Life of Chuck proves to be a thoughtful adaptation, shot through with King’s sensibility while augmenting the original novella through its own cinematic choices.
Continued…
For the full article by Dr Andrew Dix visit the Conversation .
Press release reference number: 25/129

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/news/2025/august/sir-david-davies:
Portrait of Sir David Davies by Bryan Organ
One of the most influential engineers of his generation, Sir David Evan Naunton Davies, known by many as Den, had a long association with Loughborough.
In 1969 he became one of the University’s first industrial professors, who were eminent individuals in industrial fields, and in 1988 he was appointed as the fifth Vice-Chancellor of Loughborough University of Technology (as it was then known), remaining in post for five years.
Born in Cardiff in 1935, David studied electrical engineering at the University of Birmingham, graduating from his Batchelor’s degree in 1960 before embarking on PhD research at Birmingham.
In 1971 he was appointed Professor of Electrical Engineering at University College London (UCL), becoming head of the department of Electronic and Electrical Engineering in 1985 and serving as UCL Vice-Provost for two years from 1986.
In 1988 Sir David was appointed as Vice-Chancellor of Loughborough University of Technology.
Under his leadership the University enjoyed a significant period of growth.
Student numbers increased significantly, with four new halls of residence built to accommodate the expanding population.
Ambitious plans for the University’s science and enterprise park began in 1990, when British Gas chose to locate its Gas Research Technology Centre, now the Holywell Park Conference Centre and Charnwood Building, on the site.
And Burleigh Court, the University’s on-site hotel and conference venue, was built, opening in 1991.
Sir David also oversaw the first ever royal visit to Loughborough University by Her Majesty The Queen in 1989.
Following his tenure as Loughborough Vice-Chancellor, Sir David took up the post of Chief Scientific Adviser to the Ministry of Defence, before going on to serve from 1998 to 2000 as Non-Executive Chair of the Defence Evaluation and Research Agency and later Chair of the MoD Nuclear Research Advisory Council.
During this period, he produced a report to the Deputy Prime Minister on the options available to improve the safety of rail travel in the wake of the disastrous train crash at Ladbroke Grove in October 1999.
He showed that the cheaper and less technically advanced train protection and warning system that the rail industry was already installing network-wide would save more lives over 20 years than the far more expensive automatic train protection systems.
His recommendations were endorsed by the ensuing public inquiries.
He was later asked to become Chair of Railway Safety, a new company set up to promote and oversee rail safety issues.
Throughout his career Sir David’s research work in antenna arrays, radar, signal processing, and optical fibre was highly regarded – he won the Rank Prize for optoelectronics in 1984 and the Institution of Electrical Engineers’ (IEE) Faraday Medal in 1987.
He was elected to the Fellowship of Engineering in 1979 and as a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1984.
He served as President of the Institution of Electrical Engineers from 1994-95, was appointed President of the Royal Academy of Engineering in 1996 and served on the committees of many national bodies, including the BBC Engineering Advisory Committee and the Royal Society’s Science Inquiry Committee.
He was awarded a CBE in 1986 and was knighted for services to science and technology in the 1994 New Year Honours.
The Sir David Davies building at the heart of the science and engineering facilities on the main University campus was named in his honour, and a portrait of Sir David by the acclaimed artist Bryan Organ, who studied and taught at Loughborough College of Art, hangs in the reception area of the Hazlerigg Building, the University’s management headquarters.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/events/ias-friends-and-fellows-coffee-morning.html:
On Monday 1 September the IAS will be hosting an IAS Friends and Fellows Coffee Morning, where they will welcome current IAS Fellows, here for the IAS Spotlight 'Women in Sport': Dr Dana Ellis (Laurentian University), Dr Becca Leopkey (University of Georgia), Professor Deirdre McGhee (University of Wollongong), Dr Lucy Piggott (Norwegian University of Science and Technology).
Come along for an informal in-person gathering at International House with coffee and cakes to meet the Fellows.
All are welcome.
Celebrating discoveries and fresh thinking
All welcome

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/events/ias-spotlight-women-in-sport-the-collaborative-ecosystem-of-womens-sport.html:
A roundtable discussion as part of the IAS Spotlight 'Women in Sport', fully titled "The Collaborative Ecosystem of Women’s Sport: A Roundtable Discussion on the Conceptualisation, Research and Innovation Agenda".
The Key Speakers are IAS Visiting Fellows, Dr Becca Leopkey, Dr Dana Lee Ellis and Dr Lucy Piggott.
Arrivals from 1.45pm for a 2pm start.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/events/ias-spotlight-women-in-sport-designed-to-adapt-breast-health-innovation-an.html:
A roundtable discussion as part of the IAS Spotlight 'Women in Sport' with Key Speaker, IAS Visiting Fellow, Professor Deidre McGhee.
Arrivals from 9.45am for a 10am start.
This session explores the critical intersection of breast health, sports bras, and protective innovation, highlighting how medicine and engineering are coming together to support women and girls in sport.
From biomechanical research and clinical insights to cutting-edge design and material science, the conversation will delve into how tailored support solutions are being developed to enhance performance, reduce injury risk, and empower women of all ages.
Special attention will be given to pregnancy and postpartum populations, addressing the unique physiological changes and support needs during these life stages, and how thoughtful design and evidence-based approaches can facilitate a safe and confident return to sport and physical activity.
By bridging disciplines and centring female physiology, this work is redefining what it means to be truly supported in movement.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/events/ias-friends-and-fellows-afternoon-tea.html:
On Tuesday 2 September , the IAS will be hosting an IAS Friends and Fellows Afternoon Tea, where they will welcome current IAS Fellows, here for the IAS Spotlight "Women in Sport" - Dr Dana Ellis (Laurentian University), Dr Becca Leopkey (University of Georgia), Professor Deirdre McGhee (University of Wollongong), Dr Lucy Piggott (Norwegian University of Science and Technology).

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research-degrees:
Otherwise known as a doctorate or PhD, allows you to conduct unique research for solving real-life issues.
By choosing to study with us, you’ll not only be immersed in a research community which is supportive and nurturing, you’ll also have access to our rich research network.
As one of England’s top research-led universities with 91% of our research rated 'world-leading' or 'internationally excellent' (REF 2021), we’re renowned for our academic work and the benefit it brings to both society and our students’ learning.
Apply now to join our inspiring community with opportunities to forge lasting links with industry, and undertake pioneering research in 100+ research centres, groups and institutes.
Research degrees or PhDs are also known as doctorates, they are the highest academic qualification awarded by UK universities.
Interested in studying for a PhD but not sure how to get started?
We've outlined the different routes into research right here.
Find out how to write a research proposal or browse our areas of research and develop your own if you can't find a project to suit you.
There are many great reasons to study your PhD at Loughborough, from our exciting research reputation to our award-winning student experience.
You'll also find tailored support to help you fulfill your career ambitions.
Want to talk to someone about one of our PhD opportunities or your own research degree?
Here is the best way to contact us and how to find the right person to speak to.
Undertaking a research degree is a long-term commitment and so it's important to ensure you have funding for the full duration of your PhD, whether it is part-time or full-time.
Discover your options today.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/order-prospectus:
Get a feel for postgraduate life at Loughborough by ordering a downloadable copy of our master's or doctoral prospectus.
Or, if you are a prospective undergraduate student, you can order a copy of our printed undergraduate mini guide.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/open-days:
Visit us at our 2025 open days in September and November.
Choosing the right university is a big decision, and we’re here to help you make it with confidence.
At Loughborough University, we believe the best way to find out if we’re the perfect fit is to see it for yourself.
Open days aren’t just a visit, it’s your opportunity to picture your future.
Imagine yourself thriving in our dynamic learning spaces and creating unforgettable memories.
Loughborough is more than a university; it’s a place to call home.
Your future starts now.
Join us at our next open day.
9am - 4pm
9.30am - 3:30pm
Do you have any questions about the Open Day?
Read our frequently asked questions .
Take a tour of our campus and see where you’ll be studying, living, and socialising.
Get first-hand insight into courses, living in Loughborough, and the student experience.
Learn how Loughborough can build your employability skills, helping you secure placements, internships and graduate jobs.
Get a feel for what student life is like – walk the campus, see where you'll be taught, and discover your dream course.
Speak with the teachers on your course and learn more about how your subject is taught at university.
Our expert team can talk you through student finance, bursaries and other financial support options to make university more affordable.
Our vibrant 523-acre campus is located in the heart of the East Midlands with excellent transport links.
Whether you’re travelling by car or public transport, our handy guide on how to find us has all the information you need.
Parking on campus during the Open Day is free.
Just drive onto campus, park up and enjoy your day.
The best way to explore our stunning campus is on foot.
There will also be a free bus service running throughout the day which can hop on and off as often as you need to.
All the buses have a drop-floor and are accessible.
Once you have booked your place, you will receive email updates about the Open Day.
In the weeks leading up to the event we will send you the Open Day guide, which will include the times for all the course presentations and tours, so you can start planning your visit.
With lots to do throughout the day, we recommend planning what you would like to do so you don’t miss out on anything!
Here are some of the other opportunities you have to come and visit our campus and find out more about our courses and life at Loughborough.
You are free to visit us at any time for a self-guided tour of campus.
Discover what it's like to study your chosen subject at degree level at one of our taster sessions

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/apply:
We encourage applications from all well qualified applicants from a wide variety of backgrounds who want to join the Loughborough family.
Find out everything you need to know about how to apply for university right here.
Ready to apply?
Check out our step-by-step guide for advice and information on how to successfully complete your UCAS application.
Unsure about the types of qualifications we accept onto our undergraduate courses?
Don’t panic, we’ve listed the main qualifications right here.
Make sure you stay on track with your UCAS application and make a note of all the important dates and deadlines.
We’ve made a note of the key dates here for you.
What happens once you’ve applied?
We explain when you will receive an offer and what you can do to prepare for university life once you receive an offer.
Little bit nervous about Results Day?
Don’t be.
Get prepared and have a game plan just in case things don’t go to plan.
It’s natural to have lots of questions, especially when it involves going to university.
If you have a question regarding the application process, take a look here.
In line with the University’s Admissions Policy, applications are welcomed from students irrespective of race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, gender, marital status, disability, religious or political beliefs, age, sexual orientation or socioeconomic background.
The diversity and wealth of experience that our students contribute to the life of our University is highly valued.
As such we seek to widen access to, and participation in, higher education by raising awareness and aspirations of prospective applicants.
Find out more about the University’s Admissions Policy and other supporting information for applicants .
Don’t forget you can also refer to our handy list of frequently asked questions if you are unsure of anything relating to your application.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/apply/supporting/admissionspolicy:
This document describes the aims, principles and processes followed by the University to select and admit new students to undergraduate, postgraduate, and foundation art and design programmes.
It should be read in conjunction with the University’s Terms and Conditions of Study :
Loughborough University’s Admissions Policy and associated recruitment and admissions procedures should be seen in the context of supporting the institution’s goals and ambitions as set out in the University’s strategy, Creating Better Futures.
Together .
The principal aim of the Policy is to ensure recruitment and admission practices are fair, explicit, and implemented consistently to support equality of opportunity.
The University encourages applications from academically able and motivated students of all ages, and from all backgrounds.
As such, this document has been informed by the University’s commitments to equity, diversity and inclusion , and access and participation , as well as its commitment to upholding freedom of speech and academic freedom within the law and relevant good practice guidance (This includes the UUK Fair admissions code of practice and Quality Assurance Agency’s (QAA) UK Quality Code for Higher Education).
Nothing in this policy should be read as undermining or conflicting with the freedom of expression code of practice; and that in case of any conflict the code of practice will take precedence
Furthermore, the University is committed to the delivery of an efficient and professional admissions service to all applicants.
This Policy sits alongside, and should be read in conjunction with, the Terms and Conditions of Study which form the contract between applicants, students and the University.
On behalf of Senate, the University’s Learning and Teaching Committee has responsibility for the monitoring and review of recruitment and admissions policies in place for taught programmes.
Matters relating to the recruitment and admissions practices/policies for research programmes will be monitored and reviewed by the Doctoral College Sub-Committee on behalf of the Research and Innovation Committee and Senate.
The policy is reviewed annually to ensure that it complies fully with any changes in legislation, aspires to best practice in the sector, and continues to support the vision and values of the University.
In order to provide a high quality and effective recruitment, selection and admission process in accordance with this policy, Loughborough University fosters a collaborative working approach between its academic Schools and the Admissions Office and Doctoral College, along with other Professional Services in the University.
Academic Schools are responsible for determining entry criteria and the processes for evaluation of applications for each of their courses (in close liaison with the Admissions Office/Doctoral College); assessing applications, conducting interviews, making offers, hosting visit days; and providing detailed and up-to-date course information for enquirers and applicants.
Deans of School delegate the responsibility for admissions matters to a principal Admissions Tutor or Programme Director (who may be supported by other staff within the School).
Where courses are offered in partnership with other organisations, those organisations may be involved in determining entry criteria and processes for evaluating applications, but the arrangements are expected to comply with this policy.
The Admissions Office/Doctoral College have responsibility for managing the admissions process and procedures; providing advice and support to academic Schools, enquirers, and applicants; assessing applications and making offers for most programmes on behalf of academic Schools; processing decisions on applications; assessing tuition fee status; delivering training and developing and managing effective systems and management information for recruitment and admissions.
Overall accountability for the taught admissions process rests with the Head of Future Students & Marketing Operations.
The Senior Assistant Registrar in the Doctoral College Office has overall responsibility for the research student admissions process.
To achieve our commitment to providing a fair and accessible admissions service, appropriate training is provided to all staff involved in recruitment and selection.
We are committed to providing clear, comprehensive, and accurate information on our courses and entry requirements which is accessible to all enquirers and applicants.
Detailed information is published on our website to enable prospective students to make informed choices and decisions.
We welcome applications from students studying a wide range of UK and international qualifications that offer effective preparation for study.
Further information about both general and course specific entry requirements can be found on our prospectus pages .
In addition to academic entry requirements, the University requires all students to demonstrate they are prepared for a programme of study delivered in the English language.
Please refer to our pages on acceptable English language qualifications .
When making admissions decisions the University considers an applicant’s academic ability and potential to succeed on the chosen course.
This may be evidenced by a range of factors, including:
To support our mission to provide a high-quality educational experience for students from all backgrounds, the University makes use of contextual information in the undergraduate admission process to help identify applicants with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education and so that particular groups of applicants are not disadvantaged during the application process.
For further information see the link below.
The University recognises that students who excel in non-academic areas such as sport can make a specific additional contribution to the University.
We may, therefore, for exceptional applicants with elite sporting backgrounds, take into account non-academic excellence in our offer-making process based on some of the following:
Undergraduate applications must be submitted via UCAS (Universities and Colleges Admissions Service) .
The University will observe the UCAS procedures and deadlines with regard to undergraduate applications.
Applications for Postgraduate Taught (PGT), Postgraduate Research (PGR), Art and Design Foundation Studies and Pre-sessional Programmes should be submitted via our online application portal .
Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) applications should be submitted through the Government’s Apply for Teacher Training service .
Incoming visiting/study exchange students (including those coming from international or European Erasmus+ partners) should make an application direct to the University using the appropriate application form.
Applicants should be aware that there is competition for places on popular courses.
As a result, we may close courses to new applications during the admissions cycle if we believe courses to be full.
For undergraduate courses any closure to new applications will always be after the main UCAS scheme deadline at the end of January for entry in the following academic year.
For Postgraduate Taught courses with a start date in October, the last date on which we guarantee to consider applications is 6 September.
For courses with a start date in January, the corresponding date is 6 December.
However, some high-demand courses may stop considering applications at an earlier date if sufficient offers have been made.
For the majority of taught programmes, the University does not require applicants to be interviewed as part of its recruitment process.
However, in some cases applicants will be interviewed if it is felt that this is the best method of identifying potential for study, and/or where there is a relevant legal/regulatory requirement or guideline (e.g.
Postgraduate Certificate in Education, PGCE).
Applicants for research degree programmes will be interviewed and these may be conducted in person or online/by telephone.
Where programmes include interviews as part of their selection procedures for all candidates we will make this explicit to applicants.
Any offer of entry will be outlined in a formal offer communication from the University together with the University’s Terms and Conditions of Study (and additionally for undergraduate applicants on UCAS).
Occasionally, the University may decide that it is unable to offer admission to the original course to which an applicant has applied but is able to make an offer for an alternative course.
In this situation the University will contact the applicant to confirm that the offer has been made for the alternative course.
The University offer communication will provide details of how to accept our offer.
When doing so, an applicant agrees to abide by the University’s Terms and Conditions of Study .
If an applicant fulfils the conditions of their offer, or if the University exercises its discretion to accept an applicant on the basis of satisfactory academic performance, their place at the University will be confirmed.
The University experiences high volumes of applications resulting in competition for places.
Regrettably, this means that we are sometimes unable to make offers to, or accept, a number of well qualified applicants.
If an application is unsuccessful, we will inform the applicant via UCAS or the relevant Application Portal and will provide the primary reason for the decision.
The University will make further feedback available, upon request, to unsuccessful applicants.
If an applicant is subsequently dissatisfied with the feedback received, they may wish to request a formal review of the decision or make a complaint (see Section 13).
The University welcomes applications from candidates with a physical or mental disability or long-term health condition or specific learning difference.
Such applicants will be considered against the same criteria as all other candidates following the process outlined in Section 6 of this policy.
Applicants are encouraged to declare this information in their application and are reminded to do so at both application and offer stage.
If an offer is made, the Student Wellbeing and Inclusivity team will contact an applicant to discuss support needs and plan for any reasonable adjustments the applicant is likely to require.
In the unlikely event that, despite reasonable adjustments, an applicant is unable to access their chosen course, the University undertakes to offer the applicant support in submitting an alternative application.
The University has a Fitness to Study policy for registered students which will apply should issues arise with your ability to engage with your course as a result of your health or disability, despite reasonable adjustments being in place.
The University also has a responsibility to ensure that individuals on the PGCE programme have the necessary health and physical capacity to teach and are therefore asked to complete a Fitness to Teach Questionnaire prior to commencing the programme.
We provide further information about support with a disability, long term health condition or specific learning difference at the University .
It is the applicant’s responsibility to inform the University of any extenuating circumstances that may lead, or have led to, academic performance that is not truly indicative of their true potential.
Extenuating circumstances should be brought to the attention of the relevant admissions team before examination results are released.
We would usually expect circumstances affecting assessment to have been taken up with the relevant examination body in the first instance.
However, all relevant cases will be considered as part of the decision-making process and the University reserves the right to request further information from any applicant submitting extenuating circumstances.
If deemed necessary, and with the applicant’s permission, the applicant’s academic institution, examination body, doctor or other appropriate third party may be contacted.
Having a criminal conviction will not normally prevent an individual from studying at Loughborough.
However, as part of our duty of care to the University community, we ask prospective students to disclose information about certain criminal convictions.
This is to enable the University to assess and appropriately manage the risk linked to admission.
The University has a specific policy and procedure for criminal convictions process .
Occasionally the University admits students who are under the age of 18 years at the start of their course.
Where this is the case, the University will require the applicant’s parent/guardian to sign the University’s Consent Form as confirmation that they have read and understood the nature of the obligations which the University owes to its students under the age of 18, and the extent of the services and facilities available to them.
No student under the age of 18 will be registered by the University until the Consent Form has been signed.
For international applicants, the University must comply with regulations set by the UK Visas and Immigration.
As such, parents or guardians must ensure suitable care arrangements are in place for a child under the age of 18 who will study in the UK and be sponsored by the University under its Student Route licence (see Section 8 below).
The University will not issue a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) until the University’s Consent Form has been signed.
The University welcomes deferred applications for the majority of subject areas and will also consider requests from students to defer their application or offer of a place for one year after an application has been submitted.
The University normally allows students applying for taught programmes to defer their application twice before asking the student to re-apply.
Applicants for research degree programmes may defer their start date only after discussion with the academic school.
In some circumstances deferral may not be possible and where funding has been made available it may not be possible to defer an award.
Applicants holding a deferred place for an undergraduate course must meet all academic conditions of their offer during the current application cycle.
If an applicant applies for deferred entry and then wishes to bring their entry forward to the current academic cycle such requests should also be put in writing (by email) and a decision will be made dependent on places still being available on the given course.
Students should give details of all previous education immediately below the proposed course of study on their application, including any previous study in higher education, even if this was not successfully completed.
This requirement also applies to applicants who have previously studied at Loughborough University.
Applicants should give the reason for any unsuccessful outcomes (e.g.
academic failure, decision to withdraw, required to leave for disciplinary reasons, financial problems etc.).
Each application will be considered on its merits and future potential to succeed will be taken into account.
Failure to disclose all relevant information may lead to action under Section 7 paragraph L.
The University reserves the right to withdraw any offer made on the basis of an application which has been found to be obtained fraudulently, contain false information, omission(s) or to be plagiarised.
At undergraduate level, applications are reviewed by the UCAS similarity detection service and processed in line with the University’s UCAS similarity detection procedure
Please see the Terms and Condition of Study .
Students wishing to enter the UK must comply with the UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) Points-based Immigration System.
Further information is available at the link below.
The University is committed to meeting its requirements as a sponsor of students, and should an applicant be found not to be in a position to meet all UK visa requirements for the anticipated full duration of their programme of study, the University reserves the right to refuse to sponsor the applicant under the Student Route.
In the event of changes to immigration legislation, or if information becomes available that might impact our ability to sponsor a student, the University reserves the right to refuse to sponsor an applicant and/or amend or withdraw any sponsorship already made.
As part of the University’s UKVI Student Visa Sponsor Licence, the University is required to view and maintain copies of the passport and visa (valid for study at Loughborough University) for all international students.
We may also check original qualification documents (including certified translations if these are not in English) on the basis of which admission was granted to the University.
The University undertakes these checks as part of the registration process upon arrival.
Our Terms and Conditions of Study set out the requirement that applicants who have accepted our offers and current students agree to co-operate with the University in fulfilment of its responsibilities as a Student Route sponsor.
The University also provides additional information and support which is available at the link below.
Applicants applying for certain science, engineering or technology programmes may need to apply for an ATAS certificate before applying for a Visa, Entry Clearance or Extension of Stay.
Further information about ATAS certificates is available through the gov.uk link below.
For more detailed information about how to apply for an ATAS Certificate please see our ATAS page linked below.
www.lboro.ac.uk/study/apply/support/atas/
Whilst we try to ensure that all of our courses run as advertised it is sometimes necessary for us to make significant changes to the structure of our programmes or to discontinue a course entirely.
More detailed information about changes to courses and the potential reasons for this can be found in our Terms and Conditions of Study .
Where a third party is providing financial support, the University requires applicants to provide written evidence of this.
Reference to the relevant course tuition fee (including placement year fee where applicable) can be found in an applicant’s offer communication.
The Student Handbook provides detailed information on tuition fees and financial support .
Tuition fees charged in the future may change as a result of Government policy.
Tuition fee status is determined by the University in accordance with the Education (Fees and Awards) (England) Regulations 2007 and guidance is provided by the UK Council for International Student Affairs .
For further information about how the University assesses tuition fee status see:
The data submitted as part of each application is used to assess the suitability of an applicant for study at the University.
Anonymised data is also used by the University for statistical and reporting purposes.
Application data forms part of the student record for applicants who are admitted to the University.
For Postgraduate Research students, the recruitment process may involve an external party, for example an industrial sponsor.
Where the collaborator is based either in the UK, the EU, or in a country covered by UK data protection adequacy regulations, the collaborator is bound by the same or equivalent legal standards.
Where a collaborator is based outside these countries, they will be bound by standard contractual clauses set up between Loughborough University and the collaborator to safeguard the data subject’s (the applicant’s) privacy.
The University complies with the General Data Protection Act (GDPR) and the Data Protection Act (DPA) 2018 in its use of applicant data and further information are in the Student Privacy Notice .
University staff expect to be able to conduct the admissions process in an atmosphere of mutual respect and tolerance, free from harassment, abuse, discrimination or otherwise unacceptable behaviour from applicants.
Applicants, prospective students, and their supporters are expected to be respectful towards other applicants, students and University staff and to conduct themselves in an appropriate manner in all forms of communication, including social media.
If a member of the University community experiences behaviour from an applicant, prospective student or supporter which is not in line with these expectations, the University reserves the right to take action, which may include the withdrawal of an offer and/or cancellation of an application for accommodation.
The University is committed to upholding the principles of fairness and transparency within its admissions process.
However, we acknowledge that occasionally applicants may have reason to question or express an opinion about the University’s decision, or the way in which their application has been handled.
As such, the University operates an appeals and complaints procedure which encourages informal resolution and does not disadvantage applicants.
For further information about applying to Loughborough University, please visit our website:
www.lboro.ac.uk/study/
To contact the relevant Admissions Office, please use the appropriate details below:
Date approved: 24 February 2016
Revised: 2 December 2021, 25 October 2023, 11 December 2024
Change to Section 7 Paragraph H relating to revised Criminal Conviction Policy and Procedure.
References to offer ‘letter’ changed to offer ‘communication’ in Paragraphs 7C, 7D and 10A.
Reference to Student Fitness to Study Policy added to Paragraph 7F on Applicants with a disability or long-term health condition.
Update to policy of issuing CAS to under 18 applicants added to Paragraph 7I on Age on Entry.
Further clarification on outcome of failure to disclose previous education added to Paragraph 7K on Previous education.
Responsibility for reviewing admissions policies assigned to the Learning and Teaching Committee only in Paragraph 3.
Name of Research Student Office changed to Doctoral College Office in Paragraph 3 and 4.
Addition of Programme Leader as alternative to Admissions Tutor in Paragraph 4.
Replacement of the word ‘data’ with ‘information’ in Paragraph 6.
Update to admissions process for Teacher Training applications in Paragraph 7.
Amendment to closing date for undergraduate applications in Paragraph 7.
Addition of Application Portal as application route for Pre-sessional Programmes in Paragraph 7.
Addition of information about postgraduate taught application closing dates in Paragraph 7 A.
Change of title of Counselling and Disability Office to Student Wellbeing and Inclusivity team and update of webpage link in Paragraph 7 F.
Change from ‘Tier 4’ to ‘Student Route’ in respect of the sponsorship of international students in Paragraph 7 I and 8 A.
Update of information for undergraduate students who defer their offer in Paragraph 7 J.
Update of links to webpages with ATAS information in Paragraph 8 B.
Update of link to web page re tuition fee status in Paragraph 10 B.
Addition of information for postgraduate research applicants on how data may be shared with third-parties in Paragraph 11.
Update of GDPR and Data Protection law and links to webpage in Paragraph 11.
Addition of information re the University’s expectations of applicant behaviour in Paragraph 12.
Update of contact details for PGCE Teacher Training in Paragraph 14.
References to the University strategy, associated policies and good practice guidance updated in Paragraph 1.
Change of committee name from Research Committee to Research and Innovation Committee in Paragraph 3.
Update of job titles to Programme Director, Head of Future Students & Marketing Operations and Senior Assistant Registrar in Paragraph 4.
Deletion of reference to Undergraduate and Postgraduate Prospectuses in Paragraphs 5 and 9.
Updates to weblinks in Paragraphs 7 F, 8 A, 8 B, 10 A, 10 B, and 13.
Detail about the Fitness to Teach Questionnaire completed by PGCE applicants added to Paragraph 7 F.
Clarification regarding the situations when the University reserves the right to withdraw an offer in Paragraph 7 L.
Update of contact details for Undergraduate Admissions, Art and Foundation Studies, and PGCE in Paragraph 14.
References to freedom of expression included in Paragraph 1 and 13.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/accessibility:
This accessibility statement applies to Loughborough University’s website – www.lboro.ac.uk .
This website is run by Loughborough University.
We’re committed to ensuring all visitors can access our web services and we want as many people as possible to be able to use this website.
For example, that means you should be able to:
We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.
AbilityNet has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.
We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible.
For example, in some instances
If you need information on this website in a different format like accessible PDF, large print, easy read, audio recording or braille, please contact webteam@lboro.ac.uk .
We’ll consider your request and get back to you with a response.
We want to make our services as accessible as possible and we’re always looking to improve the accessibility of this website.
If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting accessibility requirements, please contact webteam@lboro.ac.uk and we’ll review and address and seek to resolve any issues you may be facing in accessing our services.
If, after contacting the web team, you feel your issue hasn’t been sufficiently addressed, you can escalate your issue to the Director of Marketing and Advancement, Martyn Edwards.
PA to Director of Marketing and Advancement, Nicola Griffin: n.j.griffin@lboro.ac.uk
The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’).
If you’re not happy with how we respond to your complaint, contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service (EASS) .
Loughborough University is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No.
2) Accessibility Regulations 2018.
This website is partially compliant with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1 AA standard due to the non-compliances listed below.
The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.
We are actively working to archive or redevelop old sites using new accessible templates to address this issue by November 2024.
We are replacing older carousels with new accessible versions.
We are reviewing our web pages to identify and resolve instances where contrast issues exist.
All non-compliant colours will be replaced with colours that meet AA standards by November 2024.
Pages affected by this issue are being redeveloped and should be fully resolved by November 2024.
We will be updating our global styles to address this issue by November 2024.
We have updated our publisher documentation and training materials to ensure publishers are aware of heading structures and how to use them appropriately.
We will be using Silktide to actively monitor and resolve this issue where it arises.
We have updated our publisher documentation and training materials to ensure publishers are mindful of their responsibilities when publishing content using tables.
We are providing further training and documentation to publishers on their responsibilities in respect of PDF creation and publication.
Our in-house design team have received training on creating accessible PDFs alongside adopting a ‘web-first’ approach to document publishing.
We will be using Silktide to continuously monitor for inaccessible PDFs to enable us to respond to and resolve issues with inaccessible PDFs.
We have updated our publisher documentation and training materials to ensure publishers are mindful of their responsibilities when using links in the content they publish and how to write appropriate link text.
Although this success criteria is level AAA, we are committed to ensuring our web content is as simple as possible to understand.
We have provided some publishers with copywriting training and will be including this in future publisher training.
We will be updating our publisher documentation to include information on creating better readable content.
We have detailed information on how to add descriptive text to images as part of our publisher documentation and training.
We will be using Silktide to continuously monitor and audit where images fail accessibility checks, enabling us to quickly respond and resolve issues when they arise.
All new video content should be captioned, and auto-generated captions checked for accuracy.
Some older videos embedded on our website may not have captions and we are working to remove old videos that are no longer required or relevant or update captions where appropriate.
Podcast publishers are being asked to provide transcripts or text equivalent where they don’t already exist.
Loughborough University’s Web and Digital Team undertake regular accessibility testing on this website and are working to migrate all content away from older web templates.
We have created guides on how to make accessible digital content and provide training to publishers.
There are active projects to migrate non-compliant areas of content and features to new, WCAG 2.1 AA compliant templates.
We will be using Silktide to improve our identification of accessibility and content issues ensuring we are able to address them in a more timely manner.
This statement was prepared on 30 March 2020.
It was last reviewed on 8 March 2024 and will be reviewed on or before 29 November 2024.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/privacy:
At Loughborough University we believe strongly in protecting our users' privacy.
We will not wilfully disclose information about our users to any third party without first receiving our users' consent.
Loughborough University takes the privacy and data protection of the individuals it interacts with seriously.
This page tells you more about our approach to your data and provides tools to help you manage your relationship with us.
Our privacy notices set out in more detail how we use personal data and what your rights are in respect of that data.
We hope you find everything you need on these pages, but if not, you may find additional useful information and the answer to your query on our Information Governance pages or you can contact us by emailing our Data Protection Officer .
You can also write to us addressed to: Data Protection Officer, Academic Registry, Loughborough University, Loughborough, Leics, UK LE11 3TU.
You have right to request a copy of the personal information we hold about you, via the Subject Access Rights process and you can do that from this page.
Information on how we use and store the personal data of our staff, job applicants and some visitors.
Additional privacy notices for staff-related services:
Describing how we manage data relating to enquirers, applicants, students and alumni.
Additional privacy notices for student-related services:
Describing the handling of research, research participant and international visitor-related data.
Additional research-related notices will appear as appropriate.
Describing the details of data in respect of activity undertaken by University Careers, Employability and Skills services, Enterprise Office and Marketing and Advancement services at the University.
Additional related notices will appear as appropriate.
Our Data protection, information security and data pages...
More information on FoI...
Privacy related to using our web pages...
How we use cookies...
How to make a Subject Access Request...

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/disclaimer:
The material made available through this Loughborough University website is for information purposes only and cannot be used and/or relied upon for any other purpose.
Loughborough University makes no representations or warranties of any kind, either express or implied, as to the completeness, accuracy, reliability, suitability or availability of this website or the information, products or services contained in these pages or their fitness for any purpose whatsoever.
Any reliance you place on such information is therefore entirely at your own risk.
Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure the accuracy of the information in these pages, their content is naturally subject to change.
It is the responsibility of the user/reader to check the accuracy of relevant facts before entering into any financial or other commitment based upon them.
In no event will Loughborough University be held liable in contract, tort (including without limitation negligence) and/or breach of statutory duty for any direct, indirect, special, incidental or consequential loss or damage (including but not limited to any loss of data and/or economic loss and/or loss of profits) arising out of or in connection with the use of this website or the information contained therein.
Within this website you are able to access and link to independent third party sites which may feature information which is of interest to you.
Loughborough University has no control over the subject matter, content and/or availability or otherwise of such sites and as such, assumes no responsibility whatsoever in respect of such site(s).
The inclusion of any links does not necessarily imply a recommendation or endorsement of the views expressed within in them, by Loughborough University.
Please advise us if you consider any third party links to be inappropriate, illegal or offensive.
Loughborough University reserve the right to remove such links if in its sole opinion Loughborough University believes it to be inappropriate, illegal or offensive.
Every effort will be made to ensure that this website runs without any problems or interruptions, however Loughborough University will not be liable for and takes no responsibility for this website being temporarily unavailable due to technical or other reasons.
Unless otherwise explicitly stated, all information contained within this website belongs to Loughborough University and is copyright Loughborough University, irrespective of whether a copyright symbol and/or statement is present.
All trademarks are hereby acknowledged by you as belonging to Loughborough University.
The University asserts its moral rights to the information contained within this website.
Any requests about use of Loughborough University copyright material should be addressed to the maintainer of the page, where this is apparent, otherwise webteam@lboro.ac.uk.
Loughborough University will, upon notification, consider removing any material open to legal objection pending investigation.
In all matters relating to this website the applicable law shall be that of England and Wales.
The Freedom of Information Act confers a right on individuals to know what information is held by public authorities and to obtain access to that information.
Hence, where requested to do so, the University has a duty to disclose information held by it, including information held by it electronically.
Some information may be absolutely exempt from disclosure, for example, personal information and information received by the University in confidence.
Other information may be exempt if the public interest lies in withholding the information rather than in disclosing it e.g.
information that is commercially sensitive.
As a consequence of this legislation, information provided by users of the University's website may be disclosed to third parties where a request for access has been made and where no exemption applies.
Please consult our further information about the University and Freedom of Information, including the University’s publication scheme.
Members of the University, staff and students, using this Website whether as information providers or information users, are reminded that they are required to abide by all relevant University policies, in particular the IT Acceptable Use Policy.
The Legal Services Team provides professional legal support to the University’s activities.
Loughborough University is committed to ensuring that its activities are carried out in compliance with all relevant export control obligations.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/about/ethical-principles:
The University is committed to ensuring that high ethical standards are embedded in everything it does, and has a series of ethical principles that inform the behaviour and actions of all members of the University community.
Those principles are as follows:
As active members of an international academic community, we are fundamentally committed to:
As the representatives of a modern, progressive institution, we are also committed to:
but we will not tolerate
Furthermore, as members of the Loughborough University community, we are committed to

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/modern-slavery-statement:
Modern slavery is a crime and a violation of fundamental human rights.
It takes various forms, such as slavery, servitude, forced and compulsory labour and human trafficking, all of which have in common the deprivation of a person's liberty by another to exploit them for personal or commercial gain.
We are committed to improving our practices to combat slavery and human trafficking.
This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes our slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31 July 2024.
We are a leading UK university in the higher education sector, with a reputation for excellence in teaching and research, strong links with business and industry and unrivalled sporting achievement.
The University has over 19,450 students and over 3,600 staff.
In 2023/24, we had total income of £373.5 million and total expenditure of £367.3 million.
Loughborough's Chancellor is the formal principal officer.
The Chancellor is also an ex-officio member of the University Council and confers degrees on Loughborough’s graduates.
The University Council is the governing body, responsible for the University's strategy and overall governance.
It is the official employer of all staff and meets four times a year.
Its Chair is the Senior Pro Chancellor, Christine Hodgson.
Senate is responsible for the academic work of the University, academic awards, teaching and research quality.
Its membership is drawn from the academic staff of the University.
The day-to-day running of the University is the responsibility of the Vice Chancellor and President, Professor Nick Jennings, who is the academic and executive head.
The Vice Chancellor works closely with the University Executive Board (UEB) which includes: Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Provost, four Pro Vice Chancellors, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Deputy Chief Operating Officer, the Director of Planning & Secretary to UEB and nine School Deans.
He also works closely with other senior leaders through the University Leadership Group .
The University has 9 academic schools , over 100 research groups, institutes and centres , and 12 professional service functions .
We categorise our procurement spend as follows: (% split based on 2023-24 )
We have undertaken a high-level risk assessment of our contracts, identifying where supply chains extend into sectors and territories that are high risk in terms of the potential presence of modern slavery.
The high-risk sub-categories identified are estates/construction, IT & telecommunications, catering supplies and services, specialist cleaning services, taxis, laboratory supplies (gloves), and personal protective equipment/workwear/sports kit/promotional leisurewear.
Our University Strategy, workplace policies and procedures demonstrate our commitment to acting ethically and with integrity in all our business relationships.
We are committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery in our supply chains, or in any part of our business.
Our HR policies and procedures reflect UK employment law.
Our Whistleblowing Policy provides guidance to staff, students, members of its Council and other members of the University on the procedure for the disclosure of information which, in that person’s reasonable belief, is in the public interest and tends to show one or more types of malpractice, impropriety or dangers as specified in the Policy.
The University’s Procurement Regulations require compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (see clause 1.5.
(c)).
The University’s Sustainable Procurement Guidance Note explicitly references the Modern Slavery Act 2015, with slavery and human trafficking included within the pre-procurement risk assessment tool.
It also prompts consideration of the appropriateness of using labour standards (including ILO core conventions) as selection criteria.
Our Ethical Investment Policy includes a commitment to make investments in an ethically responsible manner.
As well as being reflected in our policies and procedures, the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 are built into our working documents ensuring all tendering exercises undertaken by the Procurement team incorporate the standard modern slavery risk mitigation measures.
The risk of modern slavery within the supply chain is flagged and mitigated within the Procurement Strategy checklist/template, pre-qualification/tender documents and the University’s Standard Terms and Conditions.
Our standard tender documents include modern slavery questions enquiring as to bidders’ supply chain risk mapping, contract workforce protections, evidence of modern slavery auditing, follow-up and collaborative action with NGOs and others.
Our library of tender questions, to be used where appropriate, covers bidders’ use of recruitment agencies and recruitment fee breakdowns, including confirmation and evidence that the employer pays these fees.
Further to the 2023 Procurement Policy Notice (PPN), mandating amendments to the Selection Criteria (for procurements that fall within the Public Contracts Regulations 2015), we have incorporated the additional (non-mandatory) modern slavery question to ensure a more thorough check on our suppliers.
Our contract summary template, completed by the Procurement Team once a contract is awarded, focusing contract managers on the key contract deliverables, performance measures and risks etc., includes modern slavery.
We continue to use a number of tools for checking the performance of our suppliers in protecting workers’ rights, including BetterWork for our apparel contracts and Know the Chain for our IT contracts and have a dedicated contract management role to ensure a continued dialogue with suppliers to the University.
We have used NetPositive Futures’ Supplier Engagement Tool to allow our suppliers to access the tool free of charge to create a Sustainability Action Plan for their business.
Where relevant, the tool identifies actions for the supplier to take in order to mitigate the risk of modern slavery within its supply chains.
We are a founding member of Electronics Watch,(EW) an organisation that works to monitor working conditions in factories producing Information and Communication Technology (ICT) goods bought by European public sector members.
Through this we are able to build EW labour standards clauses into our contracts for IT hardware, and receive compliance reports from EW monitoring organisations on factories which manufacture products ultimately supplied to the University.
Our pre-qualification/tender documents for Estates procurement signpost the training and resources available from StrongerTogether to help with identifying, and responding to, signs of modern slavery.
The University continues to engage with other universities and higher education purchasing consortia, including the North Eastern Universities Purchasing Consortium (NEUPC), of which the University is a member, the Higher Education Procurement Authority (HEPA) and the Environmental Association for Universities and Colleges (EAUC), where we aim to share our experiences of managing modern slavery risks and collaborate with others in the sector to agree how best our combined resource may be used.
We have zero tolerance to modern slavery.
As well as taking mitigating measures through the procurement/contract management process (including adding appropriate pre-qualification/tender questions and standard contract clauses), the University expressed this policy, explained the Modern Slavery Act and the related measures we have added to our processes, at local supplier events.
The Procurement team have received Modern Slavery training from NetPositive Futures, the University of Greenwich and the Ethical Trading Initiative.
All staff involved in procurement are made aware of the risks and indicators of modern slavery in our supply chains, along with the mitigating measures detailed above, as part of our rolling in-house Procurement training.
The team will continue to improve awareness of the Act and aim to undertake continual professional development and training.
In addition to the training within the Procurement Team reminders are sent through the procurement quarterly newsletter reinforcing the message across the University to ensure that Modern Slavery is at the front of people’s mind when making purchasing decisions.
We have invested in the Social Value Portal (SVP) alongside the two other Leicestershire based universities (University of Leicester and De Montfort University), and Leicester City Council, to build measured social value commitments into contracts, then track their delivery during the contract period, with SVP’s support.
Of the 37 social value commitments/measures from which bidders can select when tendering, two relate to modern slavery.
The University is also part of the East Midlands Social Value Task Force supporting the integration of Social Value across all sectors of society to help build a Social Value Economy by promoting dialogue between public, private and 3rd sectors, encouraging radical collaboration and partnership.
The University is accredited by the Living Wage Foundation , which certifies that all staff are paid a real living wage.
Non-University contracted workers that regularly work onsite at the University are expected to be paid the UK living wage as defined by the Living Wage Foundation, and the University evaluates suppliers’ approach to Fair Work Practices, including the Living Wage, in line with statutory guidance.
The Living Wage is mandated within in-scope contracts with annual reviews carried out to ensure that all suppliers are meeting this commitment.
Richard Taylor
Chief Operating Officer Loughborough University
On behalf of the Council of Loughborough University which approved this statement on 21 November 2024

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/equity-diversity-inclusion/harassment-sexual-misconduct:
The University is committed to ensuring a safe environment for staff and students whereby any allegations of sexual harassment, misconduct and violence are investigated, and proportional actions and support are taken.
This hub brings together how the university responds to and handles issues of harassment and sexual misconduct.
It includes policies, processes, support services, and guidance; all in one place, as required by the Office for Students (OfS).
The university has a set of definitions within this area, some of which are complex and detailed within several different policies and ordinances.
This supports the University to comply with the Office for Students Condition of Registration, E6 and the Worker Protection Act 2025.
This information sheet / webpage provides further information about what happens at each stage.
It is important to take advice from colleagues in student services, security or HR to confirm which is the relevant policy/ ordinance and therefore the process to follow.
To help tackle sexual misconduct and harassment at Universities, the OfS have implemented a new regulation which mandates that all Students receive training to learn about this important topic.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/data-privacy/foi:
Loughborough University, along with thousands of other Public Authorities must comply with the Freedom of Information Act.
The Act was created as an initiative to increase openness and transparency in Government, with the FOI Act passed on 30 November 2000.
The Act obliges organisations covered by it to make information available to members of the public, through a publication scheme and, additionally, to make any other information (with a number of statutory exceptions) available upon request.
What information the University makes available
About the statistical data provided by the University
The University's subsidiary companies have their own publication schemes
Information which is exempt from FoI requests
The University's FoI complaints procedure

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/legal-services/expression:
The Freedom of Expression Code of Practice was adopted by the University Council on 23 November 2023.
Free expression and Academic Freedom are at the core of a functioning academic environment, where teaching, research and innovation can flourish.
The Office for Students has published Regulatory Advice and guidance related to Freedom of Speech and the changes under the Higher Education (Freedom of Speech) Act 2023.
This can be accessed here on the Office for Students website .
The University is currently considering the guidance and will develop additional resources and provide training to support staff and students in relation to freedom of expression.
1.1 This Code of Practice arises from Loughborough University’s duties under the Higher Education (Freedom of Speech) Act 2023.
1.2 This Code of Practice is also written with reference to the following relevant legislation:
1.3 This Code of Practice sets out:
2.1 We use the term freedom of expression to encompass all forms of expression (speech, writing, artistic, physical and other forms of expression).
The principles set out in this Code of Practice apply to all such forms of expression.
2.2 Open debate, challenging discussion and the advancement of novel perspectives are fundamental to the University’s mission to advance knowledge and wisdom.
Without freedom of expression and academic freedom this mission cannot be completed.
Loughborough University is therefore committed to promoting freedom of expression and academic freedom.
2.3 We recognise that at times this mission will mean that views or ideas are expressed which are challenging, controversial and, in some cases, people may find offensive.
This might be in an academic research or teaching context or more broadly within the University.
We will seek to mitigate this by fostering an environment where such views can be discussed openly and safely and are subject to rigorous academic challenge.
2.4 We note that freedom of expression is always bounded by the law.
Furthermore, the University has a responsibility under the Public Sector Equality Duty to have due regard to fostering good relations between persons who share a relevant protected characteristic and persons who do not share it.
2.5 In exercising their freedom of expression, all staff, students and visitors have a responsibility to act within the relevant University polices (see section 4 below) and to adhere to the following values, which are enshrined in the University Strategy :
2.6 Where controversial or novel views are expressed in an academic context these will need to be supported with evidence and argument.
The University’s Statement on Academic Freedom should be followed in those cases.
2.7 Freedom of expression is not unfettered.
Certain expression may be considered illegal, for example:
2.8 Notwithstanding its duty to promote and secure freedom of expression, Loughborough University may (but is not obliged to, in the case of the second bullet point below) take action against expression which:
Acts which are fundamentally disruptive, rather than acts of expression, do not attract protection under this Code of Practice.
2.9 Where there are concerns that an act of expression may have contravened the principles outlined above this will be dealt with under our existing complaints processes.
For matters raised by students, these will be dealt with pursuant to Ordinance XXXVIII .
For matters raised by staff, these will be dealt with pursuant to Ordinance XXXVII .
For matters raised by third parties, these may be addressed to the Chief Operating Officer who will undertake an initial review to determine whether there is a prima facie case to answer and if so, will initiate an appropriate investigation.
All such complaints processes are subject to the civil burden of proof: that the matter complained of happened on the balance of probabilities.
In the event that the complainant is unhappy with the outcome of the Chief Operating Officer’s investigation, they may request that the Provost and Deputy Vice Chancellor review the decision, only on the grounds of (i) Procedural irregularity; (ii) error in application of the law or this Code of Practice; or (iii) irrationality.
3.1 Our External Speaker Policy should be followed for any External Speakers invited to the University.
Appendix 4 of the External Speaker Policy sets out the standards of conduct expected of External Speakers.
3.2 In the course of teaching and research activity, the University expects all staff and students to act in accordance with the principles set out in section 2 above.
Where the University believes that conduct has breached these principles this will be dealt with under the procedures outlined in 2.9 above.
Guidance will be made available to provide further detail on expectations.
3.3 Unless an event or speaker is deemed likely to breach the principles set out in section 2 above and/or is in breach of our External Speaker Policy, the event will be permitted.
Where there are concerns about an event breaching Loughborough’s Code of Practice the matter should be referred to the Designated Officer.
In making a determination, the Designated Officer may take such advice from colleagues as they deem necessary and appropriate.
3.4 In reaching a determination about whether to permit an event, the University will not normally require the event organiser to bear any costs associated with security for that event, save for exceptional circumstances.
Statement on Academic Freedom Our Statement on Academic Freedom sets out our position on academic freedom and how any tensions between academic freedom and our duty to tackle discrimination, harassment and bullying and to promote equality can be resolved.
Harassment and Bullying Policy Our Harassment & Bullying Policy sets out how we will foster an environment where our staff, visitors and contractors can work free from intimidation, aggression, coercion and victimisation.
Student Code of Conduct Our Student Code of Conduct (Ordinance XVII) sets out offences which may constitute a disciplinary offence.
Student Charter Our Student Charter , jointly developed by students and staff, sets out the principles by which we want our student community to live.
Employee Code of Conduct Our Employee Code of Conduct sets out our expectations of all staff, including demonstrating respect for others.
Whistleblowing Policy Our Whistleblowing Policy sets out what we do to create an environment in which serious concerns about any of our activity can be raised.
This policy has been reviewed under Project Compliance Review date: September 2024
As part of the University’s commitment to freedom of expression, the University recognises the right to protest.
It additionally recognises the right to freedom of assembly.
This Guidance has been produced to support staff and students in relation to the safe and appropriate conduct of protests.
Where an individual or group of individuals wish to protest in some form, they must do so lawfully and safely.
Protesting in furtherance of a controversial principle or a principle which some might find offensive, is not inherently unlawful.
Protesting against something can take many forms, this guidance is specifically about one or more people attending one of our campuses in person to protest on an issue in an open space.
To help ensure any protests or activities in open and/or communal spaces on campus can be conducted safely, the University will provide advice in relation to security, safety and location for planned protests.
The organiser should contact security@lboro.ac.uk setting out:
Posters, banners or other items should not be affixed to University or private property without permission.
Some notice boards around campus have been designated for the use of different groups and these should be used appropriately.
You should not behave in a way which poses a risk to the health and safety of you or others or would otherwise cause damage to University property.
In particular, you must not block campus roads, as this could impede emergency services attending at a location on campus.
You should not behave in a way which is intimidating to other staff, students or visitors.
Unless worn on religious or medical grounds, face coverings are discouraged.
You should not behave in a way which causes disruption to or improper interference with the academic, administrative, sporting, social or other activities of the University.
You should ensure that any materials used in a protest do not contain any imagery or text which would be a breach of the civil or criminal law.
For example:
We will provide advice and guidance as to how to conduct your protest safely.
The University respects staff and students' rights to protest.
The University is private land and so those who do not have a legitimate reason to be on campus will be asked to leave.
Those involved in a protest may be asked to prove that they are indeed current staff or students, but your identity will not be recorded anywhere as a result of those checks.
If face coverings are worn, unless they are for religious or medical reasons, you will be required to remove them for the purposes of verifying your identity against photo ID.
Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Services have produced a range of helpful resources to support staff.
Among these resources is the Let's Talk toolkit to help colleagues engage in respectful conversations, where discussions involve potential conflict and disagreement.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/strategy:
Together is a bold and ambitious strategy that will guide the University over the next decade.
It articulates our strategic priorities and what we are striving to achieve.
Together is outward and forward looking, recognising the importance of our external influence and the impact of our actions on the world around us, and reflecting the challenges that face us as a society.​ Creating Better Futures.
Together emphasises that we will achieve more if we work in partnership.
This applies to the way we work internally and to the external people and organisations that we team up with.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/international:
Start a new adventure, learn incredible things and join a community of around 18,000 students from over 130 different countries / regions.
We're delighted to present our new Global Impact Scholarship offering from 50% to 100% off postgraduate master's for 1 year
Digital resources for International undergraduate and postgraduate applicants
Select your country / region to find lots of useful information regarding entry requirements, study options, upcoming visits and a list of approved educational advisors who are based in your country / region.
Haven’t you heard?
We have a pretty amazing reputation as one of the top ten universities in the UK, but that’s not the only reason.
See what else we have to offer.
We have two amazing campuses, both located in two different parts of the UK.
Take a moment to learn where both of our campuses are in the UK and explore what each campus has to offer.
If you've already had an offer - congratulations!
You can find out everything you need know on our welcome pages.
We accept a number of different qualifications.
Learn what qualifications we accept from your country / region for our foundation courses, undergraduate degrees or postgraduate degrees here.
All applicants must have a qualification in English language before they can be admitted onto one of our courses.
Learn what our English language requirements are here.
We work alongside a number of educational advisors around the world.
See the full list of approved educational advisors in your country / region here.
List of international tuition fees for foundation, undergraduate and postgraduate level study, plus accommodation costs for London and Loughborough.
If you’re applying for a visa, you can find lots of useful information on what to do and how we can support you with your application here.
Our Careers’ Network provides lots of career support services to help you achieve your career aspirations.
Discover what support they can provide.
We provide a wide range of academic support services, to ensure that you are able to achieve your full potential.
Discover what support you could utilise here
Our International Student Experience Team provides dedicated support throughout your time at Loughborough.
They are your friendly face on campus and deliver lots of events to help make Loughborough feel like home.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/departments:
Loughborough University

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/library:
What can we help you with?
The University Library is committed to providing excellent customer service, a range of learning environments, access to high quality information resources, and support for you to develop your skills.
Information about the Library's Regulations, Staffing Structure, Library blueprint, the Library Academic Consultant panel and EDI support.
Information about joining the Library, borrowing books, IT and printing within the Library and accessing other libraries.
Information about subject guides, reading lists and online resources.
Find out about and request inter library loans, resources and materials for teaching or study, as well as learn about our archives, special collections and leisure reading.
Information about the various types of support offered by the Library either from our help desk in person or online, from our Academic Librarians and specialist teaching, research and copyright support.
Information on a wide range of skills you will need to successfully complete your studies, including searching for and evaluating information and referencing.
Information about all stages of the research lifecycle; from literature searching to conducting systematic reviews, from organising your resources to disseminating your research.
The Library provides access to four key systems to allow you to find resources and to book study spaces within the Library.
The Loughborough University Archive (LUA) is situated in the Pilkington Library.
The University's Open Research Team is based in the Library.
Information on how copyright applies in learning, teaching and research.
Information about how the Library supports accessibility.
Contact us Staff contacts
Upcoming eBook Central Maintenance
Posted: 7 August 2025
Reading List System maintenance: 09/07/2025 to 10/07/2025
Posted: 8 July 2025
Library systems upgrade - complete
Posted: 1 July 2025
London Library: 24/7

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/governance:
Loughborough University is an independent corporation established by its Royal Charter which was granted in 1966.
The University’s governing body is the Council, the members of which are also are the trustees of the University in relation to its status as an exempt charity which is regulated by OfS.
Key roles in University governance
Details about the University’s charitable status and trustees
The structure of our Schools, and the management teams leading them
Appointment procedures for senior University roles where articles of governance apply
The governance procedures guiding the University's operation
A document that records where authority rests within the University for particular decisions made in the name of or on behalf of the University
The University statement on Academic Freedom
The Code of Practice on Freedom of Expression (Legal Services' site)
Defining the situations in which the University will and will not make public statements on issues
Information on the Office of the Independent Adjudicator for Higher Education (OIA)

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/handbook/money:
Financial and fee-related guidance
Find out about fees, costs, loans, sponsorship, scholarships and financial support during your time at Loughborough.
What they are, when they're charged, how to pay
Additional costs related to reassessment, lateness or course-specific activities
What's available for UK and International students and how to apply
Guidance for you and your sponsor
Guidance on the variety of taught student bursaries and scholarships available
From part-time work to emergency financial support

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/finance/students/pay-fees:
All student payments are made via our online payment portals.
There are two portals to choose from depending on the payment you are making:
Payment for your tuition, accommodation or other fees charged to your student account.
Payment of Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) deposits.
Check your balance and see a summary of your charges and payments via the MyFinance self service portal.
Accounts Receivable

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/contact:
If you’re travelling to our campus and need to know our address and postcode, or you want to get in touch with us via telephone or email – you’ve come to the right place.
Epinal Way,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire LE11 3TU
Phone: +44 (0)1509 222222 Email: enquiries@lboro.ac.uk
If you cannot find the contact details you are looking for below, please call the main switchboard and they will be able to direct you to the most relevant department.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/registry:
The Academic Registry is responsible for University-level student and programme administration at Loughborough.
It supports the work of the University's academic Schools, governance, and academic decision-making processes, including information governance and compliance in relation to educational activity.
The team works on projects relating to process improvement, data management and effective deployment of digital tools in partnership with other professional services.
Covering governance, educational compliance and conduct, cross-Registry responsibilities and project co-ordination...
Overseeing student record and programme management for our Doctoral Researchers...
Providing programme and module administration, and quality assurance policy and procedures...
Managing student data and associated processes...
Preparing teaching timetables for staff and students...
Our services for staff include:
Our primary source of student facing services is the handbook, although there are some key events presented in chronological order below:
Services that apply to external partners:
Policy, operational guidance and forms

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/doctoral-college:
Welcome to Loughborough Doctoral College.
We deliver a unique doctoral experience to over 1,500 researchers who are all members of the Doctoral College and part of our research community.
For help with policy and procedures
For training and development
Including about Graduate House and the Doctoral College Team - location and services provided
List of Directors of Doctoral Programmes
Congratulations to Our PhD Graduates!
Posted: 14 July 2025
Doctoral Researchers Wellbeing Walk
Posted: 25 June 2025
DREB Chair and Vice-Chair 25/26 - APPLICATIONS NOW OPEN
Posted: 23 June 2025

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/campus-living/accommodation:
3rd for accommodation UK, University Compare Top 100 universities 2023
Accessible room options
Option to return to halls 2-year guarantee for international students
Guaranteed rooms for firm choice undergraduate students (If registered by the deadline)
We know that sending your child to university is a big moment, and it’s completely natural to have questions and want reassurance.
Sharing a bathroom can be simple, hygienic, and surprisingly convenient
Use our helpful step-by-step guide to find out how and when to apply for your accommodation, and get answers to frequently asked questions.
We can't wait to welcome you to Loughborough!
In our 2023 Catered Survey, 91% of our students said they would recommend living in catered halls.
Loughborough was ranked #1 in the UK for Best University Campus and Facilities, based on 32,097 student reviews from May 2023 to May 2025 across 11 categories.
If you need adjustments to your accommodation due to wellbeing and disability requirements, we work with Student Support Services to ensure you get the support you need.
Live in self-catered halls but want to eat hot nutritional meals in halls?
With our Hall Meal Saver card you can eat in any dining hall on campus, giving you more time for the things you love!
Use our helpful guide to life in halls - from laundry, post, parcels and bins to maintenance, wellbeing support, hall rules and parking!
Accommodation hub login
Monday to Thursday: 9am - 4.30pm Friday: 9am - 4pm
We know it is really important to feel at home and have a space of your own to study, that's why we have a team based on campus who are dedicated to helping you find a place to live.
Whether you are thinking about coming to study here, are a current student or just going to be visiting, we can help you with your accommodation.
We have 17 different halls of residence for undergraduate and postgraduate students with catered and self-catered options
Where you live and who you live with at university will play a big part in creating some of your best lifelong memories
There is a wide selection of privately owned, university approved and independently accredited accommodation
We offer short stay accommodation at Loughborough University for visitors.
We are here to support you the whole time you are living in our halls of residence
How to apply for accommodation as an undergraduate, postgraduate or International Pathway ( ON CAMPUS) student
Find out why catered accommodation is the perfect choice when living on campus
If you don't find the information you require or have questions, please don't hesitate to ask.
Monday - Thursday: 9am - 4.30pm Friday: 9am - 4pm

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/registry/sro:
The University has around 15,000 undergraduate and 3,000 postgraduate taught students (full and part-time), as well as a number of further education, exchange and temporary students.
The Student Records & Operations (SRO) team is responsible for the administration and management of data underpinning these students' academic life cycles and related business processes (working closely with the University’s academic Schools).
The SRO Team are responsible for general maintenance of student records (programme transfers, leave of absence, withdrawal, stretch, etc.), and programme and module registration (including annual re-registration and registration for reassessment modules).
Registration includes the new students’ registration events to confirm students’ identities and right to study, distribute ID cards, and undertake immigration compliance activity.
SRO also provide advice and guidance to:
Working closely with the Finance Office, the SRO Team are responsible for all aspects of taught student finance.
This includes tuition fees (setting and charging), administration of student bursaries and scholarships, US Federal Loans administration, Student Loans Company processes, and administering the Hardship Fund.
(NB.
The Finance Office are responsible for payment processes for tuition, accommodation and other fees.)
The SRO Team lead on the University’s student immigration compliance activity, including the annual Basic Compliance Assessment and CAS (Confirmation of Acceptance of Studies) allocation.
The team are also responsible for issuing CAS for continuing students’ visa extensions, maintenance and monitoring of student visa records, reporting of students to UKVI, and policy and compliance oversight and co-ordination.
The SRO Team have University-level responsibility for student engagement monitoring processes for taught students, including Digital Registers and associated reporting.
The team work closely with academic Schools who are responsible for enacting these processes and following up in cases of non-engagement.
The SRO Team provide University-level leadership for the delivery and operation of assessment-related processes and data for all taught programmes.
The team are responsible for all aspects of centralised examinations (online and in-person), including the development of the exam timetable for each exam period.
With support from academic Schools, the team manage:
Whilst academic Schools are responsible for enacting processes for managing student assessment marks, the SRO team provide central co-ordination, guidance and training.
The team also work with academic Schools on the development of assessment processes and systems, as well as the ongoing management of the assessment typology.
The SRO Team have University-level responsibility for academic misconduct procedures, including servicing Major Academic Misconduct Committee and Academic Misconduct Appeals Committee meetings.
Minor Academic Misconduct Committee meetings are serviced by academic Schools.
The SRO Team also undertake developmental work to improve policy, processes and systems relating to academic misconduct, as well as contributing to the University’s work to improve academic integrity and good scholarship.
The SRO Team provide University-level leadership and have overall responsibility for processes relating to taught student progression and awards, including release of results to students, mitigating circumstances and programme boards.
Whilst academic Schools are responsible for enacting these processes, the team provide central co-ordination, advice, guidance and training in these areas.
The team are also responsible for managing all aspects of LUSI student records, including marks management and programme boards, for Loughborough College validated programmes.
Working with academic Schools and a number of other University services, the SRO Team plan, prepare and deliver the summer and winter graduation ceremonies, including preparation of all student records, certificates and ceremony plans, and arrangements for Honorary Graduands and University Medallists.
The team are also responsible for the production of copy certificates and transcripts.
Linked to their responsibilities around managing the student record, the SRO team are responsible for student data management, including the student privacy notice, appropriate handling of data, and data retention.
The Deputy Academic Registrar is the University’s Applicant & Student Data Steward.
The team are also responsible for ensuring high standards of data quality in our student data, as well as student data protection compliance (e.g.
Data Subject Access Requests, appropriate release of data to law enforcement authorities).
The SRO Team are responsible for all statutory HESA returns relating to students, i.e.
HESA Student, Initial Teacher Training (ITT), Unistats, and Aggregate Offshore Record (AOR).
The team also undertake the monthly returns to ESFA (Education and Skills Funding Agency) of the Individualised Learner Record (ILR) for Foundation Art & Design (FE programme) and Apprenticeship students.
In addition, the team provide support to Planning and Marketing & Advancement in completing the HESES (Higher Education Students Early Statistics) and Graduate Outcomes returns respectively.
Working closely with colleagues in IT Services, Student Records and Operations staff are responsible for the ongoing management of LUSI (student records system) and Co-tutor (staff-student relationship management system).
The team manage requests for enhancements to these systems and maintain LUSI access.
In addition, the team are jointly responsible (with ITS) for the development of roadmaps for these systems, managing the project pipeline, and delivering a variety of projects.
These projects aim to review, identify and embed the most effective processes and practices within the University's IT systems.
Consultation with colleagues (academic and administrative), communication and coordination are key elements required to achieve these aims.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/finance:
The Finance Team are responsible for all aspects of the University’s financial performance; accurately reporting historical performance, safeguarding University assets and helping to shape future strategic plans with both ambition and financial sustainability in mind.
Finance structure Staff only Key contacts Staff only
We are here to help you understand your fees, make payment, and support you in times of financial difficulty.
We are here to assist you with all elements of finance you might encounter at the University; from training resources to help you understand the financial environment we operate in, through to supporting areas with financial decisions and practical guidance on day to day tasks.
This section provides information on the historical performance of the university, how to work with us in the future, and how existing partners can make payment.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/hr:
The University HR team provides the highest quality of service and professional advice on all HR matters.
We support the University’s strategic aims, ensuring employment practice compliance.
The team has operational and strategic responsibilities covering development and maintenance of policies, procedures, and systems with the provision to support a range of services to managers and staff.
Our purpose and vision Working for us Meet the team
Policies, procedures and forms HR Systems
Posted: 17 April 2025 Categories:
Posted: 24 January 2025 Categories:
Posted: 7 January 2025 Categories:
Posted: 17 December 2024 Categories:
Posted: 19 September 2024 Categories:

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/it:
New student guide to get you started with your IT journey at Loughborough University.
Connect to eduroam, the University Wi-Fi and wired network, plus advice to connect devices in halls and connecting as a guest.
New starter guide, Purchasing IT equipment, Software as a Service (SaaS), Corporate applications, Email resources, Specialist services and more...
Windows 10 support ending in October 2025
Including Quarantined notifications, MailTips and more.
Principles for everyone.
Multi-factor authentication provides a second layer of security in addition to your password.
How to request the different types of accounts and password guidance.
Microsoft O365 tools to share files, collaborate and communicate.
How to access systems and data when you are not on campus and advice on dynamic working arrangements.
Software for students & staff and real-time Computer Availability system for in-person or remote access.
Top tips for staying secure online, reporting procedures, Firewall management, Cyber Essentials.
We offer support around using the Research facilities here at the University as well as guidance around data management
Our IT support page can help you to the right kind of support
Shared Mailbox Service
Windows PCs
An appointment-only service – please book online
PC Clinic
Notice of service change
Update
Windows 10 devices – action required

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/legal-services:
We work primarily with colleagues in the Professional Services on issues relating to contracts and agreements, including land and property, in support of the University’s activities.
We do not advise individual members of staff or students on private legal matters and cannot recommend firms.
Please visit the Law Society’s website for further information.
If you require the services of a Notary Public, please visit The Notaries Society website for further information and to locate a local Notary.
Students seeking advice may like to refer to the Student Advice and Support Service website.
For support with a student or graduate business, please visit the Loughborough Enterprise Network website.
We provide a professional legal service to the University, with a particular focus on transactional and contractual advice.
We provide different levels of support to different aspects of the University – please see the staff only pages for more details.
The Legal Services Team contributes to the University community beyond the simple provision of legal support.
The way we work ensures we are delivering the maximum value possible for the University.
We have also identified our shared values which unite the Team members and are the golden thread through our approach to supporting the University.
Read more about our added value to the University as well as our Team’s values by downloading our Legal Services Value and Values ‌ document.
If you are an external organisation that is currently working with, or would like to work with, the University, please contact the Legal Services Team by email or phone 01509 223178.
If you are a current member of staff or researcher, please visit the Legal Services information for staff pages .
Students seeking advice should contact the Student Advice and Support Service in the first instance.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/marketing-advancement:
Marketing and Advancement focuses on strategic and tactical activities to raise the University's profile with our stakeholders, inspire potential students, connect with alumni and competitively position the university nationally and internationally.
Improving communication, building relationships between the university and our stakeholders and showcasing excellence.
Implementing marketing strategies, campaigns and tactics to enhance the University’s reputation across the four pillars of the University Strategy – Teaching, Research, Enterprise and Sport.
Producing award-winning design and provide Schools and Professional Services with print, photography, video, web and digital design services.
Providing web design, social media, photographic, video production and content optimisation services for all of the University's digital projects and campaigns.
Working with teachers, parents and future students to promote higher education and help widen participation.
Working closely with a range of departments to deliver successful corporate, recruitment and alumni events.
Responsibility for admitting high calibre undergraduate and postgraduate taught students to Loughborough rests with the Admissions Office.
Providing a range of research and database support services that facilitate decision-making.
Evaluating and monitoring the impact of the University’s activities to improve the outcomes and experience for students from under-represented groups in HE.
Engaging with potential international students and highlighting the benefits of studying at Loughborough University.
Engaging with our alumni to help them develop a lifelong connection to Loughborough.
Raising money for the University's priorities agreed by the University’s Operations Committee.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/org-dev:
At Loughborough University, people are at the heart of what we do and our staff are instrumental in our success.
Supporting the development of all colleagues at Loughborough is crucial to our future achievements.
The Development Hub is your one-stop-shop to all the opportunities available to you at the University to support your development and enhance your skills, abilities, and behaviours.
About us
Supporting your development and helping you to reach your full potential starts with induction to the University and the mandatory training that is expected to be completed.
Helping to think about the skills, knowledge and behaviours that may need to be developed for current roles or future potential roles.
A searchable list of our upcoming development workshops, courses and events.
Access to a wealth of information including self-paced resources and help & guidance materials.
A summary of the strategic projects underway to develop the organisation and support our community through change.
A range of good practice resources from within the University and opportunities to apply for awards to recognise your own good practice.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sustainability:
Loughborough University embraces its responsibility to create a more sustainable planet for the future and we seek to embed sustainability in everything we do cultivating socially responsible students, staff, alumni, and partners.
The University Strategy “Creating Better Futures.
Together” puts Sustainability and addressing Climate Change and Net Zero at the heart of the University’s agenda to 2030.
We are a proud signatory of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and aim to use our position as a Top 10 UK University to address global challenges and create a sustainable future for all.
About Response to global climate change
Since 2012 LU students and staff have donated items worth £437k to the British Heart Foundation.
Figure maintained for the last 8 years
Relative to Student Numbers compared to the 2010 baseline year.
As part of the Hedgehog Friendly Campus initiative
Reduced car commute emissions since the inception of our Sustainable Travel Plan.
It takes 12 bees to produce one teaspoon of honey.
We have around 500,000 in our apiary.
This has been developed to allow each School and Department to create a personalised Carbon Action Plan.
We are committed to embedding the SDGs into our teaching, operations and research
The university works hard, with both staff and students, to manage our waste seeking opportunities to reduce waste, maximise reuse, increase recycling and divert waste from landfill at every opportunity.
The University is committed to creating a healthy, sustainable environment that is accessible for everyone.
It takes a lot of energy to support a world class university and there is a fine balance between reducing energy consumption and providing world class facilities to our staff and students.
The University has and established Biodiversity Working Group.
The remit of this group is to develop and steer delivery of the Biodiversity Action Plan for the whole University.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/committees:
Committees are a core part of the University's governance structure and decision-making processes.
In addition to ensuring decisions are fully considered and formally recorded, they are used for consultation and internal/external communication.
General Assembly is a collective body consultative and discussion forum, formed by the Academics and other University staff.
Link to the list of discontinued committees.
The University's statutory documents, regulations and governance processes.
Dates and resources for upcoming committee meetings, including the annual schedule.
Overview of the University committee structure and roles in the governance of the institution.
Information for chairs of committee, secretaries and other staff involved in committee servicing.
Information about election to University committees and current vacancies.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/registry/pqtp:
The PQTP office has responsibility for programme and module administration and for quality assurance policy and procedures.
This includes responsibility for programmes delivered in partnership with other organisations.
Responsible for institutional engagement with the following externally managed processes:
Responsible for management of the following internally managed processes:
Servicing and support for:
Management of:
Contributing to the operation of the University's Student Complaints procedures (Ordinance XXXVIII) for cases raised by students under the guidance of the Academic Registrar.
Contributing to the responses to student cases being reviewed by the OIA under the guidance of the Academic Registrar.
Management of the procedures relating to authorization of DBS applications from students, including PGCE students.
Handling Freedom of Information requests coming to the University.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/planning:
The University's Strategic Planning Team provide support for all the University's major planning processes.
We work closely with staff in the Finance Office, the Academic Registry, Facilities Management and Human Resources.
Key University Statistics are published in Facts and Figures each summer.
We produce a range of annual University Statistics for internal use.
Loughborough University operates a centralised staffing approval process for posts which is administered through iTrent.
Who's who in the Strategic Planning Team at Loughborough University

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/vco:
Welcome to the Vice-Chancellor's Office at Loughborough University.
Responsible for the day to day leadership and management of the University.
Providing administrative support to the Senior Management Team and other members of the VCO.
Providing support for all the University's major planning processes.
Providing leadership and guidance for the University’s strategic themes.
Providing a range of legal support services to the University's activities.
The recognised executive decision-making group of the University.
A forum to bring senior leaders together from across the organisation.
A forum for Heads of Professional Services to work together to shape and deliver the University Strategy.
A forum to bring together the Deans of our Academic Schools.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/fm:
Estates and Facilities Management is responsible for the effective and sustainable management of the university’s land and buildings and delivers a range of services to support the campus.
This includes the University’s capital building and refurbishment programme and estate maintenance.
Helpdesk Submit service request
Estates and Facilities Management members of staff
Loughborough University Science and Enterprise Park
Introductory information, documentation and training videos
Charnwood/Garendon Building (055) - Immersion Heater Replacement - 29/08/25
Posted: 27 August 2025
Wavy Top (045) - Fire Damper Annual Inspection / Service - 30/08/25-30/09/25
Notice of Window Cleaning - Campus Wide - September 2025 - Buildings and Dates below.
Posted: 21 August 2025
The University is delighted to announce that Estates and Facilities Management have been crowned the winners for ‘Team of the Year’ at the 2021 AUDE Awards.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/arts:
We have a range of upcoming events & opportunities, browse our website for full details.
We are looking for students to join our team as Photographers and Arts Events Assistants.
Both roles give you a fantastic opportunity to earn money and gain experience.
Closing dates for applications in early September 2025.
We invite artists to produce new work in response to, alongside and in provocation of research undertaken across Loughborough University’s two campuses.
Click the 'Radar' button on our navigation bar to visit the website.
Find out what's available for you if you’ve an interest in the Performing Arts; from live events and NT Live screenings to performance societies, workshops and scholarships.
Discover our music offer and how you can keep on playing and enjoying music at university; from music tuition and practice rooms to scholarships and societies.
Find out about our popular Speech Bubble performance poetry nights, creative writing evening classes and arts scholarships.
Discover the Loughborough University arts collection, sign up to creative evening classes and find out about artists talks and exhibitions on campus.
Explore the different ways you can get involved in the arts, whatever your level of interest and ability; with student societies and groups, evening classes, one-off workshops and discussion events.
Learn about our annual arts scholarships, with cash prizes and tuition/mentoring, as well as student arts grants to fund your own creative projects and events.
Find out where you can perform, rehearse and enjoy arts activities on campus.
Discover the university arts collection and its history, with artworks and public sculptures dotted around campus.
Our contemporary art programme, working with artists and Loughborough University academics to create new encounters between art and research.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/creative-print:
We are an award-winning creative and print team based at the heart of Loughborough University campus.
Our creative services include brand and corporate identity development and graphic design for a wide range of marketing and promotional materials.
Our team have years of experience providing a full lifecycle website development service from UX concepts through to site launch.
Our team of video producers provide high-quality filming and editing solutions for both University and external clients.
We provide a professional photography service covering a wide-range of styles and subjects.
Whether you are a University staff member, a student, local business or representative of a local social group, you can make full use of our expert team.
We have been delighted with the way that Creative and Print Services have created an identity for LU Arts that captures the essence of what we do and resonates with our audiences.
Nick Slater
Director, LU Arts
Whether it's working together on a conceptual level for large rebrand projects, project management of large signage installations or day-to-day design of marketing collateral, we are always happy with the service and professionalism we receive.
Rob Chamberlain
Marketing Manager, Imago Venues
The quality of the design, photography, videography and web development combined with the teams' ideas and creativity to support key projects has been brilliant.
Kieran Dye
Sport Marketing and Communications Manager, Sports Development Centre
Creative and Print Services recently attended the Association of Creative and Print Managers in Education (ACPME) awards and picked up a win and two highly commended accolades.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/equity-diversity-inclusion/staff-networks:
Loughborough University has a strong history of Staff Networks which play an invaluable role influencing and shaping the University’s policies and practices.
Our Staff Networks are established and run by staff from all over the University, to help empower colleagues, build their confidence and sense of community, and provide them with a voice and influence across the University.
Being part of a Staff Network gives members a sense of belonging and a chance to play an important and valuable part in making Loughborough an inclusive place to work or study.
They also provide opportunities for career development, networking with other colleagues, and creating better working relationships with colleagues across the University.
Chairs: Chidinma Okorie Chukwuma Ogbonnaya Sponsors: Veronica Moore Richard Taylor
Chairs: Stevie Ashurst Sponsors: Miranda Routledge Liz Peel
Chairs: Gemma Towle Henrietta Pocock Sponsors: Veronica Moore Rachel Thompson
Chairs: Emma Nadin Sponsors: Mark Lewis Emily Keightley
Chairs: Roberta Bernabei Sponsors: Claudia Eberlein
Chairs: Joseph Bou Nassif Sponsors: Richard Wheater Jenni Johnson
Chairs: Abbie Loney Ksenija Kuzmina Sponsors: tbc
Chairs: Angela Tarry Sponsors: Malcolm Cook
Chairs: tbc Sponsors: Richard Wheater
Chairs: Catherine Armstrong Sponsors: Sharon Platts Justin Waring

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/audio-visual-timetabling:
The Audio-Visual Team is responsible for AV equipment across both Loughborough & London campuses.
The team provide both reactive and proactive support, maintenance and advise to teaching, research, and end user environments including teaching room technologies, ReVIEW lecture capture, video conferencing and event production.
All equipment in the teaching rooms is open access and doesn’t need to be booked.
If you experience any issues with the equipment or have further enquiries regarding support, please contact us.
The Teaching Support team is available: Monday to Friday 8.00am to 5.45pm (term time) 8.00am to 4.30pm (out of term time)
Responsible for the AV equipment in all bookable rooms and spaces
View staff, student and room timetables and book centrally bookable rooms
Resources relating to learning technologies, including the use of MS Teams
The University's lecture capture system to record and share lectures online
Room details including photos, capacity, AV equipment and features
List of places and spaces for students to work, study and revise.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal/research-innovation-support:
The Research and Innovation Office plays a leading role in shaping and delivering the University’s research and innovation activities.
It provides a high quality, added value and seamless service to academics and researchers across the research development pipeline, and also helps them take the next step to create impact through enterprise.
The Office incorporates a number of different teams that provide support for: developing partnerships and collaborations; identifying and applying for funding;  managing projects and assuring compliance with policy; improving the visibility of research outputs; fostering the impact, intellectual property and commercialisation of research; and the nurturing of research leadership skills through training and skills development programmes.
The Office also works closely with other Professional Services across the University, notably Legal Services, Registry, Student Services, Finance, HR and the Library.
The University’s Strategy 2030 and the Research and Innovation Core Plan share the strategic aim of being more ambitious in our research and innovation endeavours.
To support this ambition, the University launched a transformational change programme - Reimagining RIO.
Worktribe, our new Research Management System was launched to the University community on Tuesday 11 February 2025.
Going forward, we will use Worktribe to cost projects and manage applications, awards and contracts.
Helping you win funds and deliver projects for impactful, world-class research
Developing enterprise partnerships through knowledge exchange for maximum impact
Realising the real-world potential of your research for societal and economic benefit
Helping you to manage compliant research projects with integrity
Building your visibility with peers and raising your profile with external partners
Providing personal and professional training, skills and leadership development
Find out what academic enterprise and innovation means.
Recognising the breadth and impact of our research and external partnerships
Get in touch – we’re here to help
Research Excellence Framework (REF) resources
Part of the Vice-Chancellor’s Office, the Legal Services Team can help Academics and Researchers on issues relating to contracts and agreements
Part of Student Services, Loughborough Enterprise Network supports students and graduates at every stage of their entrepreneurial journey

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/student-services:
Student Services are here to support students throughout their time at Loughborough.
Our mission is to help support students have a positive university experience and achieve a positive graduate outcome.
It doesn't matter whether you are a prospective student, first year, finalist or postgraduate.
Student Services is here to help.
Accessibility guide for campus by AccessAble

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/cfs:
Helping you journey well through your life, studies, work
Chaplaincy is at the heart of the University, inspiring thoughtfulness, enabling conversation, making connections, and celebrating the rich diversity of faith and spirituality that is found within our vibrant community.
University Chaplaincy, 1st Floor EHB
University Chaplaincy - Chapel EHB208
EHB Atrium & EHB104

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/hr/support/employeeassistanceprogramme:
The University has partnered with an external organisation, Health Assured.
Health Assured is independent from the University and the services provided are completely confidential.
You can call Health Assured on: 0800 028 0199
To access the wellbeing portal on your desktop please use the link below, from here you can also video call or live chat health assured for support.
The wellbeing portal can also be accessed via an app on your phone called Wisdom: Learn, Grow, Thrive app .
To access this simply download for free on Google Play and the App Store by clicking below.
Once downloaded open and complete the sign-up details.
Organisation code: MHA119084
An EAP is a confidential employee benefit designed to help you deal with personal and professional problems that could be affecting your home life or work life, health and general wellbeing.
Our EAP service provides a complete support network that offers expert advice and compassionate guidance 24/7, covering a wide range of issues.
We strongly believe in providing an EAP service that offers not only reactive support when someone needs it but also proactive and preventative support to deliver the best possible outcomes.
Balancing everyday life with the requirements of work and home can create pressures for all of us.
Work is a large part of people’s lives.
With increasing working hours as well as technological developments to support remote working, it is vital to ensure that there's a productive, healthy environment that is conducive to a healthy lifestyle.
Health Assured, in partnership with Loughborough University, provides all employees with complimentary access to an enhanced Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) to assist you in achieving this balance.
This service complements the Occupational Health and Wellbeing Services, University’s staff counselling and Health and Wellbeing provision within the People Strategy
The Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) provides confidential unlimited support on any matter that might be of concern to you – from mental health and wellbeing, through to legal, relationship and money matters.
Health Assured offers cover for you and your immediate family members*, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year:
*Health Assured define dependants as immediate family members (spouse/partners) and children aged 16 to 24 in full time education, living in the same household.
We understand that the information needs to be available in a way that is suitable for you, whenever you require it.
From simple lifestyle changes to advice for many of life's most common concerns, the portal offers:
Sometimes it can be difficult to balance the pressures of work with the demands of home life.
When daily life feels overwhelming you need help and support to deal with the practical and emotional challenges you may be facing.
The free Health Assured app offers access to holistic health and wellbeing support at the tap of a finger anywhere and anytime.
HR general enquiries Contact the HR Services team
Recruitment team
Immigration enquiries
Payroll Services team
Reward and Benefits team
For iTrent and HR data queries Contact the HR Systems and Data team

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/equity-diversity-inclusion:
We are committed to driving change to bring us closer to our goal of becoming an anti-discriminatory institution.
EDI Services offers expertise to Schools, Services and Departments across Loughborough University and beyond, to help embed equity, diversity and inclusion at the heart of everything we do.
Values, vision, purpose Meet the team
Staff Networks foster community and provide a voice to empower colleagues and drive change across the University.
Guidance for compliance with Freedom of Speech and EDI duties.
Contact the university to 'tell us' or 'get help' with anything that has caused you hurt, harm or is a crime.
EDI Principals in Professional Services and Associate Deans for EDI in schools

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/health-safety:
The Health and Safety Service provides advice and guidance to Schools and Professional Support Service Sections.
This covers all aspects of health and safety matters on campus, including occupational safety, fire, radiological protection, hazardous waste, emergency procedures and insurance issues arising from incidents which are occupationally related.
About Us Contact Us
Section on Managing Risk
This contains links to introductory information, useful files and videos.
The Health and Safety Service provides advice, guidance and training for many specialist health and safety topics.
We provide a range of health and safety training and workshops for a variety of staff groups.
A document library of key Health and Safety documents.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/service/medcentre:
Loughborough University, Ashby Road, Loughborough, LE11 3TU
Telephone: 01509 277577
CampusView.medcentre@nhs.net
Sorry, we're closed
CLOSED BANK HOLIDAY MONDAY 25 AUGUST 2025 Check out our new Newsletter!
Cervical cancer awareness week Carillon PCN Newsletter May 2025
Appointments
Prescriptions
Sick Notes
Register with the Practice
Compliments and complaints
Contraception and sexual health
Test Results
Mitigating circumstances
Mental health
We’re proud to provide high-quality, patient-centred healthcare to students, staff, and the wider community.
Explore our website to learn more about the services we offer , how to register , book appointments , and access a wide range of health resources for you and your family.
Our friendly and dedicated team is here to deliver a professional, compassionate, and confidential healthcare experience.
Whether you’re seeking routine care or specialist support, you can trust that your health and wellbeing are in safe hands.
Campus View Medical Centre is located in the heart of Loughborough University .
🚗 Parking:
A small on-site car park is available, including two disabled parking bays .
The car park is shared with the university and often full.
We recommend using Car Park 5 , just a 3-minute walk from the surgery.
📲 Important: When you arrive, please check in your car registration using the university parking touchscreen in the surgery entrance.
Access is available via front steps or a ramp for disabled access.
The Sprint bus service stops at the Accommodation Centre , just a 1-minute walk from the practice.
🗺️ The map below shows how to get to the surgery from Car Park 5 .
Looking for a quick bite or great coffee?
EHB (Edward Herbert Building) is just a 2-minute walk from the surgery and offers fantastic food and drinks — perfect before or after your appointment!
‘Working together as one team to provide the best care for our patients’
Posted on August 18th, 2025
We are CLOSED on Bank Holiday Monday 25th August 2025   For life threatening emergencies please dial 999   If […]
Posted on July 25th, 2025
Newsletter Summer 2025
Posted on June 17th, 2025
Cervical Screening Awareness Week is happening this year from 19th to 24th June.
The week aims to highlight the importance of regular […]
Posted on May 10th, 2025
Carillon PCN Newsletter May25
Posted on April 20th, 2025
We have lots of vaccines ready for you to protect against RSV, read more here about it The RSV vaccine […]
You and Your General Practice
Staff Login | Privacy Policy | Accessibility
Accessibility Tools

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/health-safety/occupational-health:
The Occupational Health and Wellbeing Service has the role of supporting the health and wellbeing of the employees working on both Campuses for Loughborough University.
Our aim is to reduce illness that is related to work and to provide early interventions for employees who develop health conditions which may impact on their work.
Please note- Email communications from our software system will state OPAS-G2 as the sender, this is not spam.
What do we do and meet the team
Data and record keeping
Guidance and information for disabled employees
Ensuring your workstation is suitable for your needs
Health clearance for research and placements within the NHS
Legislative medical monitoring to ensure that work is not affecting your health
What does this mean and am I eligible?
What to do in the event of needlestick injury
Management and Self Referrals
Information for PGCE students
Help when you need it
What to expect from your appointment
Wellbeing means being in a positive physical, social and mental state.
It is important to us as it fundamentally impacts on the quality of life.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/marketing-advancement/web-digital:
We manage the University's digital presence.
Our team covers everything from digital design, website development and video production to social media engagement, photography, digital advertising and content optimisation.
From large multi-channel campaigns and complete website re-developments to small one-off projects, our team deliver all of the digital elements required.
Find out more about what the team do:
Bring concepts to life and develop innovative designs for a variety of online channels.
Manage the University's central social media channels, including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube and Snapchat.
Produce engaging and brand-defining video content.
Professional photography service covering a wide-range of styles and subjects.
Design and create websites to engage our audience and deliver a strong digital presence.
With hundreds of projects and campaigns running every year, it is important to think about the digital content early on in the process.
Contact us so we can advise, support and scope out the requirements.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/community:
In addition to our student experience, research and enterprise and sporting ambitions, we also aim to make a significant contribution to the social and economic wellbeing of the town and the wider region.
Our community information pages provide more information on Loughborough University's contribution and explain how we respond to local issues and concerns.
Who to contact if you have an issue and how the University deals with incidents and complaints
Information on how the University responds to common issues including coronavirus.
Updates on current and future developments on campus
Our campus facilities and amenities are quite outstanding and a great many of them are available for local community use
All you need to know about the University’s activities to support the local community
The University works closely with a range of  partners on matters relating to its presence in Loughborough
Key dates in the University calendar

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/library/copyright:
Welcome to the Copyright Guidance webpages.
It is important to understand how copyright applies to learning, teaching and research.
These pages will help you to easily find the information that you need to know.
If you have further questions, please contact the Copyright and Licensing Manager.
Looking at copyright law, what it is, what it covers, and how you can reuse materials legally
Guidance on using third-party copyright material in your teaching as well as on uploading material to LEARN
Copyright guidance on using material for your research and licensing your research outputs
Copyright information for Early Career Researchers as well as advice for your thesis research
Information on studying, assignments and sharing online, as well as, how copyright protects your work
Information on different licenses the University holds, as well as information on Creative Commons licenses and other licenses for creative outputs
Information on copyright and ethical issues with GenAI
Advice on sourcing copyright-free images, audio and video
Multiple resources for self-guided copyright training for students, staff and researchers
This section outlines the general copyright policy for Loughborough University
Guidelines for ReVIEW lecture capture
Cristina Rusu (Mon - Fri, mornings only)

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/data-privacy:
This is about how we - individually and as an organisation - handle, distribute, store and secure the data that we generate, collect and utilise.
The Data Protection Act (2018) and General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) place clear responsibilities on higher education institutions particularly relating to personal data - the Loughborough approach is detailed here.
We use personal and sometimes sensitive (special category) information to achieve the University’s objectives.
Find out more about our information governance policies.
We will only retain your information for the minimum time necessary.
After this time, information is deleted/destroyed in accordance with the University’s retention schedules.
Find out how, why, and what information we use to support or provide the University’s objectives.
Use our guides to comply with UK data protection laws and respect privacy rights.
Mandatory training to improve your confidence in cyber security and secure data handling (intranet link)
The Data Protection Act allows you to find out what information the University holds about you.
Make a request for the personal information we hold on you.
The Freedom of Information (FOI) Act allows you to request information we hold about the University and how it works.
A data breach is where the security of data/information is accidently or unlawfully compromised.
Strengthening our cyber defences: A collective responsibility
Posted: 2 June 2025
Tools that talk: Choosing the right communication tech for handling personal data
Posted: 6 February 2025
Scam Savvy Your ultimate guide to spotting scams
Posted: 2 October 2024

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/policy:
The Policy Gateway lists institutional policies available to Loughborough staff and external parties.
Using typical keywords, it signposts to where the documents are hosted on the University's web pages.
Please contact the document owner for queries about document content.
Type: Guidance Topic: Governance
Keywords: discrimination, harassment, bullying, equality, Paris declaration
Owner: Richard Taylor, Chief Operating Officer
Approver: Richard Taylor, Chief Operating Officer
Approval date: 3 July 2024
Review date: 1 August 2026
Type: Handbook Topic: Learning and Teaching
Keywords: quality, teaching, handbook, registry, standards
Owner: Head of PQTP
Approver: Education and Student Experience Committee
Approval date: 1 September 2022
Review date: 31 July 2026
Type: Policy Topic: Marketing
Keywords: recruitment, selection, admissions, students
Owner: Future Students and Marketing Operations
Approver: Education and Student Experience Committee, Council
Approval date: 11 December 2024
Review date: 31 December 2025
Type: Policy Topic: Safety
Keywords: drugs, alcohol, substance misuse, student
Owner: Director of Student Services
Approver: Council
Approval date: 3 July 2025
Review date: 31 July 2030
Type: Policy Topic: HR
Keywords: annual leave, public holidays
Owner: Director of Human Resources and Organisational Development
Approver: n/a
Approval date: 30 January 2019
Type: Policy Topic: Learning and Teaching
Keywords: project, electronic, physical, group work
Approver: Learning and Teaching Committee
Approval date: 19 September 2019
Review date: 31 October 2025
Keywords:
Owner: Human Resources
Approval date: 31 August 2023
Owner: Director of Finance
Approval date: 31 December 2020
Type: Policy Topic: Finance
Keywords: anti-fraud, corruption, financial regulation
Approver: Finance Committee
Approval date: 13 June 2025
Type: Procedure Topic: Marketing
Keywords: appeals, complaints, applications, admissions
Approval date: 31 October 2023
Type: Procedure Topic: Governance
Keywords: appointments
Owner: Academic Registry
Approver: TBC
Approval date: 1 March 2023
Review date: 1 March 2026
Keywords: English language, Admissions, UKVI, IELTS, CEFR B2
Owner: Joe Parker, Dave Norton, Admissions Office
Approval date: 6 November 2023
Keywords: assessment, flexibility, elite, sport
Owner: Simon Wombwell (SDC)/ Francesca Pearce (SRO)
Approval date: 31 October 2018
Type: Policy Topic: Guidance
Keywords: assistance, dogs, emotional support, animals
Owner: Helen Shaw
Approver: Helen Shaw - Disability Access and Learning Manager
Approval date: 25 February 2025
Review date: 25 February 2027
Type: Guidance Topic: Finance
Keywords: retention, records, documents
Owner: Group Financial Accountant
Approver: Director of Finance
Approval date: 30 June 2025
Type: Code Topic: Research
Keywords: ethical principles, ethical conduct, research integrity, research ethics
Owner: Research & Innovation Office, Quality & Policy team
Approver: Ethics Committee/Research and Innovation Committee
Approval date: 21 May 2024
Review date: 31 July 2027
Keywords: ethical conduct, ethics, human participants, ethical research
Owner: Ethics Approvals (Human Participants) Sub-Committee
Approver: Ethics Committee
Approval date: 31 May 2024
Review date: 31 May 2027
Approval date: 25 November 2021
Review date: 31 January 2026
Type: Policy Topic: Governance
Keywords: copyright, intellectual property
Owner: Information Governance Sub-Committee
Approval date: 31 July 2024
Keywords: applications, admissions, criminal convictions
Approver: Academic Registrar
Approval date: 31 July 2025
Type: Policy Topic: IT
Keywords: data protection, records retention, disclosure
Owner: Academic Registry (Information Governance Manager)
Approver: Information Governance Sub-Committee
Approval date: 21 November 2019
Review date: 30 November 2026
Keywords: Classifications
Owner: Rob Pearson, Academic Registry
Approval date: 27 March 2025
Review date: 30 April 2028
Type: Procedure Topic: HR
Approver: Human Resources Committee
Approval date: 27 June 2024
Review date: 31 July 2028
Keywords: philanthropy, donation, gift, bequest, charity
Owner: Rachel Third, Head of Philanthropy
Type: Guidance Topic: HR
Keywords: equity, diversity, workload, recognition
Owner: EDI Manager
Approver: Richard Taylor/EDI/HR Committee
Approval date: 4 April 2022
Type: Code Topic: HR
Keywords: respect, dignity, responsibilities, media, identification
Approval date: 31 March 2022
Keywords: Work experience
Approver: Human Resources
Keywords: equality, inclusion, inclusive design, legislation
Approver: Chief Operating Officer
Keywords: ethical, investment, funds
Keywords: ethics, guidance, research
Owner: Zoe Stockdale, Secretary to Ethics Committee
Keywords: expenses, travel, subsistence, claim
Owner: Head of Financial Control
Keywords: export, trade, arms, defence, military
Owner: General Counsel & Director of Legal Services
Approver: Infrastructure Committee
Approval date: 1 October 2018
Review date: 1 October 2025
Keywords: prevent, external speakers, radicalisation
Owner: Director of Legal Services
Approval date: 28 June 2016
Keywords: finance, control, expenditure, income, assets
Approval date: 23 November 2017
Type: Procedure Topic: Learning and Teaching
Keywords: student engagement, fitness to study, wellbeing, support, leave of absence
Owner: Academic Registry/Student Services
Approver: Education and Student Experience Committee/Doctoral College Sub-Committee
Approval date: 1 June 2015
Type: Code Topic: Governance
Keywords: free speech, academic expression, free expression
Review date: 30 September 2026
Keywords: global, mobility, overseas, international, cross-border
Owner: Director of Human Resources
Approver: HRC
Approval date: 5 January 2023
Keywords: disclosure, barring service, dbs, criminal, record
Owner: Head of HR Partnering
Approver: HR Committee
Approval date: 2 February 2023
Keywords: travel, global, mobility, international, cross-border
Approver: Director of Human Resources
Keywords: retiring, Universities Superannuation Scheme USS, Local Government Pension Scheme LGPS, pension
Approval date: 1 September 2014
Keywords: bullying, harassment
Approval date: 1 February 2018
Type: Guidance Topic: Safety
Keywords: FM, Facilities Management
Owner: Health and Safety
Approver: Health, Safety and Environment Committee
Approval date: 29 January 2019
Keywords: H&S, health and safety, FM, Facilities Management
Type: Policy Topic: Facilities
Keywords: heating, environment, comfort
Owner: Facilities Management
Approver: Graham Howard (contact Greg Watts)
Approval date: 10 May 2024
Review date: 31 July 2025
Keywords: maternity, adoption, paternity, parental, pay, increments, promotion, probation, special leave, illness, absence, stress, volunteering, drug, alcohol misuse, rewards, overtime, mental well being
Owner: Director of HR
Approver: Director of HR/HR Committee
Approval date: 31 July 2023
Approval date: 1 March 2018
Keywords: information security, incidents
Approval date: 1 February 2023
Review date: 28 February 2027
Approval date: 27 January 2022
Review date: 27 January 2026
Keywords: information security
Owner: Academic Registry/Information Governance Sub-Committee
Approval date: 1 June 2016
Keywords: information security, acceptable use, copyright, data breach
Keywords: external, supplier, contractor, remote, access
Owner: IT Services/Facilities Management
Approval date: 1 November 2024
Review date: 30 November 2029
Keywords: remote, access, mobile, vpn, security controls
Owner: IT Services/Information Governance Sub-Committee
Approval date: 11 March 2022
Review date: 30 November 2025
Keywords: email, data, sharing, collaboration
Approval date: 5 November 2024
Keywords: identity management, user accounts, logical access controls, authorisation, information access
Approval date: 7 November 2024
Keywords: vulnerability management, security, encryption and cryptography, network configuration, risks and travel
Owner: IT Services/Operations Managers
Approval date: 26 May 2022
Type: Policy Topic: Research
Keywords: spinout startup, research innovation patent, licensing, Midlands Mindforge, invention inventor
Owner: Nick Gostick (Head of Intellectual Property Management and Commercialisation)
Approver: Nick Gostick (Head of Intellectual Property Management and Commercialisation)
Approval date: 30 November 2023
Keywords: IT acceptable use, AUP
Approval date: 19 February 2024
Review date: 28 February 2029
Keywords: election
Owner: Alison Barlow
Approval date: 12 January 2024
Keywords: approval, building, project, major, IT Services
Owner: Amanda Silverwood, Senior Planning Officer (Strategy and Governance)
Approval date: 30 March 2023
Review date: 31 March 2028
Owner: Human Resources and Health & Safety
Approver: Health and Safety Committee
Approval date: 1 June 2017
Keywords: slavery, human trafficking, supply chain, tendering
Approval date: 21 November 2024
Keywords: procurement, invoice, payment
Keywords: advertising, digital advertisements, signage, marketing
Owner: Marketing and Advancement
Approver: Corporate Communications
Approval date: 1 September 2023
Keywords: research, data, management, RDM
Owner: Library
Approver: Research and Innovation Committee
Approval date: 23 April 2024
Review date: 31 July 2029
Keywords: open access, self-archiving, publications, library, OA
Keywords: open research, open access, FAIR data, open methods, research culture
Owner: Open Research Working Group
Approval date: 3 June 2025
Owner: Human Resources and Academic Registry
Owner: Payment Card Industry project team
Approval date: 24 March 2025
Approval date: 1 July 2017
Keywords: students, admissions, under 18, minor, safeguarding
Approval date: 6 June 2024
Keywords: DBS, Disclosure, Barring service, criminal, record
Keywords: attendance, digital register, engagement, absence, mylboro
Owner: Academic Registrar and Assistant Registrar
Approval date: 25 January 2024
Keywords: procurement, fraud, corruption, regulations, whistleblowing
Approval date: 1 January 2017
Keywords: privacy notice, external examiners
Owner: Kyla Sala, Executive Officer, Academic Registry
Approver: Compliance Manager
Approval date: 13 January 2025
Review date: 31 January 2027
Keywords: GDPR, transparency, data collection
Owner: TBC
Approval date: 31 December 2019
Keywords: GDPR, data, alumni
Approver: Academic Registry/Information Governance Sub-Committee
Approval date: 1 April 2017
Keywords: GDPR, transparency, data collection, participants
Owner: Head of Research Development
Approval date: 30 September 2018
Owner: Carolyn Kenney, HR Partner
Approver: Carolyn Kenney, HR Partner
Approval date: 1 May 2018
Keywords: GDPR, transparency, data collection, prospective students, agents
Owner: Sarah Hannaford, Head of Future Students & Marketing Operations
Approval date: 30 September 2022
Owner: Head of Student Services
Owner: Chris Carpenter, Head of Student Office
Approval date: 30 November 2020
Approval date: 1 June 2010
Approval date: 1 December 2013
Keywords: compliance, reporting, ethical, tender, contract
Approval date: 1 August 2020
Keywords: purchasing card, purchase, cardholder
Approval date: 23 May 2018
Keywords: research, misconduct, ethics, integrity
Owner: Charles Shannon - Head of Quality and Policy, Research & Innovation Office
Approval date: 15 November 2017
Owner: Director Human Resources
Approver: Director Human Resources
Approval date: 1 December 2017
Type: Procedure Topic: Safety
Keywords: death, reporting
Owner: Dr Manuel Alonso, Deputy Chief Operating Officer and Director of Student Services
Approver: Dr Manuel Alonso, Deputy Chief Operating Officer and Director of Student Services
Approval date: 31 January 2019
Keywords: bibliometrics, altmetrics, research evaluation, responsible, assessment
Owner: PVC (Research and Innovation)
Approver: PVC (Research and Innovation)
Approval date: 16 June 2025
Keywords: honorary degrees, revocation, rescission, nominations, standards
Owner: Abigail Loney, Secretary to University Honours Committee
Approver: University Honours Committee
Approval date: 27 March 2024
Keywords: admissions, applications, right to cancel
Owner: Future Students & Marketing Operations
Type: Handbook Topic: Governance
Keywords: company, corporation, enterprise, power, commercial
Owner: Sam McGinty, General Counsel & Director of Legal Services
Approval date: 16 July 2021
Keywords: family, keep in touch, paternity, flexible working, dependent
Approver: Provost
Approval date: 1 March 2017
Keywords: safeguarding, child protection, vulnerable adults, radicalisation, prevent
Approval date: 24 January 2024
Keywords: sexual violence, support, rape, harassment, assault
Owner: Director of Human Resources (TBC) and Director of Student Services (Charlie Wheeldon)
Keywords: procurement, SMEs, opportunities, contract, tendering
Type: Guidance Topic: Marketing
Keywords: social-media, academic freedom, risk, communication, @lboro
Owner: Web and Digital Team
Approver: Web and Digital Manager
Keywords: software, applications, compliance, management, licence
Owner: Barry Bookham, IT Services
Approval date: 30 September 2019
Keywords: elite sport, stretched, stretch
Owner: Simon Wombwell (SDC)/ Ava Hains (SRO)
Approval date: 11 February 2010
Keywords: student, death, process
Owner: Student Services
Approver: N/A
Approval date: 1 August 2009
Type: Handbook Topic: Guidance
Keywords: handbook, behaviour, exams, assessment, student data
Owner: Richard Barber, Assistant Registrar (Student Engagement and Immigration), Academic Registry
Approval date: 10 November 2022
Review date: 30 September 2025
Keywords: student, protection, risk
Owner: Programme Quality & Teaching Partnerships Committee
Approver: Academic Registrar, Office for Students
Approval date: 14 September 2023
Keywords: ReView, lecture capture, record, teaching
Owner: Pro Vice-Chancellor (Education and Student Experience)
Approver: Senate/Education and Student Experience Committee
Approval date: 14 March 2018
Keywords: advertising, advertisements, adverts
Approval date: 1 January 2016
Keywords: terms, conditions, applicant, student, contract
Approval date: 30 September 2024
Keywords: risk, financial management, liquidity
Keywords: UCAS, undergraduate, applications, admissions, plagiarism
Approval date: 1 March 2022
Owner: Sustainability
Approval date: 1 October 2017
Approver: Joint Negotiation and Consultative Committee/HR Committee
Approval date: 1 February 2019
Keywords: visual identity, corporate identity, brand
Owner: Creative and Print Services
Approver: Marketing and Advancement
Keywords: Public Interest Disclosure Act, raising concerns, corruption, honesty and integrity, inappropriate behaviour
Owner: Legal Services
Approval date: 13 November 2023
Review date: 1 November 2026
Keywords: teaching, research, hours, breaks, time
Owner: Human Resources and LUCU
Approver: Academic and Related Staff Negotiating Sub-Committee
Approval date: 3 April 2014
Keywords: terrorism, ethics
Owner: Research Governance Officer
Approval date: 30 January 2024
Review date: 30 January 2027
Keywords: ethics
Review date: 30 May 2027
Keywords: timetable, publication, timetabling, staff availability
Owner: Assistant Registrar (Timetabling Operations & Data)
Approval date: 31 October 2024
Review date: 31 October 2029
Keywords: widening participation, access, wp, outreach
Approver: Strategic Portfolio and Resources Committee, University Council
Review date: 31 August 2029
Keywords: hire, charge, society
Owner: Assistant Registrar (Timetabling Strategic Development)
Approver: Space Management Sub-Committee
Approval date: 13 March 2025
Review date: 15 March 2027
Keywords: public statements, freedom of expression
Owner: Chief Operating Officer
Review date: 1 April 2028
Keywords: drugs, alcohol, substance misuse, misconduct, addiction support
Approval date: 9 April 2025
Keywords: work placement, exchange, HODF, WBL, insurance
Owner: Catherine Smethurst, Academic Registry
Approver: HSEC
Approval date: 14 May 2025
Review date: 14 May 2028
Type: Guidance Topic: Research
Keywords: Authorship, Contributionship, Research Outputs, Publications
Owner: Research Quality & Culture Manager
Approver: Research & Innovation Committee
Approval date: 6 March 2025
Review date: 6 March 2028
No results for the currently chosen filters

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/module-specifications:
Module Specifications provide details of the aims, learning outcomes, content and assessment of the University’s modules.
In combination with the Programme Specifications, they give detailed information about elements of your programme of University study.
If you are a prospective applicant researching the courses available at Loughborough, you may want to start by looking at the Undergraduate Prospectus or Postgraduate Prospectus and return to these Module Specifications when you require more detailed information.
Module Specifications are approved by academic year:

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/programme-specifications:
Programme Specifications provide details of the aims, learning outcomes and content of the University’s programmes.
In combination with the Module Specifications they give detailed information about your programme of University study.
If you are a prospective applicant researching the courses available at Loughborough, you may want to start by looking at the Undergraduate Prospectus or Postgraduate Prospectus and return to these Programme Specifications when you require more detailed information.
Programme Specifications are approved by academic year:

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/support:
This site provides a single point of guidance and access to the wide range of support services available to everyone engaged in research activities at the University.
How to identify funding opportunities in your discipline area.
Guidance on seeking support with identifying partners and keeping things confidential.
How to get support and submit your application for funding.
[Staff only - password protected]
What you need to do to get your project up and running successfully.
The areas you need to consider and the support staff you will need to engage with to manage your research project through to a successful conclusion.
Everything you need to know about publishing your work.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal/research-ethics-integrity:
The University is committed to enabling academics across all career levels to achieve excellence.
Under the leadership of the Pro-Vice Chancellor (Research & Innovation), the University supports its academic community to ensure that all academic activity conducted is safe, lawful, and of the highest standards of rigour and integrity.
These standards are based on principles and professional responsibilities that are central to the protection of the academic community, participants, and to ensure public trust in the outputs that we produce.
The Research Governance team works with the Ethics Committee and its sub committees to develop and monitor relevant University policies.
We also provide guidance and training to all academics across the University in governance, ethics, and integrity matters.
All academic activity is subject to a proportionate level of ethical scrutiny.
The University’s ethics review process is designed to ensure that all activities undertaken by staff and students are conducted in a way that protects the dignity, rights, health, safety, and privacy of all involved.
The University is committed to promoting good conduct in research in order to ensure confidence in the organisations that fund our research and wider public that the research data, findings, and results our researchers produce are reliable and trustworthy.
All Schools
On maternity leave from November 2024

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/it/topics/corporate-software:
The University's corporate applications hold a wide range of corporate information in a number of integrated systems.
The main applications are listed below.
Access to many of these is via The CIS Portal
There is also a number of cloud-based software solutions, otherwise known as SaaS (Software as a Service) which can be defined as a method of software delivery and licensing in which software is accessed online via a subscription, rather than bought and installed on individual computers.
SaaS Software as a Service
Office 365 applications
Timetabling applications
Personal Tutoring applications
Research & Library applications
Student Information applications
Human Resources applications
Technology Enhanced Learning
Finance tools and applications
FM and estates applications
Marketing and Communications apps
8:45-17:00   Monday - Friday
IT.Services@lboro.ac.uk
Book an appointment

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/it/topics/responsible-ai:
Navigating the evolving use of AI can be difficult.
These practices are everyday actions that help reduce risks and support responsible use.
They build on the good habits already in place and provide a shared approach to working with AI.
Copilot-Chat https://m365.cloud.microsoft/chat/ is covered by the University’s Microsoft enterprise licence—just make sure you're signed in with your University credentials.
This licence ensures that the University’s data is handled securely within Microsoft’s trusted environment, offering protections around privacy, compliance, and data governance that are not guaranteed with public or free AI tools.
Always follow University guidance on:
Be especially cautious when using non-University AI tools, as they may not offer the same safeguards.
For more information on d ata protection, information security and data privacy at Loughborough University, please see here.
You are responsible for knowing when the data you provide to AI services requires protection, ensuring its appropriate use and safeguarding as needed.
Understand both the potential and the boundaries of AI to navigate its use effectively and responsibly.
Inform others about AI involvement and ensure its outputs are appropriate and accurate before use.
Recognise that change is inevitable and staying informed is important.
By cultivating curiosity, you position yourself to navigate forthcoming shifts with knowledge and adaptability.
Understand the environmental impact of AI systems and their contribution to digital carbon emissions.
Make choices that reduce your digital footprint and support a sustainable future.
How to acknowledge, describe and reference the use of Generative AI tools in assessed work
Generative AI tools in learning, teaching and assessment
This group has been established to unite academics and Professional Services staff in exploring how AI can support teaching, learning, and student support.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/fm/services/id-cards:
The University ID card provides evidence of membership of the University for staff, students and campus partners.
It enables correct access to buildings on campus including the Library, and printing provision.
It contains name, a unique ID number, a photograph and employment status; staff, visitor, student, campus partner.
University cards are issued in strict accordance with University Policy.
Cards are issued on the first day of employment or study and are valid for the duration of a contract.
More information can be found on the Brand, Digital and Creative Production website.
Helpdesk
ID cards
Security Emergency - out of hours
Charnwood/Garendon Building (055) - Immersion Heater Replacement - 29/08/25 Posted: 27 August 2025
Wavy Top (045) - Fire Damper Annual Inspection / Service - 30/08/25-30/09/25 Posted: 27 August 2025
View all updates

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/od-hub/induction-mandatory-training:
As an organisation we are committed to your development and helping you to reach your full potential.
We have identified specific online training courses for all new starters, to help induct you into the University and to keep everyone safe.
There are other options for those staff on shorter contracts, your Line Manager/Induction Lead will inform you if these apply to you.
Certain job roles require additional mandatory training.
The extent of Health and Safety mandatory training will be decided through a risk assessment of your role (please note everyone must currently complete ‘Fire Safety Awareness’ and the ‘Introduction to Health & Safety’), you will be guided by your line manager and the Health and Safety team if your role requires additional training.
Staff on a Research, Teaching and Enterprise (RTE) contracts and Specialist and Supporting Academic (SSA) contracts will have additional mandatory training outlined in Learn.
Your Line Manager will inform you of any role-specific mandatory training that you need to complete.
Please see our Mandatory Training Overview page for further information.
All of our mandatory training courses can be accessed via Learn.
You can log-in with your university staff credentials.
For those new to Loughborough, or supporting someone new, you will find all the information you need to know about induction.
Related topics:
Organisational Development General contact details

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/hr/new-staff:
Loughborough University is a fantastic place to study and work.
We are recognised for internationally acclaimed research, outstanding teaching and learning, and unrivalled sporting achievement.
Loughborough is ranked among the top 10 of UK Universities and has offered the best student experience in the UK over the last decade.
The University has two vibrant campuses, where we foster an environment that is stimulating, supportive and collegial.
Our facilities are first rate and many of them are available to staff, students and visitors to the University.
For those new to Loughborough, or new to supporting someone starting at Loughborough, you will find all the information you need to know about induction on our specific induction pages.
As an employee at Loughborough, you’ll be able to stay in the loop with University news and information through two of our main channels: the internal homepage and the weekly staff e-newsletter.
The internal homepage has a newsfeed which is updated daily, as well as links signposting you to the different Services and Departments we have.
The weekly staff e-newsletter is sent by email to all staff every Friday with a round-up of key news, events and opportunities to ensure you’re up to date with the latest information in case you’ve missed anything.
Relates to any residence permit or immigration status where you have no recourse to public funds.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/hr/pay-pension-reward/pension:
If you have a contract with specified hours/weeks, you will be contractually enrolled into the relevant pension scheme.
Casual contracts will only be entered if you meet the criteria as an “eligible job holder” for auto enrolment.
You will be contacted if you trigger auto enrolment and are enrolled into a pension scheme.
If you have previously opted out of the scheme, or are in a role that is not entered automatically, you can request to join..
Your email must be from your own email address and must contain the following statement: "I confirm I personally submitted this notice to join a workplace pension scheme." You will be entered into the scheme from the next available payroll run.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/enquiries/termdates:
University Senate sets term and semester dates.
'Terms' refer to the time period when taught students are on campus.
'Semesters' refer to the teaching periods for taught modules.
Doctoral researchers will find it useful to be aware of the dates below, but their research activity is not directly aligned to terms and semesters.
Term Four is for postgraduate taught students only.
For new students, a Welcome Week (which includes induction and registration activity) is held in the week prior to Semester 1 of each academic year.
This Welcome Week commences one week before the formal start of the Semester.
During the year, there are certain days when the University is closed.
This means that staff will not be on campus, although some facilities (e.g.
sports) will still be working as normal.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/departments/aae:
We are one of the largest departments for Aeronautical and Automotive Engineering in the UK, providing world-leading engineering solutions to tackle today's global challenges.
100% of research impact rated as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’
REF 2021
Top 100 Worldwide for Mechanical, Aeronautical and Manufacturing Engineering
QS World Ranking 2024
Top 10 in the UK for Graduate Prospects
The Complete University Guide 2026
We offer a wide range of opportunities for undergraduate, master's and PhD study.
Our research aims to tackle global issues with a focus on: Sustainable Aviation; Net Zero Transport; Autonomous and Intelligent Systems; Systems Reliability and Health Management; Mechanics and Dynamics; and Mathematical Modelling and Simulation.
Find out more about our interdisciplinary research centres across the Department of Aeronautical and Automotive Engineering.
See how we're tackling some of the biggest global challenges and shaping the societies of our future.
We attract and recruit exceptional academics who are leaders in their fields, passionate about what they teach, and at the cutting edge of recent research.
Dedicated to supporting an equitable, diverse, and inclusive environment to create a better world, together.
We have a wide range of facilities, offering students, researchers and staff an excellent environment in which to study and work.
If you have any queries about our School or would like to collaborate with us, please get in touch with our friendly team.
We are committed to creating a diverse and inclusive culture in which all students and staff are able to thrive.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/departments/abce:
Providing world-leading engineering and built environment solutions to tackle today's global challenges.
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate taught
Postgraduate research
9 January 2025
30 October 2024
1 October 2024
19 September 2024
10 July 2024
Delivering zero-carbon, safe and resilient buildings, cities and infrastructure.
We are an established Centre of Excellence sharing best practice in teaching and research.
Working together to map and develop new capital and infrastructure investments into 'living labs'.
Celebrating past and present female engineers at Loughborough to inspire future engineers
Our integrated approach allows you to work with teams from other areas to mimic real-life scenarios.
+44 ( 0 ) 1509 222637
civ.eng.enq@lboro.ac.uk
School of Architecture, Building and Civil Engineering Loughborough University Leicestershire LE11 3TU

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/schools/business-school:
Progress with purpose
Join the Loughborough Full-Time MBA with a 50% scholarship
Apply for a forward-thinking master's degree
Watch our manifesto video
Supercharge your career with courses to build your knowledge and skills, while learning how to make a practical difference to organisations, society and the business world.
Text text text
If you are looking for practical ways to do business differently and bring about real change, we can work with you to share ideas, knowledge and best practice.
Be inspired by the ground-breaking work that's happening here right now.
Join us to follow your passion and forge innovative research that will have a lasting impact.
The additional funding, totalling almost £1 million, is aimed at supporting UK Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) with the effective adoption of new industrial digital technologies (IDTs) to improve sustainability in the manufacturing sector.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/departments/chemical:
We are one of the largest departments of Chemical Engineering education in the UK, providing world-leading engineering solutions to tackle today's global challenges.
Top 10 in the UK for Chemical Engineering
The Guardian University Guide 2025
Our research has a significant impact and aims to tackle a huge variety of real-world, global issues.
We are researching ways to sustainably use energy to maintain the environment and investigate cleaner, more efficient ways to use fossil fuels.
Our researchers are addressing global issues including antimicrobial resistance and enabling cost-effective production of high-value therapeutics.
Our vision is to transform the UK’s chemical industry’s linear supply chain model into a fossil-independent, climate-positive and eco-friendly circular economy.
Our research focuses on the development of advanced AI techniques and using advanced modelling and simulation tools across broad engineering areas.
Find out about our state-of-the-art teaching and learning facilities.
Get in touch with our friendly team to discuss studying or collaborating with us.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/departments/chemistry:
Chemistry at Loughborough University enjoys an outstanding scientific reputation for teaching and research with internationally renowned staff and excellent resources.
Outstanding facilities
Home of the state-of-the-art STEMLab
Ranked 8th in the UK for Chemistry
Accredited courses
All eligible courses accredited by the Royal Society of Chemistry
We offer a range of opportunities for undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD studies.
Whatever your aspirations, find out more today.
Chemistry research at Loughborough is incredibly diverse.
We work with scientists from other disciplines at universities around the world and within industry to address some of the biggest global challenges that face us today.
Find out about the game-changing research happening within Chemistry at Loughborough.
Explore the range of research projects happening across the department.
Focus on innovation activity within the Department of Chemistry.
Chemistry at Loughborough is a dynamic community of academic staff, research students and visiting fellows.
We pride ourselves on the inclusive, collegiate, and stimulating environment within the department.
Begin your journey as an undergraduate student at a university ranked Top 3 for chemistry!
The University offers state-of-the-art laboratory facilities for teaching and research.
Join our our stimulating research community as a doctoral student.
Find out more about PhD opportunities in chemistry.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/subjects/communication-media:
The analysis of communication and media is essential for making sense of how power and influence work in today’s complex, turbulent world.
We invite you to study in our world-leading community.
Part of the School of Social Sciences and Humanities .
Times/Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Guardian University Guide 2025
QS World Subject Rankings 2024
It’s an exciting and broad course that covers areas of the wider media industry in an alternative and insightful manner.
The teaching quality is very good; with lecturers from all different backgrounds it’s always an engaging and different lecture from week to week.
Our Department is a global leader in research excellence, with particular expertise in areas such as political communication, language and social interaction, or at the intersections between media, memory and history.
Our research not only advances academic knowledge but also fosters societal impact and shapes public debate at both national and international level.
To disagree is an inescapable part of being human.
We simply are not all the same.
But whereas a small disagreement may remain amiable, particularly over text or online where we can edit our responses, a face-to-face row over a sensitive topic can develop into a more antagonistic form of argument.
We are offering an in-person Japanese course for beginners, open to anyone aged 18 and over at Loughborough University.
On 12th December, our 2024 postgraduate cohort enjoyed a brilliant graduation day on campus celebrating with friends, family, and staff members from our School.
Our academic staff are highly engaged in the most significant global scholarly networks.
Learn about their research and teaching specialisms.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/departments/compsci:
The Department of Computer Science is one of the most well-established university computing departments in the UK with a long track record of developing skilled and highly employable graduates, and a reputation for cutting-edge research and industry engagement.
1st in the UK for Overall Satisfaction in Computer Science
National Student Survey (NSS) 2022
All eligible courses accredited
British Computer Society & TechSkills
Industry links
Informing course content and opening placement opportunities
The Department of Computer Science has a dynamic research and innovation culture with an international reputation for research in such diverse areas as AI, machine learning, robotics, computer networks, and theoretical computer science.
Find out about the game-changing research happening within Computer Science at Loughborough.
Focus on innovation activity within the Department of Computer Science.
The Department of Computer Science is a dynamic community of academic staff, research students and visiting fellows.
We pride ourselves on the inclusive, collegiate, and innovative environment within the department at Loughborough.
Our industry-informed courses and placement scheme can equip you for a graduate career.
Our Departmental facilities offer undergraduate, postgraduate, research students and staff an excellent environment in which to study and work.
Find out more about PhD opportunities in Computer Science.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/subjects/social-policy-studies:
An interdisciplinary social science study area comprising Criminology, Sociology and Social Policy.
Times/Sunday Times University Guide 2025
I think that the quality of teaching and facilities are remarkable.
All the lecturers I’ve come in contact with are incredibly knowledgeable and do a great job in sharing that knowledge in a way that makes it engaging.
Our world-class research in Criminology, Sociology and Social Policy focuses on four key themes: Equity, Justice, Health and Inclusion.
Loughborough’s Centre for Research in Social Policy (CRSP) has secured a further four-year partnership with the Joseph Rowntree Foundation (JRF) to continue its work defining socially acceptable standards of living.
Our academic staff are all internationally recognised in their field of expertise.
We are also home to a dynamic community of research fellows and research students and support staff providing outstanding services for teaching and research.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/departments/lds:
Our Design and Creative Arts Degree Show is an exhibition displaying the amazing work of our final year students, showcasing their creative talents, designs and innovations.
We strive to deliver a world-class education in design and creative arts, developing high-quality graduates who are leading practitioners in their field.
Our vision is to educate students to become responsive, persuasive innovators of change, able to instigate creative, intelligent responses to a variety of contemporary challenges.
Daisy Newton, a recent Industrial Design graduate from School of Design and Creative Arts, is a shining example of someone who has made the most out of her time at university, with her experiences not only shaping her own personal development but leaving a lasting impact on the University and its wider community.
A Loughborough University student has developed a new medical device that could transform how prostate health is assessed and monitored.
Every year the final-year students in the School of Design and Creative Arts (SDCA) put together a final collection to be shown in the Degree Show.
Our research has significant impact and aims to tackle a huge variety of real-world, global issues.
We provide creative, innovative solutions to problems that affect contemporary societies both locally and internationally, through the practical application of our expertise in design and creative arts.
We are proud to maintain strong links with existing partners and alumni and are committed to establishing and growing new relationships with businesses nationally and internationally.
Our research stretches across a broad spectrum of expertise spanning Design, Creative Arts and Human Factors.
Discover how our research is positively impacting the world around us.
Ways to collaborate with our students and staff.
Find out more about our state-of-the-art teaching and learning environments.
We pride ourselves on the real-world context behind our teaching, enterprise, and research initiatives.
Find out how to get in touch with us for additional information and advice.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/engineering:
We have been teaching courses in engineering since 1909 and are one of the largest engineering universities in the UK.
We are proud of our reputation in teaching and research with major employers targeting our graduates because of their unique combination of transferable skills and technical knowledge.
The Complete University Guide 2020
The Guardian University League Table 2020
The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2019
In 1919, four female engineering students were admitted onto otherwise entirely male dominated engineering programmes at the then Loughborough Technical College.
100 years on, Loughborough University now welcomes and celebrates many female engineers every year.
Find out how we are marking the centenary of this milestone and discover how our students are shaping the future of engineering.
Times Higher Education 2020
Times Higher Education Student Experience Survey
The most prestigious national recognition available to universities
Rated world class in a broad range of areas, with cutting edge facilities and internationally renowned research and teaching
Find out more about our engineering departments and browse the many undergraduate and postgraduate programmes available to study.
If you enjoy maths, science and technology subjects and have an appetite for problem solving, a career in engineering might be the perfect choice for you.
Engineers save lives, lead major technological breakthroughs, manage some of the world’s biggest projects and shape the future of society.
Chartered engineers earn in excess of £60k per year
Over 4.5 million people are employed within the UK engineering sector
Engineers can work all over the world and make a global impact
If you’re looking to gain hands-on experience at some of the world's top engineering companies, we are the place for you.
We send over 15%* more students on engineering placements than any other UK university.
*2016/17 HESA UG Student Record: Engineering & Technology
With a degree from us you can expect to have gained a diverse skill set.
This will include project management, team work, leadership, business acumen and people management as well as technical expertise, setting you up for a successful career.
The placement experience gave me the opportunity to prove my abilities and meant that securing my first role in industry was straightforward.
Karl Pallas
Quantity Surveyor, Kier
94% of students employed or in further study within 6 months of graduation 1
96% of employed students in professional or graduate level positions 2
Average starting salary 3
1.
DLHE, 2016 graduates.
Full-time UK first degree students available for work or study
2.
DLHE, 2016 graduates in full-time employment.
UK/EU & Channel Isles, FT first degree students.
3.
Mean salary, FT UK & Channel Isles first degree students in professional employment.
Our purpose built facilities allow you to put theory into practice on industrial standard equipment.
Our courses have a very practical focus and include a considerable amount of hands on time within our world-class laboratories.
Equipped with a range of industrial and pilot scale polymer processing machinery this is one of the best facilities of its kind at a UK university.
This newly constructed mezzanine floor area houses a range of testing and computer simulation facilities.
The new state-of-the-art learning facility for our students covering most of our Science and Engineering disciplines on campus.
Our simulator allows students to understand aircraft systems and performance, as well as vehicle handling.
Take a look around our Stewart Miller Atrium which includes a BAE Systems Hawk jet aeroplane.
Our Heavy Structures Laboratory is home to our Hygrothermal test facility, 3D concrete printing and the ‘Big Rig’.
Take a look around our Engineering Applications Workshop, equipped with modern machining systems.
Take a look around our Sustainable Laboratory, home to our research and development centre SMART.
We are ranked as a top 10 research university in England in the Research Excellence Framework.
Every day our academics work to provide world-leading engineering solutions to today’s global challenges.
In aeronautical, mechanical, chemical and manufacturing engineering (quality x volume, REF 2014)
For the vitality and sustainability of the research environment
As well as getting involved in exciting and unique hands-on activities, Loughborough University is known for offering a life-changing student experience, which is why we were voted the Best Student Experience over the last 10 years in the Times Higher Education Student Experience Survey (2007-2017).
The best way to experience our outstanding campus and superb facilities is to come and see it for yourself.
You will also get the chance to meet our internationally acclaimed team, check out our accommodation and meet our current students.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/subjects/english:
The analysis of some of the most important works of literature ever written, and an opportunity to discover your own voice, in the company of inspiring and world-leading academics.
Complete University Guide 2025
We pride ourselves on providing the best quality teaching and support for our students.
Our staff have a real commitment and enthusiasm for the subject, which is evident in our ground-breaking research and the accolades we receive.
Staff and student research in English is enormously varied and spans the full range of the discipline, from Medieval and Early Modern all the way through to the Contemporary and Digital.
As well as spanning centuries, our work crosses continents and disciplines, which enables us to offer breadth and depth of expertise to students, local communities, and the wider world.
Ever since its inception with Horace Walpole’s novel The Castle of Otranto (1764), a delirious mixture of violent death and familial conspiracy, gothic literature has been a restless cultural form, constantly mutating and assuming new guises but always exploring the darker side of life.
Sometimes, its fashions are those of the historical moment.
Sometimes they are initiated by a book enjoying unprecedented commercial success.
Our staff are recognised nationally and internationally for the depth and breadth of their research, which transcends disciplinary boundaries and translates into engaging and innovative teaching.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/departments/geography:
We offer a range of courses, as well as opportunities to join our wider research community as part of the School of Social Sciences and Humanities .
As the integrated study of landscapes, peoples, places and environments, Geography is a vital subject through which to increase understanding of our rapidly changing planet.
I enjoy the flexibility that my course offers...the lecturers are extremely passionate about their research areas and they offer quality feedback.
We are renowned for our inter-disciplinary, collaborative research focused on understanding our social and environmental futures and have an excellent international reputation for our research across different areas of physical and human geography.
A groundbreaking new initiative led by Loughborough University, and in collaboration with key civic partners, is set to transform environmental education and green careers access for young people across one of the UK’s most diverse regions.
A few weeks ago, Loughborough University proudly announced a new partnership with the Charnwood Forest Geopark.
This landmark agreement opens the door for exciting collaborative research and community engagement opportunities.
Our academic staff deliver excellent research-informed teaching and we are home to a dynamic community of research students and visiting fellows.
Technical and support staff are a vital part of the Geography and Environment student experience and research activities.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/departments/phir:
Democratic instabilities, political and international violence, and contested histories are some of the topics we study to understand our world and how it is challenged by factors such as climate breakdown, geopolitical insecurities, and technological innovation.
Complete University Guide 2026
I was motivated to continue my study at postgraduate level at Loughborough to help develop my academic and research skills, as well to dive deeper on a specific element of Politics and International Relations - Security – which I find fascinating!
We are renowned for our interdisciplinary and collaborative work on security, peace and political violence, different forms of engaged political theory that focus on pressing political difficulties and our work with policymakers in different countries.
The Department for International Relations, Politics and History recently hosted the final showcase of its 'Hacking for MoD and Government' module, part of the UK’s national Common Mission programme.
We are shocked and saddened to share the news of Ian’s death in February 2025.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/departments/languages:
Learning a language and studying or working abroad develops skills that will strengthen your profile, expand your opportunities, and broaden your horizons.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/subjects/law:
Legal and interdisciplinary programmes tailored to the challenges of a changing world.
Humanity faces unprecedented challenges in addressing widening inequality, the emergence of disruptive technologies, and social and political upheaval.
Lawyers and the law urgently need to understand, adapt to and address these challenges.
This requires new thinking, research and expertise.
Loughborough Law is rising to these challenges.
We are Loughborough’s newest department, founded in 2025.
Our staff are outstanding leaders in legal research and education, with a wealth of expertise and experience, and highly esteemed in professional, scholarly and advocacy communities.
Loughborough Law is an ideal choice for thoughtful and highly motivated students who are interested in making a difference in the world.
Find out more about our undergraduate, Master's and research programmes.
Our department brings world-leading expertise in law and social justice.
Our Law academics are world-leading experts in their fields, undertaking outstanding legal, socio-legal and interdisciplinary research and working collaboratively to make change in the world.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/departments/materials:
We are one of the largest departments for Materials Engineering in the UK, providing world-leading engineering solutions to tackle today's global challenges.
Top 10 in the UK for Materials Engineering
The Times and Sunday Times 2023
2nd in the UK for Overall Course Satisfaction in Materials Technology
NSS 2022
Finding engineering solutions to address current and future challenges for society, through our multidisciplinary research.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/departments/maths:
The Department of Mathematical Sciences at Loughborough University brings together innovative teaching, dedicated learning resources and facilities plus one-to-one guidance from the Mathematics Learning Support Centre to create a stimulating study environment.
Active in high-quality, cutting-edge research across the broad range of mathematics and its applications, our far-reaching reputation attracts staff, students and visitors from around the world.
Eligible courses accredited by the Institute of Mathematics and Its Applications
A respected leader in mathematics education support
Home of the award-winning Mathematics Learning Support Centre
Top 20 in the UK for Mathematics
The Guardian University League Table 2025
Research undertaken in the Department of Mathematical Sciences spans across a wide range of key themes within Science and Technology.
Our cutting-edge research uncovers both impactful and exciting outcomes that apply to many aspects of the modern world.
Dr Alan Thompson’s research seeks to address fundamental problems in mirror symmetry.
A project led by Dr Karima Khusnutdinova aims to develop new mathematical models and methods to study the behaviour of internal waves.
Our department is home to dynamic community of academic staff, research students and visiting fellows.
Together we strive to create an inclusive, collegiate, welcoming and truly stimulating environment for teaching and research activities.
Loughborough is one of the top three universities in the UK, as voted for by students on StudentCrowd giving feedback on their university experience and provide information for prospective students.
In the newly refurbished Schofield Building students have 24/7 access to computer labs and also benefit from the co-location with the Mathematics Learning Support Centre.
Loughborough hosts an exciting range of academic events featuring top international researchers, including seminars, conferences, and workshops.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/departments/mec:
The Department of Mathematics Education is one of the largest groups of mathematics education researchers in the UK - with an international reputation for the research into and practice of the learning and teaching of mathematics and statistics.
Our research explores the fundamental processes involved in learning mathematics, and analyses, develops and evaluates pedagogical practice designed to enhance mathematical learning.
The Department of Mathematics Education is recognised for providing excellence in the delivery of University-wide mathematics support.
Through the Mathematics Learning Support Centre , we provide support which is distinctive and of high quality to any students needing help with basic mathematics and statistics.
The Department supports and actively engages with programmes supporting good practice which ensures that all staff and students have equal opportunity to reach their potential.
The Department of Mathematics Education now hosts the Centre for Mathematical Cognition (CMC).
Find out more about the CMC on their website.
The Centre for Early Mathematics Learning (CEML) was launched following £8m funding from the Economic and Social Research Council.
Find out more about CEML on their website.
Within our Department there is an overt and rigorous research agenda.
Staff are active in a number of research domains, with a particular focus on mathematical cognition and pedagogy.
Innovative teaching methods are used extensively to ensure the very best environment for students to learn and teaching is underpinned with a rigorous research agenda.
Our monthly research workshops attract colleagues from across the region, and we have a lively group of research students who are supervised by award-winning academic staff.
We teach undergraduate modules in mathematics and statistics to students from the Department of Mathematical Sciences, from the Engineering Schools, and from the Foundation Programmes.
We are a research intensive department with 100% of research impact rated ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’.
Discover more about our mathematics education research.
Find out about our opportunities for PhD research and our PGCE in Mathematics - rated 'Outstanding' by Ofsted.
Meet our staff: find out about their research and how to contact them.
Our award-winning mathematics and statistics support.
We are part of the School of Science, find out more.
The Department intranet
Health & Safety website
How to contact us by telephone, email or in writing.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/departments/meme:
Discover how this exciting new course expands on Loughborough's world-renowned reputation and expertise in renewable energy.
As one of the largest engineering schools in the UK, we are leaders in technological research and innovation.
With extensive national and international industrial links, we strive to provide an unrivalled educational experience, equipping our students with the skills and knowledge required to succeed in industry in the 21st century.
Top 100 in the world for Mechanical, Aeronautical and Manufacturing Engineering
QS World University Rankings by Subject Area 2024
Top 5 in the UK for Graduate Prospects in Mechanical Engineering
The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Top 10 in the UK for Manufacturing and Production Engineering
Our undergraduate, masters, PhD and apprenticeship programmes are industry driven, research focused and delivered by our world-leading academics.
Our vision is to provide world-leading engineering solutions to today’s global challenges.
We use our extensive research to face real-world issues while striving to provide practical solutions to transform our industry efficiency.
Discover more about the research priorities within the School of Mechanical, Electrical and Manufacturing Engineering.
Explore the School's transdisciplinary research centres.
The School is led by an academic and professional service team, working together to deliver excellence across all areas.
The home of world-leading engineering, we have an international reputation for being at the forefront of technological innovation.
Take a look at our state-of-the-art facilities across campus.
Find out how to get in touch with us for additional information or advice.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/departments/physics:
Physics at Loughborough is an international community of academic staff and students, active in cutting edge research and industry engagement.
Our physicists are deeply involved in both fundamental research and in shaping the next generation of technologies that will transform the world around us.
Ranked 7th in the UK for Physics
Impactful research
Academic expertise and research is central to our culture
Excellent facilities
Impactful research and innovation is central to the culture of our department.
Our staff are actively engaged in both theoretical and applied research, industry projects and collaborations with Loughborough colleagues and partners across the world.
Find out more about some of the game-changing research happening in physics at Loughborough.
Discover more about innovation activities within the Department of Physics.
Explore the range of research within our Department.
Our department is home to dynamic community of academic staff, research students and visiting fellows drawn from around the world.
We strive to create an inclusive, collegiate, and academically stimulating environment.
Our undergraduate courses represent an innovative, modern and exciting way to study physics at the higher level.
The University offers state-of-the-art laboratories and equipment for teaching and research in physics.
We are a research intensive Physics department, actively engaged with industry, and advancing knowledge across the breadth of the physical sciences.
Find out about our PhD opportunities.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/schools/science:
Welcome to the School of Science at Loughborough University, home to life-changing study opportunities, transformative research and outstanding facilities across the departments of Chemistry, Computer Science, Mathematical Sciences, Mathematics Education and Physics.
An excellent reputation
Underpinned by expert teaching
Cutting edge research
Addressing real world challenges
Including our state-of-the-art STEMLab
We are renowned for the relevance of our research that is shaping the future of the world through technological advances and scientific discovery.
Discover the game-changing research projects taking place across the School of Science.
The School has a strong tradition of industry engagement, building partnerships to strengthen the relevance of our teaching and research.
Explore the transdisciplinary research centres across the School of Science.
Find out more about the School of Science, a leading centre of excellence for teaching and research across scientific disciplines.
The School is led by an academic team and supported by a range of professional services colleagues, working together to deliver excellence across all areas.
Home to a diverse and supportive community of staff and students at a top UK university, the School of Science could be the ideal place to start or progress your career.
We are committed to creating a diverse and inclusive culture in which all our students and staff can thrive.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/schools/social-sciences:
We are a diverse and inclusive School delivering excellence in learning and teaching, research, and enterprise across the Social Sciences and Humanities.
Inter-disciplinarity and international encounters are fostered across five departments: Communication and Media; Criminology, Sociology and Social Policy; English; Geography and Environment; and International Relations, Politics and History.
3 internationally renowned research centres
CRCC, CRSP and STEER
1st in the UK for Communication and Media Studies
1st in the UK for Criminology
The Times University Guide 2025
7th in the UK for English
Top 5 in the UK for Geography
4th in the UK for International Relations
Our academic members of staff engage in cutting-edge research, addressing vital questions at the interface of societies and the environment.
We use our knowledge, skills, curiosity and creativity to deliver novel, rigorous, transformative research that makes a difference in the world, and enriches the social, economic, cultural and environmental well-being of people and places.
In a time of debate around young people's politics and political participation, it is important to understand what young people themselves feel about having a voice.
The research aims to investigate the impact of football and sports coaching on the early desistance narratives of prisoners in England and Wales.
This international project is focused on exploring the kinds of voluntary labour practiced by young refugees in Uganda, as well as investigating how these impact on their skills, employability and the inequalities they experience.
Start a new adventure, do incredible things and join a community of  staff, students, and alumni from over 90 countries around the world.
The School is run by a team of academic members of staff in leadership roles, alongside School admin and support staff, and professional services colleagues and University business partners from across the institution.
Hear from our Dean and learn more about our School.
Learn more about ways that alumni can engage with Loughborough University and help our students and future graduates to fulfil their full potential.
Learn more about how we promote equality, diversity and inclusion in all aspects of our work.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/departments/ssehs:
As the No.1 University in the world for sport-related subjects, we offer unrivalled research, teaching and partnerships across sport, exercise and health sciences.
Our expertise spans the fields of biomechanics, cellular and molecular biology, economics, medicine, nutrition, pedagogy, physiology, psychology, sociology, sport management and more.
Join us to push the boundaries of sport and health science in the UK and internationally.
No.1 in the world for sport-related subjects
QS World University Rankings 2017-2025
100% of our research impact rated 'world-leading' or 'internationally excellent'
Research Excellence Framework 2021
Athena SWAN Silver award
Recognising our commitment to gender equality
Our undergraduate, master's and PhD programmes are influenced by world-leading research and delivered by internationally renowned academics.
Find the right degree for you here.
Covering sport business, society and performance, as well as lifestyle for health & wellbeing, our world-leading Research and Innovation activity is driving understanding of the importance of sport and exercise science in the context of public health.
Loughborough’s world-leading research and expertise to play a key role in pioneering innovative new approaches to rehabilitation, following Government go ahead to build the UKs first National Rehabilitation Centre (NRC).
Find out more about our research and PhD opportunities available through our vibrant new research cluster bringing together expertise in sport sociology, physiology, nutrition, management, ecology and engineering.
Our researchers are investigating how interior design and aesthetics within rehabilitation facilities influence attitudes toward physical activity following a spinal cord injury.
Researching how physical activity affects the immune system of clinical and non-clinical populations to investigate if it can be used to reduce inflammation.
Find contact details and information regarding all members of staff affiliated with Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences.
SSEHS has an international reputation for teaching and research.
Find out more about us, our facilities and our people.
Our commitment to addressing gender inequalities in science has been recognised with an Athena Swan Silver Award.
To get in touch with the School, please use the details provided here.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/departments/teacher-education:
Loughborough University has a strong tradition of teacher education and a history of successfully producing teachers who are in great demand by schools and colleges in the UK and overseas.
Find out more about Teacher Education at Loughborough University and the courses available.
Find key documents including the PGCE calendar, meeting dates and details of our Partnership Committee members.
Information on offering placements at your school
A listing of online resources

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/security/traffic:
Traffic and Parking
APCOA

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/conferences-events:
As one of the UK’s largest single-site conference and events venues, we provide world-leading facilities for residential and academic conferences, education camps, sports events and training camps.
With extensive meetings and conference spaces, flexible accommodation and world leading sports performance facilities, we are proud to have been voted the UK’s Best Academic Venue.
We make hosting your event at Loughborough easy.
With both out-term-time facilities and all-year-round venues, our award-winning customer service, simply priced packages and full event management support, take the pain away and discover your perfect event.
With extensive conference spaces for 2-2000 delegates, we are perfect for academic conferences or large corporate residential conferences.
As University of the Year and top 10 in all major league tables, our flexible and collaborative learning spaces are perfect for education camps.
We have the country’s largest concentration of world-class facilities and support resources across a wide range of sports.
As part of the award-winning Imago Venues portfolio, we have a wide range of conference spaces and flexible accommodation options, in addition to versatile learning spaces, spacious exhibition areas and multi-purpose sports halls.
Explore which venues are right for your event.
Part of:
Loughborough University, Loughborough, Leicestershire, LE11 3TU
Imago @ Loughborough Ltd, Registered in England no.
2355400.
Registered Office: Finance Office, Loughborough University, Charnwood, Leicestershire, LE11 3TU

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/food-drink:
Discover our range of premium quality shops, cafés and bars across campus.
Our vision is to provide a choice of sustainable food and drink options within each teaching hub which is inspired by the award-winning Loughborough experience with continuous focus on quality, value for money, life style trends and performance nutrition.
Fast and efficient 'grab and go' service suitable for staff and student life style and with a focus on fresh, nutritious products in convenient locations.
Read more
Our high street inspired vibrant casual dining hubs offer a choice of fresh authentic food concepts to meet the needs of our multi-cultural university community.
Quality food is a key aspect of health and fitness.
The Nutrition Bar was created to help you get the fuel you need before or after your training, for optimal performance and recovery.
A selection of healthy meals, snacks, and freshly made smoothies provides a delicious way to reach your personal goals.
Enjoy our café experience right here on campus and relax with a cup of our very own blends picked by us and our artisan suppliers, then taste tested by you, the customer.
Welcome to Refresh, Delivered Catering at Loughborough University.
Whether you're meeting with clients or colleagues, our on-site catering team are always on hand to make sure you have all the refreshments you need.
From a working lunch in the office to fine dining on campus, the possibilities are endless!
We believe our community social spaces enhance the Loughborough experience by offering freshly prepared multiple menu options, informed healthy choices, value for money, home family style eating inspired by the flexible student lifestyle whilst recognising you as an individual.
All general enquiries
01509 222257
Email us
Cafes and shops
Hall catering
Delivered catering
Your exclusive loyalty offer
Up to date location opening times for retail outlets across campus
A recent Loughborough University report was conducted based on top selling products across all LU outlets; Pantry, Coffee House and Meet & Eat.
These were compared with other universities and the health sector via TUCO, CUBO and High Street Benchmarking.
Saving you money in Cafés and Shops on campus
All news All offers

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/creative-print/print-post:
Whether you are a University staff member, a student, local business or representative of a local social group, you can make full use of our expert team and industry standard production machinery.
We are closed on the following upcoming dates:
Summer Bank Holiday - Monday 25th August and Tuesday 26th August 2025
The Campus Printers are available to use during these times
The Online Shop is available to use around these times but production turnaround times will be affected by the dates we are closed and you should expect your job to take us longer to produce.
Discover a range of print, post and finishing services that support your academic studies and social activities
We offer a range of services to support teaching, learning and the marketing and promotion of the University
We offer a range of print and post services to support your business activity
We provide a range of print services for local business, social groups and charities
Support team available for bespoke print
Digital A4 / A3 printers located across campus
Outsourced clothing meeting our visual identity
Staff and student card reprints / replacements
Envelopes, paper, labels and packaging
For bespoke print we can't produce in-house
Posting out, delivering in, we can help
Posters up to A0 on a range of media
Branded powerpoint templates
OMR and document archiving services
Binding, lamination / encapsulation and sublimation
The V1000 Short Canon imagePRESS V1000 with staple, two- and four-hole punch and envelope feeder
The V1000 Long Canon imagePRESS V1000 with banner sheet paper tray, long sheet catch tray, inserter, staple, two-, four- and wire bind hole punch
The V1350 Canon imagePRESS V1350 with Plockmatic BLM50 online booklet maker with saddle stitch and square back finishing
The Booklet Maker Plockmatic 4035 offline booklet maker with saddle stitch and square back finishing
The AutoCut Morgana Autocut Pro for business cards, postcards, and bespoke size cards
The PUR Morgana Digibook 200 PUR perfect binder
The Foiler Intec ColorFlare CF1200LX foiler/laminator
The Arizona Canon Arizona135 GT 2440mm x 1220mm flatbed printer with UVgel technology and roll media option up to 2220mm wide
The Colorado Canon Colorado 1640 two roll printer with UVgel technology and roll media up to 1600mm wide
The Veloblade Veloblade Nexus 2500mm x 1600mm die cutter with reel to reel media option and 25mm cut depth
The Guillotine Polar 92 Electric Guillotine
The DigiFold Morgana Digifold Pro creasing and folding system up to 210mm x 1300mm
The Major Folder Morgana Major Folder folding and perforating system up to 365mm x 648mm
The Crystal Laminator Vivid Easymount 1200SH laminator for single sided hot or cold lamination on medias up to 1790mm wide
The Encapsulator Linea DH-1100 large format encapsulator for double sided hot encapsulation on medias up to 1100mm wide
The ColorWave Canon ColorWave 3800 four roll printer with TonerPearls ink for media up to 200gsm
The Other ColorWave Canon ColorWave 3800 four roll printer with TonerPearls ink for media up to 200gsm
The E&FM ColorWave Canon Colorwave 3600 two roll printer with TonerPearls ink for media up to 200gsm and top loading 48-bit colour scanner
In the event of issues with Campus Printing outside the hours of Monday-Friday, 9am to 5pm, users are advised to report the issue to University Security on 01509 222141
Monday : 9am - 5pm Tuesday : 9am - 5pm Wednesday : 9:30am - 5pm Thursday : 9am - 5pm Friday : 9am - 5pm
4:00pm - Last postage drop off

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/security:
Our main priority is the personal safety of students, staff and visitors to the campus.
We also ensure our buildings and other properties are secure.
Our teams of security officers patrol the campus all day and night, 7 days a week, 365 days a year.
They are always on hand to answer any query or concern you have.
(internal)
(external freephone)
We provide 24-hour cover for all areas of the University including Halls of Residences.
We also patrol some parts of Loughborough town centre during term time, providing support to students living off campus.
All our staff are accredited by the Security Industry Authority (SIA) and are trained in first aid.
We have hundreds of CCTV cameras covering the entire campus, which are monitored continuously from the security control room to ensure we keep our people and buildings safe.
We also work closely with the local police, who have a permanent office located within the main security building.
What to do in an emergency - on and off campus.
Whether you are a student or staff member of our community, support can be accessed from a range of different places.
How to report lost or found property on campus.
Bicycle storage areas, and free bicycle registration service and safety tips.
Our control room, CCTV, intruder alarms and door access.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/handbook/assessments:
Questions about assessments and exams?
This is where you will find the answers.
Background to how we assess work, including the assessment timeline...
Next exam session: SAP Wednesday 27 August to Monday 8 September 2025 inclusive
Information about exam dates and your timetable
Preparing yourself for in-person exams
Preparing yourself for online exams
The deadlines for reasonable adjustments to be added to your record for the next exam session
Marking, results, mitigating circumstances and appeals
Detailed information on Coursework for assessment, coursework/project extensions, and Feedback
Which calculators you can use in exams...
Guidance on assessment flexibility for elite sports or religious observance...
What to do if circumstances beyond your control affect your ability to meet your potential...
Definitions, procedures, penalties and appeals processes related to allegations of academic misconduct...
There are rules and regulations regarding how we mark your work...
The processes by which assessment decisions are reached...
Guidance on the processes relating to results production....
Information on how you submit a Regulation XIV academic appeal...
If you need to be reassessed on an undergraduate or taught postgraduate programme, here is how...
Details about the Safety Nets introduced as a response to Covid-19...
Details about the reasonable adjustments in place for students with disabilities...
An archive of the measures taken during exam sessions affected by Covid-19

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/handbook/starting/attendance:
Having an oversight of your attendance and engagement helps the University to understand how you are progressing with your studies and when you may need some additional support, either with your wellbeing or academically.
We want to ensure that all students can receive the right support and guidance when they need it, which is why we need to have a good understanding of your attendance at in-person classes and engagement with your studies online.
We also have to fulfill certain legal obligations relating to attendance, including the following:
You are expected to attend all your timetabled classes and to let us know when you do.
If we notice you haven't been doing so, your School will contact you to check in on your wellbeing and to understand whether you need some additional support.
If you continue to not attend for a period of time without telling us, then your School will likely have a conversation with you about why your participation is not satisfactory and why, if you do not maintain satisfactory attendance and engagement, as described in the University’s policy, you may have your studies terminated.
The University uses a digital register through the myLboro App, which enables you to let us know that you are attending your classes.
This is known as Attendance Check-in, and you should use this every time you attend an in-person class.
Full guidance about how to check in at your in-person classes using the myLboro app.
Use our helpful troubleshooting guide if you encounter any problems while using the myLboro app.
If you are unable to attend a class, perhaps because you are unwell or you must attend an interview for a work placement, you should use the myLboro app to mark yourself as absent for that session.
If you expect to be absent for a week or more, you should email your School and let them know so they can discuss any impact on your studies with you.
You are also required to engage with your studies online.
Your module may have on-demand content, which will be available on your module Learn pages.
You will also be required to complete any tasks flagged in Learn which have a deadline, including all assessed coursework.
Please note that you do not need to use Attendance Check-in for sessions which only take place online.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/service/careers:
Your Careers Network team works closely with academic schools, professional services and employers to ensure that every student has access to outstanding careers advice, coaching, employability support and skills development opportunities.
Research career options with information tailored to you and your degree
Enhance skills to unlock your potential and succeed in your academic studies and employment
Create successful applications and promote yourself confidently in interviews
Discover paid employment, volunteering and international study exchange opportunities
Explore what it means to be an entrepreneur and run your own business
Meet employers, alumni and your Careers Network team at online and in person events and workshops
Our Futures programmes provide advice and guidance and support at every stage of your university journey and beyond.
Click the box below that applies to you to access tailored support.
Get started on your development in your first and second year
Embracing work opportunities whilst undertaking a placement
Careers support in your final year
Tailored careers support for postgraduate taught students
Professional careers support for doctoral researchers
Careers advice and opportunities for new graduates
Dedicated careers support for international students
Tailored opportunities and advice for students from diverse backgrounds

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal/consent-sexual-violence:
This website has been created to inform, educate and support staff and students on matters linked to consent, sex and relationships.
It features a range of articles for the University community about what consent is; information on the resources and support services available for someone who has been subjected to sexual violence; as well as the impact of committing sexual violence.
What is consent, what does it look like and how it applies to intimate relationships and sexual activity
What are the consequences and impact of committing sexual violence
The steps to take and support available if you've been subjected to sexual violence
Support for those recovering from sexual violence or other trauma
Hosts, Jemima and Soph are joined by Florie and Emily from LSU's CASH, Jessica from The Amber Project, and Jamie, a student and male ally, to talk about consent, good sex, relationships.
Loughborough University has partnered with Consent Collective, an online platform dedicated to supporting, educating and raising awareness of consent, relationships, and sexual harassment.
Meet the teams who are here to support you at Loughborough University

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/graduation:
Graduation is arguably one of the high-points in your University career, whether you're an undergraduate or a postgraduate student.
At Loughborough we try to make it a special occasion, with opportunities to make memories that will last a lifetime.
Ceremony dates
Travel directions
On the Day
Academic dress
Where can I stay?
Where can I get food and refreshments?
Something to remember your time here
Also available to view on demand or download
Celebrate your success by sharing your day on social media

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/sass/finance/hf:
During your time at University, you may find yourself with little money and struggling to meet your financial obligations.
This may be for a variety of reasons such as problems with your student funding, budgeting issues or an unexpected change in your financial circumstances.
An adviser can discuss the options available for your circumstances and these may include the Hardship Fund, the Summer Hardship Fund for undergraduates and/or an Emergency Hardship Loan.
Please note that if you find yourself with very little money left to live on, you should contact us straight away to discuss your options (including an interest free Emergency Hardship Loan).
The University’s Hardship Fund provides a grant to students who find themselves in financial hardship due to unforeseen circumstances since starting the course.
The purpose of the Hardship Fund is to provide support for students who would not otherwise be able to continue to study.
The fund cannot help with tuition fee payments.
If you have savings or other money available to you, you will be expected to use these funds for your living costs before applying.
The fund can only help with general day to day living costs.
It can’t make awards to cover:
Please review the video below for more information on the University's hardship Funds and who can apply:
The Hardship Fund Summer Scheme is intended to help undergraduate students who face financial difficulties during the summer vacation.
Financial assistance may be granted if students are living independently over the summer, possibly due to being a care leaver, estranged from their family, prevented from supporting themselves due to caring responsibilities or other family, personal or health difficulties which make it necessary to stay in Loughborough.
It is expected that students will attempt to find paid work or other means of supporting themselves over the summer but should explain if they have reasonable grounds for not doing so.
Applications will be accepted from the end of summer term (mid-June) to mid-September and decisions/payments will be made within four weeks of receipt of a completed application.
The application form, information on eligibility and how to apply will be available on this web page around mid-June.
Applications will be assessed over the 14 week period of the summer vacation.
It is important to set out your specific circumstances over the summer.
In general your term time student finance will not be treated as income during the summer vacation but, if eligible, you are expected to have borrowed a government maintenance loan during the previous academic year.
The University can provide you with an Emergency Hardship Loan up to £250 depending on need.
This is short term and attracts no interest or charges, unlike an unauthorised overdraft or payday loan.
Last updated: 11th June 2025

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/creative-print/mailroom-parcels:
We provide a range of incoming and outgoing post services for all campus users including the Student Parcels Service
The Mailroom manages all mail and parcels to the Loughborough campus.
We provide a collection and delivery service for staff and campus partners and provide a storage facility for student parcels until you can collect.
All student envelope mail is sent direct to Hall Receptions.
All parcel deliveries are logged into our Parcel Tracker software.
You will receive an automated email from no-reply@getparceltracker.com advising of the next steps and again when you have collected or we have delivered.
In the event you do not receive your emails, please check your Junk Folder.
Parcels without a student ID number as part of the address take longer to match to you and could result in being sent back to the sender.
Please always add you student ID number into your address when ordering things.
At the start of term deliveries are managed slightly different for UniKitOut , LoveSpace and UniWiz packages.
Click on the link below to find out more.
Our Mailroom does not have the space to store parcels indefinitely.
Parcels are therefore held within our space for 14 days only.
Reasonable steps are taken to match parcels to students through three email reminders that their parcels are here.
Students are given plenty of time to arrange for collection within that timescale.
Only in exceptional circumstances will we arrange to hold parcels for longer than the 14 days.
Please contact us to discuss this service if you feel it is needed.
All abandoned parcels, after the 14 day period, are either returned to sender, disposed of or donated to charities connected to the University.
(This Policy has been approved by an independent legal firm who confirm it complies with the Theft Act 1968 and Postal Services Act 2000)
Throughout the Academic Year all parcel deliveries to campus are made to our facility in the Herbert Manzoni Building.
Upon receipt of your parcel, we process it through our system Parcel Tracker, and you will be contacted via email containing a QR code.
Please bring your QR code to us in the Herbert Manzoni Building to collect your item.
Please do not contact us or call in until you have received our email from Parcel Tracker.
Parcels without your student ID number as part of the address could be delayed by up to 24 hours as we try to identify which parcels belong to which student.
In some cases unidentified parcels could be returned to the sender.
To help us process your parcels, please remember to set your delivery details as follows including your ID number:
Your name
Your student ID number
Your hall of residence
Loughborough
Leicestershire
Postcode: please use the post code for your exact hall
Parcels without your student ID number as part of the address take longer to match to you and could result in being sent back to the sender.
At the start of term, Unikit, LoveSpace and UniWiz and all other hall kit deliveries, are made direct to your Hall.
See the drop down for details of how to address these deliveries.
For the Unite Halls of Harry French, The Holt and William Morris letters will be delivered by the postman into the relevant post boxes at the Hall.
If you wish to receive parcels at a Unite Hall you will need to complete a parcel disclaimer form giving the hall reception permission to take parcels on your behalf.
You will be given a form on arrival, or you can request one at the hall reception.
If you have any queries, please speak to your Hall Reception.
All large UniKitOut , LoveSpace and UniWiz deliveries should be addressed to your Hall postcode:
UniKitOut , LoveSpace and UniWiz deliveries attempted at our Loading Bay will be redirected to your Hall.
Please use the hall postcodes as below:
Hall
Postcode
Butler Court
LE11 3TS
Cayley
LE11 3TX
Claudia Parsons
LE11 3TH
David Collett
LE11 3UE
Elvyn Richards
LE11 3UQ
Falkner Eggington
LE11 3UG
Faraday
LE11 3TY
Hazlerigg-Rutland
LE11 3TZ
John Phillips
LE11 3US
Robert Bakewell
LE11 3UR
Royce
LE11 3TJ
Rutherford
Telford
LE11 3UA
The Holt
LE11 3JB
Towers
LE11 3TG
All items will be delivered to the Herbert Manzoni Building but the exact postcode helps us to identify them correctly.
We provide a morning and afternoon delivery service, delivering to East Park in the morning and West Park in the afternoon.
The dividing point is the Herbert Manzoni Building.
The Delivery drop Off Locations are defined by customer type.
The Bag Number relates to the reference we use for billing.
Once your blue mail bag arrives back into the Herbert Manzoni Building, we will prioritise all outgoing mail to ensure that all Royal Mail and courier time critical services are honoured.
If your outgoing mail is urgent, please visit the Herbert Manzoni counter and our team will process your mail straight away.
All print deliveries that are small enough for the blue mailing bags will be delivered in the morning and afternoon rounds, providing they are prepped and ready to go in time.
The deadline for inclusion in the morning round is 10am.
The deadline for inclusion in the afternoon round is 12 noon.
Any items for delivery that fall after the blue mail bags have left the Herbert Manzoni Building will be delivered in the next day’s rounds or can be collected from the Herbert Manzoni Counter.
This includes all Online Shop deliveries and all bespoke print requests sourced via our Accounts Team.
If the size and/or weight of your print job creates a manual handling risk to our operatives, we will deliver these items when we can but encourage our customers to collect where possible and when urgent.
When collecting, customers must never enter the loading bay area without prior arrangement via print@lboro.ac.uk .
This ensures we employ full risk management as the loading bay area is defined as high risk.
No.
We no longer deliver to specific rooms.
All deliveries are made to the single Delivery Drop Off Location within your building or department.
Delivery Drop Off Locations are easily identified by our grey, yellow and white sign.
We request that personal deliveries do not get delivered to campus
This helps us to manage the capacity of our services and prevents the loss of personal deliveries across the site
‌
We provide a processing and storage service for all student Amazon parcels.
Staff parcels are delivered out across campus either in the blue mail bags or in specific deliveries according to the package size.
If you need to collect your parcel outside of our standard opening hours you should instead direct your delivery to the Amazon lockers on campus:
Our counter service in the Herbert Manzoni Building operates a range of postal services
We sell postage stamps, DHL and Parcelforce services.
We can take stamped mail in and process it for collection by Royal mail as part of our daily schedule.
Unfortunately, as we are not a Royal Mail Post Office, we cannot provide any proof of postage receipts, nor can we scan your return label QR code or barcode.
These must be processed at the Post Office or selected returns shop.
We offer 1st class, 2nd class, Signed For, Recorded or Special Delivery services over our Herbert Manzoni counter
We strongly recommend using signed for or tracked services for valuable items.
The last drop off time for Royal Mail collection is 4pm
The Mailroom provides collection services for several well-known carriers.
We have an arrangement with the following providers:
Delivery timescales, destinations and prices are available on each carrier website.
Please ensure your mail is suitably packaged for collection.
All carriers collect by 4pm each weekday, but times may vary.
We do not accept returns via:
We can take in your complex data and turn it into a mail merged file, print it and pull together designed mailing contents for you to create a single output piece for posting across the world.
Examples of previous jobs include:
This service is available to students, staff, campus partners and off campus customers.
Contact us to discuss your requirements.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/handbook/assessments/exams-information/mitigatingcircumstances:
Mitigating Circumstances (MC) are circumstances outside of your control that may negatively impact your academic performance in your assessments.
The University will always look to provide additional support for your circumstances to prevent any impact on your academic performance.
However, if your assessments have been negatively impacted by circumstances outside of your control, it might be appropriate to submit a Mitigating Circumstances claim (in accordance with Regulation XVII).
These circumstances may include but are not limited to:
Please note you cannot use the Mitigating Circumstances process to request a coursework extension - this is a separate process.
Guidance on when and how to request a coursework extension can be found here .
The deadlines for submitting a claim for the 2024/25 academic year are as follows:
Follow the process of submitting a Mitigating Circumstances claim...
A list of circumstances that might impact your academic performance, the support available and guidance on whether to submit a claim.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/handbook/starting/self-service:
The Student Self-Service facility allows you to view and update some of the information in your student record.
Your student record is a combination of the personal details you have provided to the University and information regarding your programme of study and modules.
It is important that the University holds accurate and current information about you on your student record.
Before the academic year starts, you use Student Self-Service to register or re-register for your studies.
After you have completed registration/re-registration, you can use Student Self-Service to:
If you have lost or forgotten your password, contact IT Services.
Unless your devices are connected to the university Eduroam Wi-Fi network at the time you are needing to use university services, you will need to use multi-factor authentication (MFA).
You will only be able to access Student Self-Service once you have set up MFA on your devices.
If you have not already enrolled for MFA, then you should do so now by following the instructions online.
If you have any difficulties installing or using multi-factor authentication, please contact IT Services at mfa@lboro.ac.uk or via the button below.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal/news/2025/august/nominate-individuals-for-honorary-awards:
The current round of nominations is open until 5 September 2025 .
Definitions of University Medals and Honorary Degrees can be found below.
Further details about eligibility and criteria can be found on the Honorary Graduates webpage, where you can also nominate an individual.
University Medallists
These celebrate the very best of the Loughborough community; the University Medal is the most prestigious honour that the University can award.
Only a small number are given out each year and they are normally presented at a graduation ceremony.
Honorary Degrees
Loughborough University bestows Honorary Degrees on high-profile individuals who have made outstanding contributions to fields which the University has close links with.
Areas of contribution could be any academic, business or professional service area, or of particular relevance to the University’s values and strategic vision.
Read more about our most recent Honorary Graduates and University Medallists .
You can view previous Honorary Award winners on the dedicated webpage .
Please contact Abbie Loney (Secretary to University Honours Committee) with questions or for advice about the nominations process.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/news/2025/august/two-dean-appointments:
Professor Rebecca Cain has been appointed Dean of the School of Design and Creative Arts (SDCA), and Professor Lauren Sherar has been appointed Dean of the School of Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences (SSEHS).
Professor Cain is a human-centred designer with over 20 years’ experience building design-led inter-disciplinary research teams to tackle technological and societal challenges to improve wellbeing.
Through collaboration with industry, civic partners and the third sector her £7 million portfolio of projects funded by the EPSRC, AHRC and Innovate UK has developed the careers of over 30 doctoral and early career researchers.
Prior to joining Loughborough in 2017 she led the Experiential Engineering Research Group at WMG at the University of Warwick.
Professor Cain has held the roles of Chair and Vice-Chair of the Design Research Society and is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.
At Loughborough she has held the positions of Acting Dean, Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor for Vibrant and Inclusive Communities, and Associate Dean for Research and Innovation.
Professor Sherar is a leading expert in device measurements of physical activity, health data harmonisation and designing, implementing and evaluating public health interventions.
Her work spans youth, underserved, and global populations, supported by more than 170 publications and £13 million in funding from bodies including the NIHR and EU Horizon.
She currently holds an honorary contract with the Government’s Office for Health Improvement and Disparities.
At Loughborough, Professor Sherar has held the positions of Acting Dean, Associate Dean for Education and Student Experience and Interim Lead of the University’s Sport and Exercise Research Beacon.
Prior to joining Loughborough in 2012 she was an Assistant Professor at the University of Saskatchewan , Canada.
Speaking about the new appointments Loughborough’s Vice-Chancellor, Professor Nick Jennings, said: “Professors Cain and Sherar are outstanding academics and proven leaders.
Their contributions as Acting Deans have already made a meaningful difference within their Schools, and I look forward to seeing the continued growth and success of their faculties under their leadership.”
Both will take up their roles with immediate effect.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal/news/2025/august/leaf-gold-lab-leads-the-way-in-sustainable-science:
The University is proud to announce that WPL2.09, the Chemical Synthesis Lab in STEMLab, has become the first laboratory at Loughborough to achieve a LEAF (Laboratory Efficiency Assessment Framework) Gold Award, recognising their outstanding commitment to sustainability and environmental stewardship.
The LEAF framework is a national initiative designed to enhance sustainability within laboratories across the UK.
It provides a structured approach for labs to improve energy efficiency, waste management, and overall environmental performance.
The certification is divided into three levels—Bronze, Silver, and Gold—each indicating a progressively higher standard of sustainability.
Achieving the Gold Award requires not just best practice, but innovation and leadership, and WPL2.09 delivered on all fronts.
The lab team, consisting of Tanisha Dholakia, Richard Harland, and Emma Wilson, impressed reviewers with their forward-thinking approach.
During the audit, two highlights stood out:
The lab also demonstrated strong engagement with sustainable procurement, energy-saving behaviours, and chemical management, all critical areas within LEAF’s Gold criteria.
Nik Hunt, Environmental Manager, commented: “This is outstanding news and a hearty well done to all involved both in terms of the lab delivery but also the auditors involved.
We started with LEAF in 2023 and to now have our first Gold Lab demonstrates our technicians’ commitment to delivering sustainable labs/workshops.
“The LEAF programme not only supports our Sustainability Strategy but offers financial savings as well at a critical time.
Reducing what we spend on hazardous waste is a key focus given above inflation costs in this area and greater lifecycle consideration when purchasing equipment often results in lower long-term costs and reduced carbon footprint.
Congratulations to the lab team on Loughborough’s first LEAF Gold and I am sure it won’t be the last.”
The lab’s work directly supports several UN Sustainable Development Goals, including SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production , SDG 13: Climate Action , and SDG 6: Clean Water and Sanitation , by reducing chemical waste, lowering energy and water use, and improving lab efficiency.
For more information on LEAF and how other labs can get involved, please visit the Sustainability website or email technicians@lboro.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal/news/2025/august/it-information-before-you-return-to-campus:
If you are not regularly working on campus over the summer, in preparation for returning to campus, IT Services recommend connecting to the VPN and restarting your devices.
By doing this on a regular basis, all necessary security updates will be applied, ensuring you are ready to work without delay upon your return.
This is particularly important for desktop computers which are usually turned off and may not have received updates over the summer.
IT Services recommends planning a suitable time during August for someone in your School or Professional Service to turn on all the desktop computers for a day.
This will ensure they get all the necessary security updates, with enough time to resolve any problems, before the start of term.
Once connected to the VPN, you should stay connected for between 60 to 90 minutes to ensure all updates have been made.
Instructions on how to connect a laptop to the VPN .
If after the restart and connecting your laptop to the VPN, you are still experiencing issues connecting your:
Thank you for your cooperation.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal/news/2025/august/returning-students-it-guide:
As a returning student, there are a few things which IT Services have listed for you to be aware of.
eduroam
The certificate used to connect your device to the University's secure network (eduroam) expires annually.
You may find that returning to campus, your devices are no longer connected to eduroam.
How to reconnect your device to eduroam .
Duo Mobile
If you have changed your phone or factory reset your phone, you will not be able to register a new device yourself; you will need to contact IT Services on 01509 222 333 (Monday-Friday, 8.45am-5pm), and they can get you set up over the phone.
If you are outside the UK, the number is (+44) 1509 222 333.
Learn 24
If you require access to resources from the 2024/2025 academic year, you now need to use the Learn24 archive.
To access archived versions of Learn, follow the steps below:
Information about the VPN Service.
If you have any queries regarding this, please contact IT Services at IT.Services@lboro.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal/news/2025/august/wellbeing-sessions-september-2025:
Student Services are running a variety of events throughout September to support your wellbeing.
Topics covered include how to manage anxiety and lifting your mood.
Book your place on the Student Services website.
Managing Anxiety
Explore the body’s response to perceived threats and learn strategies to manage feelings of worry and unease.
Lifting Mood and Motivation
When we feel down, we can often experience low motivation.
This can cause us to do less and to get stuck in a vicious cycle of the less we do, the worse we feel.
The session will explore this cycle and a technique to break out of it.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal/news/2025/august/professional-services-assembly:
On Wednesday 10 September at 11.45am to 1pm, Richard Taylor will host an open meeting for all Professional Services colleagues in Schools and Services.
This will be an opportunity for us to come together to reflect on developments in the sector, how they impact here at Loughborough, and our priorities moving forwards.
It will be an opportunity for you to ask questions both easy and hard!
You will be able to attend the meeting in-person or online via MS Teams.
The meeting will take place in EHB110B (Edward Herbert Building) at the East Midlands campus.
Register your place .

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal/news/2025/august/implementation-of-annual-pay-uplift-2025-26:
The pay negotiations for the 2025-26 New Joint Negotiating Committee for Higher Education Staff (New JNCHES) have concluded.
The Universities and Colleges Employers Association (UCEA) has advised participating Higher Education Institutes to implement the increase on 1 August 2025.
UCEA's final position includes a 1.4% increase for all spinal points.
We intend to implement the increase in September, with a backdate to 1 August.
In September, we will send out more detailed communications outlining how this increase will affect those receiving our Real Living Wage Supplement.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal/news/2025/august/uk-government-alert:
The UK Government is testing the Emergency Alerts system on Sunday 7 September 2025 at 3pm.
Your mobile phone or tablet will vibrate and make a loud siren-like sound, even if it’s set on silent.
The alert message will confirm this is a test and that you do not need to take any further action.
Regular testing ensures the system is functioning correctly, should it need to be used in a life-threatening emergency.
Find out more on the Gov website .
You can opt out of the Emergency Alerts, including the national test, but you should keep them switched on for your own safety.
Emergency Alerts will warn you via your mobile or tablet if there's a life-threatening emergency nearby.
Only the government and the emergency services are able to send them.
There are simple and effective steps we can all take to be more prepared for an emergency.
Visit the Gov website for advice on how you can prepare.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal/news/2025/august/reminder-changes-to-automatic-email-forwarding:
IT Services is updating the way the University prevents automatic email forwarding to external addresses, using a new and improved Microsoft feature.
By blocking unauthorised automatic email forwarding more effectively, we’re reinforcing our responsibilities under data protection law.
This updated policy will come into effect from Tuesday, 19 August 2025.
How does this impact me?
This change will affect automatic email forwarding set up through rules or settings in your email client software.
You can still forward individual emails to external addresses as needed.
Unauthorised automatic forwarding will be blocked, and any affected messages will be returned to the sender.
Some colleagues may notice disruption if they currently have automated forwarding in place.
Action required
Automatic email forwarding to external addresses will stop working for users who are not authorised or part of the permitted group.
If this applies to you, please request authorisation or remove any existing forwarding rules.
This change enhances compliance with the University’s Acceptable Use Policy .
Can I get more information and help?
If you have any queries regarding this, please contact the IT Service Desk at IT.Services@lboro.ac.uk .

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal/news/2025/august/using-the-transcribe-tool-in-microsoft-word:
Did you know you can upload audio files and convert them to text in Microsoft Word?
You can transcribe speech to text by either recording directly in Microsoft Word or uploading an audio file.
You can then share or download the transcript and recording.
You can transcribe a Teams meeting by recording it using information on the IT Services website and then uploading your recording into Microsoft Word.
Please be aware that there is a limit of five hours per user, per month, with no option to share or purchase additional minutes.
More information on the transcribe tool .

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/news/2025/august/royal-society-summer-science-exhibits-on-tour:
Photo by Jake Hilder
The University is proud to be part of the Royal Society’s Summer Science Exhibits on Tour, taking place 30-31 August 2025, a weekend packed with activities, short films and engaging talks, all celebrating the wonders of science.
Jodrell Bank , a UNESCO World Heritage Site, will host the Royal Society’s showcase of past exhibits from its annual Summer Science Exhibition in London.
As part of Loughborough University’s interactive exhibit, ‘Fuelling the Future’, a team of EnerHy researchers and academics from the School of Science will showcase pioneering technologies designed to replace fossil fuels and reduce carbon emissions.
The exhibit highlights how waste biomass such as woodchips, corn husks, and algae can be converted into valuable products like fuels, plastics, and fabrics using advanced catalysts.
Visitors will also explore the future of green hydrogen, a clean energy source produced using only water and renewable electricity.
This technology has the potential to revolutionise how we power our homes, vehicles, and industries in a net-zero world.
'Fuelling the Future' brings together Loughborough’s Royal Society Summer Science Exhibit ‘ Replacing Oil’ from 2022 and its ‘ Green Hydrogen for a Net Zero Future’ exhibit, featured at the Festival of Tomorrow in 2024 and 2025 with Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) support.
Both exhibits were led by Professor Sandie Dann , EnerHy Co-Director and Professor of Materials Chemistry, who also leads the 'Fuelling the Future' initiative.
Exhibit highlights include:
Professor Dan Parsons, Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research and Innovation, said: “I am delighted to see Loughborough’s cutting-edge research and real-world impact showcased once more at such a prestigious event.
‘Fuelling the Future’ reflects our strong commitment to sustainability, innovation, and inspiring the next generation to shape a net-zero world through advances in research.
However, we also know that such advances also need explaining to the public and the interactive nature of the exhibit is a testament to Loughborough University’s determination to engage all ages in the science that will transform all our futures.”
Full details of the event are available on the Jodrell Bank website .

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/news/2025/august/lightning-announce-squad-for-new-campaign:
Nat Panagarry will play for Lightning in the 2026 Netball Super League (NSL) campaign.
Loughborough Lightning are thrilled to confirm their full squad the 2026 Netball Super League (NSL) season.
Vic Burgess’ roster features the return of two familiar faces as key new signings, alongside returners who finished brave runners up in NSL 2025.
New Arrivals
Jess Shaw will make her long-awaited return to Lightning colours for the 2026 season.
The dynamic mid-courter, who currently represents the Vitality Roses on the international stage, first wore the African Violet back in 2019 and now re-joins the side to bring flair, speed and creativity through the centre court.
Also re-joining the squad is Celena Appleby-Prince , who will bolster Lightning’s defensive unit.
A product of the club’s NXT Gen pathway, Appleby-Prince gained valuable top-flight experience last season after a mid-year move to Cardiff Dragons saw her make her Netball Super League debut.
Her return marks a full-circle moment as she once again pulls on the Lightning dress.
They will step into the line-up following the departure of Bella Baylis , and the retirement of Jodie Gibson at the end of the 2025 season.
Returners
The remainder of Lightning’s 2025 line-up have also recommitted to the club, with every player signing on for another season.
Their return ensures vital continuity across the squad and a strong foundation of experience as the side looks ahead to the 2026 campaign.
Alice Harvey
Berri Neil
Beth Cobden
Ella Clark
Hannah Joseph
Nat Panagarry
Sammy Wallace Joseph
Shadine Van Der Merwe
Head Coach Vic Burgess said: “I am delighted to introduce the 2026 Loughborough Lightning squad.
This group represents a strong blend of talent, dedication, and ambition.
"I am excited to begin this journey with them and look forward to building on our strengths as we strive for the championship in the upcoming season”

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/news/2025/august/usa-womens-eagles-arrive-in-loughborough:
Loughborough University has welcomed the USA Women's national rugby union team to campus ahead of the Women's Rugby World Cup 2025.
During the 10-day intensive training camp, USA Women's Eagles stepped up their preparations for the much-anticipated showpiece event to be held in England for the first time in 15 years.
The team stayed at the Elite Athlete Centre and Hotel , benefitting from the University’s world-class sporting facilities, including Powerbase gym for strength and conditioning sessions and various training sessions on Loughborough’s enviable high-performance sport pitches.
Sione Fukofuka, Head Coach of USA Women's Eagles, said: “It’s been excellent – world-class facilities.
Both sides of the gym have been fantastic and allow our players to get in and get their work done both efficiently and proficiently in a great environment.
“The excitement that the World Cup is going to provide and the platform that will give us as a team in the US is exciting, and the girls are looking forward to it, however; we’re going after results.
“We want to play well in our Pool, exit out, and make quarter-finals, which will be underpinned by some pretty hard work over the next two weeks.”
Professor Jo Maher, Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Sport at Loughborough University, said: “We’re delighted to host the USA Women's Eagles here at Loughborough University.
“The talented athletes here on campus create a halo effect.
We want that inspiration so that our students, our staff, our academics, get to work with the world’s best on a regular basis.
“Bringing in world-class talent means it inspires us to be at the cutting edge of innovation and to have the best facilities, pitches and training environments.
Iron sharpens iron.
The best athletes want the best facilities, and here at Loughborough, you get to do both.”
With at least 25 Loughborough-linked athletes, coaches, and practitioners set to represent their respective nations at the World Cup , Prof Maher added: “To see Loughborough University involved at World Cup level is the pinnacle of sport.
The work that the coaches, researchers and academics put in collectively to enable those athletes to thrive on the international stage is phenomenal.
Loughborough Lightning’s Kathryn Treder will be appearing in her second World Cup for the USA and is full of confidence ahead of the campaign.
She said: “This is my second season with Loughborough, so it’s nice to be in a familiar place.
“We’re really excited.
We’re crossing our T’s and dotting our I’s, installing our attack plan against England.
We’re feeling confident.
We’ve shown glimpses of what we’re capable of against Canada, and we believe we can bring that against England.”
The Women's Rugby World Cup 2025 is scheduled to take place between 22 August and 27 September.
USA Women's Eagles have been drawn in Pool A alongside England, Australia, and Samoa.
Press release reference number: 25/128

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal/staff-noticeboard/name-1980535-en.html:
Noticeboard
20 August
Information for staff interested in joining the UCU, University and College Union.
The UCU is a trade union, which is an organisation of workers who have come together to maintain and improve their conditions of employment.
Their branch represents and acts on behalf of staff who work at Loughborough University.
The
UCU has over 120,000 members, including academics, researchers, technicians, library and IT professionals, administrators and postgraduates.
Loughborough University UCU (LUCU) have a large branch committee and representatives across the university, covering both the Loughborough and London campuses.
The UCU negotiate with the university on behalf of all academic staff and professional services staff grade 6 and above (regardless of whether they are members or not) on things like conditions of contract, promotion procedures, probation, early retirement, child-care provision, discretionary pay, teaching assessment and the use of part-time and fixed-term staff.
They are consulted on policies being introduced or reviewed and can raise questions around suitability and appropriateness in line with staff rights.
The UCU have regular meetings with the university where they can take issues forward – this can lead to real change.
The UCU's more current campaign win can be found on their website.
Read more about why and how to join on the UCU website.
If you have any questions, please do get in touch with the branch by emailing ucu@lboro.ac.uk or calling 01509 228299.
Posted by Lboro UCU

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal/staff-noticeboard/name-1980181-en.html:
19 August
Want to learn more about the benefits and options provided by USS?
USS, Universities Superannuation Scheme, members have access to a series of interactive presentations about the benefits and options provided by USS.
Each webinar lasts one hour, with 15 minutes for a Q&A at the end, and will be recorded.
If the host does not have time during the Q&A for all the questions asked by attendees, you may be able to find the answer to your question in our FAQs.
Upcoming webinars:
Other webinars with recordings available:
Visit the USS Guidance Webinar page to register for a space or access previous webinars.
Posted by Charlotte Dyer

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal/staff-noticeboard/name-1978741-en.html:
6 August
Participate in a short online survey focused on understanding public awareness of the environmental impact of everyday digital activities, such as streaming, online storage, and email use.
I am conducting an online survey as part of my PhD research at Loughborough University.
This study explores public awareness of the environmental impact of everyday digital activities such as streaming, online storage, and email use.
Who can take part?
I am looking for participants who:
What’s involved?
Thank you so much for considering taking part - your input is appreciated.
If you have any questions, feel free to contact me at: k.isaacs@lboro.ac.uk
Posted by K-Tricia Isaacs

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal/staff-noticeboard/name-1977740-en.html:
1 August
Looking for male rugby players (18–30) to take part in a one-time study on how resistance training affects the heart.
Includes a free heart ultrasound and body composition feedback.
I’m recruiting male rugby players aged 18–30 for my MSc dissertation at Loughborough.
The study looks at how resistance training affects cardiac structure and function, comparing forwards and backs.
It involves just one testing session (60–90 mins) and includes:
To take part, you must:
All testing will take place at the National Centre for Sport and Exercise Medicine (NCSEM) If you’re interested, please fill out this short form to sign up and see more info or drop me an email.
Thanks!
Posted by Tara Naylor

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal/staff-noticeboard/name-1977742-en.html:
30 July
Participate in an interview (lasting approximately 40 mins to 1 hour) focused on understanding how remote and hybrid work impacts lifestyle behaviours, particularly sedentary behaviour and diet.
Who:
What:
When:
Where and how:
If you would like to be involved, please email k.n.mehta@lboro.ac.uk
Posted by Karesna Mehta

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal/staff-noticeboard/name-1977529-en.html:
28 July
Throughout August, Loughborough University staff can purchase gel polish for fingers and toes for just £30.
Burleigh Springs is Loughborough's premier Leisure Club and Spa facility and is located within Burleigh Court.
(This would normally cost £54.00 for a non-member).
You don't have to be a member of the facility, just show your ID when you book or arrive.
Call and book today on 01509 633016 or send an email to info@burleigh-springs.co.uk .
Each month, we'll share the latest offer at Burleigh Springs .
Please visit Your Benefits to find out more about the benefits and advantages of working for Loughborough University.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal/staff-noticeboard/name-1977475-en.html:
Participate in a one-hour interview aimed at exploring lifestyle behaviours in hybrid and remote working environments.
Who are we looking for?
What?
Where and how?
Want to get involved?

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/internal-events/meditation-sessions.html:
Join the University Chaplaincy for monthly staff meditation sessions led by Natalie Steel.
Explore how to:
There are four scheduled dates in Semester 1, and you're welcome to book onto more than one session or add at a later date.
The sessions will follow a learn-practical application structure; 15 mins learning about how meditation can be used to develop wellbeing and 15-20mins meditation practice.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/events/ias-spotlight-women-in-sport-co-creating-the-future-of-womens-sport-and-heal.html:
A roundtable discussion as part of the IAS Spotlight 'Women in Sport'.
This closing session brings together the insights, provocations, and priorities emerging from the IAS Spotlight series to co-create a shared vision and actionable next steps.
Drawing on themes of governance, leadership, innovation, and interdisciplinary research, this session will guide participants through a collaborative process to shape an actionable innovation roadmap.
Framed by the expertise of contributors across the IAS Spotlight activities, including views from those working on breast health, return to movement, and cross-sport collaboration - this session will explore how to build a thriving, inclusive ecosystem for innovation around women’s sport and health research and practice.
Arrivals from 3.15pm for a 3.30pm start.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/events/ktp50-event.html:
You are invited to a special event celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) programme and the official relaunch of the KTP at Loughborough University.
This event will bring together senior leaders from Innovate UK and the University, academics, public and private sector organisations and KTP Associates to celebrate the impact of KTPs and explore opportunities for future collaboration.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/fm/campus-works-updates:
Posted: 27 August 2025 Categories: 
          heating-plumbing, charnwood-wing, garendon-wing
Posted: 27 August 2025 Categories: 
          building, wavy-top
Posted: 21 August 2025 Categories:
Posted: 20 August 2025 Categories: 
          morag-bell-building, roads-paths
Posted: 18 August 2025 Categories: 
          wolfson-building, heating-plumbing
Posted: 15 August 2025 Categories: 
          edward-barnsley, brockington, wolfson-building, sir-david-davies, morag-bell-building, building
Posted: 13 August 2025 Categories: 
          heating-plumbing, clyde-williams, michael-pearson-east, michael-pearson-west, james-france, pilkington-library, s-building, sportpark-building, stemlab-building
Posted: 12 August 2025 Categories: 
          edward-herbert-building, netball-badminton -centre, sir-david-davies, dan-maskell, eis-performance-centre, lta-tennis-centre, matthew-arnold, edward-barnsley, sir-john-ferguson-building, wavy-top, security-gatehouse, sir-david-wallace-building, sir-john-beckwith-centre, brockington, keith-green-building, loughborough-students-union
Posted: 12 August 2025 Categories: 
          bridgeman-building, haslegrave-building, pilkington-library, schofield, sir-richard-morris, 3ddesign, brockington, fine-art, hazlerigg-building, wolfson-annex, wolfson-building, clyde-williams, loughborough-design-school, morag-bell-building, rutland-building, holywell-building, james-france, nccat-labs, nccat-office-utc, s-building, sir-frank-gibb, sir-frank-gibb-labs, stemlab-building, stewart-mason-building, stewart-miller-building
Posted: 11 August 2025 Categories:
Posted: 7 August 2025 Categories: 
          heating-plumbing
Posted: 5 August 2025 Categories: 
          building, cayley, rutherford, faraday, royce
Posted: 31 July 2025 Categories:
Posted: 31 July 2025 Categories: 
          brockington, building
Posted: 25 July 2025 Categories:
Posted: 24 July 2025 Categories: 
          schofield, brockington, brockington-extension, wavy-top, electrical
Posted: 23 July 2025 Categories: 
          michael-pearson-east, michael-pearson-west, sportpark-building, holywell-building, nccat-labs, nccat-office-utc, s-building, stemlab-building, stewart-miller-building, keith-green-building, sir-frank-gibb, sir-frank-gibb-labs, pilkington-library, wolfson-annex, wolfson-building
Posted: 22 July 2025 Categories: 
          sir-david-wallace-building, building
Posted: 21 July 2025 Categories: 
          building, eis-performance-centre
Posted: 21 July 2025 Categories: 
          electrical

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/internal/staff-wellbeing:
Wellbeing is important to us as individuals, as it fundamentally impacts on the quality of our life.
It is important to us as a University, as happy, healthy people who achieve harmony in their work / life mix are more creative, productive and help to create a great place to work.
A sense of mental and physical wellbeing doesn’t just happen, it comes from making the most of the training and opportunities that are available to us and in making use of the support that is in place when times get tough.
This is your wellbeing one stop shop.
We’re passionate about making mental health and neurodiversity an inclusive subject that everyone can talk about without fear or stigma.
Getting out and enjoying the facilities that are available in and around our campuses can not only improve your health, but also lift your soul.
Harmony comes from knowing that you are supported and that you have the flexibility to be present and be the best that you can be.
Find out more about what support is available to you if you’re working from home for part of your week.
Free online or telephone assistance from accredited counsellors or information specialists
If you are looking for help in relation to domestic abuse for you or someone you know, click here for more information
Discover a range of health and wellbeing tips, advice and personal journeys from Loughborough staff and students
Information on the Loughborough University Wellbeing Framework for Schools and Departments

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/alumni/update-details:
We will use the details that you provide to keep you connected with the University, updated with news about Loughborough and fellow alumni, to invite you to events and to let you know about opportunities to support Loughborough.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/alumni/contact-us:
Get in touch with us today!
Would you like to get in touch with a member of the alumni team?
You can contact us by email or phone on the details below.
If you wish to meet with the team during a visit to Loughborough, please get in touch with us via email first.
We may not always be available on campus due to hybrid working policies, so advance notice is always best.
Our working hours are 9:00am – 5:00pm weekdays.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/alumni/about:
The Alumni Association is a group for all graduates and retired staff of Loughborough University.
We have more than 200,000 Loughborough graduates around the world.
You become alumni once you graduate, and automatically become part of the Loughborough University Alumni Association.
As alumni, you have the opportunity to stay part of the Loughborough family.
You can remain connected to your friends, take advantage of networking opportunities at a professional and social level at alumni events, and access benefits and support.
We have an Alumni Advisory Board who volunteer to support the voice of Loughborough alumni and to offer their knowledge and expertise to support the University.
Take a look around the website to read alumni news stories, check out alumni benefits, explore alumni groups around the world, and more!
It's easy to update your details , too, so that we can stay in touch with news and events.
Members of the Alumni Advisory Board support the University and volunteer to improve the services offered to members of the Alumni Association.
Stay up-to-date with sport at Loughborough via a quarterly e-newsletter, a range of events, and access exclusive offers from our partners.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/alumni/news:
All the latest news and updates
Three of our Global Alumni Ambassadors in Nigeria share insights into their roles: Ashley Stewart, Tumi Oyetayo, and Hakeem Otiti.
Together, they are dedicated to connecting alumni with the University and strengthening the Loughborough alumni network across Nigeria and West Africa.
Paul Johnson, a former PE student, recently visited the University and has reflected on how the campus has transformed.
The visit brought back vivid memories of 1968, a time when campus looked very different.
Alumnus Grant Rousseau has been featured in Esports World Cup: Level Up, a new five-part documentary series now streaming on Amazon Prime.
Civil Engineering alumnus Harry Reed (2023) is getting set to climb Mount Kilimanjaro in August next year.
Dr Mike Stephens, a retired lecturer from the Department of Social Sciences, has discovered a new chapter in retirement, as a published author of both fiction and travel writing.
Augustine Afullo has had a remarkable 20-year career as a researcher, mentor, consultant and author, with a portfolio of 109 books.
Loughborough’s recent trip to West Africa aimed to reconnect with alumni, support future students, and explore opportunities for collaboration across the region.
Dr Kazim Altaf has been honoured with the prestigious Tamgha-e-Imtiaz Civil Award by the President of Pakistan in recognition of his exceptional contribution to the Pakastani government.
Emma Dodd graduated with a degree in English from Loughborough in 2018.
She now offers life and career coaching under the name Persephone Coaching and is providing a 20% discount to fellow Loughborough alumni.
In 2011, alumnus Rustom Marker travelled to Guatemala and fell in love with the country.
A way to make the country a permanent base the idea for Spanish Marks was born.
Along with two partners, Sandy and Phiroza, the school was launched in 2015.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/alumni/our-alumni:
Our alumni achieve wonderful things across many industries and professions once they have graduated from the University.
Some of our alumni are awarded Honorary Degrees or receive national and international awards in recognition of their achievements.
Here we share an insight into the careers and experiences of some of our notable alumni.
Space Scientist and Founder: Space Innovation Ltd.
Director: Cape Specialist Services
Managing Director of the Bajaj Automotive Company
World-famous mathematical physicist
MP for Batley and Spen, writer and actress
Director of Sport, British Paralympic Association
Assistant Headteacher and Rugby Coach
Poet and activist for mental health awareness
Senior Data Scientist: Holland & Barrett
Loughborough University Chancellor;
IAAF President
Director of Sport in Zambia: Ministry of Sport, Youth and Child Development
Academic Surgeon
Head of Mission at the Office of the Quartet
Goalkeeper: Manchester United and England national team
Former CEO: Airbus America
Head of Marketing Communications: THE PROTEIN WORKS™
Technical Project Manager R&D, Hilti Group
Chairman at Rightmove,
previously Executive Chairman at Shazam
Olympic Rower
Paralympic Athlete: Discus
Former Finance Director of Campbell Scientific Ltd and former University Council member
Paralympian, Crossbench Peer in the House of Lords, Motivational Speaker and Broadcaster
Chair: Make UK
Actress, Singer and Presenter
Former Executive Assistant to the Chairman and Board member: Aston Villa Football Club
Olympic Canoeist
Director of Environmental Sustainability: Lloyds Banking Group
Chairman: Capgemini UK
Former member of the University Council
Captain of England Rugby Women
TV and radio broadcaster, and visionary advocate for social impact
Team GB and England Hockey Coach
Swimming Coach
Chairman, Crossrail
Former Retail Director: Debenhams
President of the International Netball Federation
TV Presenter and Broadcaster
Senior Strategist: Central Bank of Nigeria
Co-Founder: London Sock Company
Former Chief Executive of Great Britain Wheelchair Rugby
Multi-world-record-breaking mountaineer
Aerospace Engineer: Reaction Engines
Founder: IDEA International
Director of Performance: LA Clippers
Founder: Life After Professional Sport / Professional Footballer: Exeter City FC
Former Head of Performance Engineering: Williams Martini Racing
Master Blender: Appleton Estate Jamaica Rum
Former Red Arrows Pilot: Royal Air Force
Co-Founder and Managing Director: Candy Kittens

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/alumni/your-career:
When you leave Loughborough, you can continue to access the support on offer from the Careers Network.
We want to do everything that we can at Loughborough to support our alumni.
Check out our jobs board below, an easy way for you to share vacancies with fellow Loughborough graduates.
We’ll post regular updates on our website and across social media, so be sure to follow us, and join our LinkedIn group to grow your professional network.
The Careers Network offers support to graduates after leaving Loughborough.
Find out how you could share opportunities with Loughborough students and graduates.
LEN provides a space for enterprising students and graduates to connect and progress on their enterprise journeys.
Future Space offers the chance to attend careers and networking events and seminars.
You can also apply for a library card.
As you consider your next steps in your career or after graduation, take a look at postgraduate courses available at the University.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/alumni/get-involved:
Volunteering to share your experience and expertise with students and fellow alumni is a great way to give something back to Loughborough.
Alumni support student development by sharing their expertise and experiences with students across a range of areas by becoming guest speakers, panellists, and mentors.
If you are interested in offering your expertise, check out the list of current opportunities below and let us know if you can help.
If you would like to offer your expertise for a future activity, or if you would like to share your story, contact us and we’ll be in touch when suitable opportunities become available.
Our Global Engagement team visit countries worldwide to engage with prospective international students.
In some locations, there are opportunities for alumni to support student recruitment events.
If this is something that you may be interested in, please get in touch and let us know where you are based, and we can keep you updated with opportunities.
We are looking for alumni who would like to be involved in our LU London virtual mentoring programme.
We would like mentors to be from all walks of life and able to support a small group of students through online sessions.
Mentors will help students to set and achieve goals, build their network, and prepare them for life beyond study.
You do not need to have any previous experience in mentoring.
Students from across the University form interdisciplinary teams and use their individual experiences and expertise to solve a real business problem, provided by one of our corporate partners.
The team work together for the duration of a semester to explore innovative and creative solutions to their brief, before presenting their findings to their business partner.
If you or your organisation could partner with us, find out more about the business partnership opportunities available.
LU Inc.
brings together entrepreneurs working on innovative ideas.
Members of LU Inc.
can receive training, access to workshops and resources.
We are looking for alumni to support these entrepreneurs in a range of areas through monthly workshops.
Many Loughborough students spend their placement year outside of the UK, embarking on a year abroad, perhaps in a country that they have never visited before.
To help them settle into their new home, we are asking alumni to be a buddy.
We will reach out to alumni who are in regions where students will be moving to for work or study.
If you would like to offer to be a buddy, we'd love to hear from you and we will get in touch if and when a student is moving to your area.
Would you be interested in employing a Loughborough student in an internship or graduate role?
Loughborough Talent Match offers bespoke recruitment support as well as access to talented students and graduates.
The programme runs annually.
Our Careers Network will offer a full recruitment service from advertising roles to working with you to market exclusive opportunities for Loughborough students/graduates.
A limited amount of funding is also available (subject to criteria).
Our groups are a great way to network with former Loughborough University students living around the world.
The Loughborough alumni women's network has been set up to support one another and to build community.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/alumni/networks:
Alumni have the chance to connect and network with people around the world, meet fellow alumni at our events and support the University.
Our international groups are a great way to network with former Loughborough University students living around the world.
Through our global alumni community, you can meet new people, socialise, and network to support your career.
Through our international activities around the world, you can also offer to support prospective students by volunteering at a student recruitment event, or by supporting an individual student on placement in your area as a buddy.
Below you will find details about the alumni groups.
The groups gather socially, support new graduates, and contribute to university activities in their region.
Find out more about each of the groups and let us know if you'd like to connect or if you have any questions.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/giving:
There are many ways in which your gift to Loughborough can make an impact
Donations to Loughborough support students from low socioeconomic backgrounds, help our sportspeople to thrive, and contribute to brilliant research activity.
Alumni from around the world have been asked to contribute a monthly gift to support Opportunity Scholarships at the University.
Find out about how gifts support our students in overcoming barriers to higher education.
Discover news about donations, impact, and further opportunities to contribute.
There are many ways that you can donate to leave a gift in your Will.
Thank you for considering making a donation to Loughborough University.
There are various ways in which you can give.
Find out more about how to donate.
Meet the team and get in touch.
Are you a Loughborough graduate?
Stay in touch.
You'll always be a member of the Loughborough family.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/alumni/in-memory:
Families are welcome to share the news of the loss of their loved ones in an online obituary.
Please contact the team if you would like to share an online obituary.
Alumni who finished their studies in 1930-1949
Alumni who finished their studies in 1950-1959
Alumni who finished their studies in 1960-1969
Alumni who finished their studies in 1970-1979
Alumni who finished their studies in 1980-1989
Alumni who finished their studies in 1990-1999
Alumni who finished their studies in 2000-2009
Alumni who finished their studies in 2010-2019
Alumni who finished their studies 2020-2029
Former staff who worked at the University

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/alumni/privacy-policy:
This privacy policy sets out how Loughborough University obtains, manages and uses data on alumni, supporters and friends of the University and is in addition to the University’s general privacy policy .
All data is held securely and in accordance with current Data Protection legislation.
If you have any questions about how we use your data please contact us by email alumni@lboro.ac.uk phone 01509 228497 or write to us at Alumni Relations, Hazlerigg Building, Loughborough University, Loughborough, LE11 3TU.
If you studied at Loughborough a record is created for you on the Alumni database using information from the University’s Student Records database.
Much of the data we hold comes directly from you – this includes information you may have given to Loughborough when you were a student or that you have provided subsequently, for example by filling in an alumni update form, registering for an event, making a donation, or through the LboroConnect platform.
If you contact other departments at Loughborough University (including academic departments or professional services) or Loughborough Student’s Union, they may also pass your details to the Alumni Association.
We also hold data that has been created by Loughborough University , for example details of degree programmes you have studied, qualifications obtained, clubs and societies you were a member of and your interactions with the University.
We may also obtain information about you from publicly available sources of information, for example Royal Mail’s National Change of Address File, LinkedIn, Companies House and articles in the media.
Sometimes this information is supplied to us by third parties.
The information stored and processed by the University may include:
Biographical information (including name, titles, gender, date of birth) Contact details (including address, email address, phone numbers, social media profiles) Information about your time at Loughborough (including education details, hall affiliations, memberships of clubs and societies and details of placements, prizes and scholarships) Employment details (including positions held, organisations worked for, areas of responsibility, contact details, income) Your relationships (including spouse/partner, friends, family, university staff, other alumni and organisations) Communications sent to you by the University or received from you Donations to Loughborough University (including gift aid status and if donating by Direct Debit or standing order your bank details).
We do not store credit or debit card numbers .
Volunteering on behalf of the University (for example mentoring, giving a talk, advisory board membership) Events you have attended (including meetings with University staff) Future fundraising and engagement plans (including details of planned financial and non-financial asks for support, projects of potential interest and indicators of your volunteering/giving potential and wealth) Media articles that you have featured in Hobbies and interests Dietary and mobility/access requirements
You can update your data by using our online update form , emailing us at alumni@lboro.ac.uk or writing to us at Alumni Relations, Hazlerigg Building, Loughborough University, Loughborough, LE11 3TU or calling us on 01509 228497.
We also routinely check our data against Royal Mail’s National Change of Address file and other publicly available sources of information to try and ensure the data we have for you is up-to-date.
We use your data to communicate with you about Loughborough University via post, email and phone.
This includes invitations to reunions and other events, news and updates from Loughborough University and fellow alumni, further study opportunities, fundraising materials and information about how you can continue to support Loughborough and how the University can support you.
Please see the ‘Your rights’ section of this policy for more information about how you can update your communications preferences.
To try and make sure we are sending you communications that are relevant and of interest we may analyse and group data using a range of factors including demographic, geographic, education, employment details and details of past engagements with Loughborough.
When sending fundraising materials we analyse and group data to try to ensure that we do not ask you for an inappropriate amount or for projects that are not of interest.
Sometimes this analysis may include automated processing and decision making.
Fundraising and volunteering is important to the University.
If we believe that you may have the ability to make a significant financial or non-financial contribution to the University we may undertake further research using publicly available information and produce a profile.
We also analyse data to help identify people that may be able to make such a contribution to the University.
We may also carry out due diligence on potential donations in line with the University’s Gift Acceptance Policy .
Other academic departments (for example the School or Department you studied in) and professional services (for example the Careers Network) may also wish to contact you from time to time or to find out more about specific groups of alumni.
A typical example would be identifying how many alumni work in a particular sector.
Where this is the case we work with departments to provide them with up-to-date data and manage the sending of any associated communications.
Our legal basis for holding and using your data for the majority of these activities is that they are in our legitimate interests.
Additionally some activities are carried out with your consent, because there is a legal obligation or because they are tasks carried out in the public interest.
Your data is held in a secure database with controls in place to limit who has access to it.
We may make data available to academic and administrative University departments, recognised alumni societies, sports and other clubs associated with the University, and to agents contracted to the University for alumni-related projects.
In certain cases (such as overseas alumni groups) this may involve transferring your data outside the European Economic Area.
In these instances we will ensure that an adequate level of protection is in place for the processing of your personal data.
The University sometimes uses third party suppliers to carry out activities on our behalf (for example mailing houses and event venue providers).
When this is the case we will ensure there are written contracts in place governing the usage of data.
As required by law the University may also provide information to organisations such as Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) or organisations operating on their behalf.
If you Gift Aid your donations we are also required to share details with HMRC.
We may also share limited information (your name, contact details and information about programmes studied) with organisations carrying out surveys for league table and course ranking purposes (for example the Financial Times) to enable them to contact you about taking part in their surveys.
We will not share your contact details with other alumni unless you give us permission to do so.
Similarly if you want to get in contact with a former classmate we may be able to send a message to them on your behalf but will be unable to share their details with you.
We may publish details including your name, subject of study and year of graduation in class lists, donor lists and event attendance lists on our alumni website or in printed publications (for example ‘Your Gift’).
We will not publish your contact details.
We will never sell your data to other organisations.
We believe that the relationship we have with our alumni, donors and friends is a life-long relationship and so we will retain your data until such time as you request its removal.
We will always maintain a record on our database containing at least your basic biographical and education details for statistical purposes and to ensure that we do not inadvertently contact you in the future.
If you have a general question, concern or complaint about how data is used by Loughborough University, please do contact us.
You can contact us by email: alumni@lboro.ac.uk phone: 01509 228497 or by post: Alumni Relations, Hazlerigg Building, Loughborough University, Loughborough, LE11 3TU
You may update your communication preferences and opt-out of receiving some or all communications from us at any time.
You may request details of personal information which we hold about you.
If you would like a copy of the information we hold please contact us using the details above.
Should you wish to make a complaint, object to the processing of your data for any of the purposes outlined in this policy or have elements of the data we hold amended or removed please contact us.
We always aim to comply with these requests, if for any reason we are unable to we will let you know the reason why.
If you have any questions more generally regarding Data Protection at the University, then please do contact the Data Protection Officer on dp@lboro.ac.uk or write to The Data Protection Officer at Academic Registry, Loughborough University, Loughborough, Leics, UK LE11 3TU.
If you have taken steps to have a concern or complaint about Loughborough University’s handling of data resolved but are still not satisfied you have a right to lodge a complaint with the Information Commissioner’s Office (ico), who are the relevant regulator for data privacy and protection matters.
The ico can be contacted at Wycliffe House, Water Lane, Wilmslow, SK9 5AF and you will find more information at www.ico.org.uk.
We regularly review this policy and will update it if there are changes in how we manage or use your data.
This page will always contain the latest version of this policy.
This policy was last updated in January 2020.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/alumni/faqs:
Here are some of the most commonly asked questions we receive from alumni.
Have you lost your degree certificate or are you interested in finding out how to stay in touch with Loughborough?
Check out the answers below.
If you cannot find the answer you are looking for, please do not hesitate to contact us .
You are an alumni by virtue of having studied at the University for more than three months and you automatically join the Loughborough University Alumni Association.
This is a membership group made up of all former students, graduates and retired staff and is governed by a constitution which ensures that Loughborough graduates have a voice within the University.
The Association’s members are represented by the Alumni Advisory Board (AAB), which is made up of representatives from our graduate community around the world.
These representatives are democratically elected each year by our alumni population.
The President of the AAB also has a seat on the University Council.
This ensures that alumni are given a voice at the highest level of University decision-making.
As alumni you can access a range of exclusive benefits , both on the high street and for university facilities, such as the Library and the sports facilities.
You will also receive news in the form of our monthly e-newsletter, updates from the University and notifications of any relevant upcoming events, such as guest lectures and reunions.
We have a range of ways to engage with fellow alumni and current students through offering graduate job opportunities, mentoring current students or alumni and the chance to network with fellow members of Loughborough’s alumni and student communities.
You can update your details or contact us directly whenever your details change so that you continue to stay in touch.
We have removed the feature which enabled you to log in to the alumni website.
You can contact us at any time to find out what details we hold on you, and you can update your details without logging in.
Need to know more?
Read our Privacy Policy.
You can opt out and opt back in at any time.
Simply update your details or contact us directly to let us know if you would like to stop hearing from us, or if you would like to hear from us again.
You can purchase duplicate degree certificates .
Duplicate degree transcripts (which list the modules you undertook and marks you received) can be bought online for those who graduated after 1996 (if you graduated in 1995 or earlier, you will need to contact the academic department at which you studied).
Please note that new certificates and transcripts will usually take 2-3 weeks to be delivered to a UK destination, and 4-6 weeks to be delivered internationally.
If you have special requirements, for example you would like a transcript to be sent to World Education Services in Canada or the USA, please note this in the additional information section of your order and email instructions/the accompanying paperwork to graduation@lboro.ac.uk.
We are unable to disclose University results.
However, these will be shown on your degree transcript, along with the modules you studied.
You will have been provided one at your University graduation.
Duplicates can be bought online provided you graduated post-1996.
If you graduated in 1995 or earlier, you will need to contact the academic department at which you studied.
If you have any other queries regarding results, please email or call the Student Records & Operations department on 01509 222491.
There are several ways through which you can be involved with the University , allowing you to give back to both fellow alumni and current students.
These include:
Alumni skills and experience are important in helping our next generation of students.
If you are interested in volunteering in any way, please do contact us for more information.
Follow us across social media to keep up-to-date with the latest Loughborough alumni news and events.
Like us on Facebook Follow us on X (formerly Twitter) Join our network on LinkedIn and connect with fellow alumni
You are welcome to visit campus again once you have graduated.
Whether you are coming back to see friends or wish to visit again after many years, you are welcome.
Please note that car parking charges apply for visitors.
If you wish to visit with prospective students, check out our Open Days .
If you're looking for alumni events , see what we have coming up.
Let us know if you have any questions about visiting us.
Due to Data Protection, we are unable to pass on details of members of your cohort without their permission.
However, if you would like to arrange a reunion or get back in touch with someone, please contact us with short message and your contact details and we can send an email on your behalf.
Alumni e-mail accounts (ending in @alumni.lboro.ac.uk) were deactivated in December 2017, following the University’s move from Google to Microsoft as its e-mail provider.
All e-mails are sent to those which are provided to us by alumni.
Feel free to update your details to make sure we can keep in touch.
Once you have graduated, your student e-mail account and username (ending in @student.lboro.ac.uk) enters a 30-day expiry period.
During this period, you can forward or download any documents to an alternative e-mail address or location.
When this 30-day period expires, the student e-mail and username will be deactivated, and will no longer be accessible.
This also includes subscription to Microsoft Office.
Please see the IT Services FAQs page for more information.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/alumni/news/2025/august/nigeria-global-alumni-ambassadors:
Ashley Stewart (Global Alumni Ambassador) and Jing Wang (Engagement Officer, International)
Ashley is keen to connect the Nigerian alumni community with Loughborough.
She said:
“My vision is to serve as a dynamic bridge – connecting alumni, current students, prospective offer holders, and the wider university community in meaningful, sustainable ways.
“I am committed to building an inclusive and collaborative alumni ecosystem that not only celebrates the accomplishments of graduates but also reinforces the lifelong value of a Loughborough education.”
Over the past year, Ashley has curated and hosted the Alumni Spotlight series, an initiative that shines a light on the diverse stories, career pathways and social impact of Loughborough alumni.
These events have proven to be powerful storytelling platforms, allowing alumni to share their unique journeys and showcase their achievements after graduating from Loughborough.
Ashley has also organised regional meet-ups in cities including Lagos, Abuja and Accra:
“These engagements help demystify the international study experience, offer guidance, and foster a sense of belonging even before students set foot on campus.
“I hope to expand the scope of alumni involvement in mentorship programmes, research collaborations, professional development initiatives, and cultural exchanges.
“My ambition is to build a model where alumni are not only passive members of a network but active contributors to the Loughborough story – bringing their lived experiences, leadership, and insight back to the University.”
On her experience as an ambassador, Ashley adds:
“What I have most enjoyed about my role a Global Alumni Ambassador is the opportunity to act as a connector and advocate – helping to spotlight the achievements of our alumni while reinforcing the values and excellence that Loughborough University represents.”
Looking ahead, Ashley said:
“There is exciting momentum building across Nigeria and the wider West African region, and the coming months will see a range of opportunities to get involved, contribute and reconnect with the Loughborough Community.”
Tumi Oyetayo (Global Alumni Ambassador)
As a Nigeria Global Alumni Ambassador, Tumi aims to foster a vibrant and inclusive network that keeps Nigerian alumni engaged with the Loughborough community while also serving as a bridge for current and prospective students.
In his role he said:
“I hope to facilitate opportunities for mentorship, knowledge exchange, and career guidance, helping students better understand what life after university could look like.
I also want to build stronger ties between alumni and the university by organising events, amplifying success stories, and highlighting the value of staying connected.”
Reflecting on his experience in the Nigeria alumni network, Tumi shared:
“Being part of the Nigeria alumni network has broadened my professional circle and introduced me to individuals doing remarkable work across different sectors.
It’s been incredibly valuable to share insights, collaborate on ideas, and feel a sense of belonging beyond graduation.
“Personally, the experience has reinforced the importance of community and given me the confidence to speak about my journey while encouraging others on theirs.
The most valuable aspect has been the willingness of fellow alumni to support one another, whether through referrals, advice, or collaboration.”
When asked about the highlights of his role so far, Tumi said:
“I’ve most enjoyed the opportunity to connect with future students and share authentic stories about life at Loughborough.
Speaking to students at institutions and answering their questions has been especially rewarding.
It’s fulfilling to know I’m helping them make informed decisions and showing them what’s possible through education.
I’ve also enjoyed working alongside other alumni and university staff - it’s been both inspiring and energising.”
Tumi outlined opportunities for alumni to engage with the University:
“Over the coming months, I’m hoping to coordinate more alumni-led events in Nigeria, including career panels, networking meetups, and prospective student Q&A sessions.
“I also plan to explore online opportunities for those who can’t join in person.
Alumni can get involved by volunteering to speak at these events, mentoring students, or simply attending to share their experiences.
“Staying active in our WhatsApp or LinkedIn groups is another great way to remain engaged and informed about upcoming opportunities.”
Jing Wang (Engagement Officer, International), Hakeem Otiti (Global Alumni Ambassador) and Darcy Hodges (Supporter Relations Manager)
Hakeem is passionate about supporting alumni connections, encouraging professional development, and showcasing the impact of Loughborough graduates across Nigeria and West Africa.
Hakeem recently took part in a West Africa offer holder mixer panel session hosted by the Alumni team.
Alongside fellow alumni, he shared his journey from his time at Loughborough through to his professional career, offering insights, advice, and encouragement to prospective students in an open and informal discussion.
Thank you to Ashley and Tumi for sharing their insights and for their ongoing support in the region.
Want to connect with our Nigeria alumni network?
Join the official Nigeria Alumni WhatsApp group to keep up to date with news, events, and opportunities to get involved.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/alumni/news/2025/august/alumnus-paul-50-years-on:
When Paul arrived at Loughborough in 1968, he recalls:
“I had never been in a sports hall before, then I arrived at the College for my interview and saw the gymnasium, swimming pool, tennis courts, vast playing fields, and a full athletics track, all within walking distance.
Wow, what a place!”
The College of Education was then a small institution, and in Paul’s words they were split into three distinct disciplines, PE students, nicknamed ‘jocks’, Technology students, known as ‘chippies’, and primary school teacher trainees.
Paul’s memories span long walks from The Grove residence to lectures near Towers, and even a year living 10 miles away in Lockington, commuting daily with his fellow students.
He fondly recalls shared meals at the now-demolished refectory, Friday nights watching Monty Python in the common room, and the warmth of hall life, complete with cheerful cleaners and the student who was on phone duty laying out toast each evening.
He credits inspiring lecturers such as Robbie Brightwell, Colin Hardy, and Eric Blackadder for shaping his teaching career and instilling a lifelong passion for physical education.
Fast forward 57 years, Paul said the campus was:
“unrecognisable, it’s a magnificent place and I was so privileged to tour it this summer”.
What’s your #LboroJourney?
We want to hear from you, share your story by getting in touch!
Discover more #LboroJourney stories from our alumni community.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/alumni/news/2025/august/alumnus-featured-amazon-esports:
The series offers a behind the scenes look at the rapidly growing world of competitive gaming.
It follows professional and rising gamers as they prepare for and compete in the prestigious Esports World Cup.
Among those featured is Grant, a Loughborough graduate whose influential role in the esports industry has earned him international recognition.
Esports World Cup: Level Up is available now on Amazon Prime Video in selected regions.
Congratulations to Grant on this exciting achievement and for representing Loughborough on a global stage.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/alumni/alumni-benefits:
As alumni, you can access a range of offers and discounts.
As Loughborough alumni, you are eligible for a variety of offers from the University that help keep you connected and give you access to facilities and services available on campus.
If you are staying local to Loughborough or wish to further your studies, the University offers several benefits to alumni including discounted gym memberships, access to the Pilkington Library, and bursaries for postgraduate study.
We are excited to expand our benefits to spotlight alumni-owned businesses.
Whether you offer a product, service, or a business of any kind, we'd love to hear from you.
If you would like to be featured and share your offer with the alumni community, please get in touch .
Find out about alumni bursaries available on postgraduate taught and postgraduate research courses.
Alumni can access 20% off rates to stay at Burleigh Court on the Loughborough campus.
Graduates of the University may apply for an Alumni User Card free of charge.
You can also find out about accessing the Loughborough University London library.
Access events and support from the Future Space team.
Choose from a range of memberships at a level that is right for you to get access to world-class facilities.
Buy your printing, merchandise and souvenirs.
Alumni can take a Japanese language course at a discounted rate.
The Stratford Hotel, near the Loughborough University London campus, is offering a discounted rate for alumni.
Beauty Favours sells a range of vegan beauty products.
Alumni can access 30% discount across the full range.
Lucid is redefining how humans connect with content through real-time, emotive AI powering a mindful streaming app.
Alumni can access three months free membership.
Sarah Denness, Founder of Adventure Kit Hire, provides outdoor and sports equipment for hire.
She is currently offering 10% off for Loughborough alumni.
Founded by alumna Elle Bradshaw (Library and Information Studies 1991), Oxford CV Writer provides tailored career support and is now offering an exclusive 15% discount to fellow Loughborough alumni.
Alumni can now access expert leadership and business support at a reduced cost thanks to a tailored offer from The Clay Advantage, owned by alumnus Martin Clay (Master of Business Administration 1999).
Persephone Coaching and is offering a 20% discount to fellow Loughborough alumni.
The University cannot support businesses which are deemed to be engaging in illegal activity nor activities which may have a negative impact on the University’s wider reputation.
This includes businesses whose activities promote Gambling, Pornography and / or Alcohol and in such instances the University cannot promote discounts and offers to fellow alumni.
While the Alumni Association wishes to support your business and offer discounts and offers to fellow alumni, it does not mean that the University or Alumni Association endorses your business (including its products, services, activities or events) or any others shown on the alumni website.
Finally, we cannot offer businesses any promotional exclusivity in sector, industry or similar.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/alumni/events:
Each year we run an annual programme of events for alumni.
From reunions to receptions across the world, alumni are welcome to take the opportunity to network with friends and fellow alumni.
Find out about developments at Loughborough and network with fellow alumni through our programme of events.
If you're looking to arrange your own reunion, get in touch and we can share some top tips and help to reconnect you with former classmates.
Did you know that you can also attend inaugural and public lectures at the University?
Be sure to check out the University events listings.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/hr/jobs/about:
Based in the heart of the UK, Loughborough University is one of the country’s leading universities.
At Loughborough University, we’re proud to be a dynamic and ambitious institution, recognised for excellence in teaching, research, sport, and our student experience.
Our outstanding 438-acre campus in Loughborough, alongside our dedicated postgraduate campus in London, offers a vibrant environment for learning, working, and collaboration.
Our Strategy – Creating Better Futures.
Together – reflects our belief that we achieve more when we work in partnership.
It shapes how we work across our community and beyond, driving progress through collaboration, innovation, and shared purpose.
Our Values – being Authentic, Adventurous, Responsible, Creative and Collaborative – underpin everything we do and guide how we work together to achieve positive change.
We’re proud to be ranked among the UK’s top ten universities, with a global reputation for research that makes a difference and a longstanding status as the number one university for sport.
At the heart of everything is our welcoming, inclusive community – a place where people thrive.
Our 3 strategic themes guide our priorities and focus areas:
Find out more about our university strategy and how our values are embedded in everything we do.
Tel: 01509 223738
Email: Send email

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/hr/jobs/why-work-here:
Whether you’re looking to start or progress your career, we can provide a vibrant, dynamic experience.
We consistently rank among the top ten Universities in the UK, and our expansive, well-equipped East Midlands and London campuses provide the kind of vibrant and inclusive community environment rarely offered by UK institutions.
We’re proud to be recognised as one of the Top Universities in the UK for Employee Experience in 2024 by the Inspire HE Rankings – a reflection of the positive, supportive, and ambitious culture we’ve built together.
At Loughborough, our people are at the heart of everything we do - there’s a strong sense of pride and community across campus.
No matter what your role is here, you’ll find an environment that values your contributions and encourages you to grow.
It’s not just students who arrive at Loughborough for the first day of their future – we want our staff to feel that same sense of opportunity and purpose.
Whatever your field, if you’re looking to make things happen, we’re looking for you.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/hr/jobs/employee-benefits:
Your benefits matter to you and they matter to us.
On this page you will find information about all the benefits and advantages of working at Loughborough University.
Some of these will be the standard benefits that you would expect to find in your role.
Others will be unique to Loughborough and Loughborough University London, and then there are voluntary benefits that you can choose to select if they work for you.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/hr/jobs/equity-diversity:
Loughborough University recognises that people are our success, and our reputation is dependent on the commitment and excellence of our staff.
We are committed to achieving equity for all those who learn and work here, and wish to develop a demonstrably fair and supportive environment, which provides equality of opportunity and freedom from unlawful discrimination on the grounds of race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, marital or civil partnership status, disability, sexual orientation, religion or belief, age, socio-economic background, or spent criminal convictions.
Staff Networks
We encourage employees to seek support through our Staff Networks.
The networks currently include:
The University through its membership of the Athena SWAN awards is actively working towards gender equality and under-representation.
Further information and contact details for individual groups can be found on the Staff Networks pages .

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/hr/jobs/relocatingtoloughborough:
Loughborough University aims to recruit the highest calibre candidates for its vacancies.
We therefore encourage applications from a wide variety and diversity of people, including candidates from overseas (where permission can be obtained for the individual to work in the UK).
The following sections provide further information about relocating to Loughborough.
Relocation Expenses
If you are relocating from outside a 30 mile radius in order to take up a new appointment at the Loughborough University East Midlands campus, or if you are relocating from outside a 20 mile radius for a new appointment at Loughborough University London, you may be able to claim relocation expenses which will provide partial assistance for your move.
There is a detailed list of general conditions applicable to all removals along with an additional section for overseas removals on the Human Resources website .
The University’s Student Accommodation Centre can provide advice and information to staff relocating to Loughborough and may (subject to availability) be able to provide short term temporary accommodation whilst you are house-hunting.
Unfortunately they do not have accommodation suitable for couples or families, however.
The team can be contacted by email or by telephone on 01509 274488.
Details of local estate agents in Loughborough are available on the Right Move website .
If you are looking to live slightly further afield, you may also be interested in estate agents in Leicestershire , Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire .
Loughborough University Nursery is a registered day nursery providing childcare for the children of staff, students and the community.
Owned by the Students' Union, the nursery is based on campus and is run by staff qualified in childcare and education.
They are able to offer a limited number of subsidised places to university staff.
The nursery always receives a good Ofsted report and places are highly sought after, therefore you are advised to contact them as soon as possible.
The nursery is open from 8am to 6pm all year round with the exception of the following closure periods: Good Friday, Easter Monday and Tuesday, two May Bank Holidays, Bank Holiday Monday and Tuesday in August and two weeks over Christmas.
For more information see the Nursery web page or contact the Nursery Manager on 01509 564068 or contact them by direct .
In addition Leicestershire County Council, Early Years and Childcare Service has comprehensive information on childcare provision from newborn to age16+.
Children in the UK start primary school in the September following their fourth birthday.
They then move to secondary school in the September following their eleventh birthday.
Depending on which area of the East Midlands you are planning to live in, you may wish to find out more information about Schools in the following areas:
Leicestershire – For information about schools in the local Loughborough area, as well as in the rest of Leicestershire, please see the Leicestershire County Council website .
This website also provides information on child care provision for before and after school.
Nottinghamshire – For information about schools in Nottinghamshire, please see the Nottinghamshire County Council website .
Derbyshire – For information about Schools in Derbyshire, please see the Derbyshire County Council website .
You do not have to pay fees to send your children to school, although there are some private education providers available in the local area.
These can also be known as ‘public’ or ‘independent’ schools.
During the school holidays, the University provides subsidised placed on local holiday clubs and schemes .
For more information about what it’s like to live in Loughborough and the surrounding areas, local facilities and things to do, you may wish to visit the following links.Please note that these links are to external websites and Loughborough University is not responsible for the content:

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/hr/jobs/applications:
Applications for all Loughborough University posts are now only accepted through our online recruitment system.
If you are interested in applying for a post, the vacancy page will automatically direct you to apply online.
However, if you have a disability that makes it difficult for you to apply online, please contact the Recruitment Team by email and they will be able to advise you further.
These guidance notes have been designed to help you in applying for a post at our University so please take the time to read through this information before completing the online application.
Along with the guidance notes you are advised to read the job description and job specification for each particular vacancy carefully before completing an application.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/hr/jobs/international:
During the recruitment process, international candidates can expect the following:
Working in another country is a major change in your life and can be a daunting experience.
We want to ensure your move to Loughborough University is as smooth as possible and provide information here to help with the move.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/hr/jobs/current-vacancies:
Join the welcoming community here at Loughborough University and search our current vacancies.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/enterprise:
There are several ways you can access our expertise - and we can help you to decide which is best for you.
Collaborating with us can help your organisation to grow.
We have an excellent track record in commercialising our research.
A range of bespoke accredited training and development opportunities.
Opportunities to work with and recruit skilled and motivated people.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/order-prospectus:
You can order a copy of our printed undergraduate mini guide for 2026 entry by completing the form below.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/courses/a-z:
We have a fantastic range of undergraduate courses for you to choose from.
Browse our A-Z course listing for 2026 entry below to find exactly what you're looking for.
If you're looking to start sooner, you can view our undergraduate and foundation courses for 2025 entry
There are no results for the currently chosen filter(s).
Change or clear the filters and try again or use our search facility:

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/masters-degrees/a-z:
Our master’s programmes span a broad range of study areas across our campuses in Loughborough and London.
They draw upon our teaching and research expertise to give you the very latest advancements in the field.
Campus: London
Subject area: Institute for International Management and Entrepreneurship
Study mode: Full-time
Start date: October 2026
Campus: Loughborough
Subject area: Business and Economics
Start date: October 2025 October 2026
Subject area: Chemical Engineering
Subject area: Computer Science
Subject area: Mechanical, Electrical and Manufacturing Engineering
Study mode: Full-time Part-time
Subject area: Materials
Subject area: Physics
Subject area: Chemistry
Subject area: Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences
Subject area: Creative Arts
Campus: Loughborough London
Subject area: Architecture, Building and Civil Engineering
Subject area: Institute for Digital Technologies
Subject area: Aeronautical and Automotive Engineering
Subject area: Geography and Environment
Campus: Online
Study mode: Part-time
Subject area: Institute for Creative Futures
Start date: October 2025 January 2026 October 2026
Subject area: English
Subject area: Criminology, Sociology and Social Policy
Subject area: Institute for Digital Technologies, Institute for Creative Futures
Subject area: Communication and Media
Subject area: Institute for Diplomacy and International Affairs
Start date: October 2025 January 2026
Subject area: Teacher Education
Start date: September 2025 September 2026
Subject area: Design
Subject area: Mathematical Sciences
Start date: October 2025
Subject area: International Relations, Politics and History
Subject area: Law
Campus: London Online
Subject area: Institute for Sport Business
Subject area: Institute for Digital Technologies, Institute for International Management and Entrepreneurship
Subject area: Criminology, Sociology and Social Policy, Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences
Subject area: Institute for Digital Technologies, Institute for Sport Business
Subject area: Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences, Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/visit:
Loughborough University is one of the UK’s top universities for teaching and research, but we are so much more than that.
There’s no better way to experience everything that Loughborough has to offer than coming along to an open event.
Meet current students and staff and gain a fascinating introduction to life as an undergraduate student by coming along to an open event.
Get an insider’s guide to our stunning campus and facilities by coming along to a guided campus tour.
Planning a visit to the campus soon?
Take a look at our self-guided tours to familiarise yourself with the campus.
Can't attend in person?
You should sign up to one of our upcoming web chats to ask us and our students any questions which you may have.
List of upcoming postgraduate events held at both of our London and Loughborough campuses
Chat to us online and ask any questions you may have

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/contact:
If you’d like to get in touch with us, please browse the below sections to find out who is best to handle your enquiry.
If your query relates to one of our undergraduate courses, or you have a question about applying for an undergraduate course at Loughborough:
If your query relates to one of our master’s or PhD degrees, or you have a question about applying for a postgraduate programme at Loughborough:
If you are between the ages of 11-16, or you are a parent or teacher, please contact the Schools and Colleges Liaison team:

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/campus:
Campus life is all about convenience and community – you can’t get far without seeing a friendly face and everything you need is right on your doorstep.
Get to know our Loughborough campus a little better and explore what Loughborough has to offer right here.
The campus is at the heart of everything we do, it’s the amazing bubble in which we all live, study, play, and create the best of memories.
Explore what your new home has to offer.
Want to get to know the Loughborough campus a little better?
Take a look at our online campus map to see academic buildings, facilities (both academic and sporting), plus lots more.
Our campus is home to a huge variety of incredible learning facilities and full of green open spaces offering a safe space for everyone to enjoy.
Take a virtual tour to see what our campus has to offer.
We are proud of our hard-earned reputation for sport at Loughborough, but our constant focus is on ensuring every student has the opportunity to get involved, regardless of ability.
We are home to a lively arts scene, with opportunities to get involved in activities ranging from painting and pottery to spoken word performances and playing in our orchestra.
The Students' Union ensures that Loughborough continues to provide the very best student experience for our students.
It offers a vast array of facilities and services which you can get involved with.
We are extremely proud of our sporting prowess, having won the BUCS championship for 36 consecutive years.
With over 50 sports clubs to choose from, there is a sports activity for everyone.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/locations/london:
With over 18 million visitors every year, it's easy to see why London was named the best student city in the world (QS Best Cities Index, 2018 & 2019).
With a stunning mix of shopping, culture and tourism districts, alongside vast parks and open spaces, London is a popular choice for thousands of postgraduate students in search of the perfect balance of study, work and fun.
From lecture rooms to maker spaces, find out where you'll be spending your time if you choose to study a postgraduate programme at Loughborough University London.
As a student living in London, you will benefit from a vibrant city location with superb transport links, so that you can make amazing memories in London, the UK and beyond.
We have a proud tradition of looking after our students.
We deliver much of this support to you through our academic, guidance and welfare services.
We’ve hand-picked eight of our favourite things to do in London, so that you can enjoy the best student experience that London has to offer from the moment you get here.
Located at the heart of Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, Loughborough University London is surrounded by some of the world's finest sporting venues, which are available to our students at a discounted rate.
London is a truly cosmopolitan city, welcoming over 30 million new visitors, students and workers every year.
With a wide range of museums, libraries, parks and galleries, London is the perfect place to experience British culture and try something new.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/parents-and-guardians:
Parents and guardians play a key role in helping young people make decisions about their future and we want to give you all the information you need so you can support them to make informed choices about university.
We believe that the most effective method of navigating the options is to carry out as much research as possible, ask as many questions as you can and consider any opportunity presented.
To help with these decisions we have created this guide which discusses the key elements involved in making a university application.
Higher education gives students a chance to study a subject they are really interested in and can boost their career prospects and earning potential.
Top tips and advice on how to carry out research and help your son or daughter choose the right subject and university for them.
LUDUS is designed to provide guidance to students on future course and career choices.
Students usually apply to higher education through UCAS with the application cycle opening in July of Year 12.
There are several key dates they need to be aware of and here you'll find some helpful guidance on personal statements, interviews and the application process.
The costs associated with university can often be a major area of concern but there is funding available which is designed to allow higher education to be accessible to all.
Visit our Welcome to Loughborough website for top tips on how to prepare for university.
Universities have teams dedicated to ensuring all students feel included and supported and are able to get the most from their university experience.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/school-college-liaison:
Welcome to our pages for teachers and advisors.
Our aim is to support your work as teachers and advisors to inform and enthuse students about their future through a programme of in-person and virtual events for schools and colleges, plus a range of free teaching resources.
Activities and interventions for Years 7, 8 and 9.
Activities and interventions for Years 10 and 11.
Activities and interventions for teaching post 16 students.
Information for those supporting students of any age to research their HE options.
Programmes to support students as they progress through their education from Years 7 to 13.
A range of materials and events to support teaching staff.
A little about us and our contact details.
We need to tell you about some important changes to the EMWPREP project you / your students may have taken part in.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/ludus/students:
LUDUS is Loughborough University's - Discover University Scheme.
We're here to help you make informed choices about your future and assist with your transition from school to university.
Our students will be sharing their personal experiences with you via blogs, vlogs and podcasts - on everything from picking your course through to moving away from home.
We've got all aspects of university life covered!
A great place to start, let us help guide you with stories and experiences to introduce you to all things university.
From choosing courses to attending open days and A-level results, our students offer their top tips and share experiences with you.
Hear about all aspects of university life from student accommodation to activities on offer outside of your studies and the support available to you.
Learn more about what it is really like to study at university - from attending lectures to the perks of going on a placement year.
Our students share their experiences of living and studying here at Loughborough - an award winning campus and university.
Hear about the opportunities at university to get a headstart in your career - from going on placement, to studying abroad and starting your own business.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/apply/supporting:
Here you’ll find lots of useful information related to applications, this includes our admissions policy, our terms and conditions plus lots more.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/transparency-info:
As part of registration with the Office for Students (OfS) , universities are required to publish specific data about the students they admit in the interests of transparency.
The information published on these pages shows:
Loughborough is proud of its student experience, recognised as outstanding on multiple success measures, nevertheless we are not complacent.
The University is committed to supporting students from underrepresented groups to study at, succeed in, and progress from Loughborough.
Following an extensive analysis of our current performance, we have identified a number of strategic aims designed to ensure that our campus becomes more representative of the country as a whole.
You can read more about our approach in our Access and Participation Plan (APP).
N – 24 or fewer students in this population
N/A – Not applicable
DP indicates suppression for data protection reasons

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/access-participation:
Loughborough University is committed to promoting fair access and participation for all students.
From working with schools and providing an introduction to higher education to facilitating on-course and career success for our current students, our access and participation work is guided by our University Strategy 2030 , Creating Better Futures.
Together, and vision to deliver meaningful impact and keep students at our heart.
We are committed to
As part of the registration process with the Office for Students, universities wishing to charge above the basic tuition fee are required to have an approved access and participation plan.
Our access and participation plan sets out our approach to improve equality of opportunity for specific groups of students at different stages of their educational journey.
It also confirms the fees we will charge and the financial support we will offer to students who progress to Loughborough University.
Students should refer to the access and participation plan that relates to their year of entry.
This plan was based on the maximum permitted UK undergraduate tuition fees at the time of submission (July 2024).
The UK Government has since confirmed that the maximum tuition fee for UK Home undergraduate students studying in England will increase from the 2025-26 academic year.
To safeguard the student experience we are able to offer, we will charge the maximum approved fee for UK students of £9,535.
Please visit the OfS website for previous plans and agreements.
We are committed to rigorous evaluation of our access and participation work, to ensure that it meets the needs of our students, and to monitor the progress which we are making towards the objectives and targets detailed in our access and participation plan.
We share our evaluation findings by publishing an annual Access and Participation Impact Report.
The Government sets the maximum fees universities can charge through the Higher Education and Research Act 2017.
These limits may change from year to year.
Approved fee summaries from prior years can be supplied on request by emailing our Student Records team .
Higher education providers are also required by the Office for Students to publish specific data about the students they admit in the interests of transparency.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/spotlights:
Explore our wide-ranging research and meet the experts.
There are exciting projects with far-reaching impacts as well as ones to watch with exciting potential.
Deep understanding of real talk ‘in the wild’ can engage audiences and save lives
Our research informs cricket coaching – reducing injury, enhancing performance and extending playing careers
Increasing the accountability of major news providers by analysing their reporting
Changing the world with energy access and clean cooking
Shaping new events and rules - and safeguarding the health of Para-athletes
Designing out waste through the development of new British Standards on material efficiency
Using storytelling to give people access to public debates about issues that impact their lives
Museum exhibitions and TV documentary explore life and media under communism
Advanced algorithms revolutionise digital cameras and displays to mimic human vision - achieving commercial success
Recycling end-of-life plastics to create a range of useful products and packaging
Enhancing the speed and sensitivity of a world-leading mass spectrometer
Transforming educational assessment with comparative judgement
Informing feeding policies and programmes to reduce mortality and improve health in Kenya
Advanced imaging technology – enhancing research, diagnosis and treatment of brain diseases
Improving policy and practice in HE mathematics and statistics support to enhance learning worldwide
Modern digital techniques provide an innovative way to replicate and restore ancient artefacts
Human Factors Ergonomics research is improving international healthcare safety
Enhancing international road safety policymaking to reduce crashes and serious injury
Sonobex – noise-cancelling structures for urban environments
Influencing physical education policy and practice worldwide
Protecting people: Optimising safety, effectiveness and comfort of work, clothing and built environments
Helmets certified to standards based on our research have eliminated serious and life-threatening facial injuries
Improving the way goods are manufactured: the global adoption of a revolutionary 3D-printing process
Future-proofing buildings against climate change – enhancing well-being and saving lives
Shortening cricket pitches to revitalise junior cricket throughout England and Wales
Enhancing the competitiveness and sustainability of the UK automotive and motorsport sectors
Online strategies and tools - improving the way we feed children and nurturing lifelong healthy eating habits
Improving the accuracy and impartiality of the BBC's coverage of UK rural affairs
Improving decision making practices by promoting anarchist principles
Adapting water and energy infrastructure to climate change
Creating greater awareness of their needs, and introducing national legislation to support them
Improving the UK Government’s National Citizen Service to boost youth citizenship
Transforming forensic capabilities with a novel fingerprint development system
Influencing water price caps using efficiency benchmarking
Improved integrated compressor duct technology enhances Rolls-Royce turbofan engine performance
Improving consumer protection and industry quality across the UK’s solar power sector
A participatory approach to the design of assistive technologies enriches lives worldwide
Enriching staff and public understanding of Women’s History at the National Civil War Centre
Improving the detection of early breast cancer by UK radiologists
Understanding and enhancing the role of parents in supporting their children’s involvement in competitive tennis
Informing international defence and security policy in the Wider North
Our advanced algorithms are used worldwide, underpinning computational material design
Mathematical modelling of microscale and nanoscale thin films improves manufacturing processes
Improving sports professionals' recognition and management of disordered eating
Advanced algorithms transform our strategic road networks – saving lives
Enabling health and social care organisations to improve their services and efficiency
Transforming educational practices to promote inclusivity for hard-to-reach groups
Improving development and performance across organisations worldwide
Risk management support systems address the challenge of health threats worldwide
Transforming the £83 billion NHS built estate to deliver safe and dementia-friendly care
Innovative real-time, in-situ analysis of volatile organic compounds is saving lives
Influencing strategies, policies and programmes to increase the representation of BAME coaches in men’s professional football in England
The impact of a feminist arts curriculum on Indigenous women and Canadian education policy
Helping organisations to lobby more effectively in a context of democratic change
Building economically sustainable high streets in the digital era
CBDM underpins the first major change to international daylighting standards since the 1950s
Developing worldwide state-of-the-art innovative solutions to a range of industry challenges
Working with Rolls-Royce to develop advanced aviation technologies – improving engine efficiency and reducing environmental impacts
Enhancing dignity, respect and wellbeing at work
Reducing the risk factors, developing early diagnostic tools and designing dementia-friendly spaces

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/experts:
Search for experts, find out more about inspirational researchers at all career stages at the heart of our diverse and vibrant research community.
Search our directory of experts who are specialists in many different academic and professional fields.
All are experienced at working with the media and available for comments and interviews.
We undertake cutting-edge research that has a wide-ranging impact on society.
Explore the University’s research outputs database by expert, subject, group, type of publication and much more.
Discover some of the most exciting new research at Loughborough.
Meet the experts at every career stage, leading transdisciplinary projects with the potential to change lives.
RAEng Engineering for Development Research Fellow, and Lecturer in Water and Environmental Engineering - Architecture, Building and Civil Engineering
Bioenergy solutions empower lives
Senior Lecturer – Materials
Advanced polymer and ceramic research
Professor of International Relations and Middle East Politics
Building trust in an anxious world
Senior Lecturer – Architecture, Building and Civil Engineering
Digital construction – encouraging resilience, sustainability and inclusion
Professor of Global Energy Challenges – Geography and Environment
Delivering sustainable energy solutions
Lecturer – Physics
Hybrid gamma camera to accelerate cancer diagnosis and treatment
Professor of Energy Engineering – Mechanical, Electrical and Manufacturing Engineering
Creating sustainable alternatives to carbon-intensive fuels
Research Associate – Geography and Environment
Enabling sustainable energy policy decision-making
Professor of Strategic Management in Construction – Architecture, Building and Civil Engineering
Learning from experience to effectively manage construction projects
Materials modelling – advancing biomaterials for healthcare
Lecturer in Responsible Design – Design and Creative Arts
Socially responsible design for a sustainable, more equitable future
Professor of Behavioural Medicine and NIHR Research Professor in Public Health - Centre for Lifestyle Medicine and Behaviour
Cooperation and collaboration move research “further and faster”
Professor in Materials Chemistry – Chemistry
Creating catalysts for change
Professor of Regenerative Biology - Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences
Pioneering next-generation extracellular vesicle therapeutics for healthcare
Quantum materials for energy-efficient nanotechnology
RAEng Research Fellow and Senior Lecturer - School of Mechanical, Electrical and Manufacturing Engineering
Smart textiles for remote health sensing and energy generation
Senior Lecturer – Chemical Engineering
Engineering functional particles for global health
Senior Lecturer and Royal Society Industry Fellowship – Chemistry
The chemistry of sustainable energy
Reader in Transdisciplinary Digital Manufacturing – Mechanical, Electrical and Manufacturing Engineering
Ensuring the human-centred transition to digitalised manufacturing systems
Senior Research Associate - Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences
Exercise Oncology: The prevention and management of cancer through physical activity.
Professor of Construction Engineering and Materials – Architecture, Building and Civil Engineering
Sustainable construction
Professor of Population Health – Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences
Addressing global inequalities in maternal and child health, growth and development
Professor of Environmental Physiology and Ergonomics – Design and Creative Arts
Environmental ergonomics – safeguarding health and wellbeing while optimising performance
Professor of Psychology and Public Health - Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences
Creating practical solutions to address fussy eating in young children – encouraging healthy habits for life.
Professor of Psychology – Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences
Addressing dementia and age-related cognitive decline
Reader in Digital Cultural Heritage - Communication and Media
Birth of a digital nation – AI and born-digital archives.
Doctoral Prize Fellow – Criminology, Sociology and Social Policy
The importance of effective communication
Lecturer – Chemistry
Enhancing the safety and longevity of nuclear power stations
Lecturer in Inorganic Chemistry – Chemistry
Advancing the science that underpins sustainability
Professor of Computer Vision and Machine Learning – Computer Science
The Intelligence Revolution – teaching machines to learn
Professor of Robotics and Autonomous Systems - Aeronautical and Automotive Engineering
Developing advanced agri-tech solutions to detect and treat crop diseases.
Professor of Building Simulation – Architecture, Building and Civil Engineering
Ensuring low-carbon indoor thermal comfort
UKRI Future Leaders Fellow and Senior Lecturer - Materials Science and Engineering
Scaling nanomaterials to prevent bacteria and virus transmission and a host of other industrial applications.
UKRI Future Leaders Fellow - Geography and Environment
Stuck in the mud: tackling the threat of fine sediment deposition in one of the most endangered habitats in the world.
Lecturer in Political Philosophy – International Relations, Politics and History
Zoopolitics – animal rights are a matter of justice
Professor of Experimental Physics – Physics
Energy harvesting – harnessing and utilising waste heat
Senior Lecturer in Psychology – Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences
Illusions – a route to understanding healthy and unhealthy body representations
Professor in Nonlinear Optics – Physics
Delivering ultrafast photonic technologies
Professor of Photonics – Physics
Emergent Photonics – a new way of seeing
Leverhulme Trust Early Career Research Fellow – Physics
Taming the wave – the role of terahertz in telecommunications
Senior Lecturer in Communication and Social Interaction – Communication and Media
Enhancing healthcare and end-of-life communication
Senior Lecturer – Design and Creative Arts
Exploiting Industry 4.0 technologies through Design
Lecturer – Architecture, Building and Civil Engineering
Mitigating the risks of extreme heat
Professor of Feminism, Art and Theory - International Relations, Politics and History
Making Histories, Making Futures: feminism, art and activism
Lecturer in Media and Creative Industries and UKRI Innovation Fellow, AHRC Early Career Research Leadership
Exploring new ways to mobilise community, cultural and creative resources to provide skills development and lifelong learning opportunities for the digital generation.
Reader in Geotechnics - Architecture, Building and Civil Engineering
Listening underground; acoustic emissions sensing technology to protect lives and livelihoods worldwide.
Senior Lecturer in Inorganic Chemistry – Chemistry
The chemistry of sustainable catalysts
Developing a new approach to cancer treatment
Professor of Electrical Power Engineering – Mechanical, Electrical and Manufacturing Engineering
Preparing the grid for green energy
Leverhulme Early Career Fellow - Institute for Media and Creative Industries
Communication and social change – exploring how media use inflects young Amazonians’ aspirations and attitudes towards development.
RAEng Engineering for Development Research Fellow and Lecturer in Resilient Energy Systems - Geography and Environment
Community energy resilience in the Global South.
Incoming EPSRC Quantum Technology Career Development Fellow – Physics
Micro-comb lasers – revolutionising quantum technologies
Biomass research addressing global resource security
Reader in Economic Geography – Geography and Environment
The geographies of music: economics, cultural production and policy
Senior Lecturer in Criminology – Criminology, Sociology and Social Policy
Tackling and dispelling rape myths
Professor of Drama, Head of Creative Arts and Director of the Storytelling Academy - Design and Creative Arts
"Those who tell the stories rule the world"

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/policy-unit:
The Policy Unit provides a channel for the University's research and researchers to realise productive and beneficial impact on public policy, at local, national and international level.
It aims to enhance and strengthen the University’s research impact by:
Influencing policy through authoritative engagement and dialogue
Shaping political and civic debate
Promoting a research and evidence-based approach
Loughborough University’s fields of research range from sports science to climate science, from fact-checking to storytelling.
Its strategic priorities are in climate change and the drive to net zero; sport, health, and wellbeing; and vibrant and inclusive communities.
But despite this diversity of specialisms, all Loughborough University researchers share common values for our research to be collaborative, adventurous and creative.
Using our world-leading research and innovation in sport and exercise to deliver benefits to the world of sport and improvements to public health.
Using our research and innovation in areas such as clean energy and the circular economy to play a leading international role in responding to the climate emergency.
Bringing together creative and communication skills alongside analytical and technological approaches to find novel solutions to societal issues.
View our policy-focussed briefing papers which span a wide variety of fields across Loughborough University, our latest news, and submissions to UK Parliament Select Committees
Find contact details and information regarding all members of staff in the Policy Unit.
Loughborough University’s researchers are at the forefront of interdisciplinary working for societal benefit and with 91% of our research classed as world-leading or internationally excellent (REF2021).
Loughborough University has policy partnerships and collaborations with local, national and international institutions.
We can partner to, for example, to: provide private briefings, contribute to roundtable discussions or generate new knowledge.
Please get in touch with Graham Hitchen if you would like to find out more, or Paddy Smith to work with us.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/schools-departments:
Each of the University’s academic schools has distinctive research strengths.
A key characteristic of the research activity across our Loughborough and London campuses is the way in which we apply expertise across disciplines, in partnership with a breadth of external organisations to create far reaching impact and influence.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/centres-excellence:
Flagship centres of expertise internationally respected for quality and real-world relevance of their research.
A multi-disciplinary research centre, bridging the fields of engineering and biology, the Centre is a major national centre for late stage, Current Good Manufacturing Practice process-oriented research.
The first such partnership for Caterpillar in Europe, the Centre investigates new low-emissions technologies for large internal combustion engines in off-road applications.
The UK’s primary hub for R&D in low-emission aerospace gas turbine combustion technologies as well as applications within the automotive, marine propulsion and energy sectors.
With a top 50 QS World University Subject Ranking, the CRCC combines social science and humanities approaches for the rigorous exploration of the production and consumption of different forms of communication and creative texts.
An internationally renowned Disability Sport Research Centre focusing on sports performance and health and wellbeing, providing sport science support to a number of GB squads, in addition to working closely with national and international partners.
Working at the forefront of emergent photonic properties in complex nonlinear optical systems.
The EERC studies the interaction of people with their physical environments to research and test new products and concepts.
Its facilities include an environmental test suite, vibration rig, manikin test rooms, and light and vision research labs.
CLiMB’s remit is to develop innovative interventions to prevent and treat chronic diseases.
The Centre’s experts work with partners worldwide as well as the public to provide policymakers and organisations with robust research evidence to improve population health and well-being.
Home to £6M of state-of-the-art equipment, the LMCC offers a range of analytical services to characterise metals, ceramics and polymers – available to both businesses and researchers.
Harnessing insights from basic research on cognition to improve the teaching and learning of mathematics.
CREST is one of the most successful renewable energy research groups in the UK.
Its laboratories have recently received a £3.6M upgrade to provide state-of-the-art analytical and characterisation capabilities.
World leading research centre enabling Rolls-Royce plc and the UK aero engine industry to develop new and improved technologies for gas turbines engines that will meet future economic and environmental targets.
Specialising in applied research and policy analysis on issues around poverty and the living standards of low income households, CRSP’s research helped define the Minimum Income Standard in 2006 and it continues to lead research and analysis.
We are both home to and a key partner in this world-class hub applying academic and clinical expertise to policies and practices to benefit the health and wellbeing of the nation.
Home to the Sports Technology Research Group, one of the world’s leading research groups of its kind and the largest in the UK, with an international reputation for its work with global brands on the design, simulation, testing and manufacture of sporting goods.
Working with a unique range of partners, the Centre is accelerating progress towards universal access to modern energy as an enabler of sustainable development.
Providing the knowledge, tools and training to make effective policies and develop innovative solutions to ensure transitions are shaped by and benefit communities living with climate change and energy poverty.
The TRansport AI innovation CEntre (TRAICE) is one of the UK’s largest transport research and innovation centres and the first to offer a fully interdisciplinary approach to address critical transport challenges.
Striving to improve safety of transport users through research expertise in human factors, engineering, psychology, health sciences, education and social science, the Centre’s research involves understanding real-world aspects of the transport-users and its impacts on transport safety and intelligent mobility.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/clusters:
Amplifying the impact of Loughborough University’s most significant strengths through collaborative, cross-disciplinary research.
We're building cross-disciplinary research clusters to tackle complex global issues.
These clusters bring together expertise across many academic disciplines aligned to the University’s strategic themes:
Supported by a talented team of Vice Chancellor’s Scholars, each cluster is progressing interconnected research projects.
We welcome interested researchers, industry partners and prospective doctoral students to join us.
To find out more about each research cluster or to apply for a prestigious fully-funded Vice Chancellor’s Scholarship, visit their individual web pages.
The Clusters are arranged below according to the Strategic Theme with which they align.
An interdisciplinary exploration across design, materials and manufacturing to enable hybrid-3D concrete printing.
A collaborative, cross-disciplinary approach to address the complex, bi-directional relationship between sport and climate action.
Developing advanced multi-sensing technologies to monitor health of soil and water systems to help tackle the climate and pollution crisis.
Transforming practices across the digital ecosystem to accelerate the path to Net Zero.
An interdisciplinary research cluster for sustainable, intelligent and climate change-resilient infrastructure slopes.
Multidisciplinary and innovative research addressing the challenges related to the health and wellbeing of women in sport.
Developing next generation wearable technologies for healthcare and sports applications.
Optimising the performance and health of Para athletes.
Developing future leaders in engineering with expertise in EDI practices within engineering research and technology development.
Understanding how "the digital" is creating new online communities and encouraging more inclusive community engagement - and exploring who is excluded.
Driving inclusive mobility across all modes of road transport.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/global-challenges:
We explore new areas and collaborate across disciplines, applying expertise in collaboration with local to international partners to drive creative real-world solutions for the biggest societal challenges.
Understanding environmental processes and their impacts on the geosphere, hydrosphere, atmosphere and biosphere to provide the scientific evidence base and expertise to identify and implement sustainable solutions.
Enabling a smooth transition to a decarbonised energy system through the development of sustainable technologies for energy generation, storage and demand related to transport, travel and buildings.
Enabling health and wellbeing for all through the delivery of new interventions to improve lifestyle, mental health and wellbeing and global health, and development of innovative healthcare technologies.
Supporting integrated social, technical, economic, and political systems to enable stability through a deeper understanding of disaster risk management, defence and security and population resilience.
Developing AI and cognitive technologies to advance our fundamental knowledge, computational paradigms, smart materials and devices for a broad range of applications – spanning every aspect of our lives – and addressing the related ethical issues.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/internationally-recognised:
Our most enduring and established research areas, through which we achieve impact and influence.
Guided by a senior academic, each research strength supports a vibrant community of researchers at all career stages.
Delivering zero-carbon, safe and resilient buildings and cities and infrastructure in a complex world.
Rated world-leading in 2021 Research Excellence Framework.
Top 50 QS World University Ranking (Communication and Media) since 2016.
Number 1 QS World University Ranking for sports-related subjects since 2017.
Leading research into major cross-sector challenges, including Smart Manufacturing and Circular Economy.
Multi-disciplinary research providing sustainable transport systems that are efficient, safe and accessible.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/study:
Join a thriving postgraduate community, work with world-leading academics and delve deeper into the research that inspires you.
We offer a highly supportive research environment, a great place to live and work and excellent standards of supervision.
Search our postgraduate prospectus online for master's and research degrees, or create your own research proposal.
Search PhD projects which already have a topic and supervisor allocated, some of which have funding already attached as studentships.
Supporting you throughout your doctoral experience with extensive training and vibrant social programmes and University-wide specialist support services.
Find out more about the multi award-winning student experience at Loughborough University and life on our Loughborough and London campuses.
Find out more about our different funding options to research students, including studentships, scholarships and bursaries, and explore external funding options.
Senior Lecturer, Civil Engineering
Protecting lives and livelihoods by developing new acoustic emission sensing systems that can ‘hear’ when the ground under critical infrastructure starts to deteriorate.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/work-for-us:
Our respected academic reputation and thriving research community attracts excellent academics at all career stages, worldwide.
As a research-led institution we recognise that research staff are central to our success.
We value diversity and are committed to delivering excellence through the development of our inclusive and respectful culture.
Search the University’s jobs vacancies website for current career research opportunities.
Sector-leading support through structured programmes within a welcoming, dynamic research community.
We are encouraged to work across disciplines and pursue research we care about.
Find out more about the University, our Loughborough and London campuses and many achievements.
Spanning arts, humanities, business, social sciences, sport, health, science, design, engineering and mathematics.
The most enduring and established research areas, through which we achieve impact and influence.
We explore new areas and collaborate across disciplines, applying expertise to solve the biggest societal challenges.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/news/categories/research:
Alfie Hewett is a man who needs little introduction.
Loughborough University is using science to its advantage as new research examines how tennis players can improve the power, accuracy, and consistency of their serve.
From the outside looking in, athletes often appear to be the pinnacle of physical health.
But behind the podium places, victory laps, and trophy lifts, a less visible struggle can often be found.
A Loughborough University London academic has been awarded €2.4m in European Research Council (ERC) Advanced Grant funding to launch a major international research project that will explore how young people across the Global South navigate uncertainty and push for change.
The latest update of the Retirement Living Standards (RLS) shows a decrease in the cost of the minimum retirement lifestyle, down to £21,600 per year for a two-person household, due to the impact of lower energy prices and changes in the public’s expectations for this standard.
The four UK higher education funding bodies, working with the REF Main Panel Chairs and Advisory Panel members, have appointed four deputy chairs from Loughborough University for sub-panels that will assess research in REF 2029.
Smaller companies with ageing North Sea assets were especially vulnerable to financial losses, researchers found.
A team of physicists – including a Nobel Prize winner – has used artificial intelligence to uncover how layered materials melt and shift between physical states when confined to two dimensions.
New research reveals that families in the UK must now cover minimum annual education costs of over £1,000 for a primary school child and nearly £2,300 for a secondary school pupil – a sharp rise that far outpaces inflation and earnings growth since 2022.
Loughborough University researchers are set to play a pivotal role in the new UK Multidisciplinary Centre for Neuromorphic Computing, established to pioneer brain-inspired, energy-efficient computing technologies.
Loughborough University, the University of Leicester and De Montfort University are joining forces with Nottingham Trent University and the University of Nottingham in an unprecedented ambitious project which brings together academia and the community to support growth and development, broaden prospects, drive change, and improve wellbeing.
Quench your thirst for knowledge and come along to a series of local science talks led by doctoral researchers and academics from across the University.
For many, completing just one marathon in a lifetime is a huge achievement.
Dr Amanda Pearce, a lecturer in the Department of Chemistry at Loughborough University, has been awarded funding by the Academy of Medical Sciences to tackle dementia, as part of its initiative to support early-career researchers.
The hit Netflix series, Adolescence, which delivers a hard-hitting storyline around a social media-fuelled killing and the influence of incel subculture, has highlighted the very real concerns children and young people face navigating the online world.
C-DICE, the UK’s largest postdoctoral researcher development programme - led by Loughborough University, has launched a new study to explore the wide-ranging impacts of researchers holding fixed-term positions, aiming to foster a supportive and dynamic research community.
Loughborough University has been announced as one of UK Sport’s first-ever Event Social Impact Partners with the aim of using major events to drive positive change.
Loughborough University, in partnership with Mission 89 and the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association UK Branch of the British Parliament, has released the first-ever comprehensive global thematic report on sport trafficking.
Loughborough University, in partnership with East Midlands Freeport, Research England and The University of Nottingham, is playing a key role in the newly opened Zero Carbon Innovation Centre (ZCIC).
The centre will deliver innovation in transport technology, green hydrogen production, and power solutions for industry and create jobs for the regional economy.
A new study reveals that circular fashion (CF) – the practice of recycling, reselling, and renting clothing to reduce waste – might not be the green solution it claims to be.
A trial at English secondary schools of alternative food labelling – which displayed the number of minutes of physical activity needed to burn off calories – reduced the purchase of sugary foods by a small amount, new research has found.
The international science outreach festival Pint of Science is returning to Loughborough in May and doctoral researchers, technical and research staff from across the University are encouraged to get involved.
Research conducted by Loughborough University has led to a rule change in World Wheelchair Rugby (WWR), increasing female participation in the sport.
Dr Steven Bradbury and colleagues from Loughborough University’s School of Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences have collaborated with 18 Loughborough-based sports bodies to conduct an innovative research project examining ethnic diversity and inclusion in sports leadership.
A Loughborough University-backed research project investigating the development of new treatments for drug-resistant bacterial infections is set to launch.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/research-integrity:
Loughborough University is a research-intensive institution.
It undertakes, promotes and disseminates research of the very highest international quality and aims to engage with business, public and voluntary organisations to create social, cultural and economic impacts from its research.
The University is committed to maintaining the highest standards of rigour and integrity in the conduct of its research as embodied in the Universities UK (UUK) Concordat to Support Research Integrity .
As an institution, we are therefore committed to:
We will continually revisit the issue of research integrity, to guarantee its principles are understood and accepted and that newly-introduced ethical, legal and professional obligations are met.
Everyone engaged in research at the University is responsible for observing the University's Code of Practice for Research and the principles outlined in the UK Research Integrity Office (UKRIO) Code of Practice for Research (2009) throughout all aspects of their research from initial concept through to final dissemination of outcomes.
The UUK Concordat and the UKRIO Code of Practice are integral to the University’s Ethical Policy Framework which applies to all of the University’s activities and all members of the University community.
Researchers should strive for excellence and aim to produce and disseminate work of the highest quality.
Researchers should be honest in relation to their own research and that of others.
They should do their utmost to ensure the accuracy of data and results, acknowledge the contributions of others, and neither engage in, nor conceal, misconduct.
Researchers must comply with any legal and/or ethical requirements relevant to their study.
They should declare any potential or actual conflicts of interest relating to research and where necessary take steps to resolve them, including those associated with publication.
Researchers should promote the open exchange of ideas, research methods, data and results and their discussion, scrutiny and debate.
This is subject to any considerations of confidentiality.
Researchers should recognise that in and through their work they are ultimately accountable to the general public and should act accordingly.
Any research undertaken should comply with any agreements, terms and conditions relating to the project, and allow for proper governance and transparency.
Researchers should follow the requirements and guidance of any professional bodies in their field of research and members of a regulated profession must follow the requirements and guidance of the body regulating their profession.
Researchers should ensure that they have the necessary skills, training and resources to carry out their research, in the proposed research team or through collaboration with specialists in relevant fields.
Any identified unmet needs should be reported and resolved.
Researchers should ensure the dignity, rights, safety and wellbeing of all involved in research, avoid unreasonable risk or harm to research subjects, patients, participants, researchers and others and report any concerns.
Researchers should ensure that any risks that could impact on the safety of those involved in research, whether researchers, participants or others are assessed and effectively managed to reduce the risk of injury or harm to themselves, the wider community or environment.
Research Integrity at the University is overseen by the Pro-Vice Chancellor (Research and Innovation) .
For further information or guidance contact the Research Governance Officer .
The UK Research Integrity Office (UKRIO) is an independent charity, offering support to the public, researchers and organisations to further good practice in academic, scientific and medical research.
Its confidential advice service is available to free of charge to individuals (members of the public, research participants, patients, researchers and students) and subscribing organisations.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/spotlights/flood-forecasting:
Our research has developed the world’s first property-level surface water forecasting tool to save lives and livelihoods worldwide.
Cities around the globe are increasingly vulnerable to surface water flooding due to rapid urbanisation, infrastructure developments and more intense rainfall.
The CEO of the UK Environment Agency has described this type of flooding as “the biggest flood risk of all” (2018).
Flood losses can be mitigated with accurate flood forecasting, but existing systems are often not fit for purpose, limited by their spatial resolution and analytical abilities.
Our researchers have developed the world’s first real-time street-level surface-water flood forecasting technology.
Drawing on over two decades of research and validation in 50 cities across five continents, the technology commercialised though insurtech spinout, Previsico , is helping over 200 customers mitigate flood risk across insurance, utilities, retail, councils, housing associations and construction.
The company's stated mission is "to minimise the effect of flooding globally by enabling people and organisations to proactively mitigate its impacts."
We’ve partnered with Previsico to monitor flood forecasts and install sensors which provide real time data to mitigate flood losses… The results are looking really promising and we look forward to continuing work with Previsico.
“Previsico’s technology allows us to use data intelligently and integrate it seamlessly into our risk management portal for customers.
This provides very real value to our insureds.” Carol Baker Head of Digital - Liberty Specialty Markets
It can take years for communities to recover from the economic and emotional impacts of flooding.
Loughborough University spinout Previsico is empowering local action groups including Whalley, Lancashire which was devastated by flooding in 2015, to make sure it never happens again.
Our partnership with Previsico enables our customers to be better informed and able to mitigate the potentially devastating impacts of flood damage.
I’m proud that we’re helping to build greater resilience in communities.
We have pioneered research into real-time, street-level surface water flood nowcasting – a much-needed capability in a changing climate where weather is becoming increasingly uncertain and unfamiliar.
Our foremost contribution is our world-first, real-time surface water flood forecasting and sensor technology developed with local, national and international partners.
To date, our research has advanced knowledge in flood modelling, communicating flood risk information, evaluating the accuracy of flood nowcasting and its application to manage ‘hotspots’ for disadvantaged and vulnerable populations such as hospitals, care homes and schools.
This has resulted in the global commercialisation of third-generation technology, crucially aligned to UK Government's long-term resilience plan and the UN framework for disaster risk reduction.
Adoption is steadily becoming more widespread.
The research has appeared in leading journals – including Nature , Nature Sustainability and the Journal of Hydrology – adding to global knowledge and supporting the work of other researchers world-wide.
This is ground-breaking work that will immensely assist our resilience community in making informed decisions for planning and response to flood events and impact.
Multiple local and national public sector resilience organisations, including:
Loughborough University spinout is scaling the technology for widespread global impact
View current research opportunities with the Department of Geography.
We are always happy to discuss potential PhD studies in this area.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/spotlights/blindspots:
World-leading research prompts changes to Europe-wide safety changes to HGV design - enhancing driver field of vision and saving lives
In 2019, almost 4,000 cyclists and pedestrians were seriously injured or killed on Europe’s roads due to accidents involving HGVs.
Only four per cent of the total miles driven in London are completed by HGVs, but research shows that they are disproportionately involved in fatal collisions.
Restrictions in an HGV driver's field of vision have been identified as a significant contributory factor.
A HGV driver must use six mirrors and three windows to gain awareness of cyclists and pedestrians in close proximity to the vehicle.
Our research, spanning the past decade, built the case for a Direct Vision Standard (DVS) for HGVs and created the methodologies to underpin its definition.
* Unless six safety features are added to the vehicle
We began by developing an innovative 3D method to explore the blind spots caused by vehicle design features, and analysed accident data to define the areas of greatest risk for vulnerable road users.
To date, we have investigated 57 vehicle designs – more than 98% of trucks on UK roads.
Our findings underpin the five-star rating scheme adopted as part of the Vision Zero for London agenda.
Under the scheme, vehicles scoring one to five stars will be deemed safe and issued a permit to drive within the Greater London Boundary.
Those scoring zero will need to install Safe System improvements before they can successfully apply for a permit.
Our research findings and recommendations were used to successfully lobby the European Parliament for a change to standards which will be adopted across the EU from 2024.
With the help of Loughborough, London is leading the way with truck safety.
We’re delighted that the European Commission is following our lead – helping to ensure that, across Europe, all HGVs are safer.
An ergonomics design consultancy dedicated to improving product, workplace and service design.
Central to our work is the ongoing development of our Digital Human Modelling tool - SAMMIE.
View current research opportunities with the Design School.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/spotlights/landslide-early-warning:
Annually, slope failures kill tens of thousands and damage infrastructure costing billions of pounds.
Warnings are seldom provided due to prohibitive costs of traditional monitoring solutions.
Over two decades of research – leading to numerous world-first outputs – we have developed a novel lower cost early warning approach that "listens" for landslides.
The infrastructure that supports our modern way of life is vulnerable to movements in the ground beneath our feet.
We’ve developed a novel approach for monitoring the performance and safety of infrastructure by listening to soil as it deforms.
Our research has proven that acoustic emission (AE) monitoring (ie.
listening to high frequency noise) of slopes as they deform can warn asset owners and communities of impending slope instability - enabling people in harm's way to be evacuated and allowing owners of critical infrastructure to mitigate potential damage.
We have established that this novel approach can detect landslides earlier than inclinometers, the standard approach.
Two AE sensor systems have been developed and assessed through research:
Community Slope SAFE has the potential to save lives - not only in Myanmar but throughout the developing world.
We aim to increase understanding of interactions between earthworks, vegetation and climate change and produce guidance for the safety and resilience of infrastructure.
Trusted expertise and innovative technology that listens for failure of critical infrastructure and slopes to protect livelihoods and lives.
View current research opportunities with the School of Architecture, Building and Civil Engineering.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/spotlights/mis:
The Minimum Income Standard (MIS) identifies the amount of money different types of households require to achieve a socially acceptable standard of living.
In 2018-19, 30% of the UK population (19.6 million people) were living below MIS – an increase of 3.4 million since 2008-9.
There are variations across demographic groups, but a growing number of working households are below MIS.
For people living below MIS, it can be a struggle to cover the cost of essentials.
This animation explains what the Minimum Income Standard is, how the research is done, and why it is useful both in the UK and in other countries.
Our research to define MIS began in 2006, with first results published in 2008.
Since 2009, we have recalculated and updated MIS annually.
This involves consultations with the public to determine the weekly budgets needed by different households to maintain an acceptable standard of living that supports participation in society.
This research is principally funded – and MIS endorsed – by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , but other organisations have supported specific studies around the cost of living, for example, in rural communities; for those with sight and hearing loss; and for children in foster families.
Our work defining MIS for London is supported by Trust for London .
MIS now informs efforts to tackle low income in the UK.
For example, it has demonstrated that the National Minimum Wage is too low for many households to reach a minimum acceptable standard of living – encouraging employers to adopt instead the Real Living Wage.
In addition, MIS is being piloted and adopted worldwide – in France, Ireland, Japan, Mexico, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa and Thailand – to explore ways to introduce policy and practice that will ensure a decent standard of living for people across a range of socio-economic situations.
The work of the Centre for Research in Social Policy on the Minimum Income Standard has been pivotal in getting a Living Wage established as a recognised standard across the UK, and its adoption by nearly 7,000 Living Wage employers.
Over the years, we have worked with a range of partners, including
We specialise in applied research and policy analysis of issues around poverty and living standards.
The Foundation is an independent social change organisation working to solve UK poverty.
Find out about the research opportunities available within Social and Policy Studies.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/news/2025/july/lboro-research-gives-hewett-an-edge:
The 27-year-old professional wheelchair tennis player already has 10 Grand Slam singles titles to his name, alongside a whopping 22 doubles championship crowns.
Add in three Paralympic Games medals – one gold, two silver – and it soon becomes apparent Hewett is an undisputed force of the game.
What you might not see, however, is the quiet revolution that is happening behind the scenes.
One driven by research, innovation, and partnerships that keep Alfie ahead of his competitors both on and off the court.
In the latest collaborative project, Loughborough University, the UK Sports Institute (UKSI), The LTA and Sheen Parasport have joined forces to look at biomechanics improvements and the performance of Alfie’s wheelchair.
The project with Alfie is the latest strand in Loughborough University’s long-standing partnership with the UKSI and the LTA to successfully answer pertinent performance questions associated with chair set up for elite wheelchair players.
Vicky Tolfrey, Professor of Applied Disability Sport and Director of the Peter Harrison Centre for Disability Sport explained: “The project team got together, and we decided to bring Alfie to Loughborough, where we have our laboratory to look at the biomechanics and use our specialised wheelchair ergometer.
“Alfie is at the top of his game, but there are always competitors and rivals looking to knock you off the podium.
Mike (owner of Sheen Parasport) has been exploring whether we could utilise his lower extremities, his legs, for some added leverage, focusing on leg position and the chair frame.
“By using biomechanical analysis and measuring his [Alfie’s] push forces on our wheelchair ergometer, the UKSI and Loughborough have been looking at how we can optimise and build an evidence base to see whether certain parameters have improved and how that may transfer to wheelchair tennis performance.”
Speaking about the impact of the chair, Mike Sheen, owner of Sheen Parasport, said: “It doesn't necessarily make you a great tennis player, but it enables you to get the best out of yourself.
“There are small performance gains, things like rolling resistance, manoeuvrability, and straight-line speed, that can really help develop a player's game.”
Alison Macpherson, Performance Innovation Consultant at The UK Sports Institute, explained how Loughborough provides an elite environment for such studies: “The research here at Loughborough is world-class.
There's extensive knowledge about Paralympic athletes, particularly within the Peter Harrison Centre.
“We’ve developed a strong partnership with Loughborough University, so questions researchers are asking have a direct route to impacting performance on court in the Paralympic environment.”
Hewett is conscious of the research efforts and how science can give him an advantage on the court: “I'm very happy with the ten singles Grand Slams I’ve won and the success I’ve had over the years,” he said.
“Continuing to work in the lab and look for ways to improve really reflects what my team and I are all about.
Even on this short journey, we've already found marginal gains that could have a big impact on the court.”
Press release reference number: 25/112

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/news/2025/june/serving-up-tennis-research:
Delivered in collaboration with Loughborough Sport and the School of Sport, Exercise, and Health Sciences (SSEHS), the study uses advanced sensor technology, high-speed video analysis, and virtual modelling to better inform biomechanics around the one of the sport’s most complex skills.
One athlete benefiting first-hand from the leading technology is current Loughborough University National Tennis Academy (LUNTA) player Mika Stojsavljevic.
Stojsavljevic, who won the US Open junior title in 2024 , is also set to compete at this year’s Wimbledon.
The teenager will play in both the main women’s draw as well as the women’s doubles.
Michael Shaw, Doctoral Researcher, SSEHS, explained: “We've had our first player from the National Academy come into the lab for some biomechanical analysis.
We’ve been measuring kinematic data and force data to try and look at some important variables that have been shown in previous research to be related to the tennis serve.
“We get a lot of detailed feedback that we can provide to players…from that we look at what influences performance, looking at accuracy, racket speed, ball speed and trying to get a better understanding of which parts are the most important when it comes to analysing the serve and providing feedback to players.”
Kamlesh Soda, Head of Performance Support for the National Tennis Academy, added: “The first serve is a massive part of tennis and the outcome of the match.
“We as a team have been doing lots of projects working on the first serve to try and improve not only our players’ ability to tolerate first serves across a week of tournaments, but also to improve their ability to apply forces and speed of the serve and accuracy.
“It's not something that many players have in the world [the research].
This is something that we can get an advantage on and develop our players in this area.”
This year’s Wimbledon Championship will take place from Monday 30 June – Sunday 13 July with Loughborough set to be well represented in SW19 .
Press release reference number: 25/107

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/news/2025/june/disordered-eating-in-athletes:
Disordered eating is a widespread issue, and the sporting world is no exception.
It can involve a range of unhealthy behaviours, such as restrictive dieting, compulsive exercise, binge eating, or obsessive calorie counting that may not meet the clinical criteria for an eating disorder.
Dr Anthony Papathomas , Reader in Mental Health in Sport and part of Loughborough University’s Women in Sport Research and Innovation Hub , explained disordered eating in athletes and how we must collectively change perceptions.
“I’ve spoken to athletes who would think that if they eat a Mars bar, it would be immediately visible on their body,” he explained.
“They would weigh themselves multiple times a day and engage in stringent dietary behaviour, even though they needed the energy to perform at the highest level.
So, you're looking at it and you're thinking this is irrational behaviour.
“Researching over the past 10-15 years, with the stories I've collected from individuals, I have very much changed my perspective on that.
“What we have is athletes who have perhaps been weighed for a decade publicly by a coach, it might be athletes who have received negative comments or even mocking comments about that weight daily.
Maybe they’ve been put on a dietary plan since childhood.
“When you get put in that environment, you’re thinking, well, the individual who has come through all that isn’t necessarily irrational.
It’s perhaps a rational and logical response to the culture they've lived through.
“What we must do is stop blaming the athlete; we stop pointing at them as vulnerable, as personally weak, as psychologically flawed.
We say this is a culture that is shaping these types of behaviours and thoughts and beliefs.”
To view more expert comments on the subject by Dr Papathomas, visit: www.lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/videos/2025/athlete-eating-disorder/
Dr Anthony Papathomas has also delivered a public lecture on disordered eating in athletes through the National Centre for Sport and Exercise Medicine (NCSEM).
To view the full recording, visit: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qtl9GyKZ6x0
To book an interview with Dr Papathomas, contact Loughborough University’s press office on publicrelations@lboro.ac.uk / 01509 228686
Press release reference number: 25/104

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/ias:
The Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS) aims to promote an outstanding, interdisciplinary research environment at Loughborough by supporting collaborations with leading international scholars from other institutions.
The IAS run annual Themes, Spotlight Series and Roundtables.
The Open Programme offers funds to support a short term visiting IAS Fellow or group of external visitors.
Leading international scholars visiting Loughborough’s IAS during the academic year.
The IAS act as a catalyst and research destination, providing an environment that encourages international collaboration.
In the lead-up to International Nelson Mandela Day on 18 July, staff, students, and members of the public are invited to take part in a series of events exploring Nelson Mandela’s legacy.
Dr Rudabeh Shahid outlines their research ahead of their visit in early June.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/public-engagement:
We are an internationally engaged research-intensive university that delivers meaningful impact and keeps students at our heart.
Together, we use our distinctive strengths to support, inspire and empower people to achieve extraordinary things.
Our purpose is to advance knowledge and wisdom through our research and innovation, unlocking new understanding.
We inspire, empower and enrich the lives of our staff and students.
We create regional, national and global impact that addresses societal challenges by working in partnership with organisations across the private, public and voluntary sectors.
Find out how we share our work and discoveries with the public nationwide - via a range of exhibitions, events and projects.
We believe that public engagement and outreach are important elements of a responsible and authentic research culture and environment.
The NCCPE advocates for the role of public and community engagement in building a more inclusive higher education sector.
Its website explains why public engagement is so important - and offers a wealth of ideas, guidance and practical resources to help successfully steer your public engagement activities.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/about/achievements/queens-anniversary-prizes:
Loughborough University is among the most highly decorated institutions, having received seven prestigious awards.
The Queen Elizabeth Prizes for Higher and Further Education (formerly the Queen’s Anniversary Prize) are the highest national honour awarded to educational institutions.
They are granted by the Monarch biennially, and “celebrate excellence, innovation and public benefit in work carried out by UK colleges and universities.
The Prize scheme sits within the UK’s national honours system and recognises achievement that is “outstanding in quality, innovative or ground-breaking and above all is producing clear and active public benefit”.
They are presented by a senior member of the Royal Family at an investiture ceremony, usually held at Buckingham Palace.
Loughborough was among the first cohort of winners when the Prize was launched in 1994.
The Prizes recognise research that is making an impact in the world – shifting policy, advancing technology, developing and enhancing industry.
Holding seven Prizes is testament to the strength, relevance and real-world applications of our research and the people who deliver it.
Prize winner: 2013
The University is an acknowledged leader in the field of High Value Manufacturing (HVM).
Our exceptional research, teaching and industry partnerships help to drive the development of HVM across multiple sectors.
Our work supports a range of emerging and growing technologies – including additive manufacturing, regenerative medicine, and sustainable design and manufacture – while ensuring a pipeline of highly qualified and skilled engineering graduates.
Our contribution to HVM helps to create the economic growth, new jobs and technological advantages that ensure the UK remains globally competitive.
Prize winner: 2007
Our applied research in this field has made an outstanding contribution to international policies aimed at reducing injury and deaths caused by road traffic accidents.
The work has led directly to improved safety measures, better road and motorway design, and new accident data collection processes.
It has uniquely highlighted a major cause of road accidents – driver sleepiness – creating recognised impact via driver countermeasures and increased education campaigns.
Ongoing research with global significance includes the reduction of HGV blind spots and intelligence-led road safety systems.
Prize winner: 2005
Our contribution to social policy through innovative research is an outstanding example of how academic excellence can be applied to deliver widespread benefit.
By unravelling complex and difficult issues, we help social policy practitioners to appropriately address the needs of previously neglected groups, such as young carers (a key cohort within this Prize submission).
In 2023, our Centre for Research in Social Policy celebrated 40 years of addressing issues related to poverty, living standards and income adequacy – creating substantial impact both in the UK and overseas.
Prize winner: 2002
We have an international reputation in sports performance and science.
Our alumni are influential in many areas – as athletes, coaches and managers; researchers and teachers; in sport and leisure management; and within the sports industry, including with national and international sports governing bodies.
We were the first university to offer an honours degree in Sports Science and a Masters in Recreation Management – and have since developed a broad portfolio of sports-related programmes.
Our world-leading research spans youth sport; physiology, nutrition and sport fitness testing; rehabilitation, health and well-being; biomechanics modelling; equipment safety testing and product development; and disability sport.
Prize winner: 2000
Our Optical Engineering Group has long specialised in applying modern optics and laser technologies to solve challenges across a variety of engineering applications – spanning manufacturing, health and safety, medicine, defence, entertainment and the arts.
We have developed numerous novel techniques including high-power laser applications, component manufacture, and high precision non-contact measurement of dynamic movements – helping our partners to remain competitive and effective.
Our PhD students play a vital role in our research, and many move on to become key players in industry.
Prize winner: 1998
The University has a long history of excellence in the field of Development Engineering, and has broad expertise in the provision and management of sustainable infrastructures for developing countries.
At the time of the award, the focus was on teaching, research and consultancy in more than 65 countries, particularly via our Water and Engineering Development Centre (WEDC, established in 1971).
Our Masters programmes, diploma and short courses – for both engineers and non-technologists – ensure a pipeline of development professionals who form a supported global network for knowledge exchange and expertise.
Prize winner: 1994
Our innovative alliances with aerospace and automotive companies – particularly British Aerospace (BAE) and Rolls-Royce – have created an exemplary model for academic collaborations with industrial partners.
By applying our pioneering research to a range of engineering design and manufacturing challenges, we have created numerous unique and patented solutions that enhance both vehicle efficiency and company productivity.
Our Systems Engineering undergraduate programme – the first of its kind when launched – provides the essential knowledge, skills and expertise required by an ever-evolving industry.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/unesco-chairs:
In June 2025, Loughborough University was awarded its third UNESCO Chair.
We now hold more UNESCO Chairs than any other UK university.
We acknowledge the huge honour and responsibility hosting these Chairs confers – and we’re fully committed to continuing our work in tackling the most pressing contemporary global challenges.
Launched in 1992, the UNESCO Chairs promote international cooperation, fostering collaborative research partnerships and networks that address urgent global challenges and advance the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals ( SDG ).
The work of all three of the University’s Chairs aligns with our Strategic Themes – advancing research and interventions across Vibrant and inclusive communities , Sport, health and wellbeing , and Climate change and net zero .
Our first UNESCO Chair – launched in 2022 and led by Professor Richard Giulianotti – works with UNESCO and a range of stakeholders to develop activities, programmes and strategies that benefit young people and their communities.
Established in 2022 and led by Professor Qiuhua Liang, this Chair harnesses cutting-edge high-performance computing and AI-driven data analytics to tackle complex, interacting risks – such as flooding and landslides caused by torrential rainfall.
Our newest Chair – led by Professor Mike Wilson – is already developing a range of initiatives that will use storytelling to enable public dialogue about the environment, education and health – giving a platform to often ignored communities.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/memberships-prices:
Access world-class facilities and enjoy benefits like discounts on pay-as-you-go (PAYG) activities, sporting event tickets, and in-facility food, drink, and merchandise.
Selecting a membership type ensures that the correct options display in the 'Membership levels' section below.
Which membership am I eligible for?
Most popular
(1 Sep - 31 Aug)
Early bird £290
From 5 October £320
£120
Early bird £241
From 5 October £256
£96
£144
£54
£35
(12 months for the price of 11)
£440
(direct debit)
£40
+£10 joining fee
£352
£32
£198
£18
£462
£42
£242
£22
£45
All our membership levels are connected.
You can choose an option that is right for you now and move up to a higher level if you'd like even more from your Loughborough Sport experience.
Simply upgrade through the Loughborough Sport app.
* Our academic year prices are based on term-time use only (up to 8 months a year), with Loughborough Sport providing use in vacation periods (up to 4 months a year) at no additional fee to members.
£10 of the cost of your membership is a joining fee.
** The swimming pool will be closed between 14 July and 19 September for a major upgrade focused on energy decarbonisation.
Bronze memberships won’t be charged during the closure.
More details can be found on our Swimming Pool Closure webpage
See terms and conditions and privacy policy
World class facilities for the serious fitness junkie, friendly gyms for the casual regular, join your friends in a Zumba class or take a dip in the pool…there's something for everyone.
Begin your Loughborough Sport experience through our app, where you can manage your membership, book classes, workout in gyms and pools, hire courts and more.
Available on the App Store and Google Play .
Students and staff: Get started using your lboro.ac.uk email.
Alumni, Affiliates and Community: Follow the steps to get started and create an account.
If you're a student you can access additional benefits, including Athletic Union clubs and BUCS UNIversal.
If you have any difficulty downloading the app or activating your account, please contact us at sportmemberships@lboro.ac.uk
You can purchase a student membership if you are a current student of Loughborough University.
Current students of Loughborough University will automatically receive accounts with Loughborough Sport upon registration.
If you are a Loughborough College student, you can purchase a student membership upon request.
If you’re a Loughborough College student on a Loughborough University validated programme, follow the same activation instructions as Loughborough University students, using your loucoll.ac.uk email address.
If you’re not on a university validated programme, create a Community PAYG account and email sportmemberships@lboro.ac.uk from your loucoll.ac.uk email address so we can change you to a student member.
You can purchase a Staff, Alumni and Affiliates membership if you match one of the following descriptions:
You are a current employee of Loughborough University.
You have previously studied (for more than 3 months) at Loughborough University.
This summer, Loughborough Sport are offering staff members a series of free fitness classes and coaching opportunities.
To find out more, head to the staff offers page .
All new Loughborough staff members can enjoy a two-week free trial of the Gold membership.
For staff members of tenant organisations based on campus, a free trial of the Silver membership is available.
To claim this offer, please email sportmemberships@lboro.ac.uk within 6 months of joining the University and include the date you wish to start the free trial.
You can purchase a Community membership if you are 16 years or older.
If you are below 16 years old, you are only eligible for Bronze or Purple Memberships.
Pay-as-you-go is available to everyone and gives you access to classes and a wide range of facilities.
If you don’t hold a sport membership at Loughborough, you can enjoy classes and facilities on a pay-as-you-go basis.
If you are a member, you’ll benefit from an exclusive discount on pay-as-you-go activities.
See full list of pay-as-you-go activities and prices.
See our refund policy and how to request a membership cancellation .

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/timetables:
Includes both fitness classes as well as gym floor classes which utilise the Outrace rig and Myzone fitness trackers
A wide range of classes focused on relaxation, cardio and strength and fitness
Our olympic sized swimming pool is open to everyone - students, staff and members of the community
These sessions are designed to give you the opportunity to meet our friendly fitness coaches, watch our comprehensive introduction to the facility video, and receive detailed information about the wide range of services we offer.
Physical inductions are also available
Specifically designed for students and staff who want to exercise, keep fit and play sport for fun in an environment free from competition
Activities designed for students of all ability levels, trial for a squad place, or try something new!
Attend the Sport Bazaar Saturday 30 September 10AM - 4PM at Sir David Wallace Sports Hall to speak to the club committees about the opportunities we have to offer
Check out our term time and vacation opening hours across all facilities.
Quick and easy access to book your favourite fitness classes, activities and gym sessions.
Keep up with the latest news and events, check out our timetables and view our special offers.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/online-bookings:
Available to book for tours, regular block bookings, events and casual pay as you play.
A wide range of fitness classes and sports programme activities to get involved in!
Our gym and fitness experts provide one to one programmes, workshops and nutritional advice to support you in your fitness journey.
Led by our friendly and enthusiastic coaches, currently delivering in a weekly Learn to Swim programme, including holiday crash courses.
Lessons and qualifications available in swimming.
We deliver a variety of specialised services, such as physiotherapy, strength and conditioning and corporate away days.
At Loughborough Sport we have a variety of sports facilities, fitness classes and services available to book online or via the Lboro Sport App.
All activities need to be booked in advance and payment is required at the time of booking; classes and public swim sessions can be booked up to 6 days, facility hire up to 7 days and gym sessions up to 24 hours in advance.
All casual bookings are non refundable however a credit note will be applied for the cost of the booking paid if cancelled within the cancellation period.
Fitness classes, gym sessions, swimming & open athletics sessions can be cancelled up to 1 hour prior to the session commencing.
Fitness instructor led sessions can be cancelled up to 24 hours in advance.
All facility hire bookings can be cancelled up to 48 hours prior to the session commencing to be eligible for a credit note.
All students and staff members at Loughborough University already have a Loughborough Sport account, so you do not need to register.
To book you will need your university email address and Loughborough Sport password (not university password).
If you do not know your password, request your password and enter your University email address.
If you have previously booked with Loughborough Sport before, you will already have an online account.
If you do not know your password, request your password and enter your registered email address.
To set up a Loughborough Sport account please apply online.
Please note that by booking you are accepting our Terms and Conditions.
If you prefer to book in person please visit one of our sport facility receptions or book over the phone by calling Sports Reception on 01509 226250.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports:
We are proud of our hard-earned reputation for sport at Loughborough, but our constant focus is on ensuring every student and member of staff has the opportunity to get involved, regardless of ability or interest.
Whether you want to try something new or are dedicated to your chosen sport, there are always lots of opportunities to get involved.
From Ultimate Frisbee, Equestrian and Sub Aqua AU Clubs to performance Rugby, Cricket and Football, Hall sports and societies, there’s something for everyone.
It’s your passion and ambition that creates the atmosphere of determination on campus and contributes to our renowned student experience.
We hope you enjoy being part of sport at Loughborough.
Access our world-class facilities and get a range of new benefits.
Loughborough’s reputation for sporting excellence spans performance, facilities, expertise and working partnerships.
Over 100 years ago our Principal, Herbert Schofield, made educating the mind and the body central to his student welfare philosophy.
Now, over 100 years later, Loughborough Sport plays host to many of the highest performing athletes and teams in the country and our campus wide opportunities allow all of our students the chance to enjoy life shaping experiences through sport.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/get-involved:
There’s something for everyone to get involved with, from students, staff and campus partners to members of the community.
From world class sporting events to swimming in our Olympic pool, whatever your interest in sport and fitness, there is always something happening on campus you can be a part of.
Loughborough University is renowned as a world leader in sport.
One thing we’re incredibly proud of is how broad our sports offer is so whatever level you’re at or whatever your interest, find out more and get involved!
Whether you’re a complete beginner looking to try something new or an elite athlete with a record of high achievement, our campus is home to some of the best sporting opportunities in the world.
Staff and campus partners benefit from our unique sporting offer at Loughborough.
With outstanding gyms, world-class sports events and superb facilities to enjoy there’s something for everyone.
If you want to watch top level sport, use our world-class facilities or even book in some swimming lessons, there are always opportunities to get involved.
Alumni can stay involved through being part of a club or supporting the next generation of students.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/performance:
We offer unrivalled support for our top athletes creating a performance offer designed to maximise team and individual performance.
Our performance programmes are led by expert coaching staff who are constantly striving to improve both individual and team performance, and supported by a wide range of skilled support services.
Each sport is looking to succeed in BUCS, national and international competition, and also aid each athlete in their own sporting development.
Our performance support team provide specialist support from a range of scientific disciplines to develop performance of our top athletes and teams here at Loughborough University.
Our aligned, multidisciplinary approach to athletic performance has helped to create an unrivalled sporting legacy.
Our performance programmes are supported by a team of world-class coaches alongside our performance support offering.
QS World University Rankings by subject 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021
For 40 years running
The first university to break the 6000 points barrier
Netball Superleague Champions 2021
Loughborough-linked athletes achieved three gold, six silver, five bronze
Loughborough-linked athletes achieved six gold, six silver, nine bronze
Our unrivalled Performance Support package gives our top athletes access to a whole host of benefits, support and services led by a team of experienced practitioners.
We want the best student athletes to be part of our performance programmes and teams and can offer considerable direct financial support.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/para-sport:
Our vision is to be world leaders in para and disability sport
The first Loughborough Para Sport Strategy was published in 2019.
Since this time we have seen a huge growth in our offer and support in para sport.
We now have a new and updated Para and Disability Sport strategy for 2024-2030 positioned to capitalise on our work to date and reflect our desire to create opportunity across all areas of disability sport, in performance, participation and in developing the workforce.
We are proud to offer a broad and inclusive range of Para sport opportunities including Wheelchair Basketball and Boccia.
From playing recreational sport to volunteering opportunities, come and get involved!
Loughborough University is home to one of the largest multi-sport communities of Para athletes within a Higher Education Institution in the UK.
Loughborough University is a world leader in Para sport research across a broad spectrum of interest areas.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/study-research:
Ranked as the world's number one University for sport-related academia by the QS Rankings, sport is synonymous with Loughborough University and everything it does.
Loughborough University has been ranked number one in the world to study sports-related subjects in the QS World University Rankings every year since the inception of this category in 2017.
Loughborough excels across a broad range of sports-related subjects, including sports science, medicine, technology, ergonomics and business.
Turn your passion for elite sport and wellbeing into a rewarding career.
Join high profile professionals from elite sports organisations from the UK and Europe in a mix of on campus delivery and virtual learning designed to offer flexibility, interaction and networking.
You’ll be a part of an exclusive alumni that includes including Liverpool FC, Manchester City FC, Arsenal FC, West Ham United FC, Derby County FC, Harlequins Rugby, The Gaelic Players Association, and The League Managers Association.
The School is renowned as an internationally recognised centre of excellence for the study of sport, exercise and health through the natural and social sciences.
Highly ranked in national league tables and number one in the world in the QS World University Rankings by Subject since 2017, the School’s wide-ranging expertise encompasses such diverse areas as medicine, molecular biology, nutrition, biomechanics, economics, pedagogy, psychology, sociology and sport management.
The unrivalled breadth of our undergraduate courses, postgraduate programmes and research degrees attracts students from all over the world.
Over the years the School has built an international reputation for the quality of its teaching and research.
With our globally renowned staff collaborating with other academic institutions, centres and industry partners around the world, the School has been recognised for both the quality of our research and our highly competitive undergraduate, postgraduate taught and doctoral programmes.
The Sports Technology Institute is a £15M facility housing the Sports Technology Research Group, whose mission is to have a positive global, social and economic impact on sport through excellent engineering research, teaching and enterprise.
It is home to globally recognised undergraduate and research degree programmes in Sports Technology which attract students from all over the world.
The Sports Technology Research Group is world leading and the largest in the UK, with expertise in the engineering of sports goods including design, simulation, testing and manufacture.
The Group has built an international reputation for its work with global brands including adidas, Ping Golf, Canterbury of New Zealand, Dunlop, Head, New Balance, Nike, Reebok, Slazenger, Spalding, Speedo and Umbro.
The Group comprises academics, research associates, PhD students and technicians conducting engineering research in areas such as athletic footwear, technical apparel, protective equipment, balls, bats, clubs, rackets and sports surfaces.
Their track record of design-led innovation and accelerating novel concepts from initial stages through to commercialisation is unparalleled.
The National Centre for Sport and Exercise Medicine (NCSEM) is an Olympic legacy project delivering education, research and clinical services in sport, exercise and physical activity.
It aims to apply world-class expertise to policies and practice that will benefit the health and wellbeing of the nation – from everyday people at risk of ill health through to elite athletes.
The NCSEM has hubs in the East Midlands, London and Sheffield.
A newly built, dedicated space houses the East Midlands hub at Loughborough University.
The building has been specifically designed to bring together the capabilities of the partner universities and NHS trusts to facilitate the translation of research into education, training and clinical services.
Loughborough University is internationally renowned for its research within sport and exercise contexts, collaborating with some of the world’s leading universities, major companies and prominent sporting bodies to conduct groundbreaking investigations.
Whether we are scrutinising critical factors or prominent issues ‘for sport, in sport, and through sport’ and exercise engagement, our aim is to conduct research that is rigorous, significant and influential.
Based on the London campus in the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, the Institute for Sport Business incorporates an internationally-recognised faculty of academics with research and teaching expertise in the business of sport.
The Institute seeks to deliver world-leading research with a real world impact in an era of significant social, economic and technological change.
The Institute for Sport Business offers four MSc degrees (Sport Analytics and Technologies, Sport Business and Innovation, Sport Business and Leadership, and Sport Marketing) as well as MPhil and PhD degrees.
Our master's degrees incorporate teaching from a broad range of experts in the sport business industry in order to empower students with the knowledge and abilities needed to operate across the commercial, not-for-profit and public sport business sectors.
Our MPhil and PhD students are part of a talented research community who have opportunities to engage in global research projects focused on sport consumer engagement, sport enterprise performance and sport social innovation.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/facilities:
We are home to the country’s largest concentration of world-class facilities across a wide range of sports.
As a Loughborough student you can access everything from high performance training venues to free recreational areas.
Our facilities include an indoor athletics centre and outdoor stadium, sports halls and all-weather pitches, a 50 metre swimming pool, squash, badminton and netball courts, an indoor tennis centre and outdoor courts, and state-of-the-art gyms (see below).
With two world-class gyms on campus, Powerbase and Holywell Fitness Centre, whatever your fitness goals, experience or level of ability there is something for everyone.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/loughborough-sport:
Over 100 years ago our Principal, Herbert Schofield, a great innovator, made educating the mind and the body central to his student welfare philosophy and saw sport and physical education as crucial to this philosophy.
Now, over 100 years later, Loughborough Sport plays host to many of the highest performing student athletes and teams in the country and our campus wide opportunities allow all of our students the chance to enjoy life shaping experiences through sport.
Our strong association with elite performance sport is boosted by the number of students, alumni and Loughborough-based athletes that choose the campus as their training base; the number of national sport governing bodies that house their main headquarters here; and the decision in 2012 to use Loughborough as the official preparation camp for Team GB ahead of the Olympics.
Loughborough Sport is the heartbeat of all sport at Loughborough University.
As part of the Students Union the Athletic Union has a diverse variety of clubs and societies available for everyone to get involved with.
Recognising and celebrating the fantastic achievements of Loughborough affiliated performers and coaches.
Designed to create a community of involved and engaged Loughborough University alumni and friends of the Loughborough sporting family.
HE students on Loughborough University accredited programmes at the college have the opportunity to get involved with all of our sporting offer.
We firmly believe in the value of sport to our students' lives, regardless of ability.
Our sporting offer includes wide ranging programmes facilitating free sporting trials and dedicated free play spaces on campus.
With two outstanding gyms based on campus alongside a 50 meter swimming pool our focus on an inclusive sporting environment has resulted in over 70% of students regularly taking part in sport.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/physiotherapy-clinic:
Loughborough University Physiotherapy Clinic has an experienced team of clinicians, covering physiotherapy, sports injury and massage.
The services we provide make full use of our dedicated facilities with specialist equipment for treatments as well as rehabilitation.
Our client base ranges from the young to the old and is drawn from non-sporting general public up to elite world class athletes.
Loughborough University Physio Clinic offers the highest levels of physiotherapy knowledge and care and also offers a safe and friendly environment.
We also offer access to our rehabilitation gym for the duration of your treatment.
This means if you don’t have access to a gym or want to complete your rehab in our top facilities you can.
In addition to the rehabilitation gym you will have access to the latest equipment such as state of the art Game Ready machines and muscle stimulators.
The use of the rehab gym, Game Ready and muscle stimulators can be used for the duration of your treatment, at no extra cost and can be used at your own convenience (within opening hours).
We appreciate that each person responds uniquely and differently to any treatment program.
Your goals will be different to our next client so our promise to you is that we will take you through our process at your own pace in pursuit of your own goals.
We offer competitive rates on all our services with special discounts for Loughborough University students and staff.
Reduce pain, increase strength, mobility, flexibility and quality of movement.
Release muscle tension and restore balance to your musculoskeletal system.
Find out where we are and make an appointment with us.
Hear what our clients have to say about the services we offer.
A list of frequently asked questions to help prepare for your appointment.
If you are an individual or team looking to gain more information, knowledge and data to help improve your training and competition then why not get in touch to discuss your bespoke testing package now.
Make an appointment

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/support-services/physiology:
If you want to improve your running fitness, get more out of your cycling training or tackle a challenging event in the heat or at altitude, we can help you to prepare effectively.
Take the guess work out, make the most of the time you have available to train and know you’re targeting the right areas to achieve your goals.
Your Ultimate Guide to Preparing for the 2026 London Marathon with Loughborough Sport.
Understand your physiology to enhance training and optimise performance
Prepare for competitions and events in the heat in our heat chamber
Prepare for high-altitude events in our altitude chamber
Packages and specific support to optimise cycling training and performance
Packages and specific support to optimise running training and performance
Packages and specific support to optimise rowing training and performance
Packages and specific support to optimise triathlon training and performance
We have helped many people achieve their goals, in events such as the Marathon des Sables, Jungle and Desert Ultras, as well as mountain marathons and high altitude challenges such as climbing Kilimanjaro and Everest.
A supported performance pre-season designed to comprehensively prepare riders for the physical requirements of the race season.
We will analyse your performance in detail and tailor a programme for you.
We were really nervous about the altitude when we climb Kilimanjaro, but we've been lucky enough to come to Loughborough and have the opportunity to exercise in the altitude chamber to see what it feels like.
In recent years, the number of women participating in running has surged significantly.
With the weather finally warming up for summer in the UK, many of us will be noticing the effects of exercising in a hotter environment, particularly with how much more we sweat!
It’s generally well understood that we need to drink plenty of fluids to stay hydrated and replace what we have lost while exercising, but as an athlete there are several other things you should consider to ensure you stay properly hydrated.
Could refining your hydration strategies be the secret to your sporting success this summer?
Running economy, is a subject of interest among all runners, from those that compete on the world stage, to weekend warriors.
Finding an exact definition for the term can prove to be confusing with a simple google search of 'what is running economy' returning several different explanations of the concept, all ending with, 'to put it simply'..., leading us to the conclusion that running economy is a challenging concept to define.
Hear from our past clients
Meet our team of experts
We are located on the main university campus in the Performance Centre (behind Powerbase Gym).
If you have any questions or queries about our services, please don't hesitate to get in touch.
Click here to enquire about our physiology services.
Looking for the perfect gift for a cycling, running or triathlon enthusiast?
Why not purchase one of our gift vouchers?

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/coaching-volunteering:
The 2023-24 academic year marks the fourth year of our 5-year strategy for the Coach & Volunteer Academy (CVA).
With the CVA continuing to grow, we have prioritised providing a diverse range of high-quality opportunities and masterclasses to enrich students' personal and professional growth.
Our Coach and Volunteer Academy (CVA) provides our students, staff and local community members with valuable sport based coaching, volunteering and leadership opportunities to enhance their experience and personal development.
We offer a range of opportunities for both students and community members to get involved in a number of different strands, all designed to develop and enhance both employability and softer skills needed for a successful career in the sports industry and beyond.
We offer a broad range of coaching opportunities in a number of programmes.
A great way to develop skills in leadership, assertiveness and communication.
We provide a range of opportunities to support our high profile events, or even give you the opportunity to deliver your own.
We have a wide range of roles providing content for our performance programmes and covering our world class sporting events.
These sport science based roles focus on enhancing our athletes performance through supporting our interdisciplinary teams.
Support the development of sport in Zambia, changing lives for the better globally.
At Loughborough Sport, we’re proud to have a vibrant and diverse community of student volunteers working across various roles.
Whether or not your role fits within one of our formal strands, you are an essential part of our team, and we’re here to support you.
Explore our Support & Development page to discover the opportunities and resources available to you.
Many of these are designed to benefit our entire volunteer workforce, no matter your role.
This document is the Code of Conduct for individuals engaging with Loughborough Sport activities.
It outlines the expected standards of behaviour to be upheld by all participating in sport.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/work-with-us:
Recently awarded Best University for Sport in the World, we have an unrivalled track record in performance sport, facilitating successful partnerships to inspire students, athletes, coaches and sports practitioners to fulfil their ambitions.
Whatever your requirement, we would love to talk to you.
Alongside delivering our own extensive sports programmes, our passionate team are focused on creating and delivering seamless and premium experiences for clients to deliver a wide range of services and maximise opportunities through sport.
Loughborough University is a recognised Elite Training Centre with one of the largest concentrations of world-class sports facilities in the UK.
Available to book throughout the year.
Explore a range of opportunities to experience world-leading facilities, learn from performance support expertise or hear more about the Loughborough Sport offer and university application process.
Unique opportunities to engage and associate your company with the Loughborough Sport brand.
We are proud to partner with organisations that match our brand values and deliver excellence in their respective markets.
This programme is specifically designed to build effective and efficient players and athletes, we will teach you the techniques necessary to maximise explosive strength, speed and robustness.
Utilise our world-class sports environment to stage your event or simply hire the facilities.
Immerse your team in our high performance sporting environment.
Exciting opportunities for sport and community clubs to experience a day in one of the UK’s leading Higher Education institutions and the best university for sport in the world.
Inspiring future leaders through experiential programmes delivered by our elite coaches, practioners and academics.
Use our world class facilities for your shoots, interviews and media output.
To enquire about School Visits please complete the following enquiry form.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/news:
Loughborough Lightning will kick off their 2025/26 season in Tier 3 on Sunday 17 August, marking the beginning of an exciting new chapter for the team.
A pioneering collaboration of seven UK universities, including Loughborough University, has marked 20 years of impactful partnership with Zambian NGO Sport in Action.
Loughborough Lightning will kick off their 2025/26 season on home turf next month, with tickets for their opening PWR Cup fixture now on sale now.
Loughborough Lightning FC are thrilled to confirm the appointment of Katie Sorenson as the club’s new Assistant Coach, joining the team ahead of their much-anticipated return to the FA Women’s National League Northern Premier Division (Tier 3).
Pre-season preparations are officially underway for Loughborough Lightning, who are gearing up for their campaign in the FA Women’s National League Northern Premier Division, the third tier of English women’s football.
As Wimbledon gets ready to open its doors for another fortnight of top-class tennis, this year’s draw will feature a standout group of athletes from Loughborough University.
Loughborough Lightning Football Club announces that Assistant Manager Sarah Richardson will leave her position to pursue another opportunity.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/events:
A selection of key events in our Loughborough Sport calendar can be seen below.
Loughborough University - 1st XV Rugby Pitch

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/american-football:
At Loughborough we have a fierce competitive spirit, on-field hustle and the desire to win.
American Football is played outdoors and we compete in the BUCS Premier North division.
Our club was formed in 1987 and has a purpose-built 3G American Football field next to the Stadium by Holywell Park.
Loughborough Students American Football Club is the first team to win 100 games in British American Football History.
We have been incredibly successful in recruiting athletes from other sports.
Our coaches use these different skills to build a great squad and players frequently progress to represent their country at student or international level.
The team is led by experienced coaching talent including a Great Britain Defensive Lineman and a Great Britain Defensive Backs Coach.
There are matches and flag football games throughout the year that all members are welcome to play.
Whether you are a beginner or a more experienced player you are likely to find your place in the team who continue to dominate the North Division BUCS League.
We are constantly recruiting for new talent and are continuing to train towards securing the BUCS National Championships once again.
Regardless of your previous playing experience, if you are interested in American Football we want to hear from you as we cater for complete beginners as well as experienced players.
We train 2-3 times a week at the Holywell Rubber Crumb.
For more information on how to join our club, come and visit us at the Loughborough University Sports Bazaar on campus on Saturday 30 th September 2023 .

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/archery:
Archery at Loughborough caters for all abilities, from complete beginners to international level.
All equipment is provided to get you started and you'll have the opportunity to learn from our high level coaches.
Archery is done both outdoors and indoors and membership is open to everyone enrolled at the University and Loughborough College.
We encourage you to shoot in competitions and we compete regularly in a local league of eight universities as well as the indoor and outdoor BUCS Championships each year.
Our team also takes part in the British University Team Championships.
Currently, we have 80 experienced and novice archers and we encourage everyone to join.
There are usually four indoor training sessions available per week from October to the Easter break.
The outdoor season then starts after Easter and sessions are held throughout the week.
Attendance at all sessions is not compulsory.
All new members need to complete our Beginner's Course which runs for three weeks, with six lessons in total.
We require you to attend all six lessons to learn the required techniques and develop your skills.
You'll have the chance to try different bow styles and participate in a practice competition.
Plus, our coaches will be on hand throughout to welcome and assist you.
Get in touch with the Loughborough Archery team.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/athletics:
Loughborough is proud to be the most successful student athletics club in the country, catering for all events at every level
By winning 60 of the last 65 men's and women's BUCS Outdoor Athletics Championships, Loughborough is proud to be known as the best University Athletics club in the country.
As a member of Loughborough Students Athletics Club, you will have access to world class indoor and outdoor training facilities, and be coached by a range of professional and volunteer coaches who coach across all events.
Membership includes entry to compete in the Loughborough Indoor & Outdoor Opens, Midland XC League, and Indoor Inter Varsity Meet, as well as eligibility to be selected for the prestigious Loughborough BUCS team, where we are reigning overall Indoor, Outdoor and Women's XC Champions.
The club is a friendly and sociable place to train, and caters for all levels from recreational runners to Olympic and Paralympic superstars!
We have seven employed members of staff who run and support our Athletics Programme on a full and part time basis, led by Director of Athletics, Femi Akinsanya.
The athletics staff team work alongside the student club committee to ensure athletes have full access to training, coaching and competition opportunities.
As expected, elite athletes are able to thrive in Loughborough's unparalleled sporting environment.
Loughborough Students have always had great success, and in recent years, past and present students have been part of teams that have competed in age group, European and global Championships.
The athletics performance programme supports approximately 100 of our highest achieving club members each year with a host of sport science and therapy services.
Loughborough Athletics has always been committed to supporting Para sport, with notable former alumni including Dame Tanni Grey-Thompson, Paralympic Champion Dan Greaves, World and Paralympic Champion Jonathan Broom-Edwards and European medallists Sam Ruddock, Lydia Church and Zak Skinner.
Sitting alongside Loughborough's Para Sport offer, the Loughborough Athletics Programme offers Scholarship opportunities for the highest level of Para Athlete; the ability to compete and strongly contribute towards the BUCS Indoor and Outdoor Championships; and the chance to work with a specialist team of coaches and practitioners who are committed to supporting Para athletes achieve their goals.
Loughborough also provides competition opportunities in the form of Open Meets, LIA and LEAP which will regularly provide WPA-endorsed track or field events.
Current Para athletes within the club include two time Paralympic Champion and world record holder, Ntando Mahlangu, Paralympic Champion Thomas Young, and European silver medallist and 5-time BUCS Champion Lydia Church.
LSAC hosts open meetings as well as the Loughborough International Athletics match and the Loughborough European Athletics Promotion (LEAP) meeting
Dai Greene, a World, European, Commonwealth and Diamond League Champion has been appointed Loughborough University’s new Head of Sprints and Hurdles.
Athletes linked to Loughborough University produced some incredible performances at the European Athletics Championships 2024 in Rome.
At the start of every academic year, there is a 'meet the coaches' event held for athletes to talk to a range of coaches at Loughborough.
Please see the 'Our Coaches' and 'Meet the Team' sections of this website for more information on our coaches and contact details for event leads.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/badminton:
We are one of the biggest clubs in the Athletic Union and offer something for everyone.
Whether you are an elite athlete or a complete beginner, our coaches will take you and your badminton skills to the next level.
Click here to find out more about our performance badminton programme
Click here to find out more about our Athletic Union (AU) Badminton Club
Compete for your halls of residence in IMS competitions held throughout the year.
Click here to find out more
Our Social Sport programme offers free, competitive sport that allows participants to play sport socially.
My Lifestyle sessions are a great opportunity to give the sport a go and have fun in a relaxed setting.
Loughborough University Para Badminton star athlete Yasmina Eissa has her sights well set on the 2024 Paralympic Games in Paris.
Loughborough’s Lizzie Tolman enjoyed a successful Yonex Belgian International competition earlier this month, returning home with a brilliant silver medal in the Women’s Doubles.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/softball-baseball:
Softball and Baseball at Lougborough allows you to compete for the university or play for your hall.
Our club has a successful history having won the National University Softball Championship and the National University Baseball Championship on multiple occasions.
We have many different teams to suit different abilities, but most of our teams usually train three times per week.
Each session has a different focus in order to keep the sessions fun and effective.
Our teams compete in many different competitions throughout the year.
These include the National University Softball and Baseball Championships, the East Midlands Indoor Softball League, the East Midlands Invitational Championships and the Northern University Baseball League, among many others.
The latter was actually created by the Club President Luke Stott in 2015.
It aims to promote links between local Universities, encourage development of University baseball, and acts as a facilitator of inter-University competition.
You can compete in softball for your halls of residence in Intramural Sport (IMS) in competitions throughout the year.
It's a great way to get involved in hall life and meet new people in a more social and less competitive environment.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/basketball:
Basketball at Loughborough is one of the leading programmes within the UK.
We cater for a wide range of abilities, and everyone is welcome to try out.
Find out more about our Men's Basketball programme
Find out more about our Women's Basketball programme

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/boxing:
​We have a boxing offer for everyone, from people who boxed previously to those just looking to stay fit.
The club offers weekly sessions for students at any level of boxing, catering to their needs for development in the sport.
We compete in the University Box Cup and East Midlands Box Cup, plus regular competitions throughout the year.
To be allowed to compete, you will need to be registered and undergo a medical.
Our classes allow everyone to participate in boxing-inspired fitness sessions, which provide students with the fitness, health, and stress-busting benefits of training like a boxer.
The sessions are open to all ability levels, and beginners are welcome.
We train in a fully equipped martial arts centre with a padded floor, punch bags, focus pads, kick shields, skipping ropes and protective equipment.
We also offer weekly My Lifestyle classes for anyone who wants to try boxing but aren't interested in the contact form of the sport or in boxing competitively.
Get in touch with the Loughborough Boxing team.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/canoe:
Canoe and kayaking at Loughborough suits both adrenaline junkies, performance athletes and beginners alike.
Canoeing is one of Britain’s most upcoming sports, and with various disciplines available  we can offer something for everyone.
Canoeing and kayaking at Loughborough suits adrenaline junkies, performance athletes, and beginners alike.
Canoeing is one of Britain’s most upcoming sports, and with various disciplines available we can offer something for everyone.
Our sessions cater to people that have never been in a boat before to people that have lots of experience.
The Club competes at three BUCS events per year: River Race, Slalom, Sprint and Canoe Polo.
In addition to regular pool sessions, club members are encouraged to go to the National Water Sports Centre in Nottingham to experience their fantastic white-water course.
Here, members get access to a discount and can learn how to tackle white water in a safe environment.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/cheerleading:
Loughborough Students' Cheerleading Club is made up of two competitive squads alongside a development team for beginners looking to get involved in the sport.
We are currently the reigning National Champions and Grand Champions and were also named 'Club of the Year 2018'.
Two competitive teams which are at Level 3 and Level 2, and the All Girl Level 3 team competes against All-Star teams and University teams.
Additional development squad.
Our different teams give the opportunity for all students of all abilities to be a part of the club, as we provide them with skills that will make them better all-around athletes as well as better cheerleaders.
4 times per week across the 3 squads and in the Gymnastics Centre 2 times per week.
Competing squads train once a month in Nottingham EMCA Cheer Gym.
We also get involved in performing for crowds at matches, such as the matches on 'D-Day' and for other Loughborough Athletic Union clubs.
We like to think that our club challenges the stereotypical view of cheerleading with our intense training and commitment.
Full commitment from our members is essential as we aim to be the best at competitive cheerleading and we usually compete in two national competitions per year.
We have been National Champions in All-Girl Level 4 Cheer multiple times and are currently one of the best University squads in the country.
Taster sessions and trials after the fresher’s bazaar.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/cricket:
Cricket at Loughborough caters for everyone, both male and female performance athletes and beginners.
Come along to discover the great sport that is cricket.
Find out more about our Men's Cricket programme
Find out more about our Women's Cricket programme
Click here to find out how to apply to the UCCE Cricket Performance Programme
County cricketers across England experience a “rollercoaster” of mental health emotions throughout their career, a new study has found.
Lightning Cricket will open their 2022 campaign at home on the 14th May as they host Northern Diamonds in the Charlotte Edwards Cup.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/cycling:
Cycling is a sport for everyone, whether you like to beat your opponents in a competitive race, enjoy riding down steep cliffs during the weekend or just like going out for a relaxing bike ride, cycling at Loughborough caters for all.
Find out more about athletic union cycling at Loughborough
Find out more about the performance cycling programme at Loughborough University
Find out more about our womens Elite Development Team.
Loughborough Sport Support Services are proud to offer both Bike Fitting Services and Coaching Services to external clients, to give them the opportunity to train and learn from those who help propel both our Lightning team and the Loughborough Cycling Acadmemy riders forward.
Loughborough Cycling Academy is the performance cycling programme of Loughborough University.
Our performance cyclists benefit from world-class coaching and performance support to support them in combining the demands of elite cycling with completing a prestigious degree.
Our club is made up of cyclists of all abilities, from national riders to everyday casual riders, so you should be able to find someone to ride with and talk to during whatever session you choose to attend.
We cover Road, Cyclo-cross, Time-trial, Track, XC and Downhill and we have both male and female riders.
We have three training opportunities per week for each discipline, but if you want to train more there is always someone up for a ride.
Club sessions are led by an experienced member and route, distance and times are usually posted on our Facebook page.
Our club has a long history of successful racing with many members successfully competing in a range of categories.
We have a performance squad which benefits from additional training supported by the University but it's not all about racing and the weekly rides, we also cater to members who wish to ride at their own pace.
Road cycling is the biggest section of the club with member abilities ranging from professional to beginner.
The club ride is suitable for cyclists who are used to road racing around 60 miles averaging around 20mph.
The middle ride caters to those who are used to riding in a group but not quite as fast as the club ride.
Finally, there is the recreational ride for those who have not ridden in a group before and are just getting into cycling or who just want a relaxing ride.
You are expected to wear a helmet at all times during the sessions, and you will need to provide your own helmet and a bike.
The club offers a great social scene and you can enjoy different socials throughout the year.
We organise regular road, XC and DH trips to Wales or the Peak District and frequently attend the velodrome in Derby.
Plus, there's a winter training trip to Majorca for the road racers.
Lucy Harris and Jenny Holl both produced stunning performances as Lightning secured a dominant one-two in the Jose Gilbert Memorial Trophy at this year’s Loughborough Cycling Festival.
Loughborough Sport is thrilled to announce its long-standing partnership with Computacenter has been extended for another year.
Once a year, Loughborough University's famous campus is transformed into a race track to host national level cycling.
The fast, technical criterium circuit always makes for an exciting day of racing.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/dance:
Dance at Loughborough offers a wide range of lessons including Ballet, Jazz, Tap, Contemporary, Hip Hop and Zumba.
We offer lessons for all levels, so everybody is welcome.
Within our Loughborough Students Dance Club, we have around 150 members dancing across 9 different styles (19 different classes).
Each year we have a winter showcase for our non-competing dancers and anyone who would like to do a solo or small group dance.
We also have our shows in February; this involves 4 different shows in 3 days to show all dances everyone has been working on throughout the year.
Finally we have our competition which is the largest inter-university dance competition in the UK, around 20+ universities attend and dancing professionals are brought in to judge.
There are 9 different styles with 1+ team per style.
The styles include: Latin, Wildcard, Ballet (level 1 & 2), Tap (level 1 & 2), Commercial (level 1 & 2), Lyrical (level 1 & 2), Contemporary (levels 1-3), Hip Hop (levels 1-3) & Jazz (levels 1-3).
Levels 1 & 2 compete at our dance competition held on campus (with the exception of lyrical 2 & commercial 2) and perform in our February shows.
Non-competing classes perform at both the winter and February shows.
All our members perform at various events through-out the year including our Winter Showcase, annual sell-out shows and Loughborough University Dance Competition, the largest inter-University dance competition in the UK, which we enter and host.
Each style trains for 1 hour a week.
Extra rehearsals are put in place before show for run throughs of the event.
Explore more and visit our social channels at @lborodance .
Speak to the committee at AU Sports Bazaar
Zumba with a twist!
Want to throw some fantastic shapes on the dance floor in the dark with glowing lights and loud music?
If this sounds like fun to you then come along to our UV Zumba session to experience this great new workout!
You’ll be given glow sticks ready to party in the dark and get fit to current tracks with your friends!

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/dogdeball:
Dodgeball here at Loughborough is competed at on all levels, from BUCS to social and one day events.
New to the university in 2021, we are are coming into our second year, and hope to grow of last years success.
Dodgeball is a team game in which players must dodge or catch balls thrown by the opposition whilst attempting to strike their opponents in the same way.
The game has rapidly grown in popularity over the last decade.
We offer training session for both beginners and intermediate players as well as those who want to play competitively for BUCS.
Training takes places at various locations around campus including but is not limited to the Netball Centre and Sir David Wallace Sports Hall.
We also take part in multiple one day and social events that people can attend for some fun!
To attend our training sessions you simply need to bring yourself and a can do attitude with willingness to try something new and have a bit of fun!
You may also need to book onto our session through the Loughborough Sport App.
We look forward to seeing you there!

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/equestrian:
Equestrian at Loughborough caters for all levels, from people who have never sat on a horse to people who have ridden for years.
If you love animals, exercise, and love to challenge yourself then the Equestrian is for you.
Loughborough Students Equestrian is split into three sections; teams, development and recreational.
If you’re interested in horses, then this is the place for you!
We welcome all abilities; from learning riding to competing against other universities, there’s something for everyone.
You don’t need your own horse to join the club they’re provided by Long Lane Equestrian.
We have various teams representing Loughborough in both showjumping and dressage competing at varying levels in both BUCS and a friendly league against local universities.
The development squad is for riders aiming to compete in teams in the future, with regular training each week to work towards end of semester inter-club competitions.
Recreational riding caters to everyone from beginner to advanced.
Fun weekly sessions are run as well; offering seasonal activities, hacks, beach rides and specialised clinics.
The club also offers monthly ‘give it a go’ sessions for different riding disciplines such as horse-ball, cross country and much more!
There’s a variety of trainings and lessons taking place each week at Long Lane Equestrian Centre, a friendly yard with knowledgeable staff and a range of horses to suit all abilities.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/fencing:
Fencing at Loughborough is a friendly & sociable.
We cater for professional, experienced and novice fencers so there really is something for everyone to get involved in.
We have a wide of variety of club members and whether you are competing for your national team, want to pick up a new sport, or fit fencing in with your busy social and academic life, we have something on offer for you.
We have 4 teams: 2 men’s and 2 Ladies BUCS teams
Men’s: Premier North and Midlands 2A Women’s: Premier North and Midlands 2A
We also compete in many individual competitions throughout the year in all 3 disciplines: Foil, Epee and Sabre
Our teams provide an opportunity for less experienced fencers to compete and develop new skills.
We run two sessions per week and have coaching for novices, so you can quickly learn the basics of any weapon (foil, epée or sabre) and if you are a more experienced fencer, the sessions will help fine tune your skills.
We have plenty of equipment for beginners, the only thing you need to get started is your membership.
Throughout the year, there are plenty of competitions you can take part in.
Including the Cambridge Winter, Merseyside Open, and BUCS Individuals.
Our teams also compete during the Winter term in competitions such as the Warwick Open, Leicester Open, Birmingham International, and the Senior National Championships.
Sign up at the AU Sports Bazaar in freshers.
We are open to all.
Fencing is also available through the My Lifestyle initiative, where you can give the sport a go and have loads of fun at the same time.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/football:
We are proud to offer students and spectators the opportunity to enjoy Football at every level.
Whether you're at the top of your game, an aspiring coach or want to play for fun, our programmes offer you the chance to maximise your development through an extensive support package.
To deliver a world leading provision for opportunity within football and enhance individuals' capability of driving the development of the sport.
Find out more about our Men's Football programme.
Find out more about our Women's Football programme.
Find out about the Coaching and Volunteering opportunities in the Football programme.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/futsal:
Loughborough Students Futsal Club are one of the leading student futsal clubs in the country.
The club offers playing opportunities for students of all abilities, from competing in the National Futsal Series to recreational futsal.
Loughborough Students Futsal Club is the most successful university Futsal club in the UK, having won the national title a record six times.
The club is comprised of five BUCS teams spanning the top divisions and two teams competing in the National Futsal Series.
Our performance team competes in the top tier of English futsal, with the league winner going to the UEFA Futsal Champions League, and our development team competes in the second tier.
Futsal is a growing indoor sport in England that is similar to and different from football.
The 5v5 game, with a stop-clock format, means more general involvement from all players, a greater tactical and technical emphasis, and higher numbers of shots and goals compared to the 11-a-side game.
Training sessions are led by a mix of paid and volunteer-qualified coaches.
Teams will train 2-3 times a week at Netball Center, Sir David Wallace & college sports halls.
Matches are played on Sundays.
To see all the BUCS fixtures and results please see the BUCS Play Website.
For more information on the National Futsal Series side click here.
We encourage you to compete in futsal for your halls of residence in IMS competitions held throughout the year.
You compete in teams against other halls, and these competitions are always great fun.
England Futsal has partnered with Loughborough University to host the Men’s National Team’s home fixtures for the UEFA Euro 2026 Main Round Qualifiers.
Get in touch with the Loughborough Futsal team.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/gaelic-football:
Loughborough Students' Gaelic Football Club is one of the newest AU clubs.
Whether you are at the top of your game or want to play recreationally everyone is welcome!
Gaelic Football is a distinctly Irish field invasion game played with a round football which can be caught, kicked and hand passed.
As one of the newest AU Clubs, Loughborough Students' Gaelic Football Club was set up in 2017 and experienced immediate success, becoming Division 3 Champions in their first season.
The Club offer the opportunity to players of all level and welcome beginners with open arms.
Training takes place 2-3 times per week.
We have teams competing in BUCS and have both men's and women's teams.
Click the link below to join.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/golf:
​​Loughborough University is one of the leading higher education institutions for golf in the UK.
We run a program designed to develop golf to the highest standard, and our 30-person mixed squad comprises of golfers with a handicap range from scratch to mid-single figures.
We work closely with Charnwood Golf & Leisure Complex to arrange practice facilities and lessons for our recreational squad.
Top players can also apply for a mini-scholarship that allows you access to the prestigious Longcliffe Golf Club .
Mixed gender squads: 3 competitive teams, 1 recreational squad
Our three teams compete weekly in the BUCS league and knockout competitions in the Premier North division, Midlands 1A and Midlands 2B respectively.
We also send a team to a series of BUCS stroke play events to compete against other Universities from around the country.
We also help our players reach BUCS student tour events which allows you to play at some of the finest courses in the UK.
Training comprises of regular range sessions with supplemented range balls, specific strength and conditioning support, nutritional support, psychology workshops, individual psychological support, swing coaching sessions and a discounted Powerbase membership.
Trial process at the start of term (after AU bazaar)
Selection for our squad is done through a competitive trials process, and team selection takes place weekly through our selection committee.
We are also supported by the R&A who provide funding to the programme and to gifted individuals.
Our programme provides you with all the support you need to maximise your potential as a golfer and you can be a part of maintaining Loughborough’s position at the top of British University sport.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/gymnastics:
Gymnastics at Loughborough caters for beginners, intermediates and elites who wish to train hard and improve as gymnasts.
Loughborough Students Gymnastics Club is a welcoming gymnastics club suitable for all levels and abilities ranging from beginner to elite level gymnastics.
The club provides a safe platform in which students can use to develop their skills and gymnastics ability within a fully equipped artistic gymnastics centre.
The club focuses on creating a supportive and inclusive environment allowing members to reach their full potential and create life long relationships and support through the close knit team.
Loughborough Students Gymnastics Club engages in numerous competitions throughout the year ranging from regional to national events in which we have achieved remarkable success in various disciplines and competitions.
Our aim is to give students the best experience and opportunities in which they need to success and promote the engagement of all levels within gymnastics.
We have 3 levels of gymnast groups; elite, standard and development.
Below are the hours per week for each grouping:
In order to join, please sign up for the tasters and trials through our stand at the SPORTS BAZZAR.
From there, there will then be a series of trials in which gymnasts will showcase the skills in which they can do.
After the trials are completed, the teams will be discussed and individuals will receive and email regarding which team they have been accepted into.
Gymnastics is also available through the My Lifestyle initiative, where you can give the sport a go and have loads of fun at the same time.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/handball:
Handball at Loughborough caters for everyone from beginner to professional and have different squads to suit everyone’s abilities.
Loughborough University Students' Handball Club has five teams, two women’s teams and three men’s teams.
They compete in the Midland’s Regional League, the British University Handball Championships, the English Handball National Cup, and many other informal recreational leagues.
The performance teams require necessary experience to compete at high club and National level.
Up to 7 training sessions per week: (6 handball sessions and 1 fitness session) but generally averaging 3 sessions per week per team.
Any individual looking to join or try handball out, must book through the Loughborough Sport app.
Dates and locations, are normally advertised through the app, but also on the AU website as well as our social media channels (follow us on Instagram @lborohandball).
The app can be downloaded through the app store or google play.
Men's:
Women's:
We encourage you to compete in Handball for your halls of residence in IMS competitions held throughout the year.
Handball is also available through the My Lifestyle initiative, where you can give the sport a go and have loads of fun at the same time.
Traditionally we run a Handball coaching course in house for student who want to then volunteer within one of our outreach programmes, where they’ll go out into local schools and coach the secondary school children off site.
We also occasionally offer a handball officiating course to support the AU Handball fixtures.
Get in touch with the Loughborough Handball team.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/hockey:
We offer a wealth of opportunities for you to get involved in Hockey.
Whether it's through playing at the top level or trying it for the first time, there's a programme for you.
Through our performance programme Loughborough Hockey clubs compete in some of the top competitions in the country both in the men's and women's sides.
It is through these programmes that aspiring athletes have been able to develop with numerous alumni going on to gain national and international caps.
Our clubs provide high quality training to all five teams with top level coaches and state of the art facilities.
We also encourage you to compete for your hall in Intramural Sport as there are numerous competitions held throughout the year.
Hockey is also offered through the My Lifestyle initiative through Roller Hockey.
Find out more about our Men's Hockey programme.
Find out more about our Women's Hockey programme.
Find out more about our school holiday Hockey Camps.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/jiu-jitsu:
Jiu Jitsu at Loughborough has a relaxed and friendly atmosphere and caters for all abilities.
We are affiliated to the Jitsu Foundation which gives you the opportunity to attend regional training courses, national competitions and grading’s.
Everyone from beginners to experienced martial artists are welcome to our taster sessions.
As a beginner, emphasis will be placed on teaching you a range of simple but effective self-defense techniques to cover a range of attacks, alongside how to move and fall safely as you gain more experience.
We train three times per week with a qualified coach and regular guest instructors.
Our team competes at Atemi Nationals (BUCS) and Randori Nationals.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/judo:
Judo at Loughborough caters for all levels of experience, varying from complete novice to elite, anyone is welcome to join.
Training takes place three times per week, including a mix of technique, fitness, sparring, standing techniques and groundwork.
All training takes place in the Martial Arts Centre and are mixed gender sessions.
Our sessions tend to focus on a number of different elements, including a syllabus progression for grading, competition training and general fitness.
We also have a strong link to a local high-performance club, which allows us to partner with competitors at both national and international level.
The club enters teams into many competitions including BUCS.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/karate:
Karate at Loughborough provides two sections, Shotokan Karate and Wado Ryu Karate.
Both sections offer training for all levels, novice to pro martial artists alike.
At our karate club, we place a strong emphasis on Kumite (fighting) and Kata.
We train and compete under the World Karate Federation (WKF) rules.
Our primary goal is to create a fun, competitive, and respectful environment for individuals of all skill levels.
We offer comprehensive training programs that cater to beginners as well as experienced practitioners.
Whether you're just starting or looking to enhance your existing skills, our club provides a supportive atmosphere where you can grow and improve.
Our instructors are highly knowledgeable and passionate about karate.
They strive to instil discipline, self-confidence, and perseverance in our members while ensuring that safety remains a top priority during training and competitions.
Over the years, our club has achieved notable accomplishments in various tournaments and events such as BUCS and national competitions.
We take pride in the achievements of our members and encourage them to set ambitious goals, providing guidance and support every step of the way.
We offer 4 training sessions a week in the Martial Arts Centre (MAC) located on the university campus, Telford Way, Loughborough LE11 3UA.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/kart:
Kart at Loughborough provides a wide range of activities throughout the year from social events to our ultra-competitive Club Championship.
The Kart Club at Loughborough is a very friendly and social that carters for all.
The club activities fall into three main areas:
An inter-university karting championship, where our fastest members represent the university in ultra-competitive racing all over the UK.
Have you got previous racing experience?
We need you!
Contact us for more information.
This is our internal karting championship, using local circuits and open to all members.
Why not come along with friends, and see who really is the best driver?
These events cater to a wide range of abilities so you will always have someone to race against.
We own and maintains a fleet of Rotax Max Karts and have two new proposed event formats which offer a great opportunity for driver development.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/korfball:
Korfball is the newest AU club in Loughborough and you don’t want to miss out!
It is a unique, mixed-gendered sport that originates from the Netherlands, rapidly growing in interest and participation among the student population.
The great part about Korfball is that no previous experience or knowledge of the sport is needed, it’s new to almost everyone, so all you need is enthusiasm to try something new.
Korfball has similarities to netball, basketball and handball, but unlike these sports, almost everyone starts at the same level in this mixed-gendered sport, which allows you to learn and develop together.
So, whatever your sporting ability or background, Korfball welcomes all.
A team consists of 4 boys and 4 girls who are split into an attacking and defending division (2 boys and 2 girls in each).
All players have the opportunity to attack and defend as the divisions swap every 2 goals.
The overall aim of Korfball is to shoot the ball into the Korf (Dutch for basket) but to do this, the attacker must be 'free' from their defender by being more than an arm's distance away.
Korfball is played on an indoor court that is split into 2 halves.
Each post is positioned away from the edge of the court, allowing play to occur all around the post.
• Club – Monday 7-9 pm (SDW) • Club – Wednesday 2-4 pm (Netball Centre) • Team (Invite only) – Thursday 4-5.30 pm (SDW) • Matches - Sunday

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/kung-fu:
Kung Fu at Loughborough involves a mixture of traditional techniques, modern self-defence and fitness.
Everyone is welcome, from complete beginners to those with previous martial arts experience.
Loughborough Students' Kung Fu Club practice Hung Kuen Kung Fu which is a traditional Chinese martial art, and one of the five major southern styles of Chinese Kung Fu.
We compete in the Hung Kuen Five Animals Shaolin Kung Fu Championships alongside regular training; offering opportunities for beginners and more experienced members.
Trainings consist of general fitness and sparring, weapons and forms practice.
Our training takes place in Martial Arts Centre (MAC) twice a week led by our coaches: Tuesdays 20:30 - 22: 30 Sundays 11:00 - 13:00
and an optional, uncoached, slot for individual practice: Thursday 21:00 - 22:30

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/lacrosse:
Whether you are looking to play competitively, for fun, or just to learn a new sport then Lacrosse at Loughborough is for you.
Loughborough University Lacrosse club is currently ranked 12th in the UK University sports leagues (BUCS).
The men’s and women’s teams both take part in BUCS, playing on Wednesday afternoons, and the mixed team play on Sundays.
The University currently has 3 men’s and 4 women’s teams competing in BUCS leagues with a number of players competing at an international level, along with a large beginner programme for those who are new to the sport.
Our First Team players receive expert coaching, individual and team video analysis, access to world class facilities, strength and conditioning training as well as physiotherapy, performance nutrition and sport science support.
Women’s 1st Team Coach: Heather Macrae - currently the Joint Head Coach of the U19 Scotland National Team and plays for the Scottish National Women’s Team.
Men’s 1st Team Coach: Matt Nadin - 8 years of lacrosse experience behind him; most recently playing with the Welsh National Squad in 2021 and now coaching the English Universities’ Team in 2022.
Up to 4 times per week on EHB Sportsturf
The men’s section at Loughborough has expanded over recent years to comprise of two BUCS teams and a large beginner's programme.
The women have three BUCS teams and a beginner's team, with each team having their own specific training programme planned by coaches, captains and the club committee.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/lifesaving:
Lifesaving at Loughborough has a strong social and productive work ethic.
If you are passionate about swimming or lifesaving and you want to gain experience to develop your skills, then Lifesaving at Loughborough is for you.
Loughborough Students Lifesaving Club is a friendly, mixed ability club with both Performance and Development Squads.
We cater for all abilities, with members who have previously never heard of the sport, to athletes competing on the international stage.
We also have a strong social scene with great themes and great people that builds a fantastic atmosphere within the club.
We are a fun, welcoming club that train together multiple times per week.
We do 'dry' training as well as 'wet' training.
Our dry training consists of 'SERCS'- emergency scenarios that are set up where other members of the club act out an injury each and a team of 4 (a captain and 3 team mates) enter the room and aim to treat each casualty correctly and within the time limit.
The wet training consists of 'wet SERCS' (the same thing as dry SERCS but in the pool) as well as swimming training.
The swim coaches write swim sets for each session that involve normal lengths, lifesaving specific lengths (manakin carry, obs, warm ups and cool downs etc).
Lifesaving is a unique sport, incorporating both swimming events and first aid scenarios.
If you want to experience an exciting new sport and be part of an extremely successful lifesaving club, then this is the team for you!
We don't have a set number of teams and teams can change for each competition and in training so you get to work with a range of people.
The head coach and coaches will put everyone into teams of 4 according to capabilities for competitions.
Currently, the club trains on Mondays 7-9:30pm, Tuesdays: group 1 train from 6-7pm and group 2 from 7-8pm, Wednesdays 10:45-11:45am and 6:30-8pm, Thursdays group 2 train from 6-7pm and group 1 train from 7-8pm, Fridays 6-8pm, Saturdays 5:15-6:30am and Sundays 2:30-4pm

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/mixed-martial-arts:
Mixed Martial arts at Loughborough provides professionally instructed classes, offer a brilliant new challenge and an opportunity to make friends whilst keeping yourself fit and healthy.
Mixed Martial Arts (more commonly known as MMA) is a combat sport that utilises the aspects of many other martial arts disciplines.
This modern sport merges Boxing, Kickboxing, Wrestling and Brazilian Jiu Jitsu, and has become one of the most popular sports in recent years.
MMA is a combat sport involving various techniques and combat sports from across the globe through striking, wrestling and ground work.
Loughborough Students' MMA Club offers an opportunity for both beginner and experienced fighters to train and develop.
The Club and our coach Jimmy tailor training to members needs; developing fitness, sparring and tactical abilities.
Our club is open to everyone, from complete beginners to advanced martial artists.
Don’t worry if you have reservations about being a beginner, as our instructors will adapt the training sessions to you as an individual and you will never do anything you feel uncomfortable with.
Most of our classes contain an element of conditioning, which is designed to increase your cardiovascular endurance, core strength, and muscular endurance.
Please note that all of our classes are progressive and every activity and skill can be adapted to suit your specific level.
A typical week would look like:
Monday - Striking (coached) Tuesday - Wrestling (coached) Wednesday - Open mat (uncoached) Friday - Brazilian Jiu Jitsu (coached) Saturday - Open mat (uncoached)

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/mountaineering:
Mountaineering at Loughborough is for anyone who enjoys climbing, walking, mountain biking, skiing, alpine climbing, ice climbing, and bouldering.
It is safe to say that we have something on offer for everyone, no matter what level you are.
As a club we take part in a wide range of mountaineering activities.
These include both indoor and outdoor activities.
The main sport the club focuses on is bouldering, club members climb at the Climbing Station in Loughborough weekly where there is a range of set climbs, all at different levels, making the centre accessible to any level of climber.
As well as this, members try to go outdoor bouldering when possible.
Club trips are run throughout the year to help introduce new members and provide the experience to outdoor climbing and outdoor pursuit activities.
On these trips we aim to find opportunities for both indoor and outdoor bouldering, trad climbing, top rope climbing and hiking.
The club competes in the annual BUCs competition where 5 males and 5 females from the club are selected to compete.
In addition to this, we also compete at more regional competitions as well as the casual competitions put on by the Climbing Station.
For these competitions teams are not selected and any member of the club can take part.
There are two structured training sessions each week, that all member can attend, these focus on strength and conditioning and core and flexibility.
We also meet on Wednesdays at the climbing station where there is opportunity for a limited number of club members to have sessions lead by a qualified climbing instructor, these sessions focus on different aspects on climbing helping to improve climbing technique.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/muaythaikickboxing:
Muay Thai & Kickboxing at Loughborough has something to offer to everyone; boxer, kickboxer, beginner or advanced.
It is a great way to improve your fitness, confidence and to make you a better all-round fighter.
We are student led Muay Thai and Kickboxing club that focuses on technique, sparring, strength, conditioning and fight preparation.
We cater to all abilities whether that is pro fighters or people who have never touched boxing gloves.
We spar and compete in fights/ fight nights however there is no pressure to spar or compete.
We have a large range of experience as a club including members who have fought in Thailand and represented their country in martial arts.
Our main philosophy is to hit pads hard, not each other (unless both parties agree).
We train lots but there is no pressure to attend every session that is run.
As a beginner joining we will focus on stance, beginner techniques, sparring techniques and fitness.
Last year we won many of the beginner categories at nationals for both male and female categories at all weight ranges.
As an intermediate we will focus on sparring techniques, fitness & conditioning, sweeps and more advanced techniques.
Last year we took many intermediate kickboxers and progressed them throughout the year to be able to compete in advanced categories at nationals with many winning their fights.
We currently don’t have ‘teams’ or ‘trials’ as we believe everyone should be able to try any sport at any level.
We do, however, have categories.
Those being:
If you are unsure of your category we are more than happy to evaluate and place you in a category.
As a beginner or intermediate member you will be able to compete at nationals as fight matches are based completely on skill level.
As advanced or expert you will also be able to compete at higher levels at nationals and outside of the club in UK wide competitions as yourself and committee see fit.
All levels will spar each other (if you feel comfortable sparring) as this advances all levels.
We hit pads hard, not each other.
We train as one big group as we have a very good social community within the club.
If you have any further questions please contact committee.
We train 5 times a week currently.
These are as follows:
* Monday (MAC: 20:30-22:30) * Wednesday (MAC: 16:30-18:30) * Thursday (MAC: 17:00-19:00) * Friday (Power-base or MAC: 18:30-20:30) * Sunday (MAC open mat: 10:00-14:30)
A training schedule will be posted on Sunday night or Monday morning for the week with each session plan and what we will be doing.
You can attend none or all sessions per week (providing you have booked on the app).
We have members who have never missed a session and members who come to one session a month, its completely up to you.
Kickboxing is also available through the My Lifestyle initiative, where you can give the sport a go and have loads of fun at the same time.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/netball:
​Loughborough is the home of England Netball and plays host to a comprehensive development programme for both students and non-students.
We have numerous squads to suit all abilities, from professional to beginner, so everyone is welcome!
Loughborough Sport has joined forces with leading sports equipment provider, Rhino.
Loughborough Lightning Netball are pleased to reveal that Lightning stalwart Lauren Nicholls and rising academy talent Alex Johnson will join the squad for 2023 as additional training partners.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/orienteering:
Orienteering at Loughborough caters for all abilities from novices to experienced runners.
The Orienteering club at Loughborough competes in all BUCS competitions and frequently attends regional competitions.
Training is mainly cardio based with some technical elements too.
Sessions are held throughout the week and are based around campus.
All sessions are led by student volunteers and all kit is provided by the club.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/polo:
Polo at Loughborough is a great way to carry on horse riding whilst at University, and our aim is to provide you with a great social and sporting experience.
We cater for all abilities, so both beginners and advanced riders are welcome.
Polo is a team sport played on horseback.
The objective of the sport is to score goals against an opposing team, where players score by driving a small plastic or wooden ball into the opposing team’s goal.
This is done by using a long-handled mallet.
Each polo team consists of four riders and their mounts.
Our club is open to anyone, and no riding experience is necessary.
Throughout the year there are 3 main tournaments, which are attended by universities from across the UK to become the national champions.
These are great weekends with lots of socialising between universities.
Alongside these tournaments we have inter-club and varsity matches, so there are lots of opportunities for members to represent Loughborough!We also enter many other tournaments and friendlies throughout the year so there is always an opportunity to compete.
We typically have 3 to 4 teams from complete beginners through to more experienced.
Every tournament is divided depending on experience, allowing everyone that wants to an opportunity to play in matches
We train at Leadenham Polo Club, located 50 minutes from Loughborough.
Each group travels to the venue together and petrol is covered by the club.
Lessons are available up to 2 times a week with the option of weekly chukkas (matches) available too.
It is entirely up to each member how often/little you want to attend training.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/powerlifting-weightlifting:
Powerlifting & Weightlifting at Loughborough caters for any skill level, from novice to international athletes.
Whether you want to compete or just have fun don’t hesitate to join us!
The Powerlifting & Weightlifting enters teams at age-group senior national championship standard and regional competitions.
The club is made up of four teams, Weightlifting Competition Squad, Weightlifting Development Squad, Powerlifting Competition Squad & Powerlifting Development Squad.
Loughborough Students' Powerlifting & Weightlifting Club train in the amazing Powerbase Gym on campus.
The Club can cater for all; from beginners to international athletes.
The Club currently compete in inter-university and age-group national and regional competitions.
As a club we value athletes who show commitment, drive and a want to compete/improve as an athlete.
We want to add value to your Loughborough experience by offering a community of like minded people who want to get better and have fun while doing so.
Come be a part of Loughborough's strongest club, we can't wait to see you!
Powerlifting:
Weightlifting:
*Times include both performance and development team training sessions.
Sessions are not 4 hours long!
In order to become a member of either our development or performance squad for the Powerlifting and Weightlifting Club you must take part in our trial process.
If you are looking to become a member, come and visit our stall at the freshers Bazaar.
Here you can complete one of our sign up forms.
Our committee will then review these forms and email you an invite to the appropriate trial session at a later date.
Here you will show off your lifts by completing RPE 7 singles or singles at around 90% of your maxes.
During these sessions the committee will be looking at your enthusiasm for the sport, commitment to training, technique and strength.
If you are successful you will recieve an email outlining which squad you have been selected for and the next steps in the process.
Please note, you can apply to and trial for both sports, but if selected you can only join either Powerlifting or Weightlifting, not both!

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/rowing:
Rowing at Loughborough offers a friendly, competitive and social environment and caters for novice, intermediate and elite level rowers.
Whether you are looking to challenge yourself with something new, or striving to earn a GB vest, we have what it takes to help you.
We are a completely student run club based at the local boat club, Loughborough Boat club.
We enter all BUCS events, heads including WEHORR and regattas including Marlow and Henley.
Being a student run club we organise, coach and select our own crews.
Our members have come from all backgrounds from GB U23s to complete novices, to create a passionate and close-knit squad.
We currently have approximately 80 members with six teams divided into Novice Men and Women, Intermediate Men and Women and Senior Men and Women.
Depending on which squad you are in, we train three to six times per week on the water plus additional land training.
We mainly train at Loughborough Boat Club with trips to Nottingham, as well as using campus facilities.
Some members also train at Nottingham Rowing club and as part of the GB start programme.
We also encourage you to compete in rowing for your hall in IMS, as there are plenty of opportunities to represent your hall throughout the year.
You compete against other halls, and it’s a great way to get involved in hall life and meet new people in a more social and less competitive environment.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/rugby-league:
Rugby League at Loughborough caters for all; from experienced to recreational rugby league players.
Loughborough Rugby League provides both a Men's and Women's team where both performance and recreational players are welcome to play with constant opportunities to develop into the 1st team.
The club's growth in recent years has allowed players to represent England Unis at various competitions and fixtures.
The mens club competes in the BUCS Southern Prem (1st team), Midlands tier 1 (2nd team), whilst also competing within the relevant BUCS cups.
Both teams also enter the BUCS 9's competitions which are held throughout the year.
The team train twice a week (Monday and Friday), with a weekly classroom session focussed on tactics and strategies.
There are further frequent sessions involving the martial arts centre available, which are utilized to develop wrestling and grappling skills paramount within Rugby League.
Find out more through socials and explore the men's team here , and the women's team here.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/rugby-union:
Loughborough Students RFC & Loughborough Lightning - Home to 10 teams and 400+ players
Loughborough Rugby is a world-class centre of excellence for rugby development in Higher Education.
Whether you’re at the top of your game or want to play for fun, we proudly deliver a programme that enables personal development and success both on and off the pitch.
As a club, we are proud of our track record in bringing players through the university system, into the professional game, and beyond.
To consistently identify, develop and produce the best individuals in Higher Education.
Our philosophy as a programme is that the ‘person’ is more important than the ‘player’; for those who are part of the programme, we promote social growth and educational success alongside rugby development.
To provide the highest quality coaching by qualified staff, giving each player the best opportunity to succeed.
To provide the most appropriate individual development, mentoring and support programs.
To provide the best possible facilities for our players to succeed.
To provide the opportunity for Loughborough students to continue in rugby or higher education.
Find out more about our Club.
All the info you need to support the Club.
Find out more about our history, our alumni and how to keep in touch.
Find out more about our Men's Rugby Union programme.
Find out more about our Women's Rugby programme.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/sailing-windsurfing:
Sailing and Windsurfing at Loughborough caters for all abilities from complete beginners to experienced sailors, so don’t hesitate to join us.
Sailing involves a variety of competitive formats that are sanctioned by different sailing federations and clubs.
Racing disciplines include matches within a fleet, between a pair or among teams and there are also additional competitions that include setting speed records.
Racing formats include both closed courses and point-to-point contests.
These may take place in sheltered waters, on the coast or in the open ocean.
Windsurfing is a water sport that combines elements of both surfing and sailing.
There are many categories you can compete in windsurfing, some of these include: Olympic Windsurfing, Slalom, Big Air, and Freestyle.
Our club is based at Burton Sailing Club on Foremark Reservoir, and we provide regular opportunities for you to sail and windsurf.
We offer introductory tuition including RYA levels 1 and 2 as well as team racing, so there is something for every ability and experience level.
Throughout the year, we compete in a number of team racing events all across the country and the BUCS championships, offering great sailing and social opportunities.
We also compete and host our own event called the Lemming.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/shooting:
Loughborough Students Shooting is open to people of all abilities, from novices to experienced shots.
The club can provide equipment for those who do not have their own.
It is not a requirement to have your own gun licence.
Loughborough Students Shooting Club is a club which is open to any ability and any level of interest in the sport of clay pigeon shooting.
The sport involves shooting a cartridge which contains many small lead balls or “shot” which disperse when fired towards a clay pigeon (which itself is released from a trap).
These clay pigeons depending on the trap settings can vary in speed, height, and direction.
The clay pigeon is also susceptible to the weather i.e.
wind, allowing for a quicker or larger variation of movement.
If the shooter has a direct hit on the clay it will disappear into a small cloud of clay in the air, or if a less direct hit occurs the clay will fracture into smaller pieces – however, a hit is a hit and if you miss, that is space for improvement, and we welcome all of these.
The club is fortunate to own 8 shotguns, which we shoot at ‘Lakeside Sporting’, the shooting club we go to every week.
Shooting is a very social sport and so as a club we love our socials.
We try to do a social every week and love to see as many people as possible going to them, as it is a perfect situation for you to catch up with people you may have not seen in a while and to also increase the number of people you know at Loughborough University.
Prices per shoot: To shoot 25 cartridges it will cost around £15.00 (breakdown: 25 cartridges £7.50 25 clays £7.25) To shoot 50 cartridges it will cost around £30.00 (breakdown: 50 Cartridges £15.00 50 clays £14.50) Exclaimer: you do not have to shoot every week – only when you want to.
We have no set fixed teams.
But when it comes to competing in BUCS we will select the best shooters for each team we are allowed to enter.
When it comes to friendly competitions e.g.
non-BUCS, it will be first come first served.
We train every Wednesday at ‘Lakeside Sporting’, about a 20-minute car journey from Loughborough University.If there is an interest in Rifle Shooting this year, we will arrange a training timetable with our Rifle Sec.
Exclaimer: ear plugs will be supplied for free if member does not have any.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/snow-sports:
Snow Sports at Loughborough caters for all abilities; from complete beginner to the freestyle pro and the British team racers.
If winter sports are your passion, you will definitely want to get involved.
Loughborough Students' Snowsports offers skiing and snowboarding, recreationally and competitively to its members.
The Club trains regularly with sessions consisting of race, freestyle and dry land or gym-based sessions.
If you are interested in competing ,we compete in both race and freestyle at BUCS, BUDS and even SASC in the Scottish Highlands.
On top of this our racers compete in the Kings racing league throughout the year against university’s all over the country.
The club runs Wednesday socials every other week and host après style events throughout the year, not to mention our ski trip we run yearly.
Whether you are a complete beginner or a seasoned ski bum we welcome everyone and cannot wait to meet you all for another amazing year.
We have the following teams:
Mens Ski Racing Team - BUCS, BUDS, SASC, KINGS.
Women's Ski Racing Team - BUCS, BUDS, SASC, KINGS, Mixed Ski Racing Team - BUCS, BUDS, SASC, KINGS.
Mixed Board Racing team - BUCS, BUDS, SASC, KINGS.
Mens Ski Freestyle -  BUCS, BUDS, SASC, KINGS.
Mens Snowboard Freestyle -  BUCS, BUDS, SASC, KINGS.
Women's Ski Freestyle - BUCS, BUDS, SASC, KINGS.
Women's Snowboard Freestyle - BUCS, BUDS, SASC, KINGS.
The Club trains on dry slope and artificial snow to ensure you get the best practice for competitions throughout the year.
The club train at Stoke dry slope twice a month, and Tamworth SnowDome once a month with 1 week off in between.
On top of this all freestylers train at Tamworth on a Tuesday weekly as well as the normal training.
The club offers strength and conditioning weekly for select members who compete throughout the year.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/squash:
Squash at Loughborough is all about success and progression, whether you want to train hard and compete or just have fun and keep fit, we cater for all.
Our performance Squash players benefit from Group coaching sessions, utilise world class facilities, have access to strength and conditioning coaches, nutrition and performance analysis.
They are also offered lifestyle support and our top athletes can receive scholarships.
Our club accommodates everyone, from recreational members to teams and with 70 members you will always be able to find others to play against with suitable abilities.
We are very friendly and encourage everyone to come and have a go.
We have five teams in total: Men’s 1st team, Men’s 2nd team, Men’s 3rd team, Women’s 1st team and Women’s 2nd team.
Our teams compete weekly in BUCS games against other universities and are involved with local leagues against teams in the area.
You don't need to be in one of the teams to enjoy the fun of a match.
We provide recreational leagues within the club along with our own internal club competitions, so there are plenty of chances to compete recreationally.
We also encourage you to compete in squash for your hall in IMS, as there are plenty of opportunities to represent your hall throughout the year.
Are you looking for squash coaching lessons from a qualified squash coach?
Please click the link below.
Get in touch with the Loughborough Squash team.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/sub-aqua:
With Sub Aqua at Loughborough you can safely enjoy the most thrilling, rewarding and challenging experiences that scuba diving has to offer.
Everyone is welcome, we offer qualifications for all levels of experience from complete beginners to experienced divers.
We are a BSAC affiliate club, training our members to a world-renowned standard with an instructor team of students and past members who are approachable and friendly.
Our membership includes full kit use, so there is no need to own any equipment to dive with us!
Throughout the year we offer opportunities to dive both in the UK and abroad.
In recent years, we have been to places such as Weymouth, Anglesey, Swanage, Croatia and Malta to explore some of the best diving spots in the world.
We train weekly on a Wednesday evening, offering lectures then pool skills at the University Swimming Pool.
Then we also train in open water at Stoney Cove, which is nearby and has a safe environment for students to learn.
We are a relaxed club with no strict training regimes, the only entry requirement is that you must be able to swim.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/swimming:
Loughborough Swimming is the leading senior programme in the UK.
We cater for a wide range of abilities from Olympians and World Championship medallists all the way to club level swimmers
Loughborough University offers a unique environment where students can achieve sporting and academic excellence and Loughborough Swimming is proud to be amongst the finest senior programmes in the world, with a global reputation for fast swimming.
We encourage you to compete in swimming for your halls of residence in IMS in our one day competition.
You compete against other halls, and these competitions are always great fun.
Our My Lifestyle classes are the perfect way to exercise, keep fit and try swimming for fun in an environment free from competition, expectation and commitment.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/table-tennis:
Table Tennis at Loughborough caters for players of all abilities; from the highest standard BUCS players to those who are looking for a much less competitive, social game.
Loughborough Students' Table Tennis Club has six teams competing in BUCS: four men's and two women's performance teams.
Our Men's 1's are in Division 1, Men's 2's and 3's are in Division 2 and Men's 4's are in Division 3.
Both the Women's 1's and 2's are in Division 1.
We also have 7 Loughborough League teams which are available for Performance and Development players.
Our success is evident, notably with our men's first team achieving recent BUCS gold.
In Loughborough and District Table Tennis League, student teams have previously triumphed in premier and first divisions.
Au Performance
AU Academy
AU Development
MyLifestyle
We encourage you to compete in table tennis for your halls, as there are numerous competitions available throughout the year.
Table tennis is also available recreationally through the My Lifestyle initiative.
The turn up and play programme is open to everyone.
There are no membership fees, you can just turn up and enjoy playing table tennis.
Indoor tables can be found in most halls as well as outdoor tables just outside the Hub in the student village.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/taekwondo:
Taekwondo at Loughborough offers classes for both beginners and experienced members as well as freestyle training sessions; so there is something available for all abilities.
Loughborough Students Taekwon-Do is a long-standing club formed in 1995 by senior members of the GTUK, one of the largest and most established independent groups for Taekwondo-Do in the UK.
We practice ITF style of Taekwondo, but welcome people from all martial arts backgrounds.
We cater to all levels from complete beginners to black belts.
We offer the opportunity to train with a senior International GTUK instructor alongside a full club up to five times a week.
We run separate classes every week for beginners and senior members as well as freestyle training session where you have time to practice whatever you have learned with our Club Captains.
Senior members are always available and willing to help.
The club actively encourages its members to take part in competitions throughout the year including BUCS, the GTUK National Championships, University Championships, and BUTL Nationals and World Championships.
Loughborough has a fantastic tradition of winning medals whenever we compete, long may it continue!
The club is an excellent way to make friends and meet new people.
We hold regular socials outside of training which is a great way for new members to get to know one another.
Anyone can enter any competition they wish, regardless of belt level or previous experience.
Loughborough has a fantastic tradition of winning medals whenever we compete, long may it continue!)
We train up to five times per week.
This usually includes 2 instructed sessions with our instructor, with one session split into beginners and seniors, and one combined session.
We also hold 3 free-training sessions, where members can practice whatever they want either individually or with guidance from our captains and any senior members leading their own sessions.
How to join
2 gold, 2 silver and 2 bronze medals at the 2019 International ITF competition

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/tennis:
Loughborough Tennis offers the opportunity to get involved with tennis across all levels, abilities, motivations and backgrounds.
Whether you are a beginner, competitive player or aspiring to work within tennis our programmes offer you the opportunity to enjoy tennis and develop your skills.
The academy delivers a pro-style, interdisciplinary training environment tailored specifically to prepare players for the demands of pro tennis.
Find out more about Loughborough student tennis opportunities.
Learn more about our coaching team.
See our latest BUCS team members.
Click here to book a court for hire online
Individual, one-to-one lessons and coaching
"Loughborough tennis caters for all aspects of student tennis, from high level performance players through to developing the next generation of tennis workforce.
Loughborough is one of the leading tennis facilities in the UK which continues to attract many high profile players and coaches to the centre on a regular basis"
Loughborough Alumni
Loughborough Student
Teenager Mika Stojsavljevic became the first Briton in 15 years to win the US Open Girls’ title after a dominant 6-4 6-4 victory over Wakana Sonobe in New York.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/touch-rugby:
Loughborough Students' Touch Rugby Club compete in various tournaments and competitions across the country and in Europe.
The Club is an O2 Centre and caters for people of all abilities, from novice to international level athletes.
We are a mixed club, with both performance and social members.
We want to facilitate a competitive and inclusive student sporting environment that nurtures the development of each individual within a club towards their ambition in physical activity and personal development.
Last year we took 2 mixed teams to the UTC tournaments (both North and National).
Our 1s team came 2nd overall in the top league.
We train 4 times a week- our training slots are:

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/trampolining:
Trampolining at Loughborough caters for everyone, from novice to elite so we encourage all abilities to join!
Loughborough Students' Trampoline club is an inclusive club which encourages all abilities to join and get involved.
We offer training in DMT (Double Mini Trampoline) as well as trampoline.
There are opportunities to compete, but it is not necessary if people just want to train for fun!
We currently have around 90 members and have teams ranging from beginners to elite.
For our more experienced individuals, there are opportunities to compete in BUCS and League competitions, as well as the Northern England Universities Trampoline league (NEUT).
NEUT competitions also allow anyone at any level to get involved.
We usually enter the Irish Students Trampoline Open as well as the Scottish Students Trampoline Open each year.
There are 4 sessions a week which include 6 trampolines, a DMT and the rig.
There will also be an additional pit session using the gymnastics centre.
Lat year we gained 3 individual medals, a synchro medal, a team medal and 6 individual finalists
Trampolining is also available through the My Lifestyle initiative, where you can give the sport a go and have loads of fun at the same time.
Get in touch with the Loughborough ​Trampoline team.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/triathlon:
If you have ambitions to be part of the triathlon community in Loughborough please complete the attached form.
Loughborough Triathlon Performance Centre (LTPC) is a performance focused training environment with the ultimate aim of developing Senior Olympic and Paralympic triathletes to the highest level.
LTPC is a high performance squad for those that show real commitment to succeeding in triathlon.
There is a limit to the number of athletes in this squad in order to give the individual attention we believe is paramount to realise potential.
The Loughborough Triathlon club is an inclusive and welcoming club.
Teams compete at BUCS events as well as age-group national series competitions.
Training involves frequent sessions through the week, making the most of Loughborough’s world class track, swimming pool and gym facilities.
For more information on how to join our club, come and visit us at the Loughborough University Sports Bazaar on campus on Saturday 28th September 2024.
It was a busy weekend of racing for Loughborough triathletes last weekend with athletes from all squads taking part in their first draft legal races of the year, in addition to the BUCS non-drafting Olympic distance triathlon.
Academics from Loughborough University have helped devise a comprehensive report that will benefit triathletes and paratriathletes in their preparation to compete under hot and humid conditions – like those predicted at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/ultimate-frisbee:
Ultimate Frisbee at Loughborough caters for complete beginners up to more experienced players and there are lots of ways you can get involved.
Our club is one of the best in the country at this fast paced game played by men and women.
Our team, known as 'Haze', regularly compete in men's, mixed and women's tournaments, including BUCS, across the country.
We have multiple teams who train indoors and outdoors up to five times a week.
Beginner and experienced teams get an indoor session each with experienced players also having a dedicated outdoor session and then an open to all outdoor session.
For beginners, there are many tournaments at the start of the year where you can compete against other beginners from other universities.
It is a great opportunity to try something new.
Ultimate Frisbee is a great way to keep fit whilst having fun.
We encourage you to compete in Ultimate frisbee for your halls of residence in Intramural sport (IMS) competitions throughout the year.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/volleyball:
Volleyball at Loughborough offers an extensive programme giving you the chance to maximise your development or just have fun.
Volleyball is a team sport in which two teams of six players are separated by a net on a court.
Each team tries to score points by grounding a ball on the other team’s court under extensive organised rules.
Volleyball has been a part of Summer Olympic programme since 1964.
We have 2 mens and two womens team.
Our teams compete at four league levels, University, National, Regional and Local, excelling in all of them.
We have had a lot of success at the National Shield, at BUCS and have also had members represent at the European Universities Volleyball Championships.
Many of the students joining the club and alumni have represented their country in international competition as well.
At National level, both our men’s and women’s teams compete in the second division and battle for promotion into division one.
We train 1-3 times a week in Sir David Wallace sports hall and we cater for all levels, beginner's to National level athletes.
We encourage you to compete in volleyball for your halls of residence in IMS competitions held throughout the year.
You compete in mixed teams against other halls, and these competitions are always great fun.
Volleyball is also available through the My Lifestyle initiative, where you can give the sport a go and have loads of fun at the same time.
Don't forget, we have our own Beach Park on campus where you can play beach volleyball!
Get in touch with the Loughborough Volleyball team.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/wakeboard-waterski:
Wakeboard and Waterski at Loughborough caters for various ability levels from complete beginner to experienced and there are plenty of ways you can get involved.
Loughborough wakeboard offers riders of any level to come out and ride.
We visit cable parks as often as possible to get everyone out on the water that have everything you’d need no matter your level.
The cable parks offer training and members of the club are always willing to share knowledge with beginners.
We’re a very close community and everyone would feel welcomed!

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/water-polo:
Water Polo at Loughborough caters for all abilities.
We encourage new students to come and try this amazing sport, you are guaranteed to have a great time.
Water polo is a competitive sport played in the water between two teams.
The game consists of four quarters, where the two teams attempt to score goals by throwing the ball into their opponent’s goal.
Each team is made up of six field players and one goalkeeper.
The club competes in BUCS throughout the year and with both men's and women's squads overall we have approximately 60 members.
Two years running we have been close to a promotion and this year as a club we are more determined than ever.
Our men's team and women's team cater for all abilities, so do not hesitate to tag along to one of our taster sessions as we have space available for everyone.
We train five days per week, with additional swimming, running, or gym sessions also undertaken by most members.
You can compete in water polo for your halls of residence in Intramural sport (IMS) in competitions throughout the year.
It’s a great way to get involved in hall life and meet new people in a more social and less competitive environment.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/sports/wheelchair-basketball:
Wheelchair Basketball at Loughborough offers an inclusive programme giving you the chance to maximise your development, try something new or just have fun.
The AU Wheelchair Basketball club is especially unique because it is the first of its kind to drive for greater inclusivity within Loughborough Sport, as part of the Parasport Initiative.
This means that anyone regardless of experience or ability, can play, learn new skills and positively contribute to the club’s growth.
Also, we are excited to announce that for those of you who enjoy the competitive spotlight, Loughborough Students Wheelchair Basketball looks to sharpen the competitive edge for sporting excellence by being freshly introduced into the BUCS programme.
Our club prides itself on a culture of progressive learning and enjoyment which acts to embrace diversity as a core strategy to optimise learning and performance.
For this to happen and for you to reap the full benefits of what our Wheelchair Basketball Club has to offer, we ask for your co-operation and commitment to the Club’s success, starting by attending our taster sessions.
Look out for us at the Freshers’ Bazaar during Freshers for further details on how to get involved!
We would greatly appreciate your feedback as this is critical for us to improve the quality and success of the club.
We look forward to having you as part of the AU Loughborough Students Wheelchair Basketball Club!
You can compete for your halls of residence in a free Wheelchair Basketball One Day Event on campus.
This is a chance for student to get involved in wheelchair basketball and an opportunity to be scouted for the Athletic Union (AU) club.
This fun and inclusive session is open to anyone of any ability, who wants to give wheelchair basketball a go!
Our sessions are led by a qualified Activator who will teach you the basics and have you playing with confidence in no time.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/hosting-elite-sport:
Loughborough University is a recognised Elite Training Environment with one of the largest concentrations of world-class sports facilities in the UK.
Loughborough is a unique, elite-level sports environment catering to the needs of multiple sports and National Governing Bodies.
We have hosted multiple elite-level training camps and competitions where teams have benefited from our:
When the opportunity came up to train at Loughborough we jumped at the chance because of the reputation it has.
And we haven't been disappointed.
Our campus is the ideal location to host your elite training camps or events.
We create bespoke packages for our clients who benefit from our outstanding facilities and on-site accommodation.
We can offer clients unique services and support utilising our performance support teams, altitude training and living, heat acclimation training and high-performance coaching.
You will be supported on campus by our experienced teams who have worked with clients from across the world of sport.
Our campus is home to some of the UK's best multi-sport facilities, including:
It's world-class, there's no doubt about it.
The football pitches are great, the gyms are great, the hotel and the food has been magnificent.
We have three on-campus hotels, Burleigh Court, the Link and the Elite Athlete Centre and Hotel.
The Elite Athlete Centre and Hotel is a world-class venue that promotes rest, relaxation, and the pursuit of excellence.
The only hotel in the UK designed specifically for elite athletes.
Burleigh Court is an award winning 4 star hotel and conference centre located metres away from Holywell Stadium.
Contact our team now to find out more about what we can offer.
Contact our team now to find out more about our Covid secure sports campus.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/app:
Your ultimate all access pass

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/athletes-global-stage:
0 days
Last updated: 8 September 2024
Follow the successes of Loughborough-linked athletes, coaches and practitioners who have been selected to represent their country.
Loughborough closes out the Paralympic Games with 19 medals as Kramer nets gold for the Netherlands.
Okoh wins bronze in dramatic Women's 100m T63 final on the penultimate night at the Paris Paralympics.
There was a flurry of Loughborough medals on day nine of the Paralympic Games.
Loughborough athletes take brilliant medals in Para powerlifting at La Chapelle Arena in Paris.
Holl and Newson claim superb double silver success in cycling and Para powerlifting respectively.
Tully Kearney finishes 5th in the Women’s S5 50m Backstroke Final.
Loughborough athletes delivered three incredible Paralympic medals in a busy day of triathlon action.
Lightning Cycling’s Jenny Holl wins stunning gold at the velodrome and Canda’s Lakatos takes silver in the Men’s T53 Final.
This Summer, join us in celebrating our athletes' success on the global stage using #Lboro2Paris

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/news/2025/august/futsal-headcoach-appointed:
Jan’s connection to futsal began at Grimsby Town Foundation, where he combined his studies with a successful playing career in the EFL’s Futsal Games.
His passion for the sport brought him to Loughborough in 2018 to study Applied Sports Science, where he also trained with the International Futsal Academy and became a key player for Loughborough Students Futsal.
During his time as a student, Jan celebrated two BUCS titles, coached development squads, and played a pivotal role in the growth of the Women’s Futsal programme — leading the teams from the sidelines and helping to nurture a strong culture of excellence and progression within the women’s game at Loughborough.
His coaching journey — spanning men’s and women’s futsal, from youth through to performance level — reflects his ability to inspire, mentor and bring the best out of those he works with.
His appointment is set to create an environment where players can thrive and continue to push the boundaries of the game at Loughborough Students and the International Futsal Academy.
Richard Allen, Director of Football adds:-
“Jan’s appointment is an exciting step for our futsal programme.
He knows first-hand what it means to be part of the Loughborough environment and has already shown his ability to coach successfully across both the men’s and women’s game.
With his experience at national and European level, Jan is well-placed to drive the programme forward and help us continue to develop players and teams who can perform at the very highest level.”
“At Loughborough Futsal and the IFA we are not only committed to developing players but also developing the next generation of futsal coaches in the UK too.
So we are therefore absolutely delighted that Jan, one of our graduates, will now be helping to shape the players and coaches of the future in his new role as Head Coach”, added Sam Skubala from the IFA.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/news/2025/august/steggle-signs-lightning-football:
Loughborough Lightning player, Charlotte Steggles
Charlotte joins us, having previously played for Nottingham Forest and Derby County Women.
While at Forest, she won the FAWNL Northern Premier Division and the League Cup, playing alongside our current vice-captain, Georgia Hewitt.
Steggles says, “I am looking forward to starting with the team.
I couldn’t thank Charlie and the team enough.
Coming in injured, they have looked after me and welcomed me into the group.
The environment was key for me, so being in and around a team that is positive and wants to move the club forward was really important to me.
I can’t wait to get started and hopefully return on the pitch soon.”
In addition to her ability to play across the pitch, Charlotte brings proven leadership qualities, experience, and a winning mentality that will strengthen our squad as we begin our 25/26 campaign.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/news/2025/august/lightning-new-signings-2025-26:
Loughborough Lightning player, Lucy Cooper
Doris Greenwood returns to Lightning following a season with Cheltenham Town in the FAWNL Tier 3 South.
Before her time at Cheltenham, Greenwood was a key figure at Lightning, making 36 appearances across two seasons.
Reflecting on her return, Greenwood said, “I’m so excited to be back with Lightning, the club had amazing facilities, management and a homely environment that stands out to me.
I’m happy to be back playing with some amazing teammates.
Bring on the new season!”
Becky Hogg joins from Derby County, bringing Tier 3 experience and returning to familiar territory.
The former Loughborough University student spent three seasons with County and is known for her versatility across defence and midfield.
Hogg said on her move to Lightning, “I’m excited to be part of this club.
The team have been welcoming and the environment is something I will thrive in.
I’m looking forward to what’s ahead, and I’m ready to hit the ground running.”
Lucy Cooper, a former forward for Moneyfields and Bournemouth, is another exciting addition to the squad.
Cooper netted 19 goals in 28 appearances for Bournemouth during the 2023/24 season, narrowly missing out on the league title to Exeter City.
She then moved to Moneyfields, where she added six goals in 12 games.
Speaking on her arrival at Lightning, Cooper shared, “I am super excited to join Lightning!
The girls and staff have been really welcoming, and it’s going to be the perfect environment for me to learn and develop.
I look forward to pushing myself and giving my best for the team, and can’t wait to see what this season will bring.”
With these three signings, Lightning strengthen their squad with proven talent, experience, and fresh energy as they set their sights on a competitive Tier 3 campaign.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/events/2025/lightning-vs-sale-sharks-2025:
Loughborough Lightning will kick off their 2025/26 season on home turf next month, with tickets for their PWR Cup fixture nows on sale now.
After a six-month break following the conclusion of the 2024/25 Premiership Women’s Rugby season, Lightning are back in competitive action on Saturday 23 August, taking on Sale Sharks in the Premier Women’s Rugby Cup.
With cinch Stadium at Franklin’s Gardens unavailable due to hosting the 2025 Women’s Rugby World Cup, this is a unique opportunity to experience elite Premiership Women’s Rugby live on campus at Loughborough University.
Lightning’s second cup game will also be played at Loughborough University on Saturday 6 September against Saracens.
Tickets are on sale now
Tickets will also be available on match days (card payment only).
Season Ticket Holders for the 2025/26 campaign can attend this fixture free of charge - provide your name and show ID on arrival.
Season Tickets are still available, starting from £65 for adults and £30 for juniors and can be purchased from the Northampton Saints website.
Lightning vs Sale Sharks - Saturday 23 August, 12pm kick off Lightning vs Saracens - Saturday 6 September, 2pm kick off

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/support-services:
Our Performance Support Team provide specialist support from a range of scientific disciplines to develop performance of our top athletes and teams here at Loughborough University, as well as visiting athletes.
Our aligned, inter-disciplinary approach to athletic performance has helped to create an unrivalled sporting legacy.
As well as elite and professional sports people from a wide variety of sports, we also work with members of the public, keen amateur athletes, people taking on extreme challenges, and business people.
We aim to provide cutting-edge support at the highest level, no matter your sport, background or goals.
Drawing on a wide range of our services, Loughborough Sport Support Services can build a tailored programme of sessions and testing to help you get the most out of your training.
If you are an individual or team looking to gain more information, knowledge and data to help improve your training and competition get in touch to discuss your bespoke testing package now.
We have a wide range of experts and expertise in everything from Heat , Altitude , Cycling, Triathlon , Motorsports and more.
We reached out to Loughborough University based on their work with other major sporting organisations, and the team provided us with clear, simple advice on what would be best for our riders.
After testing at the beginning of the off-season period, both riders reported that the facilities and support which Loughborough provided was world-class.
We keep up to date with the latest research and carry out our own applied research projects, supported by undergraduate and postgraduate students within the School of Sport Exercise and Health Sciences.
We have ever-strengthening links with the School of Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences, which allows us to engage with many of Loughborough’s sector-leading academics and apply their findings to our delivery across a variety of sports.
Some of our staff are also directly involved in research through carrying out applied PhDs or through integrated roles across departments.
This gives athletes and coaches alike the confidence that everything we do is grounded in science, leaving no stone unturned.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/performance/lightning/cycling:
Loughborough Lightning is one of the UK's leading women cycling teams.
Lightning cycling have a range of sponsorship and partnership opportunities available to help take our unique team to UCI continental level in 2024!
Loughborough Lightning is the women’s elite national road team based at Loughborough University, comprised of both current student-athletes and and non-university riders.
We are competing at top UK domestic level in the national road, circuit and tour series, and competed in several UCI races in Belgium and Italy in the 2023 season.
Loughborough University underpinned its commitment to women’s sport with the launch of the new Lightning Cycling franchise in 2021.
Elite Development Team
Check out this year's team.
See the full list of races and competitions.
Find out more about our upcoming events.
Learn more about our University Performance Cycling Academy
“The path to the pinnacle of world sport is not an easy one for any aspiring young athlete.
For too long cycling culture has held the dogmatic belief that elite cycling and higher education are not compatible, and that talented young people must choose between education and sporting careers.
I have no hesitation in saying that what we are doing at Loughborough University is ground-breaking, culture-challenging, and paradigm-shifting.
Through Loughborough Lightning we are re-engineering the fabrics of how cycling teams of the future will operate.
With the creation of the new Women’s Tour de France, there has never been a more exciting time to be pushing the boundaries of possibilities for women's sport on the world stage, backed by world-leading research, development and innovation at Loughborough University.”
Our team enjoys the un-parralled coaching and performance support of the Loughborough Cycling Academy, ensuring every rider reaches their potential.
We utilize the multi-sport ecosystem across campus, with access to world class training facilities.
Our team benefits from close collaborations with Loughborough Universities academic schools across sport science, aero-engineering, sports technology and data science.
Lightning Cycling is open to both Loughborough University students and non-students.
Current or prospective students should apply through the Loughborough Cycling Academy application form.
All other applicants should apply through the link below, and send a copy of their cycling CV to d.nichols@lboro.ac.uk.
Applications for the 2024 season are now open.
Loughborough’s performance cyclists returned home with 13 medals after a hugely impressive British National Track Championships in Manchester.
Make sure you look the part whilst watching Loughborough Lightning this season in our brand new merchandise range.
With vibrant coloured hoodies and replica tops, you will feel part of the Lightning family instantly.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/performance/lightning/football:
Loughborough Lightning Women FC was established in the 2021-2022 season, and compete in the FA Women’s National League Division 1 Midlands and FA Cup.
We proudly represent Loughborough University as part of the Loughborough Lightning family.
Our campus is the home to world-class female sport.
The Lightning family includes Netball, Cycling, Rugby and Wheelchair Basketball.
We are committed to women’s high-performance sport and will lead the way in innovation, collaboration and development for women’s football.
See the full list of fixtures and results and buy your tickets here
Click here to meet our 2024/2025 season Lightning playing squad
How the Lightning Football Team was established
We pride ourselves on an inclusive performance offer and aim to be the number 1 destination for dual career footballers.
Browse our industry-leading facilities and those available to our Lightning squad.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/performance/lightning/netball:
Match report
While the 2025 season has drawn to a close, the countdown has already begun for the electrifying return of Loughborough Lightning in February 2026!
Time to go:
Show your support with our Lightning sport clothing and merchandise!
Perfect for fans who want to wear their team pride, ideal for game day or everyday wear.
We’re excited to introduce our new netball team for the upcoming season!
With a blend of experience and fresh talent, they’re ready to bring energy and determination to every game.
Let’s cheer them on to a successful season!
Copyright © 2025 Loughborough Lightning

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/performance/lightning/wheelchair-basketball:
Loughborough Lightning Wheelchair Basketball are the East Midlands number one female para-sport side competing in the British Wheelchair Basketball Women's Premier League.
Founded in 2022, Wheelchair Basketball are the latest addition to Loughborough Lightning's increasing portfolio of world class female sports teams.
Competing in the British Wheelchair Basketball Women's Premier League, Lightning are one of four sides who compete in the world's first ever female para-sport league.
Boasting a wealth of Paralympians, internationals and rising talent, the 2024 squad are getting ready to defend their back-to-back historic titles, after they won the first ever WPL league and play offs going unbeaten throughout the season.
Famous for it's fun, exciting and family-friendly match day experience, Loughborough Sport would like to invite you to join us and witness Wheelchair Basketball live for the first time on campus this year!
Tickets are on sale now and can be bought through the link below.
Find out more about our 2023 squad
Show your support for Lightning Wheelchair Basketball
Loughborough Lightning’s Wheelchair Basketball side’s quest for a fourth straight title will begin on Saturday 18 January with a trip to Worcester Wolves (tip-off, 5 pm).
Loughborough Lightning’s Wheelchair Basketball side continued its phenomenal dominance in the Women’s Premier League (WPL) by winning a third consecutive title on Saturday evening.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/national-sports-partners:
Loughborough University is the hub for sport in the UK, with a number of sports governing bodies choosing to base themselves on our East Midlands campus.
With our High Performance Athletics Centre acting as their National Centre, the governing body for athletics have made our campus their home.
Making the most of our state of the art facilities, you will regularly see Olympic & Paralympic medallists on campus striving for athletic perfection.
Similar to British Athletics, the national governing body for swimming make use of our Olympic size pool and world class gym facilities, with Loughborough based swimmers regularly winning Olympic and World titles, and breaking world records.
British Swimming and Swim England also have offices at SportPark.
Loughborough is one of two homes of triathlon in the UK, with the Loughborough Triathlon Performance Centre squad making use of our world class facilities.
British Triathlon's Head Office is also at SportPark.
With their own area of Powerbase, our sector leading strength and conditioning gym, weightlifting are a regular presence on campus, with Olympic and Paralympic athletes on site daily.
With a state of the art, purpose build cricket centre in the middle of campus, the ECB have made Loughborough there home for more than a decade.
This facility is used by our leading students as well as some of the world's best players.
The Red Roses have made Loughborough University their year round base, with the Netball-Badminton Centre and Powerbase Gym their hubs.
England Netball have also recently relocated to SportPark.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/sport/work-with-us/partners:
Kukri is an international sportswear manufacturer for over 100 different sports, supplying bespoke teamwear to our athletes.
Technogym and Loughborough Sport have together created a Centre of Excellence within the already sector-leading Powerbase gym.
Hudl is a leading performance analysis company revolutionising the way coaches and athletes prepare for and stay ahead of the competition.
A leading independent provider of IT infrastructure services and Loughborough Men’s and Lightning Rugby partner.
SIS Pitches is a global pitch provider, specialising in natural, synthetic and hybrid pitches for some of the biggest names in sport.
Nuffield Health is a leading not-for-profit UK healthcare organisations, looking after people for more than 60 years.
Red Bull vitalises body and mind and is an official partner and energy drink supplier to Loughborough athletes.
Halo Graduate Scheme offers graduates work in the 2nd most valuable software company in the UK.
They are changing the game to revolutionise the software industry.
Loughborough Sport is the home of the NFL academy, as they use our facilities such as gyms and pitches.
Gilbert manufacture netballs designed for outstanding performance.
The official ball supplier to Lightning Netball.
Official headline sponsor of Loughborough Lightning Netball team.
Long Tall Sally boasts a long and proud history of producing on-trend clothing for tall women.
Catapult gives Loughborough teams the ability to closely monitor athlete development and judge performance against strategic objectives.
Northampton Saints is the principal partner of Loughborough Lightning Rugby striving to drive performance outcomes to ensure ongoing success at the pinnacle of professional English rugby.
Plae provide the world's leading sporting organisations with athletic training facility flooring solutions, including our brand new-look Powerbase gym
Blk Box provide elite gym equipment, including all the racks in our brand new Powerbase gym.
Official provider of Hammer Strength gym equipment.
Eliko manufacture and provide world-leading bars and plates, that are found in both Powerbase and Holywell.
Output Sports are a velocity based training (VBT) partner of Loughborough Sport.
Their technology helps test, analyse, report and program athletic performance, through a single platform.
Since pioneering the first mass-produced scrum machine in 1980, Rhino has been at the forefront of  innovation and technology in the world of rugby training equipment, accessories, match and training
Loughborough University has launched a joint study with West Ham United women’s team to gather data on women’s football to enhance the understanding, development, and performance of its female players
Science in Sport is the world’s leading performance nutrition brand.
Combining world-class knowledge and scientific formulations to provide optimal performance solutions across the
Official protein Dairy partner of Loughborough Sport, Graham's Family Dairy provide a plethora of high protein products that help our athletes recover and perform at their best.
Official sustainable bottle partner of Loughborough Sport, Bottle Up provide reusable bottles for all of our Athletes here at Loughborough.
Built For Athletes is a brand specialising in fitness backpacks, apparel, and accessories, now offering the official Loughborough Sport backpack.
Official Partner of Loughborough Lightning Netball.
Vitality is a health and life insurance provider focused on incentivising healthy lifestyles.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/podcasts:
Besieged is a podcast hosted by Peter Warzynski which invites experts from Loughborough University to examine the latest developments in Ukraine...
Bringing together experts from across Loughborough University with external thought leaders to discuss the latest research and hot topics in sport.
Exploring how some of Loughborough’s academic stars went from confused teenagers to leaders in their field - with plenty of weird and wonderful stories.
Let's Talk Loughborough is a podcast for staff and students at Loughborough University, bringing you up to date with the latest on campus.
‘School of Poetry’ is a podcast dedicated to discussing and analysing the good – and the not so good – within the world of poetry.
Explore UX Design's fundamental skills and ideas with Dr Chris Parker of Loughborough University, School of Design and Creative Art.
The Meaning of Home podcast discusses the complexities and connections between home and homelessness.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/comments-analysis:
An opinion piece written by Dr Thomas Thurnell-Read and Dr Robert Deakin from the School of Social Sciences for The Conversation platform:
An opinion piece written by Dr Michael Skey from the School of Social Sciences for The Conversation platform:
An opinion piece written by Doctoral Researcher Massimo D'Angelo from Loughborough University London for The Conversation platform.
An opinion piece written by Dr Yuval Katz from the School of Social Sciences and Humanities for The Conversation platform:
What if your work self didn’t know about your personal life, and your home self had no idea what you did for a living?
In Apple TV’s Severance, that’s exactly the deal: a surgical procedure splits the memories of employees into “innies” (who only exist at work) and “outies” (who never recall what they do from nine to five).
When the late Pope Francis first stepped on to the balcony of Saint Peter’s Basilica following his election 12 years ago, he remarked that he had been called almost from the “end of the world”.
He was the first non-European pontiff since Gregory III, elected in AD731, who was of Syrian origin.
And he was the first pope in history to come from Latin America.
The announcement of planned talks between the US and Iran in Oman signifies a crucial development – especially given the history of distrust and animosity that has characterised their interactions.
As a specialty registrar in paediatric dentistry, I’ve seen first-hand the pain children experience because of poor oral health.
Tooth decay happens when teeth are damaged by acids produced by oral bacteria breaking down sugar from foods and drinks – and although it’s largely preventable – it’s the most common reason for hospital admission in children aged between five and nine in England.
Energy prices are rising faster than benefits, wages or pensions, meaning the amount that UK households owe to energy suppliers – their energy debt – is also likely to grow.
The Turkish judiciary has finally succeeded in sidelining Istanbul’s mayor, Ekrem İmamoğlu, at the fourth attempt.
On the morning of March 19, the 53-year-old posted a video on social media announcing that police had arrived at his home to arrest him on charges of corruption, aiding a terrorist organisation and organised crime.
During a wide-ranging 90-minute speech to the US congress of March 4, Donald Trump revisited his determination to “get” Greenland “one way or the other”.
Trump said his country needed Greenland “for national security”.
While he said he and his government “strongly support your right to determine your own future” he added that “if you choose, we welcome you into the United States of America”.
If there was a book of diplomacy, then French president Emmanuel Macron threw it at US president Donald Trump in their joint press conference in Washington DC.
Macron delivered quite the masterclass in the diplomatic arts.
Unthreatening body language and public displays of affection?
Check.
The circular economy offers a fresh approach to how we produce and consume, focusing on reducing, reusing, recycling and recovering.
It moves us away from the traditional “make, use, discard” model, creating a more sustainable system to balance the needs of the economy, society and nature.
Less red meat is good for the planet and a growing number of people have started the new year resolving to pursue a meat-free diet.
As Donald Trump prepares for his inauguration, the world is preparing for the beginning of the second Trump Revolution.
Trump’s second term will be very different from his first, when his powers were more limited and restrained.
In 2016 he did not win a majority of the popular vote.
The UK government’s goal to increase public-controlled artificial intelligence computing power twentyfold by 2030 would significantly raise electricity demand.
Can renewable energy supply meet it – and still have enough left over to electrify sectors like heating and transport, which must be fully decarbonised by 2050?
Radiotherapy has been a cornerstone of cancer treatment for decades, offering a targeted approach to treat tumours.
Yet, as effective as it is, it often causes unwanted damage to neighbouring healthy tissues – which can lead to many side-effects.
In the recent Netflix docuseries Mr.
McMahon (2024), former wrestler and bodybuilder Tony Atlas claimed: “We would have been looked upon, in today’s society, as some of the worst human beings walking the face of the Earth.”
At first glance, Jaguar’s new electric Type 00 concept car is surprising, shocking or perhaps even jarring to some.
This is largely due to its bright pink colour (it also comes in blue).
Watching the Netflix film Joy has been a hugely emotional experience for me.
The film is the story of the scientific endeavour to figure out in-vitro fertilisation (IVF) and the first baby to be born this way, Louise Joy Brown on 25 July 1978 at Oldham General Hospital in Manchester.
Who hasn’t heard someone ask, “How much for cash?” While it may seem harmless, research reveals such demands contribute to a growing culture of informality in business.
The second series of Bad Sisters starts in the dark of the night.
Four women sit in a car at the edge of some cliffs, panicking, arguing, shouting at each other.
We are back with the Garvey sisters, two years on from where the first season had ended.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/news/2025/august/jane-austen-persuasion-respite-key-for-romance:
It’s that time of year again.
Flight costs are up, schools are out, and anyone lucky enough to afford a break is heading – literally or metaphorically – for the hills.
Some might harbour visions of a beautiful stranger alone in a beach or bar, someone who takes a keen interest in them, gives them the best two weeks of their lives then disappears into the sunset.
This is probably what most of us imagine when we think of a holiday romance: something magical and fleeting, but removed from everyday life.
One writer, however, proved in novel after novel that a change of scene can also inspire a lasting change of mind.
It might shake the blinkered out of an unhelpful way of seeing the world, or reveal hidden depths in overlooked friends and acquaintances.
It can take people away from those who do not appreciate them, and introduce them into new communities in which they thrive.
Jane Austen’s heroines are a nomadic bunch, by and large.
The author is known for psychological development, but the emotional and educational progress of her romantic plot lines is almost always kick-started by a series of more literal journeys.
Movements between home, “seasons” in the city and prolonged visits to family and friends map out narrative progress towards love.
Following the footsteps of one Austen protagonist, Anne Elliot of Persuasion (1817), reveals how the different narrative locations she inhabits present different opportunities for her to grow in confidence and reclaim a love that she thought lost forever.
At the same time, they also enable Frederick Wentworth, her erstwhile fiancé, to reconsider his false assumptions about her and see her in a more truthful (not to mention more flattering) light.
It’s something I explore in my soon-to-be-published book, Love and Landscape: Iconic Meeting Places in Classic and Contemporary Literature.
When we meet Anne at the beginning of Persuasion, she clearly needs to get out more.
She is 26 and unmarried, having been convinced at 19 by her snobbish family to end her engagement to Wentworth.
Now, she is unloved and overlooked by her father and elder sister Elizabeth and, when her family’s profligate spending means they must rent out their home and seek cheaper accommodation, it is a blessing in disguise for Anne.
She goes first to visit her other, married sister in the Somerset village of Uppercross.
Mary is as self-centred as Elizabeth and their father, but does at least love and appreciate Anne.
Mary’s sisters-in-law, Louisa and Henrietta Musgrove, live nearby with their parents and are fond of her too.
Crucially, this kinder branch of Anne’s family is also connected to the now-Captain Wentworth, who has made a good career for himself in the Napoleonic wars and is warmly welcomed into their circle.
Anne’s first move having brought her into better company, she then makes a second journey, with this group, to the coastal town of Lyme Regis.
Here, the fresh sea air restores her faded youth, and Wentworth is gratifyingly present when a passing stranger looks at her “with a degree of earnest admiration” .
For the full article by Dr Barbara Cooke visit the Conversation .
END
Press release reference number: 25/127

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/videos/2025/usa-womens-rugby-training-camp:
Loughborough University welcomed the USA Women's national rugby union team to campus for a 10-day intensive training camp ahead of the Women's Rugby World Cup 2025.
Public Relations Office Loughborough University Leicestershire LE11 3TU

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/videos/2025/test-house-heatwaves:
We visit the university’s cutting-edge matched-pair test houses where researchers are trialling real-world solutions, like external shading systems and smart ventilation strategies, to help future-proof homes without relying on air conditioning.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/videos/2025/colin-mcfarlane-honorary-graduation:
Actor and alumnus Colin McFarlane, known for his roles in Batman and Dr Who, as well as the commanding voice behind the The Cube gameshow, has been awarded an honorary degree by Loughborough University.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/podcasts/experts-in-sport:
This podcast is a regular series, hosted by Applied Sport Management Lead Martin Foster, brings together experts from across Loughborough University with external thought leaders to discuss the latest research and hot topics in sport and academia.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/podcasts/cuppa-with-a-scientist:
This show explores how some of Loughborough’s academic stars went from confused teenagers choosing A-Level subjects, to leaders in their field – with plenty of weird and wonderful stories and golden nuggets of advice shared along the way.
As well as keeping your ears and brain entertained, the show aims to dispel the myth that all scientists wear white lab coats and provide an insight into how vast the world of science really is.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/podcasts/school-of-poetry:
A show dedicated to discussing and analysing the good – and the not so good – within the world of poetry.
Host Dr Oli Tearle, author and Lecturer of English at Loughborough, presents fresh poems and new themes to discuss in each episode.
Oli is joined by guest academics who will bring their knowledge and expertise to this fun, yet educational, podcast.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/focus-on:
View the latest Loughborough athletes on the global stage news stories.
View the latest stories from Loughborough Sport
View the featured stories from the Loughborough University Future Transport campaign
View the featured stories from the Loughborough University Environment campaign

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/focus-on/sport:
The latest sports news from Loughborough University.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/focus-on/environment:
View the featured stories from the Loughborough University Environment campaign.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/news/2025/july/tackling-emissions-from-heavy-duty-vehicles:
A new research centre dedicated to reducing – and ultimately eliminating – greenhouse gas emissions from the heavy-duty vehicle sector is being established at Loughborough University.
Funded by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC), the Centre for the Decarbonisation of Heavy-duty Power Systems will be led by Professor Adrian Spencer , in partnership with Perkins Engines .
Its research will focus on the use of alternative fuels, including hydrogen and synthetic e-fuels such as methanol and ethanol.
It will also look at how to optimise engine efficiency for these fuels, while reducing emissions and enhancing material durability and performance.
Other outputs will include the creation of engineering design tools to support the rapid, robust, and optimal operation of new products to support consumers’ sustainability objectives.
Speaking about the Centre, Professor Spencer said: “This new initiative aligns strongly with Loughborough’s Net-Zero strategy, and the University will be investing in a new hydrogen engine test cell, as a focal facility for this centre.
“The project has been cocreated with Perkins Engines and our ultimate goal is the industrial adoption of our research, leading to more efficient heavy-duty machinery that will help build a better, more sustainable world.”
The EPSRC is funding 23 projects as part of its £41 million Prosperity Partnerships programme, all aimed at tackling key industry challenges in areas from drug manufacturing and artificial intelligence (AI) to cybersecurity.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/news/2025/july/what-is-lost-when-pubs-close:
Image credit: Getty
Recent figures from the British Beer and Pub Association show that pubs will close at the rate of one a day in the UK during 2025.
This is just the latest chapter in a familiar story – more than a quarter of British pubs have closed since 2000.
The cost of running a pub has risen dramatically.
The ingredients used to brew beer all cost more, as do the business rates , rents, duties, utilities and wages required to operate a welcoming venue in which to serve it.
Some publicans have reported utility bills doubling in a matter of months.
Many pubs occupy prime locations and high-value buildings, which, coupled with larger floor space, mean business rates can be high relative to turnover and profit.
Meanwhile, food offerings which had provided many pubs with a profitable alternative to a drinks-only model have also been hit by rapid increases in costs.
Supermarkets and delivery platforms now provide food and drink directly to consumers at prices few licensed venues can compete with.
Even pubs that are economically viable are often more profitable converted into residential or retail space.
These economic challenges accompany wider cultural trends, such as the continued prevalence of home working, changes in drinking habits and competition from alternative forms of in person and online leisure.
We’ve researched pub closures in England and Wales to learn what the loss of pubs means for the communities who drink and gather in them.
When pubs closed temporarily during COVID-19 lockdowns, many people realised that what they missed about pubs was not alcohol but the social contact pubs provided.
Pubs have a clear social value .
They offer a space for people to meet and interact and have been shown to help tackling loneliness and social isolation.
Our research participants relayed stories of pub closure in relation to their own lives and communities:
"I’ve been consoled in there, I’ve consoled friends in there.
We’ve chopped up family issues, work issues.
We’ve drunk for the sake of drinking in there."
Pubs help people feel connected to a local place .
When they close, they can become sites of mourning, a painful reminder of change and decline.
One resident of a former colliery village in Nottinghamshire said of the pub she had once worked in – now derelict, fire damaged and vandalised as it awaits redevelopment – that despite her wish that it had remained open it was now better to “knock it down” to “put us out of our misery”.
Continues .
.
For the full article by Dr Thomas Thurnell-Read and Dr Robert Deakin visit the Conversation .
Press release reference number: 25/115
About Loughborough University

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/news/2025/may/britain-island-strangers-but-not-immigration:
As someone who has researched what gives people a sense of national belonging, I would argue there is evidence that Britain has become an “island of strangers” in the sense that people live increasingly isolated lives.
But the problem has very little to do with migration.
New public opinion research from think tank More in Common has found that 50% of Britons feel disconnected from society around them, while 44% say they sometimes feel like “strangers in their own country.” This feeling of alienation was strongest among Asian Britons.
Some evidence suggests a relationship between diversity (ethnic and racial diversity) and lack of social cohesion, rather than migration.
The More in Common polling found that 53% of those polled say multiculturalism benefits the UK’s national identity, while 47% say it harms it.
But the evidence is mixed, and studies find that it is inequality, not diversity, that has the biggest effect.
Rather than portraying the problem as solely because of immigration, the prime minister might usefully focus on other significant factors that have made people feel like strangers.
First is the dramatic loss of community spaces and assets in recent decades in the face of local government cuts and rising property prices.
Government austerity has led to a decrease in funding for local authorities of around 50% between 2010 and 2020 .
My own research in this area shows the significance of places like community centres in allowing young people from different backgrounds to come together.
When they do, they feel a greater sense of belonging in their communities.
Some research has also shown a link between austerity cuts to youth services and rising knife crime.
Over the last three decades, places and spaces where people come together to participate in activities and engage with those from different backgrounds have been decimated.
Between 2018 and 2023 in London alone, 46 community spaces permanently shut down.
The public service union Unison estimates that “funding cuts have led to the closure of more than two-thirds of council-run youth centres in England and Wales since 2010”.
Almost 800 libraries were closed during the 2010s, and more continue to disappear each year.
Leisure centres are also at risk.
A 2023 report by the Local Government Association suggests that 40% of council areas will lose some or all of their leisure centre services in the next two years.
For the full article by Dr Michael Skey visit the Conversation .
Press release reference number: 25/83
Loughborough is ranked 6th in The UK Complete University Guide 2025, 10th in the Guardian University League Table 2025 and 10th in the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/news/2025/may/pope-leo-xiv-could-be-counter-to-donald-trump:
Pope Leo XIV has been elected as the 267th pontiff, leader of the Catholic church and spiritual guide to more than 1.4 billion Catholics.
He is the first pope in history to come from the United States.
Since the 19th century, the influence of the United States within the Catholic Church has steadily increased , mirroring the country’s global geopolitical rise.
US bishops, institutions and donors have played a growing role in shaping church policy, appointments and international engagement, signalling a shift away from traditional European dominance.
This growing influence had long been accompanied by unease over the idea of entrusting the leadership of the global Catholic community to a figure from the world’s most powerful nation.
In this sense, the election of Leo XIV is an unexpected and significant choice.
Robert Francis Prevost, born in Chicago in 1955, has spent much of his ecclesiastical life to date in Peru, where he became a respected figure within the local church.
He had been sent to Peru on a missions after taking his solemn vows as an Augustinian and studying in Rome.
Once there, he served for many years as judicial vicar and professor of canon, patristic (early Christian), and moral theology in Trujillo.
In 2014, he was appointed apostolic administrator of Chiclayo and became its bishop in 2015, a post he held until 2023.
Prevost gained Peruvian citizenship and was widely regarded as a stabilising, pastoral presence in a church often divided between liberation theology and ultra-traditionalism.
Known for his humility and approachability, he was respected for his ability to foster dialogue among Peru’s diverse episcopate.
His longstanding commitment to Latin America helped shape his international reputation and proved key to his eventual election as the church’s first North American pope.
Continuity or rupture with Francis?
It is difficult to determine at this early stage whether the election of Leo XIV will mark a continuation of Pope Francis’s pontificate or a clear departure from it.
More likely, it will represent something of a middle path.
The first image of the newly elected pope – appearing on the balcony in traditional white and red papal garments , adorned with a gold cross – was striking.
It echoed the appearance of Benedict XVI in 2005, in contrast to Francis’s more austere choice of a plain white cassock and silver cross, which reflected a deliberate gesture of humility.
For the full article by Massimo D'Angelo visit the Conversation website .
Press release reference number: 25/73

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/volume:
Loughborough University Magazine
Welcome to Loughborough University’s online magazine.
By uncovering inspiring stories, showcasing knowledge and sharing real life experiences, the magazine provides an insight into the people and projects that are key to our success.
Developing green hydrogen systems for communities everywhere.
Sport, health and wellbeing
Research
Business and economy
Environment
Law
Engineering
By completing this form you are consenting to receiving email updates regarding new content on VOLUME.
You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the unsubscribe link at the top of an email.
For more information, read our privacy policy .
VOLUME is produced by Marketing and Advancement .
The team involved welcome feedback on the magazine, regarding both content and functionality, so please contact us with your comments, feedback and ideas for content.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/about/achievements:
We take pride in offering an experience and creating a community that you can be proud to be a part of.
Here are some of our latest achievements.
2023 Teaching Excellence Framework
out of 130 UK universities in the Complete University Guide 2026
in the Guardian League Table 2025
out of 134 UK universities in the Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025
Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2025
Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide 2022
University Compare Top 100 universities 2022
National Student Survey 2023, Times Higher Education analysis
Daily Mail Good University Guide 2025
Nine years running - QS World University Rankings by Subject 2017-2025
Unbeaten for 44 years running (2025)
Graduate Outcomes Survey 2022/23 graduates (median salary UK domiciled, first degree students)
Longitudinal Education Outcomes (LEO) 2022, UK domiciled first degree graduates only
Graduate Outcomes Survey 2022/23 graduates (full-time UK and Channel Isles, first degree students)
UniHub RateMyPlacement Awards 2025
StudentCrowd
Whilst Loughborough is proud of its ranking success, it is also signatory to the More Than Our Rank initiative which recognises a much broader range of our institutional ambitions, activities and achievements that are not captured by any university ranking.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/about/loughborough-campus:
With plenty of open spaces and gardens, including edible fruit trails and fantastic sport facilities, our superb 523 acre single-site campus is the University’s most glorious asset.
It offers great facilities for students, staff, partners, and visitors.
Home to shops, cafes, eateries, bars, dining halls, hotels, two gyms, and a pharmacy, an optician, a dental practice, a hairdresser, launderettes, a taxi rank, and a large nightclub.
There's something for everyone and it's all conveniently located on campus.
Green Flag Award since 2018
Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2023
We are proud of our world-class sporting facilities.
From our indoor athletics centre, outdoor stadium, 50-metre swimming pool and state-of-the-art gyms to all-weather pitches, squash, badminton, and netball courts, we have amazing on-campus facilities for a wide range of sports.
STEMLab is a £17m learning environment, dedicated to our science and engineering students, that is home to state-of-the-art facilities including advanced laboratories, workshops and teaching spaces.
Home to over 90 organisations and over 2,500 people, Loughborough University Science and Enterprise Park offers start ups to global organisations an opportunity to join an innovation community with a world-class research base and graduate supply.
NCSEM is an Olympic legacy project delivering education, research and clinical services that apply world-class expertise to policies and practice that will benefit the health and wellbeing of the nation – from everyday people at risk of ill health through to elite athletes.
The University Library is the largest open access study space on campus.
It's open to all staff and students at the University and is home to: Over 500,000 print books Over 30,000 online journals Over 1,300 diverse study spaces Library Cafe PC Clinic
Three quarters of our East Midlands campus is green, with more than 7,500 trees spread across the site.
And that doesn’t include those in the two ancient woodland areas.
The Elite Athlete Centre and Hotel is a unique specialist hotel environment, designed specifically to meet the needs of elite athletes and their support staff.
It provides 44 specialist bedrooms, including 20 altitude rooms and 8 fully DDA compliant accessible rooms.
In addition to superb student accommodation conveniently located on campus, the University also has Burleigh Court and The Link Hotel as well as affordable short-stay accommodation.
We have a range of quality shops, cafes, and bars across campus.
Our vision is to provide a choice of sustainable food and drink options within each teaching hub with continuous focus on quality, value for money, lifestyle trends and performance nutrition.
Loughborough Students’ Union (LSU) ensures that we continue to provide the very best student experience.
It offers a vast array of facilities and services and is located near the main entrance.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/about/london-campus:
Loughborough University London is part of an exciting community of organisations, creatives and educational providers located inside Here East, based on Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park.
Our unique East London location provides a stimulating environment for postgraduate students and staff to ask questions, challenge ideas and collaborate with a wide range of inspiring industry partners.
Our innovation and enterprise hub, Future Space, has been designed to be highly flexible, in order to foster creativity and maximise collaboration between individuals and organisations.
Alongside two seminar rooms and three meeting rooms, the hub includes a large open plan workspace which can be converted into an events venue for exhibitions, conferences, lectures and demonstrations.
Loughborough University London provides a collaborative learning space, state-of-the-art equipment, and materials to ensure research, teaching and creativity can thrive.
With purpose-built lecture theatres and seminar rooms, a stunning library and a vibrant campus cafe, it offers a great space for our students, staff and visitors.
We pride ourselves in having a uniquely diverse student and staff cohort.
At Loughborough University London we have students from around the world across our seven disciplines undertaking a master’s or research degree.
In addition, our academic faculty includes influential thought leaders, pioneering researchers and creative innovators from Australia, Asia, Europe and America.
Set right in the heart of Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, London, our convenient location means Stratford International Station is within walking distance and London City Airport is only 15 minutes away.
Throughout history, London has attracted people from around the globe, who have come to visit, live, study and work in the UK’s bustling capital.
Today it is a truly cosmopolitan city, with one of the most diverse and exciting cultures in the world.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/about/history:
Loughborough University is proud of its long history as an institution of further and higher education.
Thanks to the vision of its founding father, Dr Herbert Schofield, it has been able to grow and develop into one of the country’s top universities.
Throughout its history Loughborough University has built upon its distinctive characteristics.
Today it is one of the country’s leading universities, with a reputation for excellence in teaching and research, strong links with business and industry and unrivalled sporting achievement.
That Loughborough now boasts an internationally known and respected university is largely due to the entrepreneurial vision and determination of Dr Herbert Schofield, Principal of Loughborough College for 35 years.
In 1909 a small Technical Institute in the centre of Loughborough was established, which provided local facilities for further education and offered courses in technical subjects, science and art.
Land was also acquired on the Burleigh Estate, enabling the early development of the University as it stands today.
In April 1966 Loughborough was awarded its Charter, in recognition of the excellence achieved by Loughborough College of Advanced Technology and its predecessor colleges.
Then called Loughborough University of Technology, it was the country’s first technological university.
It was renamed Loughborough University in 1996.
Other developments have included the reunification in 1977 with Loughborough College of Education and with Loughborough College of Art and Design in 1998.
Land acquisitions in 2003, 2006 and 2010 have contributed towards turning the site into the glorious 523-acre asset it is today.
In 2015 Loughborough opened a second campus on Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in London.
Loughborough University London has diversified and expanded the high quality education offered to both postgraduate students and those looking to advance their professional development.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/about/location:
Loughborough is a market town in the heart of the East Midlands, about halfway between Leicester and Nottingham and only a short train ride away from London.
With great transport links, Loughborough is an easy place to get to.
If you are looking to travel to our East Midlands campus, below is the information you will need to find your way here.
You'll also find information on the accommodation options we have available for your arrival in Loughborough.
Loughborough University Epinal Way Loughborough Leicestershire, UK LE11 3TU
If you are travelling to campus for one of our Open Days, please make your way to the West Entrance (LE11 3GR).
You will be greeted by members of our Security and Parking Team who will direct you to available parking.
Loughborough's nearest motorway link is the M1; the campus is just two miles from Junction 23.
The University is clearly signed on all the other main approach roads to Loughborough.
Use the postcode LE11 3TT when setting your destination.
Coach and bus services operate from the centre of Loughborough.
Travel by National Express or regional bus services to Loughborough then connect with local Kinch bus town services to the Loughborough University campus.
For enquiries about all these services call Traveline on 0871 200 22 33.
The Sprint service from Loughborough Railway station brings you straight to campus.
Stops on campus include: Students' Union, Pilkington Library, Wolfson School and Holywell Park.
In term time this service runs every 10 minutes Monday to Saturday.
Regular services operate between Loughborough and other main line towns - including daily trains to and from London St Pancras International, 90 minutes away.
Taxis are normally available from the station.
East Midlands Airport is only 7 miles away and offers both domestic and international flights.
For destinations and a full timetable contact the East Midlands Airport Information Desk on +44 (0)8719 199000
Parking on campus is restricted.
Visitors are asked to use the main entrance on Epinal Way.
When you arrive, Security will advise you where to park.
For all parking enquiries please visit the Estates and Facilities Management - Parking pages.
Burleigh Court is an award-winning 4-star conference centre and hotel and is conveniently located on the University campus.
It offers 185 4-star en-suite bedrooms plus 40 high quality lodge rooms.
Guests also benefit from free use of Burleigh Springs Leisure and Therapy Centre.
The Link Hotel offers 94 3-star double en-suite bedrooms, a bar and restaurant plus flexible meeting and banqueting spaces for up to 200 people.
The hotel is located just one mile from J23 of the M1 on the approach to Loughborough town centre and a short walk from the University campus.
The Elite Athlete Centre, located on campus, offers 44 en-suite twin bedrooms, 20 of which are specially designed altitude rooms.
This inspiring high-performance environment offers aspirational space for athletes, businesses and fitness enthusiasts.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/welcome/before-you-arrive:
Discover how you can prepare for your new life as a student here at Loughborough University and take a look at some of the things you can do before you get here.
Once we’ve emailed you, you’ll be able to retrieve your student IT credentials – this consists of your student email, username and asked to set a password.
Before we can issue you a student ID card, you will need to register online.
Follow these simple step-by-step instructions.
We have added a layer of security for accessing web services away from the University.
You'll need to install multi-factor authentication (MFA) on your device.
myLboro app includes your timetable, emails, key dates and study support as well as a wealth of content on topics ranging from the Library and IT advice to health and wellbeing.
An important part of coming to University is ensuring that you look after yourself and your wellbeing.
We recommend registering with a GP as soon as you can.
We are keen to support you from an early stage in your course and life at university.
You can now log on to the Disability and Health Portal to share your requirements.
Find out more about the support services available here at Loughborough University.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/welcome/preparing-for-study:
We realise that coming to university is a big change so we have created some resources to help you get ready for your academic life at Loughborough.
Take a look at the resources below to help you become Loughborough ready!
Support and development to help you gain maximum benefit from your time at Loughborough University including the Ready Set Loughborough programme.
Access online mathematics training so you can revise and practice your current mathematical skills.
Download free IT software ready for the start of term.
Access your personal timetable and familiarise yourself with the room locations.
Find out more about our virtual learning environment and lecture capture systems.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/welcome/when-you-get-here:
To make sure you are ready for the start of term and to help you settle into student life on campus, here is some useful information for your first few days at Loughborough.
Explore everything campus has to offer including places to eat and drink, where to send and collect post and parcels and how to get around.
Want to continue playing sport?
Or want to try something new?
Whatever your ability, you’ll find there’s something for everyone.
LU Arts is our student-focused arts programme, giving you plenty of opportunities to get involved.
Become a sustainable student and help us deliver and achieve our sustainability goals.
There are plenty of ways to get involved with our Students' Union alongside your studies here at Loughborough.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/welcome/services-and-support:
Get to grips with the support services available here at Loughborough University, so that if you ever need support you know who to contact.
Find out about some of the many services on offer to help you succeed in your studies, support you while you're here and make the most of your time at Loughborough.
Helping you to achieve your best by developing your academic language and study skills.
Everything you need to settle in and make our halls your home while living on campus.
Giving you access to outstanding careers advice, coaching, employability support and development opportunities.
The University Chaplaincy is dedicated to helping you care for your wellbeing and is open to all.
Chaplains offer a non-judgemental, confidential listening service to anyone irrespective of identity, religious or spiritual beliefs.
We provide a range of print, finishing and post services to support your academic studies and social activities.
We offer support across a wide range of disabilities including dyslexia, autistic spectrum conditions and long term health conditions.
Hall and Community Wardens play a vital role in ensuring that you have the best experience possible.
Sometimes things can happen that you may want to report to the University.
We are here to support you.
We provide international students with a range of activities throughout the year to help you to settle into life here in the UK.
Everything you need to get started with setting up IT at Loughborough.
From getting connected to the campus Wi-Fi to downloading software.
The University Library offers a range of services that you can access during your time at Loughborough.
Mathematics help and resources for students of all disciplines who wish to improve their knowledge of mathematics or statistics.
Our Student Services team offer support across a wide range of mental health and wellbeing topics.
Our Security team are on duty 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and cover all areas of campus including our halls of residences.
Advice on practical issues that might affect your time at University, including student finance, off campus housing and visa advice for international students.
Helping you with the University's academic administrative processes such as registration, student loans, exams, and graduation.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/app:
myLboro is your comprehensive digital guide to Loughborough University.
The app includes your timetable, emails, key dates and study support as well as a wealth of content on topics ranging from the Library and IT advice to health and wellbeing.
myLboro is available to download from both the App Store and Google Play.
Once you have your IT credentials , you can login before you arrive and find out more about life at Loughborough.
It will help you keep up-to-date with news and information and the range of services available to you.
If you are an offer-holder at the London campus, you can also download the app in advance of your studies with us to find more information about registration and induction activities, accommodation, and how to prepare for semester one.
All students studying an undergraduate or postgraduate taught programme at the University use the myLboro app to record their attendance.
Find out more about how it works and what you need to do to check-in at your timetabled in-person classes.
Our helpful troubleshooting guide might give you the answer you need if you encounter any probelms while using the myLboro app.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/handbook:
The authoritative source of detailed ‘how-to’ information during your time as a student, from registration to graduation.
Registration, dates, timetable, credits, attendance, key documents and more...
Sources of support, student behaviour, prizes and more...
Name changes, transfers, leave of absence, withdrawal and more...
Detailed information for our international students and more...
Study abroad, Turing funding and more...
The fees you pay, funding sources and more...
Exams, coursework, feedback, detailed information and more...
Dates, transcripts, certificates and more...

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/welcome/undergraduate:
Taking the first step on your journey into higher education is a very exciting time and being part of the #LboroFamily will present you with so many amazing opportunities.
You can now start preparing for your arrival and the start of term and we are here to help make sure you have everything covered.
There are several important tasks that you need to complete before you arrive on campus.
Take a look at our helpful checklist to make sure you are prepared for your arrival.
Find out when and how to apply for a room in halls of residence.
There are options to suit every budget and catering preference.
Don’t panic – we’re pretty sure you won’t be needing the kitchen sink.
Here are some tips on what to bring with you.
Take a look at our top tips on how you can help make sure they are as prepared as possible for their brand-new adventure.
Discover what day you’ll be arriving and where you can collect your new student ID card.
This event is specially tailored to students who will be living at home and commuting to Loughborough for their studies.
You will be welcomed to the University and have the opportunity to find out more about campus, support services and university life.
Learn more about the academic year is structured, modules, credits and student workload.
Familiarise yourself with what your student fees cover and find out when they need to be paid.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/welcome/international:
Congratulations on your offer to study here at Loughborough University.
This is an exciting time for you and we are sure you will enjoy your time here with us.
We know there is lots to organise and to remember.
Follow our undergraduate welcome checklist to prepare for your arrival.
Before you arrive and on your arrival, there are several important tasks that you need to complete.
Follow our postgraduate welcome checklist.
Read our comprehensive pre-departure guide about life in the UK and the student experience at Loughborough.
The Global Engagement team are here to help make sure you have everything you need before you arrive.
Our international student experience team is here to help you settle into life in the UK and will provide support throughout your student journey.
They will organise lots of events for you, more information can be found on their events page .
You will be invited to our International Student Welcome Events.
These are a great way to meet other students and find out about the support available to you.
Here you can find out more about travel information, personalised itineraries and the free coach pick up service we offer from Heathrow Airport.
Browse useful information on everything from where to collect your student ID card, confirming your identity and your right to study to getting to know campus and everything Loughborough has to offer.
Find out more about the support services available here at Loughborough University, so that if you ever need support you know who to contact.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/welcome/postgraduate:
We know you have been working hard towards achieving your postgraduate ambitions and now the moment has finally arrived when you can start preparing for your studies at Loughborough.
Follow our welcome checklist to make sure you have everything covered.
We can help you find safe and affordable accommodation that suits your needs.
Find out more about how and when to apply for a room in halls of residence.
Discover what is waiting for you and explore what your campus has to offer.
Find out what you need to do when you arrive and where you need to go to collect your student ID card.
Find out what your student fees cover and how they can be paid.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/welcome/doctoral-researchers:
We are delighted to welcome you to Loughborough.
It is an exciting time preparing for the next stage in your academic career and to help make sure you are ready for the start of term, we have created a helpful checklist for you to follow.
All Doctoral Researchers at both our London and Loughborough campuses are welcomed into the Doctoral College.
You'll benefit from an extensive doctoral training programme, alongside our suite of activities designed to support you at every stage of the doctoral process.
To park on campus, you must have a valid permit.
Find how to apply for your permit here.
Providing children of university staff, students and the local community with a safe place for development, learning and play.
All new Doctoral Researchers are required to take part in the Doctoral College Induction.
Find out when and where your induction will take place.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/welcome/undergraduate/checklist:
Countdown to arrival
Enjoy settling in and meeting your new friends

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/students/welcome/postgraduate/checklist:
We have listed them all here for you, along with links to useful information to help you get prepared.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/subjects:
​Below is a list of all of our undergraduate subject areas here at Loughborough University.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/why-study-here:
We believe we can help you to build the future you want.
With our support and your determination, anything is possible.
We’re lucky to have such a beautiful place to call home – our stunning single-site campus is the University’s most glorious asset, measuring 523 acres in total (equivalent to 8,368 tennis courts or 348 football pitches!).
Get to know more about our welcoming campus right here.
Every course offers you the chance to undertake a placement year
We offer you the exciting opportunity to work or study abroad during your studies
We actively encourage an enterprising spirit in our students, which is why we offer you the support you need to get your idea off the ground.
With the best facilities in the UK (Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2022), our campus is home to state-of-the-art facilities and equipment for every aspect of university life, providing our students with an unparalleled learning and social experience.
Start making those lasting memories and join the Loughborough family - we offer one of the best university experiences for everything from sport to the Students’ Union.
Discover what our students and alumni have achieved and experienced whilst at Loughborough and beyond their studies.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/visit-us:
Our events programme offers you the chance to explore our extraordinary campus in person.
You can also take advantage of our virtual opportunities to find out more about our world-class facilities and unrivalled student experience.
Our open days are the perfect way to experience student life at Loughborough University.
Can't make one of our open days?
Why not take a virtual tour of our stunning campus and study facilities.
Loughborough is a town in Leicestershire in the heart of England and is well served by road, rail and air.
Before you set off, we recommend you plan your travel to campus.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/accommodation:
If you make Loughborough University your firm choice and register for accommodation before 5am 23 July, we will guarantee you a room in University hall accommodation.
There are 17 undergraduate halls of residence to choose from, all on or very close to campus.
Browse the full range here.
Take a closer look at the different accommodation costs and discover what's included in your overall fee.
You'll find all the information you need to help you choose a hall of residence that suits you and your needs.
Our Accommodation team are here to help you every step of the way through the accommodation application process.
If you've got any questions?
You might find the answer on the University's dedicated Accommodation website or get in touch with our accommodation team who will be happy to help.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/what-our-students-say:
There are so many students just like you at Loughborough University.
Match yourself with those who have similar interests and hobbies and read their stories below to discover what the student experience is really like.
Alumna
Alumnus
Alumnus International student
Current student
Alumnus Placement student
International student
Placement student International student
Current student Placement student
Alumnus Current student
Placement student
Current student International student
Alumna Placement student

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/support:
We offer a range of support services so that you can enjoy the best University experience that Loughborough has to offer.
Together our support services can advise on range of issues, including health and wellbeing, relationships, finances and budgeting, visas, study skills and so much more.
As a University, we are continually working to provide a more inclusive and supportive environment where our students and staff stand together and empower one another to achieve great things.
We promise to listen to the experiences of our staff and students and provide a platform for their voices to be heard.
Together we will stand up for what is right and work to eliminate prejudice and discrimination of any kind at Loughborough.
The Student Advice & Support Service offers advice on practical issues that might affect your time at University, including money matters and housing rights.
Specialist advice & support is available for international students on student visas, dependent and graduate visas & permission to work etc.
Loughborough University is committed to working within the principles of the social model of disability, with the promotion of wellbeing and inclusivity being our top priorities
Whatever you are going through, you can reach out to us for support at any time.
Our friendly and non-judgemental staff will be there to listen and give advice.
They can also introduce you to other specialist services that may be able to help.
Alongside a comprehensive package of online resources, the Academic Language Support Service provides classes, events and workshops for students looking to refine their English Language knowledge and skills.
Find out about the safety and security measures that we are in place to protect you on campus, so that you can concentrate on completing your degree and making unforgettable memories.
Our Library provides a range of services to support students through their academic journey.
Together with fantastic IT support services, we can help you to access the resources and equipment you need.
Our Chaplaincy team is here to support students and staff with their wellbeing, faith and spirituality.
Whether you need help to fund your tuition fees or you are unsure what to expect from the cost of living and studying at University, we are here to help.
Here at Loughborough, we are dedicated to providing full support to students joining us from various corners of the globe.
Our commitment to providing robust support services ensures that international students can thrive academically, emotionally, and socially, contributing to a vibrant and enriching educational experience within the Loughborough family.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/sport:
We are proud of our hard-earned reputation for sport at Loughborough, but our constant focus is on ensuring every student has the opportunity to get involved, regardless of ability or interest.
Having won BUCS (a national sporting competition for UK universities and colleges) for 40 consecutive years, our sports clubs are the best of the best.
Our high performance programmes help us to achieve competitive excellence by combining superb training facilities with high quality coaching and support services.
Our vision is to create life-shaping opportunities through the development of an inspirational and inclusive Para sport offer.
With a variety of fun, free activities to choose from every week, there are plenty of opportunities to get active at Loughborough.
Our Academy will help you to make the most of the opportunities available either within Loughborough Sport or with one of our national and international partners.
Loughborough University is home to the country’s largest concentration of world-class facilities across a wide range of sports.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/placements-careers:
With so many skill-enhancing opportunities available, you can build the foundations for an exciting career during your time at University, and with our connections to leading industry employers, there's no doubt you'll be on the path to success.
Students can choose to undertake an international experience which can help you to broaden your cultural knowledge while gaining confidence and independence.
All of our undergraduate courses come with a placement option where students can gain valuable work experience, developing their employability skills and professional networks.
Whether you have a business idea, have already started your own venture, or are interested in becoming entrepreneurial, the Loughborough Enterprise Network will support you through every stage of your journey.
Passionate about supporting all students to reach their potential, we offer tailored careers support, trusted advice, developmental opportunities and useful resources to help you prepare for a successful future.
If you study at Loughborough, you'll join a global network of over 190,000 current students and alumni.
Take a look at some of the careers our graduates have gone on to have.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/international:
The Loughborough family is made up of staff and students from all over the world – it’s part of what makes our campus community so vibrant, friendly and inspiring.
Check out all of the reasons why Loughborough University is such a fantastic place to live and study.
Whatever you do and wherever you go, you can’t miss the fantastic sense of community here.
Start making those lasting memories and join the Loughborough family.
Loughborough isn’t just a place to earn your degree – we offer so much more.
We'll support you at every step of your student journey – from application to graduation and beyond.
Loughborough really is for life.
Learn what qualifications we accept from your country / region for our foundation courses and undergraduate degrees here.
Settle into life at Loughborough University by living in a central location on campus.
Our accommodation options suit a range of personal preferences and budgets.
The one year Undergraduate Foundation Programme (UFP) prepares international students for entry to undergraduate study at Loughborough University and offers successful students a guaranteed progression onto one of the University's undergraduate degrees, subject to meeting the specified criteria.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/fees-funding:
Thinking of studying at Loughborough University?
Take a look at the different bursaries and scholarships you may be eligible for.
Here we explain more about how you can pay your tuition fees and your accommodation fees.
Further details and information will be emailed to you directly.
Once you’ve decided that university is the right route for you, you’ll need to consider how you intend to fund your future studies.
One way is to apply for a loan from the government.
Your tuition fees cover a lot more than you think.
Take a look at what is included in your fees and see what you could take advantage of.
Please note: UK tuition fees align with the applicable fee caps set by the UK government and as such they are subject to changes made to the agreed cap in a specific year.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/email-alert-registration:
Stay up-to-date with all things Loughborough by signing up to receive our email updates.
You’ll get lots of great information such as; useful reminders about UCAS deadlines, upcoming open days, student life here on campus and lots more!

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/masters-degrees:
Taking on the challenge of a master’s course can help you get a step ahead in your career by studying a subject you love to an advanced level whether you want to become specialised or change direction.
Join an inspiring community of postgraduates – building friendships, professional networks and memories to last a lifetime.
We offer a wide range of master’s degrees at both our Loughborough and London campuses, including MSc, MA, MBA, PGCE, PGDip and PGCert.
or
Preparing you for postgraduate study and why you might want to consider doing a master's degree.
Learn how a Level 7 Degree Apprenticeship can benefit your employer and develop your own career at the same time.
Unsure which degree to choose?
Take a look at these explanations of the different master's degrees available at Loughborough.
If you’re interested in a particular area or you would just like to learn more about our different academic departments you’ve come to the right place.
Search for scholarships and discounts available to support your studies, and find out how to pay your fees.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/subject-areas:
​Below is a list of all of our postgraduate subject areas here at Loughborough University.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/fees-funding:
Now you’ve decided to continue your journey, it’s time to consider how you intend to fund your postgraduate studies.
Although you may have undertaken an undergraduate degree, organising the payment of your postgraduate fees can seem daunting at first.
To help you as much as possible, we’ve listed lots of useful information about the fees you can expect to pay and the different types of funding options available.
You'll find your tuition fee listed on your taught programme or research degree page but if you'd like further clarification on the different types of fee bands, you’ll find all the information you need right here.
Need funding for your postgraduate taught degree?
Browse the full list of options available right here.
You might find that you’re eligible for a bursary or scholarship which could contribute towards the cost of your fees or you may wish to apply for a loan.
A research degree is a long-term commitment, so it’s important that you have full funding in place before you commence your studies.
To help you secure the relevant funding, we’ve listed the various options available to UK, EU and international research students.
We've outlined the different ways you can pay your tuition fees and the payment structure here, along with useful contact information should you need it.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/doctoral-research:
Becoming a doctoral researcher at Loughborough means joining an inclusive, supportive and inspirational community with access to exciting opportunities to develop personally and professionally.
You will automatically become a member of Loughborough Doctoral College, which welcomes and supports the needs of every doctoral researcher.
Explore our areas of expertise for an idea of the research possibilities at Loughborough.
Check out our guide to the different types of doctoral degrees we offer and some of the terms you might hear when you apply.
Use this overview of the different routes into research to guide you through the application process.
Find out about the training, workshops, events and networking opportunities offered by Loughborough Doctoral College.
From flood forecasting to election analysis, transport technology and exercise engagement, our research is broad and impactful.
Read why other PhD students have chosen Loughborough and gain insight into life as a doctoral researcher.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/accommodation:
We know the importance of finding the perfect place to live.
Whether you study in Loughborough or London, on-campus or off-campus, we are here to help you find a safe, comfortable and affordable home for the duration of your postgraduate studies.
The community spirit in our halls of residence is unrivalled by any UK university.
Take a look at the accommodation available for postgraduate students here.
From the Olympic Park to Bethnal Green, discover your options for living in London.
From a vibrant social scene and cultural hub to unrivalled sporting opportunities.
Find out more about life in Loughborough.
As a student in London, you'll benefit from a vibrant city location, with plenty to do in your free time.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/apply:
Admission to our master's and research programmes is made through our online application portal.
Take a look at our essential information about applying for a master's degree.
Everything that you need to know about applying for your research degree can be found in this section.
Find out more about our admissions policies and procedures.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/events:
Get to know more about Loughborough University and the postgraduate opportunities on offer at a variety of events.
Thinking about a master's or a PhD following your undergraduate degree, or to further your career or start a new one?
Our open events are the ideal opportunity to find out more about studying with us and life as a postgraduate student at our Loughborough and London campuses.
You can also find us at a variety of UK and international virtual study fairs or speak to us at one of our web chats.
Can't visit our campus?
Why not come and see us at one of the UK or international study fairs we attend?
See the full list of events here.
Our online events are a fantastic opportunity to ask current master's and PhD students about their experience or to ask us any questions you have.
If you're looking to study your master's or PhD on our London campus, we recommend visiting our modern postgraduate facility on a guided campus tour.
If you're visiting one of our campuses, find the best ways to get here.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/student-stories:
We’ve asked some of our postgraduate students a few questions to discover exactly what they think to us – and what their life as a postgraduate student at Loughborough University has been like so far.
International student Alumnus
International student Alumna
Alumna International student
International student Current student
Current student International student Placement student
Change or clear the filters and try again.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/loughborough-campus:
We provide students with an exceptional environment enhanced by the integration of teaching, research and enterprise.
Our students enjoy a great location in the middle of the UK, a friendly campus community with comprehensive support systems and incredible opportunities for social activities, sport and the arts.
LU Arts offers you a wide variety of arts events and opportunities, including arts and crafts workshops, open mic performance nights, music tuition and music practice rooms, creative writing classes, screenings, exhibitions and discussion events.
We are proud of our hard-earned reputation for sport at Loughborough, but our constant focus is on ensuring every student has the opportunity to get involved.
Loughborough is a busy market town and provides everything you could need as a student and much more.
With a great choice in restaurants, entertainment and shopping, Loughborough has lots to offer.
Our superb 523-acre campus is one of our most glorious assets.
There is a strong sense of community and a real buzz – just what you would expect from a university that continues to be among the most popular in student polls.
Located in the small market town of Loughborough in the Leicestershire countryside, our welcoming Loughborough campus is set on 523 acres and offers lots of green open spaces, landscaped gardens, woods, and is also home to the country’s largest concentration of world-class sporting facilities.
All of this is interspersed with academic buildings and state-of-the-art facilities.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/international-students:
Loughborough has a long history of welcoming international students to the University.
We currently have around 2,300 students studying here from outside the UK.
Browse our full range of postgraduate master's degree opportunities
Take a look at the exciting research opportunities available here at Loughborough.
Find relevant funding for both taught programmes and research degrees, all in one place.
It's important to us that you are supported throughout your studies.
In joining the Loughborough family you will become part of our community.
You can find advice in this section regarding visa applications, receiving your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS), as well as key dates and documents that we require.
Learn about our Pre-Master's Programme, specifically designed to enable international students to progress to master's degrees.
Explore our postgraduate student accommodation options on or very close to Loughborough University campus.
We have options to suit your budget and personal preferences.
Our luxury accommodation in Stratford One is located just a few minutes walk away from the London campus.
Here you will enjoy en-suite rooms, great social spaces and 24/7 study areas.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/order-prospectus:
Complete the form below and we'll send you a link to download the brochure you have requested.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/email-updates:
Find out more about life at Loughborough and receive invites to our events by signing up for our email updates.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/events/web-chats:
Chat with our staff and students in real time about their experiences of Loughborough University and get answers to your questions.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/contact-us:
Have questions about life at Loughborough or how to apply?
Get in touch with us - we'd love to hear from you.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research-degrees/phd-opportunities:
Our current PhD opportunities are projects which already have a topic and a supervisor allocated.
Some have funding already attached but some may require you to provide your own funding.
You can also browse our research areas and create your own proposal.
Department(s): Computer Science
Start date: April 2026, July 2026
Funding status Self-funded
Application deadline: 31 December 2025
Department(s): Mechanical, Electrical and Manufacturing Engineering
Start date: October 2025, January 2026, April 2026
Application deadline: April 2026
Department(s): Business and Economics
Start date: October 2025, January 2026
Application deadline: 1 October 2025
Department(s): Mathematical Sciences
Start date: October 2025, January 2026, April 2026, July 2026
Application deadline: 1 April 2026
Department(s): Chemistry
Application deadline: 30 October 2025
Start date: January 2026
Application deadline: 30 September 2025
Application deadline: 1 January 2026
Department(s): English
Start date: January 2026, April 2026, July 2026
Application deadline: 1st October 2025
Start date: April 2026
Department(s): Mathematics Education
Application deadline: 31 January 2026
Application deadline: 1 July 2026
Start date: January 2026, April 2026, July 2026, October 2026
Application deadline: 31 July 2026
Department(s): Mathematical Sciences, Physics
Department(s): Mechanical, Electrical and Manufacturing Engineering, Aeronautical and Automotive Engineering
Start date: 1 October 2025
Funding status Funded
Application deadline: 29 August 2025
Start date: 1 April 2026
Application deadline: 19 December 2025
Application deadline: 31 June 2026
Application deadline: 1 March 2026
Department(s): Chemistry, Materials
Start date: July 2026
Department(s): Materials
Application deadline: 31 August 2025
Application deadline: 31 October 2025
Application deadline: 30 April 2026
Campus:
Department(s): Architecture, Building and Civil Engineering
Start date: Octtober 2025, January 2026, April 2026, July 2026
Application deadline: 1 September 2025
Department(s): Physics
Start date: July 2026, October 2026
Start date: October 2025, January 2026, April 2025, July 2026
Sorry you can’t find what you’re looking for.
Find out all you need to know about research degrees and your chosen research area by registering for our email updates.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research-degrees/research-areas:
World-class research takes place across all our academic Schools.
Each School has its own vibrant and inspiring community of research students and staff, who work on an incredible range of projects with real world impact.
Browse our research areas and find the right one for your area of interest.
You can also browse our current PhD opportunities that have a topic and supervisor allocated.
Department(s): Aeronautical and Automotive Engineering
Start date: 1 January, 1 April, 1 July or 1 October
Application deadline: At least 12 weeks before the desired start date
Department(s): Chemical Engineering
Start date: 1 January,  1 April,  1 July or 1 October
Department(s): Communication and Media
Start date: 1 January, 1 April, 1 July, 1 October
Department(s): Criminology, Sociology and Social Policy
Department(s): Design, Creative Arts
Department(s): Institute for Creative Futures
Start date: January, April, July, October
Department(s): Institute for Digital Technologies
Department(s): Institute for Diplomacy and International Affairs
Department(s): Geography and Environment
Department(s): Institute for International Management and Entrepreneurship
Department(s): International Relations, Politics and History
Department(s): Institute for Sport Business
Start date: January, April, July or October
Department(s): Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/advance-your-career:
Whether you’re looking to progress in your current career, change direction completely or even start your own business, we are committed to helping you achieve your career goals by providing the very best range of support services, advice and guidance.
The University's Careers Network offers a full range of services, accessible either remotely or in person, including online advice, individual appointments, coaching, presentations and careers events.
Career events run regularly across the academic year - recent examples include a multi-day careers event with an in-person day attended by a range of employers, Careers In ….
[a particular industry sector] panel events, and mock assessment centres, run jointly by employers and Careers Network staff.
The Careers Network website includes details of support relevant to master's students , PhD students , international students and students from diverse backgrounds .
Students in London are well placed to access a wide range of opportunities.
Based on the London campus, Future Space Team are dedicated to helping master's and PhD students to make the most of their degrees.
The team organises events such as Career Insight events , mock assessment centres and a jobs fair .
The London campus is also h ome to the University's i nnovative Collaborative Project , which offers opportunities to work with employers in group and individual projects as part of the curriculum .
Organisations we have worked with recently include West Ham Utd Foundation, Ford, and Minority Rights Group International.
Other careers initiatives include the Digital Skills Programme, with workshops and virtual work insight projects that allow you to gain experience while you study.
There is also Monday Mentoring , an online group mentoring programm e that connects you to employers and alumni .
One-to-one appointments are on offer to students and graduates and a range of workshops covering employability skills , personal branding and visa information are delivered througho ut the year and are available on demand .
In addition, the London campus is part of Here East , which offers regular opportunities to network with employers .
We are committed to nurturing the ambitions of entrepreneurial students and helping translate research into commercial projects with real-world impact.
Loughborough Enterprise Network offers opportunities for students on both campuses to apply for funding, business advice sessions, investor workshops, business acceleration programmes, mentoring and training.
You can also access a library of resources covering topics such as contracts and confidentially, legal entities, business structures, business models and idea generation.
PhD students benefit from access to support and infrastructure designed to help translate research into projects with commercial use, or social or environmental benefit.
The University’s Commercialisation Team can offer support in the initial stages while LUinc., the University’s incubator, brings together graduate start-ups, research spinouts and local start-ups to create a vibrant and highly supportive entrepreneurial community.
Selected master’s degrees include placement opportunities, either as an option or as a compulsory element of the degree.
Details are included on each course page.
Loughborough Doctoral College have established a scheme to support PhD students to undertake a placement of up to three months and gain industry experience outside of their research.
Our master's degrees are created and updated in line with industry developments to ensure your learning is current and relevant.
Several of our master's programmes are accredited by industry, demonstrating their professional relevance.
An accredited degree can help you to achieve chartered status in some industries, such as engineering and business.
Many of our London-based programmes offer students the chance to take part in the University’s Collaborative Project module, where a cross-section of students works together to deliver solutions to problems put forward by a real business or organisation, whilst acquiring new industry connections and insight.
Our PhD students are automatically enrolled in Loughborough Doctoral College and through this membership, are provided with a comprehensive professional and personal development programme.
This includes formal training, such as workshops and seminars; external development, such as participating in conferences; and informal development (such as taking part in organising events).
Our students go on to pursue an amazingly diverse range of careers within academia and industry, spanning the public, private and third sectors.
We follow with pride the achievements of our alumni, who are based around the world and number over 190,000.
We are delighted when our alumni choose to return to Loughborough, either to carry out further study, take up a staff role or to access our careers support and facilities.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/world-cant-wait:
Neither should you
At Loughborough University, our sporting legacy has taught us that it’s the small, incremental changes that drive big wins.
Our research, innovation and learning ecosystem is built for individuals driven to make a difference .
Now is the time to join our mission .
Because it’ll take a planet’s worth of marginal gains.
Let's get started.
Discover our sport ecosystem.
Explore our climate change solutions.
Learn more about our work in Living Well.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/vco/smt:
Who's who in the Vice-Chancellor's Office at Loughborough University.
Professor Nick Jennings, CB, FREng, FRS is Vice-Chancellor and President of Loughborough University and is the academic and executive head for the University.
Professor Rachel Thomson is the Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Provost of Loughborough University.‌
Richard Taylor is Loughborough University's Chief Operating Officer.
Alexandra Owen is the Chief Financial Officer of Loughborough University.
‌Professor Sam Grogan is Pro Vice-Chancellor for Education and Student Experience.
‌Professor Dan Parsons is Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research and Innovation.
‌Professor Jo Maher is Pro Vice-Chancellor for Sport.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/vco/smt/vc-prof-jennings:
CB FREng FRS
Professor Jennings is Vice-Chancellor and President of Loughborough University.
He is also the Vice-President for Fellowship Engagement at the Royal Academy of Engineering .
He was previously the Vice-Provost for Research and Enterprise at Imperial College London, the UK Government’s first Chief Scientific Advisor for National Security, and Regius Professor of Computer Science at the University of Southampton.
Professor Nick Jennings is an internationally-recognised authority in the areas of AI, autonomous systems, cyber-security and agent-based computing.
His research focuses on developing AI systems for large-scale, open and dynamic environments.
In particular, he is interested in how to endow individual autonomous agents with the ability to act and interact in flexible ways and with effectively engineering systems that contain both humans and software agents.
He is passionate about the real-world impact of research and his systems have been deployed to save lives in the aftermath of disasters, to win Olympic medals for TeamGB, and to monitor the impact of climate change on glaciers.
He has also been involved with a number of start-ups including Aerogility , Darktrace , Sentient Sports , Reliance Cyber Systems and is a board member of Midlands Mindforge and a board advisor to Leicestershire County Cricket Club .
In undertaking this research, he has attracted grant income of £33M, published over 700 articles (with 500 co-authors) and graduated 55 PhD students (including two winners and one runner-up of the BCS/CPHC Distinguished Dissertation Award ).
With over 100,000 citations , he is one of the world's most cited computer scientists .
He was the founding Editor-in-Chief of the International Journal of Autonomous Agents and Multi-Agent Systems and a founding director of the International Foundation for Autonomous Agents and Multi-Agent Systems .
Nick was made a Companion of the Order of the Bath (CB) in the Queen’s New Year Honours List in 2016 for his services to computer science and national security science.
He has received a number of prestigious awards for his research including the Computers and Thought Award , the ACM Autonomous Agents Research Award , and the Lovelace Medal .
He is a judge for the Queen Elizabeth Prize for Engineering and was chair of the judges for the inaugural Manchester Prize in AI .
He is a Fellow of the Royal Society , Royal Academy of Engineering , the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers , the British Computer Society , the Institution of Engineering and Technology , the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI) , the Society for the Study of Artificial Intelligence and Simulation of Behaviour (AISB) , the Royal Society of the Arts, the City and Guilds of London Institute , the German AI Institute (DFKI) and the European Artificial Intelligence Association and a member of Academia Europaea .
Professor Jennings became the ninth Vice-Chancellor and President of Loughborough University in October 2021.
The Vice-Chancellor and President is the academic and executive head of the University and is also chair of Senate.
They are responsible for devising and delivering upon the strategic and operational plans that have been approved by the University’s Council and for ensuring the University operates in a sustainable manner.
The Vice-Chancellor has special responsibilities for the advancement of the University, through the development of relationships with partners and supporters locally, nationally, and internationally.
They are also the University’s Accountable Officer to the Office for Students.
My research focuses on developing artificial intelligence (AI) systems for large-scale, open and dynamic environments.
I focus on how to endow individual autonomous agents with the ability to act and interact in flexible ways and with effectively engineering systems that contain both humans and software agents.
My main scientific contributions are in three areas:
I am passionate about the real-world impact of research.
I was the lead system architect for one of the world’s first industrial deployments of multi-agent technology, in the area of electricity transportation, and have subsequently been involved with deployments of agent-based solutions in many domains with a range of companies and charities:

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/vco/vcostaff:
VCO Office Manager
Executive Officer to the Vice-Chancellor
PA to Professor Sam Grogan, Pro Vice-Chancellor (Education and Student Experience) and Professor Mark Lewis, University Academic Lead for Strategic Partnerships.
PA to Sam McGinty, Director of Legal Services and General Counsel, and Charlie Wheeldon, Director of Student Services.
PA to Richard Taylor, Chief Operating Officer.
PA to Professor Rachel Thomson, Deputy Vice Chancellor and Provost.
PA to Professor Dan Parsons, Pro Vice-Chancellor (Research and Innovation).
PA to Alexandra Owen, Chief Financial Officer, and Veronica Moore, Executive Director of EDI.
PA to Professor Jo Maher, Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sport) and Miranda Routledge, Director of Strategic Planning and Chief of Staff.
Receptionist/Administrative Assistant.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/vco/apvcs:
Providing leadership and guidance for Loughborough University’s strategic themes and the Doctoral College.
Our Associate Pro Vice-Chancellors are responsible for the delivery of leadership and advancement of the Doctoral College and the University's three strategic themes:
Rebecca's research interests are driven by using design to improve people's experiences, and ultimately their wellbeing.
Her research uses creative and highly participatory methods to engage people in co-designing new experiences for products, environments and services.
She has a particular interest in design for subjective wellbeing, future manufacturing and mobility and the issues of technology acceptance related to these.
Her research blends design, architecture, engineering, psychology, ergonomics, business, science and computer-science.
She has worked with physicists, social scientists, health professionals and artists to deliver projects across sectors from healthcare, automotive, rail and energy, where she has transferred knowledge into large organisations such as the NHS and Jaguar and Land Rover.
Alongside fellow Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor Professor Emily Keightley, Professor Cain is responsible for drawing together activities within Loughborough University that contribute to the strategic theme of Vibrant & Inclusive Communities.
Their work will advance the University's progress towards embedding this strategic theme into our everyday operations, ensuring Loughborough continues to develop as a vibrant and inclusive community.
After gaining her PhD from Loughborough University in 2007, Emily joined Loughborough in the same year as a Lecturer in Communication and Media Studies.
In 2017 she became Professor of Media and Memory Studies and in 2017 was awarded £1m Research Leadership Award by The Leverhulme Trust (2017-2022).
Emily is an editor of the international journal Media, Culture & Society and is a founding member of the Global Media Studies Network .
Alongside fellow Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor Professor Rebecca Cain, Professor Keightley is responsible for drawing together activities within Loughborough University that contribute to the strategic theme of Vibrant & Inclusive Communities.
David's teaching, research and consultancy focuses on the psychology of performance excellence in sport, business and other performance domains.
His work addresses how high achievers thrive on pressure and deliver sustained success, and clusters around the following performance themes:
Alongside fellow Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor Professor Diwei Zhou, Professor Fletcher is responsible for drawing together activities within Loughborough University that contribute to the strategic theme of Sport, Health, and Wellbeing.
Their work aims to consolidate and advance the University's status as a global leader in sport, whilst also exploring how we can maximise the health and wellbeing of the Loughborough University community.
John read Social and Political Sciences at Cambridge University.
He was a Senior Scholar at Gonville and Caius College and was the Graythorne Scholar and Beaumont Scholar at Jesus College.
His PhD was about the Frankfurt School and John was a post-doc at the Graduate College for Communication Sciences at Siegen University in Germany.
His work remains influenced by the rich and continuing tradition of the Frankfurt School that brings together social philosophy and cultural analysis.
In 2022 John was elected to be a member of the Academia Europaea in recognition of the 'sustained academic excellence' of his research.
Alongside fellow Associate Pro-Vice Chancellor Dr Kathryn North, Professor Downey is responsible for drawing together activities within Loughborough University that contribute to the strategic theme of Climate Change and Net Zero.
Their work will advance Loughborough University's progress towards our key net zero targets, as well as promoting cross-institutional engagement with this strategic theme moving forwards.
Kathryn is Director of the Centre for Postdoctoral Development in Infrastructure, Cities and Energy (C-DICE), a £4m programme which is focussing on addressing the net zero challenge through the development of highly skilled postdoctoral researchers.
She has held the positions of Head of Researcher Development at Loughborough University, Head of Skills for the Energy Research Accelerator (ERA) and she leads the skills programme for HyDEX, a £5m programme to develop a hydrogen economy in the midlands.
Kathryn’s background is in Plant Biology; she gained her PhD at Lancaster University in 2004 and was a Postdoctoral Researcher at the John Innes Centre in Norwich, prior to joining Loughborough in 2007.
Alongside fellow Associate Pro-Vice Chancellor Professor John Downey, Dr North is responsible for drawing together activities within Loughborough University that contribute to the strategic theme of Climate Change and Net Zero.
Steve is Professor of Chemical Technologies in the Department of Chemistry, School of Science.
His research looks to utilise modern techniques and technologies in order to understand how chemical processes work, and how they can be utilised in an interdisciplinary environment.
He works at the interface of chemistry and several other disciplines, including engineering and biology.
After a PhD at Strathclyde, and postdoctoral positions at Boston College and Southampton, he joined Loughborough in 1997.
He has held several roles including Associate Dean (Research) and (Enterprise), as well as Head of Department of Chemistry.
Steve leads the University's Doctoral Researcher programmes to ensure a quality experience for all research students and, in liaison with the Academic Schools, to ensure that the size and distribution of the doctoral researcher population remains at a healthy and optimum level.
He works with the Pro Vice Chancellor (Research and Innovation) to enhance and develop the University Research and Innovation strategy.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/vco/ueb:
The University Executive Board (UEB) is:
The UEB is not part of the formal committee structure.
The UEB will execute the powers already apparent in the schedule of delegation from Senate & Council, given to senior officers.
It enables those powers to be executed more collegiately and with a clearer audit trail.
UEB will make, and hold collective responsibility and accountability for executive decisions, for example:
Please find below the upcoming UEB meeting dates and their respective paper deadlines.
Note that paper deadline is one week before the meeting.
If you would like to request an item for the UEB agenda, please email the Secretary.
Miranda Routledge

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/services/vco/ulg:
The University Leadership Group (ULG) is a forum to bring senior leaders together from across the organisation in order to:
Please find below the upcoming ULG meeting dates and their respective paper deadlines.
Note that paper deadlines are one week before the meeting.
If you would like to request an item for the ULG agenda, please email Jenna Waters .

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/crsp:
The Centre for Research in Social Policy (CRSP) is an independent research centre based in the School of Social Sciences at Loughborough University.
Over the past 40 years, it has built a national and international reputation for high quality applied policy research.
The Centre’s biggest role at present is the researching and analysis of A Minimum Income Standard for the United Kingdom.
Funded by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, this is the leading standard of its kind in the UK, where it is being used to set the living wage, and is being replicated in other countries seeking to establish benchmarks for acceptable household income levels rooted in social consensus.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/aftrak:
Winner of the $1 million Milken-Motsepe Prize in Green Energy global competition.
Aftrak is a groundbreaking initiative that combines solar microgrids and tailored tractors to empower smallholder farmers across Africa.
It aims to significantly increase crop yields and smallholder incomes while providing access to clean, green electricity in rural communities.
The Aftrak solar array electrifies the community, powers the Aftrak micro electric tractor which allows villages to use Deep Bed Farming to increase their crop yield by up to three-fold which in turn allows for the purchase of power from the Aftrak microgrid, creating a self-sustaining model for decentralised energy access.
A revolutionary system comprising a solar microgrid, a micro electric tractor and a new agricultural technique, Deep Bed Farming.
Our innovative approach combines the implementation of solar microgrids with the deployment of Aftrak tractors, specifically designed for the African market.
We are creating a self-sustaining model with the potential to help 800 million African farmers, addressing multiple Sustainable Development Goals.
Aftrak aims to lower the barriers to Deep Bed Farming which significantly increases soil fertility, maximise water retention and mitigate erosion.
Aftrak is honoured to be named the $1M Grand Prize winner of the Milken-Motsepe Prize in Green Energy at the opening of the Milken Institute Global Conference.
Aftrak Ltd is being set up by Loughborough University.
Join us and help pave the way for a decarbonised world.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/national-rehabilitation-centre/collaborate/high-potential-opportunities:
The High Potential Opportunity (HPO) programme is co-ordinated by the Department for International Trade and selects investment opportunities to promote to foreign investors, driving investment unto the UK’s regions and nations.
With the growing demand for technologies, treatments and solutions that address patient needs in rehabilitation, Leicester and Leicestershire has been identified as an area of High Potential Opportunity by the UK Government.
Having a diverse, collaborative and rapidly developing ecosystem, the Department for International Trade (DIT) are working with us to highlight the region as the perfect location for industry to support delivery of this demand.
Businesses can access support and space to grow, for example at Loughborough University Science and Enterprise Park , work with clinical populations through the National Centre for Sport and Exercise Medicine – East Midlands, based on the Loughborough University campus, as well as accessing a broad range of research carried out in rehabilitation across campus.
DIT offer specialist support to foreign-owned companies seeking to set up or expand in the UK.
More detail on the HPO bid can be found in the Investment Atlas .

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/schools/business-school/about-us:
The natural choice for students and organisations who want to align their success with the needs of communities and the planet.
The world is facing some monumental challenges.
At Loughborough Business School, we believe that business schools can play a key part in driving change – not only to meet organisational goals, but to help tackle big societal issues and make the world a better place.
It's this philosophy that has kept us at the forefront of business learning.
Loughborough is one of the most highly awarded higher education institutions in the UK and regularly features in world rankings, too.
Join us to shape a fairer, more sustainable future, while supercharging your career and the performance of purposeful organisations.
Find out how we’re championing, challenging and inspiring students, academics and organisations who want to raise the game of purpose-led business.
We’ve been engaging with organisations and economies since we first began.
We’ve run a hugely successful placement scheme for several decades, ensuring students engage with industry and put what they are learning into practice.
Our vision now is to be the first-choice business school for purpose-led people and organisations, nurturing students and helping them find fundamentally different ways to do business.
If you want to raise the game of purpose-led business while developing your career, Loughborough Business School is the ideal choice.
We’ll help you nurture your purpose and practice, by opening your eyes to new business models and innovative ideas, and supporting you to build your career in resilient, sustainable organisations.
We offer more than just a course.
Our programmes are designed to meet the needs of industry – influenced by our experience with hundreds of global corporate partners and the ground-breaking research of our internationally renowned academics.
You’ll be working with partners and researchers who are out there making a difference – and can help you do the same.
We’re consistently ranked as a top 10 university in national league tables.
We also hold triple-accreditation from AACSB, EQUIS and AMBA.
(It’s a triple-stamp of approval, which means you’ll be getting the highest quality of education, from teaching and research to student support and facilities).
We were one of the first business schools to embed a year-long paid placement for our business undergraduates.
You’ll have the chance to get hands-on experience in a relevant organisation, giving you an extra heads-up in the jobs market.
And the chance to test out your skills.
Coming to university can feel like a lot, but we’ll make sure you have access to all the support you need.
As well as the Programme Lead for your course, your Personal Tutor will be there to advise you on your academic progress, provide pastoral support, and help you get maximum benefit from all the opportunities at Loughborough.
Whatever you choose to study with us, you’ll gain a fantastic grounding in the fundamentals of your subject while also learning about new, more purpose-driven ways of working that will open up a world of possibilities for your career.
You’ll develop sought-after skills and confidence you can take with you, whether you go on to make your mark in an organisation, or choose to set up your own.
Are you ready to join us, and progress with purpose ?
We’re one of just a handful of business schools to hold triple accreditation.
Being at the forefront of business with purpose means we support students and organisations globally.
You’ll be joining a lifelong community of co-creation and learning.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/schools/business-school/our-people:
Find contact details and information about all members of staff at Loughborough Business School.
You can also find academic members of each discipline group at their respective webpages.
Expertise: Management Science, Operations and Supply Chain Management

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/schools/business-school/study:
Supercharge your career with courses that’ll equip you to move forward in resilient, sustainable organisations.
Welcome to business with a difference – and you can be part of it.
The world is facing some big challenges right now that require us to think about business differently – so we can better balance economic priorities with social and environmental ones.
You can be part of that change by choosing a business school that equips you to follow your passions while also having an impact in resilient, purpose-led organisations.
Join us on an undergraduate course, master’s, MBA or PhD to align your purpose with the needs of global communities and economies.
You’ll study and be inspired by content designed for the future.
And have the chance to build your talents and experience – by applying what you learn through our partnerships with businesses and fantastic placement opportunities.
We also offer professional development courses, so you can plug into the latest ideas in sustainable and purposeful business at any point in your career.
with the needs of global communities and economies
while making the world more sustainable
and help drive change in business and across the world
with future-thinking organisations and our business partners
to step away from the traditional ways of doing business
Supercharge your career and prospects with future-focused courses, and fantastic professional placement and study abroad opportunities.
Get a step ahead by studying a subject you love to an advanced level as part of our thriving postgraduate community.
Conduct your own research to solve issues affecting society and the planet, and help shape a different way of doing business.
Choose an MBA that lets you explore your potential and make a difference as an effective and inspiring purpose-led leader.
Equip your teams with the latest tools and techniques to build leadership and management capacity.
As part of our global outlook, we welcome international exchange students from across the world to Loughborough Business School.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/schools/business-school/collaborate:
Ambition is good, but people rarely make real progress alone, which is why we put such emphasis on collaborating with colleagues, students, alumni and partners.
Being purpose-led means changing opinions, practices and policies.
That means working with others to influence and instigate real change.
Collaboration is one of our key watchwords.
We share, co-create and apply new ideas, knowledge, technologies, skills and services with each other, and with organisations across the UK and the world.
Whoever you are, if you are looking for practical solutions to drive progress and do business differently, we want to work with you to help you flourish.
With professional education and apprenticeship programmes across a range of career-enhancing topics.
Infuse your organisation with fresh ideas and energy through student projects, placements and internships.
Be inspired by new perspectives to help your organisation grow through consultancy and Knowledge Transfer Partnerships.
For purpose-led organisations to truly start changing things for people and the planet, we need to create supportive environments where businesses and entrepreneurs can access the specialist expertise they need to thrive and grow.
At Loughborough, we run an on-site incubator for purpose-led startups where students and small businesses can bring their ideas, and launch and develop them.
We also have a dedicated small business growth and leadership programme, where businesses can tap into a vibrant support network of alumni and local business experts.
To learn more about how we can help you tap into the support and skills you need to have a greater impact, contact Elaine Conway , Small Business Engagement Co-ordinator.
To find out more about how we can work with you to help your organisation progress, please get in touch.
Executive Education Team

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/schools/business-school/research-and-innovation:
Discover how we are sharing and shaping the newest ideas to help tackle some of the world’s biggest problems.
Whether it’s rethinking supply chains or coming up with more responsible finance systems – we need to embrace new ways of thinking and working if we really want to move business and society forward.
That’s what the research we do here at Loughborough Business School is all about.
By transforming theory into practice, and forging deep partnerships with purpose-driven organisations, our academics are pushing forward innovations that are changing business – and the world – for the better.
Together, we’re moving beyond consumption-driven models towards more collaborative, equitable and sustainable ways of doing business.
particularly those interested in going beyond established ways of working
thanks to our meaningful collaborations with industry partners, social enterprises and academic institutions
giving our students the chance to get involved in some of the most promising ideas that are helping to reshape the future of business and society
Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2021
Researchers come here because they want to push the boundaries of what's possible in organisations and in the wider professional ecosystem.
We give them the chance to follow their passions and combine expertise across multiple disciplines, so they can challenge conventions and play their part in developing the solutions businesses, our planet and society need most.
We conduct world-leading research focusing on the aspects of business and society where we know we can make the biggest difference.
Take a look at some of our most impactful research projects – from reflective goal setting that’s boosting organisational performance, to new systems that are helping tackle the risk of health threats like COVID-19.
We’re working on research that has a positive impact on the world.
Join us to help move business – and society – forward by doing a PhD.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/schools/business-school/news:
As part of our summer graduation celebrations Professor Jan Godsell, Dean of Loughborough Business School, presented a range of awards to outstanding graduates in recognition of their exceptional achievements.
Loughborough Business School alumnus Mridul Manoj has now completed over 2000 consecutive days running 3km at a time and is now preparing to submit evidence of his feat to Guiness World Records.
Mark Sismey-Durrant is a distinguished alumnus who has exemplified the ethos of purpose-driven leadership throughout his 48-year career in the UK banking sector.
As the former Chair of the Business School Strategic Advisory Board he has offered invaluable insight, drawn from his extensive experience in leadership roles.
Loughborough University has recently announced a new sports leadership-specific pathway option for the Level 7 Senior Leader Apprenticeship, launching in October 2025.
In July, we celebrated the ongoing success of our wide-ranging research and innovation efforts at Loughborough Business School through the 11th LB Doctoral Conference and R&I Celebration Event.
Dr Mumin Abubakre of Loughborough Business School’s Centre for Information Management (CIM) joined fellow experts at London Tech Week 2025 to explore purpose-driven partnerships in the technology sector.
Loughborough Business School recently held the Staff Celebration and Recognition Awards 2025.
Presented by Dean of the School, Professor Jan Godsell, the event provided an opportunity to reflect and celebrate the exceptional achievements and dedication of colleagues from across the School who have made significant Progress with Purpose this year.
Loughborough Business School has recently been recognised with a Bronze award from Athena Swan for its ongoing commitment to progressing gender equality in higher education.
Dr Amanda Harrington of Loughborough Business School joined a panel of fellow experts at the recent Institute of Asset Management Conference to discuss the value of apprenticeships for developing asset management talent.
Loughborough University’s ‘UK Supply Chain and Logistics Excellence (SCALE) Centre’ has been recognised with a Bronze Award at this year’s HEIST Awards.
The work of Loughborough-based ‘Digital Decarbonisation’ pioneers has played a significant role in the recently adopted ‘OECD Recommendation on Digital Technologies and the Environment’.
This new landmark legal instrument supports countries in leveraging digital technologies to make progress on environmental sustainability goals while mitigating their environmental footprint.
A carbon tax is designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by placing a direct price on CO₂ and other greenhouse gases.
Loughborough University welcomed leading supply chain professionals, academics, and business leaders for the inaugural UK SCALE Discovery Week on 24–25 June 2025.
The two-day event, hosted by the UK SCALE Centre, part of the MIT Global SCALE Network, brought fresh perspectives to some of the sector’s most urgent challenges – from resilience and sustainability to the rise of AI and the future of globalisation.
Prospective master’s students had the chance to experience the future of logistics and sustainability at the recent MSc Supply Chain Management Discovery Day, held at Loughborough Business School.
Researchers led by Loughborough Business School academics, Dr.
Kamran Chatha, Dr.
Grammatoula Papaioannou and Professor Jan Godsell are partnering with supply chain industry experts SupplyVue on a new Innovate UK-funded work, expanding the impact of the award-winning CarbonVue project.
On 10 July 2025, second-year Loughborough student Efeose Ukegheson will be celebrated at the annual Student Social Mobility Awards for overcoming adversity and achieving exceptional accomplishments in his studies and beyond.
In a digital age where even the most niche industries are undergoing radical transformation, the world of horses has so far remained largely untouched by technological innovation.
That’s now starting to change thanks to Loughborough alumni-led business, Cavago.
Representation from Loughborough Business School recently joined attendees from a worldwide audience of universities at the NAFSA 2025 Annual Conference and Expo.
The UK government’s spending review has set out its priorities for the next three years.
But behind the rhetoric about boosting growth lies growing concern about small businesses being locked out of the wider UK economy.
Government funding and regulation are increasingly out of step with the reality of micro-enterprises and sole traders, shutting off their potential to boost GDP growth.
Loughborough Business School’s Professor Tom Jackson recently joined over 300 senior leaders and experts from business, government, academia, and civil society at this year’s WEF Global Technology Retreat.
Hosted from 3 to 6 June at the World Economic Forum’s Presidio campus in San Francisco, participants explored the rapid trajectory of technological development and how best to respond to the impacts on our societies.
Loughborough Business School has been recognised for its societal impact and commitment to sustainability as part of the sixth edition of the Positive Impact Rating, launched today at the PIR Global Summit 2025 and also acknowledged during the UN PRME Global Forum.
In today’s era of geopolitical tension, climate disruption and economic uncertainty, building resilient supply chains is not just a necessity — it’s a competitive advantage.
Dean of Loughborough Business School, Professor Jan Godsell, has explored these issues in a new webinar from FT Longitude and Maersk.
Loughborough University’s UK Supply Chain and Logistics Excellence (SCALE) Centre has been shortlisted for the ‘Collaboration of the Year’ category in the HEIST 2025 Awards.
For many, Loughborough University is synonymous with elite sport.
But for alumnus and drinks industry expert, Ian McLernon, the impact of a culture that strives for excellence extends beyond sporting achievement.
During a recent visit to Loughborough Business School, Ian shared his reflections on a career in the luxury goods sector and what he learned from his time at Loughborough.
Dr Klaus Friesenbichler, Deputy Director of the Supply Chain Intelligence Institute Austria (ASCII) and Senior Economist at the Austrian Institute of Economic Research (WIFO), recently visited Loughborough Business School to share insights on the role of supply chains in economic activity.
Ghana’s Minister of Youth Development and Empowerment George Opare-Addo visited the East Midlands today to meet academics from Loughborough University and talk about a possible research collaboration.
Loughborough Business School academic, Dr Vitor Castro, was recently invited by the Trade and Public Policy network to share insights regarding the energy and environmental challenges posed by unchecked digital data growth on the fast-growing digital trade sector.
On Tuesday 13 May, we held a celebration meal for all our final year students.
As part of the event, Associate Dean for Education and Student Experience, Dr Justine Wood, presented awards to a range of students for their outstanding achievements.
Well done to all of them!
From 30 April to 1 May 2025, Loughborough Business School welcomed early career economics researchers from across the UK to a training workshop focused on developing high-quality teaching practice.
Jack Brown, currently studying Marketing and Management at Loughborough Business School, has successfully completed a gruelling 120-mile ultramarathon in aid of Teenage Cancer Trust.
The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) has awarded Accredited Degree status to the recently refreshed BSc Marketing and MSc Marketing programmes.
From 28 – 29 April, Loughborough Business School’s Economics Group welcomed advanced PhD students from the UK, US and Europe to present their research, build their professional network, and receive feedback on their work.
A new study has revealed that narcissism could play a beneficial role in early-stage entrepreneurship – however, it could also damage businesses and have a negative impact.
Two ambitious postgraduate students from Loughborough Business School, Carson Keago and Serah Muindi, have built a thriving consulting business aimed at supporting SMEs and charities with strategy development.
Loughborough Business School recently announced the appointment of a new Chair of the School Strategic Advisory Board (SAB).
Steven Clarke, who graduated from Loughborough University’s Management Science course in 1991, brings a wealth of experience to support the School’s strategic vision from his extensive background supporting entrepreneurial technology companies.
Dr Vitor Castro was recently invited to present on work from Loughborough Business School’s Digital Decarb Design Group, highlighting the immense energy challenges posed by unchecked digital data growth.
BSc Economics and Management student, Simon Daenen, set up social media marketing agency ‘Kestrel Collab Media’ in 2023 as part of his Year in Enterprise.
As part of the first event in Loughborough Business School’s ‘Economics Conference Series’, undergraduate and postgraduate students heard from Carolina Escobar-Tello, Schools and Education Lead at Doughnut Economics Action Lab (DEAL), as she discussed distributive and regenerative business.
Three nominees from Loughborough Business School have been recognised as top-performing students across the University at the 2025 Academic Excellence Awards.
Professor Tom Jackson and Professor Ian Hodgkinson’s work on the Technical Working Group for Ethics for the National Digital Twin Programme (NDTP) is set to contribute to digital twin adoption across the UK.
After Donald Trump announced a new set of tariffs that sent economic shockwaves around the world, Dr Huw Edwards, an expert in international economic relations, and trade theory and policy, comments on how Donald Trump’s flawed understanding of economics is not going to make their country great again.
On 7 April, Loughborough Business School hosted a workshop bringing together internal and external experts to examine cutting-edge research on the theme of ‘Supply Chains and Globalization’.
A team of Loughborough Business School first-year students secured third place in the University Business Challenge (UBC) Worldwide Finals held at the University of Southampton.
Loughborough Business School welcomed guest speaker Floyd Woodrow to deliver the latest in the masterclass series of talks, focused on practical advice for developing leadership and negotiation skills, based on his extensive experience in both the military and corporate worlds.
Later today, Donald Trump is preparing to unveil sweeping tariffs, that analysts fear could push up prices and trigger a trade war.
Dr Arman Mazhikeyev, a researcher in international trade, barriers to trade, and regional trade agreements, explains what the economic implications could be for these actions.
Professor Tom Jackson of Loughborough Business School, has been reappointed as an Independent Scientific Advisor (ISA) for the Innovate UK BridgeAI programme, led by The Alan Turing Institute.
On Wednesday 5 March, Loughborough Business School welcomed BSc Maths and Economics alumnus Ross McEwan as a guest speaker to share his career journey and insights on succeeding in finance from his distinguished career.
BSc Management student, Bella Harris-Johnstone, established the Loughborough sport and student lifestyle focused social media business ‘Lboro Fan TV’ in 2023 as part of her Year in Enterprise.
In a world where environmental awareness is at an all-time high, we are becoming increasingly conscious of how our daily activities contribute to carbon emissions.
Yet, one aspect that often escapes public attention is the environmental impact of our digital lives.
Are our online activities, from sending emails to storing photos, as carbon neutral as they seem?
You don’t have to look too hard for recent examples of how the online spread of false information has significant real-world consequences.
Whether you are trying to keep up with the latest political news, or just doing your online shopping, you can’t always be sure that the information you’re exposed to is accurate.
Recent recognition from the Council of the European Union that the growth of AI development presents a significant challenge to societies around the world has put a spotlight on how businesses can realise the full potential of AI while ensuring responsible and ethical design.
The New Year King’s Honours List has been published for 2025 and this year it recognises exceptional contributions of alumni across a diverse range of industries and projects including sport, engineering, public health, and more.
Congratulations to Loughborough Business School alumnus Paul Streets OBE who has been named in the honours list.
Tim Lawrence is the Director of the Digital Supply Chain Hub, Digital Catapult.
A key speaker at the Loughborough University UK SCALE Centre Symposium, in this article, Tim outlines the importance of breaking down technological barriers to improve supply chain resilience in the UK.
A final year undergraduate student at Loughborough Business School has secured a £200k investment for his start-up company, BidScript, a business co-founded with his childhood friend.
As members of the World Economic Forum (WEF) AI-Energy Workstream, Loughborough Business School academics Professors Tom Jackson and Ian Hodgkinson have contributed to a significant and transformative new white paper titled: Artificial Intelligence’s Energy Paradox: Balancing Challenges and Opportunities.
Loughborough University recently joined the MIT Global SCALE Network, with the creation of the UK SCALE Centre, offering a new Supply Chain Management master’s degree.
On Wednesday 11 December, outstanding undergraduate students from Loughborough Business School were recognised for their successes at the Placement and Internship Awards.
Staff from Loughborough Business School are providing support to local homelessness charity Falcon Support Services and Blue Bell Hill Primary School through this year’s Christmas charity appeal.
Loughborough University believes in recognising and celebrating the dedication and valued contribution of our employees.
The long service awards are a testament to the commitment and loyalty of our team members who have contributed significantly to our success over the years.
Since 2012, Loughborough University has annually recognised graduates who have demonstrated outstanding inspiration, merit, achievement or commitment to a particular role, or society, education, knowledge and research through the Distinguished Alumni Awards.
Dr Grant Charlesworth-Jones is uniquely qualified as both a GP and a Barrister, bringing a wealth of experience from the medical, legal, and occupational health fields.
His diverse background inspired him to create D4Drivers, now the UK's largest provider of driver health assessments.
A speaker at the Loughborough University UK SCALE Centre Symposium, in this article, he outlines the importance of supporting and maintaining a healthy workforce for the future of industry.
Loughborough Business School has recently secured reaccreditation by the Small Business Charter for an additional five years, highlighting a continued commitment to entrepreneurship and support for local small businesses.
Following the announcement of their Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarships Award earlier this year, the Digital Decarbonisation Design Group held the inaugural meeting of their Strategic Advisory Group (SAG) at the Loughborough campus on Monday 18 November.
Jo Pick joined Wincanton in 2019.
As Chief People Officer she leads a team of over 340 HR professionals who support over 20,000 colleagues.
Jo drives the development and retention of talent across the Wincanton Group.
She also chairs the Wincanton social value steering committee, championing wellbeing, community, diversity and inclusion.
A speaker at the Loughborough University UK SCALE Centre Symposium, in this article, she outlines the importance of a strong people-centric culture and workforce development to achieving resilient supply chains.
Loughborough Business School and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) have joined forces in an exciting collaboration to offer a new master’s programme in Supply Chain Management as part of the UK Supply Chain and Logistics Excellence (SCALE) Centre.
On 29th October, Loughborough Business School staff welcomed the inaugural cohort of apprentices for the launch of the UK’s first Infrastructure Asset Management Professional (IAMP) Level 7 Apprenticeship.
Loughborough Business School is paving the way for a new stage of industrial evolution, advocating the need for economic development to be balanced with environmental responsibility.
Judith Richardson leads the sustainability practice at management consultancy, Argon & Co UK, working with clients to operationalise their sustainability strategies, turning long-term visions into tangible action that makes a difference.
A speaker at the Loughborough University UK SCALE Centre Symposium, in this article she outlines the importance of sustainability in our future supply chains.
Loughborough Business School academics have reacted to Rachel Reeves’ 2024 Budget, outlining the potential positives of much needed public investment, with a cautionary note about the impact of National Insurance increases on business growth.
As part of the University’s celebration of Black History Month, Loughborough Business School hosted Black Excellence UK (BE UK) along with guest speakers Dr Olusiji Sanya and Dr Ashiedu Joel for a forum addressing ‘Legacy and Leadership’ on Friday 11 October.
On Monday 7 October, Loughborough University welcomed leaders and executives from across the supply chain industry to the UK Supply Chain and Logistics Excellence (SCALE) Centre Symposium.
The digital decarbonisation movement, championed by Loughborough Business School Professors Tom Jackson and Ian Hodgkinson, is driving change in global policy to create a better world.
Their impactful research has made great strides promoting the responsible use of knowledge and data to minimise carbon emissions from digital practices, helping organisations to better understand how to progress towards their decarbonisation goals.
Dean of Loughborough Business School, Professor Janet Godsell, has been named as a winner for the ‘Sector Activist’ category in 2024 edition of The Manufacturer Top 100.
Loughborough researchers have created more than 300 action plans for the civil service to help them better prevent bullying at work.
The recent attacks on walkie-talkies and pagers in Lebanon have highlighted the hidden vulnerabilities in everyday technology.
These incidents underscore the need for individuals to understand the potential risks associated with their devices and to take proactive steps to protect themselves in an increasingly digital world where safety can be compromised.
As part of the University’s celebration of Black History Month, Loughborough Business School will welcome Black Excellence UK (BE UK) to host a forum addressing ‘Legacy and Leadership’ on Friday 11 October.
Professors Tom Jackson and Ian Hodgkinson of Loughborough Business School have been named as inaugural members of the prestigious IEEE P7100 Environmental Impact Assessment of AI Systems (EIAI) Working Group.
“Just because we can, does it mean we should?” – that’s the key question that Professor Jan Godsell, Dean of Loughborough Business School, will be addressing in the context of global supply chains in her inaugural lecture for Loughborough University.
Every day travellers across the globe are flocking to popular destinations, eager to relax and create memories.
As artificial intelligence (AI) technologies become more embedded into our everyday lives and business operations, their high energy demands and environmental impacts call for a more sustainable approach to building algorithms – the sets of instructions used to inform this technology.
Minimising carbon emissions and improving data creation, processing and storage is crucial for governments and businesses to achieve sustainability and economic goals, while cutting costs caused by inefficient digital practices.
As part of our summer graduation celebrations, Dean Professor Jan Godsell presented a range of awards to outstanding graduates in recognition of their exceptional achievements.
A huge congratulations to all of them!
Loughborough Business School recently held the Staff Celebration and Recognition Awards for 2024.
Presented by Dean Professor Jan Godsell, the event provided an opportunity to reflect and celebrate the exceptional achievements and dedication of colleagues from across the School.
Businesses, charities and speakers gathered at East Midlands Chamber’s Corporate and Social Responsibility (CSR) summit at the University of Derby on 11th July.
Loughborough Business School was pleased to be able to support the recent inaugural meeting of the Leicestershire Manufacturing Network at Loughborough University’s STEMLab facility.
Loughborough Business School academics, Professor Tom Jackson and Professor Ian Hodgkinson, have put a spotlight on the hidden impact of ‘dark data’ on organisations’ greenhouse gas emissions.
Taxing certain antibiotics could help efforts to tackle the escalating threat of antibiotic resistance in humans, according to a new study.
Loughborough University has partnered with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Centre for Transportation and Logistics (MIT CTL) to be the first UK member of its Global Supply Chain and Logistics Excellence (SCALE) Network.
Loughborough Business School was delighted to welcome world-renowned econometrician Professor Jeffrey M.
Wooldridge of Michigan State University for a two-day research visit from 9 – 10 May.
Loughborough Business School academics, Professors Tom Jackson and Ian Hodgkinson, took to the stage at the 2024 HIMSS European Health Conference & Exhibition in Rome on 31 May to highlight the benefits of digital decarbonisation in the healthcare sector.
On Friday 3 May, Dr Michelle Richey took a group of master's students from the 'International Entrepreneurship and Migration' module to visit TERN - The Entrepreneurial Refugee Network – an amazing social enterprise based in London supporting refugee business start-ups.
We're thrilled to share that BSc International Business student Tilly Sawyer was named the winner in the ‘Celebrating Neurodiverse Talent' category at targetjobs' Undergraduate of the Year Awards 2024.
Social media platforms have become more than mere tools for communication.
They’ve evolved into bustling arenas where truth and falsehood collide.
Before you buy something, or visit a new restaurant, or see a new film, you may be tempted to check out the online reviews.
Researching what strangers think of the things we might like has become a familiar part of the modern consumer experience.
On Wednesday 1 May, we held a celebration meal for all our final year students.
As part of the event, Dean Professor Jan Godsell presented awards to a range of students for their outstanding achievements.
We’re delighted to share that Professor Martin Tuuli has been awarded a British Academy grant of £10,000 for collaborative activities towards a grant proposal on Circularity, Adaptability, and Reuse Enhancement in Building Design, Construction and Renovation (CARE-BUILDER) with European partners.
The Technical Working Group for Ethics has completed its mission to develop the foundational ethics strategy for the National Digital Twin Programme (NDTP).
This pioneering impact work will enable the creation of digital twins that are ethical, which is a central pillar of the programme and will ensure digital twins can be used and maintained in a sustainable way and evolve over time for the benefit of all.
We're pleased to announce our top 150 ranking for Business and Management Studies in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2024.
The British prime minister recently claimed the UK economy has “turned a corner”.
Rishi Sunak said inflation figures were encouraging, and proclaimed that 2024 would be the year Britain “bounces back”.
Professors Tom Jackson and Ian Hodgkinson were recently featured in The Chronicle of Higher Education, where they discussed the critical need to minimise carbon emissions and improve how data is created, processed and stored.
On 15 March, Visiting Professor Colm Kelleher spent a day in Loughborough sharing his insights on banking developments and crises with students and academics from Loughborough Business School.
On Friday 22 March, Team Innovate from Loughborough Business School placed fourth of 10 teams in the UBC Worldwide Undergraduate Business Challenge Final!
Professors Tom Jackson and Ian Hodgkinson were invited to present their groundbreaking Digital Decarbonisation research at the ‘UK-India Data Stewardship for Climate’ workshop hosted by the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IITB) and jointly organised with the UK’s Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office, Aapti Institute and the Open Data Institute (ODI).
On Friday 8 March, Team Innovate from Loughborough Business School placed first of 15 teams in the UBC Worldwide Undergraduate Business Challenge Semi-Final!
Loughborough University is launching a new cross-disciplinary doctoral research cluster on Digital Decarbonisation.
On Tuesday 5 March, Dr Elena Georgiadou and Dr Tien-Der Jerry Han appeared before the UK Parliament's Business and Trade Committee – contributing to their Export-led Growth Inquiry.
On Wednesday 21 February, second year undergraduate students pitched their new product concepts to The Skinny Food Co.
Professors Tom Jackson and Ian Hodgkinson have joined by invitation the ‘ICT Roundtable Series: The Industry’s Energy Transition’ – a collaboration between the World Economic Forum’s Centre for Energy and Materials, the Forum’s ICT Industry team, and Accenture.
On Monday 12 February, students of Loughborough Business School’s Economics academic group invited students, staff, alumni, partners and the local community to a lecture and Q&A session with Dr Andrew Bailey, Governor of the Bank of England.
Loughborough Business School (LB) has achieved its accreditation extension from the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) for a further five years.
Professor Tom Jackson has been appointed as an Independent Scientific Advisor (ISA) within the BridgeAI programme at the Alan Turing Institute (ATI).
We have committed to championing responsible management education through thought and action leadership with PRME (Principles for Responsible Management Education).
Alistair Milne, Professor of Financial Economics at Loughborough Business School, has been appointed a member of the newly established Academic Advisory Group to HM Treasury and the Bank of England, providing independent input to the design phase of the digital pound.
Each year we honour a select group with the Distinguished Alumni Award.
At the end of 2023, four alumni were recognised with awards for their work spanning retail, communications, ecommerce and climate tech.
England goalkeeper and Loughborough Business School alumna Mary Earps has capped an incredible year by being crowned BBC Sports Personality of the Year 2023.
Lioness goalkeeper and Loughborough alumna Mary Earps has been awarded an honorary degree by the University.
The incredible achievements of the multi-world record-breaking mountaineer and Loughborough University alumnus Nirmal ‘Nims’ Purja MBE have been recognised with the award of an honorary degree.
Earlier this year, we were delighted to welcome the Restructuring team from NatWest to campus.
This partnership has seen the development of an exciting work-based learning project for final year students.
New Loughborough Business School student Ntando Mahlangu was diagnosed with fibular hemimelia at birth and spent the first 10 years of his life in a wheelchair, navigating high school bullies and a different kind of childhood.
We’re pleased to announce that Colm Kelleher, Chairman of the Board of Directors at UBS, has accepted the title of Visiting Professor of Banking and Finance at Loughborough Business School.
Student teams from across Loughborough University’s academic departments have successfully completed IDEA 2023 – an entrepreneurial programme in which they’ve worked together with complete freedom to create their own market-driven concepts.
Following their world first work on digital decarbonisation, Professors Ian Hodgkinson and Tom Jackson have accepted by invitation to join the OECD.AI Policy Observatory Network of Experts, with a focus on Artificial Intelligence Compute and Climate.
Loughborough Business School has joined the Global Business School Network (GBSN) as we strive to address significant societal challenges and make the world a better place in line with our new ‘Progress with Purpose’ ethos.
Loughborough MBA students recently visited London to discover and engage with a range of organisations, as well as enjoy an evening of networking with Loughborough Business School alumni.
Loughborough Business School recently hosted its ninth annual Doctoral Conference, organised by the LB Conference Committee 2023.
Professors Ian Hodgkinson and Tom Jackson have created a unique carbon footprint tool to allow businesses to measure the CO2 output of their digital data.
Last week Loughborough Business School held its Staff Celebration and Recognition Awards for 2023.
Dr Huw Edwards, Senior Lecturer in Economics at Loughborough Business School, recently appeared on Turkish news channel TRT World to discuss the Bank of England’s decision to increase interest rates from 4.5% to 5%.
Loughborough Business School is pleased to announce that Colm Kelleher, Chairman of the Board of Directors at UBS Bank, will present at an upcoming lecture on campus this month.
Dr Antuela Tako, Reader in Operational Research at Loughborough Business School and member of the Women in OR and Analytics Network (WORAN) mentoring sub-committee, recently led an equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) panel at the 4th IMA and OR Society Conference on Mathematics of Operational Research, at the Conference Aston in Birmingham.
The UK recently announced that it will join the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), giving British businesses access to the 11 other members of the Indo-Pacific trade bloc and bringing its combined GDP to £11 trillion.
Loughborough University and the Business School are pleased to announce our top 150 ranking for Business and Management studies in the QS World University Rankings by Subject 2023.
Professor Janet Godsell, Dean of Loughborough Business School, has been selected as winner of the SC (Supply Chain) Academic Excellence award at the 2023 Global Women Supply Chain Leaders Summit.
Dr Elaine Conway, Small Business Engagement Coordinator at Loughborough Business School, together with the East Midlands Chamber, have found six in 10 East Midlands businesses have continued corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities despite the rising cost of living.
The School has been awarded EQUIS re-accreditation once again, reaffirming our status as an internationally leading business school with recognition from students, academia and business.
Business School alumna Mary Earps has been awarded Women’s Goalkeeper 2022 at The Best FIFA Football Awards™.
Research from the Business School suggests the traditional relationship between universities and industry partners could be reversed, with universities acting as providers for access to international markets.
Loughborough Business School is delighted to welcome Professor Ali Choudhary as the new Head of Economics.
Dr Duncan Robertson of Loughborough Business School has suggested that predicting COVID-19 trends has become more difficult now than compared to early 2020, due to the interplay of multiple factors.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/schools/business-school/contact-us:
Visit the Our people section to contact a specific individual.
Undergraduate admissions (Prospective students and applicants)
Undergraduate administration (Current students)
Postgraduate taught (master's) admissions (Prospective students and applicants)
Postgraduate taught (master's) administration (Current students)
Postgraduate research (PhD/MPhil) programmes
Research and consultancy
Full-Time MBA programmes
Professional education
Dean's office Kayleigh Duke
Alumni relations Ruth Cufflin
International relations
Professional placements
Marketing team

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/schools/business-school/digital-decarbonisation/what-is-digital-decarb:
Digital decarbonisation is centred around the responsible and efficient utilisation of knowledge and data within organisations.
It emphasizes the adoption of digital best practices in sustainability strategies, with the ultimate goal of minimising data-related carbon emissions.
The global push for net zero emissions, as demonstrated through initiatives like the UK’s ‘Industrial Decarbonisation Strategy’, has predominantly focused on the physical decarbonisation activities of businesses.
This has included efforts to reduce carbon emissions from production processes and the promotion of digital alternatives to physical activities, such as remote meetings.
However, one critical aspect has been overlooked: the environmental impact of digitalization itself, from the generation and storage of data by individuals and Internet of Things (IoT) devices, to the increased use of online technologies in society.
As our daily digital footprint continues to grow alongside the rapid expansion of the metaverse, the costs of digitalization to industry, society and the environment are becoming increasingly significant.
Despite this, government policies for decarbonisation and achieving net zero emissions have largely ignored these costs.
For instance, data centres alone consume more power than the entire UK and are estimated to contain 65% dark data (used once or not at all), contributing significantly to the 4% of global greenhouse gas emissions attributed to digitalization.
Tom Jackson and Ian Hodgkinson explain what Digital Decarbonisation is and what impact it has
The media’s focus is primarily on carbon emissions from the automotive, aviation and energy sectors, but the data industry is likely to produce more emissions than these industries combined.
These findings highlight the significant and previously hidden role digital data practices have in contributing to society’s carbon footprint.
It is therefore crucial that future decarbonisation initiatives take a more holistic approach, considering the environmental impact of digitalization as well as physical decarbonisation activities.
By increasing awareness of the impact that digital data has on carbon emissions we will:
Explore more about Digital Decarbonisation and the research on the digitaldecarb.org website

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/schools/business-school/digital-decarbonisation/what-you-can-do:
Digital decarbonisation for net-zero by 2050 requires co-action at the policy, organisational and societal levels.
Together we can reduce global emissions through sustainable digital practices.
There are lots of things you can do as individuals, organisations or policymakers to have a positive impact on tackling the problem of data carbon footprint.
Helping to shape policy discussion across the globe, we are actively engaging with national government departments, corporate leaders, and global policy bodies to help raise the awareness of the need for digital decarbonisation and to educate different stakeholders about the sustainability implications of technological advancements like AI.
Our latest publications outline how poor data practices increase your digital carbon footprint.
Through re-thinking your data, information and knowledge strategies, you can both optimise digital data and cut your carbon emissions.
Raise awareness with your government, councils, businesses and organisations that you interact with.
And let them know that you know.
And think about your behaviour.
You have a digital carbon footprint.
IBM reports one person creates 1.7mb of data a second.
That’s 10 full DVDs in a working day.
Make a positive change in your organisation and tackle your data carbon footprint by getting in contact with the team.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/schools/business-school/digital-decarbonisation/toolkit:
Our award-winning digital decarbonisation research is designed to support you and your organisation in achieving your net zero ambitions.
The toolkit comprises three key elements, and we'll explain how you can work with us to utilise them effectively.
We have created this simple calculator to show the worst-case scenario of carbon emissions from data and view the carbon emissions of 'Dark Data'.
This unique tool helps organisations determine the appropriate size of the dataset(s) required, the optimal frequency for updates, the most suitable storage location and the analytics necessary for your data projects.
Designed to provide insights into the potential environmental ramifications of new data projects that will inform planning, concepts and decision-making.
It was launched at London Climate Action Week at the British Computer Society in June 2023.
We have the skills and expertise to deploy our toolkit in your organisation.
We can advise and support on best practice and guide you through making impactful changes for the benefit of all.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/schools/business-school/digital-decarbonisation/about-us:
Digital Decarbonisation at Loughborough Business School is led by Professor Tom Jackson and Professor Ian Hodgkinson, pioneers of the digital decarbonisation movement as identified by the World Economic Forum in 2022.
Numerous existing studies focus on digital transformations needed for decarbonisation, but not the net zero implications of the digital transformation itself.
Our purpose is to create a positive impact on the planet by reducing carbon emissions from Dark Data.
To do it we’re taking a transdisciplinary approach and focusing our research on digital decarbonisation.
This was funded by the UKRI National Circular Economy Research Hub CE-Hub until May 2023.
Tom has over 20 years experience of in research and industrial consultancy and secured over £40 million of research funding.
Known for the creation of EMOTIVE which holds the world’s best f-measure for fine-grained emotion detection.
A system that has been able to predict in real-time the outcome of events like US and UK elections through to mental health conditions.
His research also includes the pioneering work on the dark side of digital decarbonisation and the impact on the environment; the first model of information overload, and in his earlier career he was nicknamed ‘Dr Email’ by the BBC for his work on the impact of interrupts in the workplace.
Ian has published extensively on digital transformation and the role of digital innovations for service value co-creation across private and public sector contexts, with this work featuring in a range of leading academic journals (e.g.
Public Management Review, Technovation, Technological Forecasting and Social Change, Australian Journal of Public Administration, Public Money and Management).
Alongside this work, Ian is advancing new knowledge on the net-zero implications of digital transformations, both the ‘good’ and the ‘bad’, and helping to direct the critical next steps for the digital decarbonisation movement.
Loughborough Business School
Department of Materials
School of Design and Creative Arts
Institute for Media and Creative Industries, Loughborough University London
Department of Computer Science
Department of Aeronautical and Automotive Engineering
School of Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/schools/business-school/digital-decarbonisation/design-group:
The Digital Decarb Design Group’s mission is to address the significant and previously hidden impact of digital practices on the environment to the benefit of society by Reducing our digital carbon footprint.
Together.
The Digital Decarbonisation research movement at Loughborough University began in early 2022, led by Professor Tom Jackson and Professor Ian Hodgkinson.
Together, they aimed to outline the nature of the vast, and growing, size of the carbon footprint produced by our digital activities.
Their groundbreaking findings have showcased the impact that issues like ‘dark data’, the growth of streaming, and AI technology are having on the escalating problems of carbon emissions and climate change.
Despite the media’s focus on carbon emissions from the automotive, aviation and energy sectors, the data industry is likely to produce more emissions than these industries combined.
The Digital Decarb Design Group was launched by Loughborough University in 2024, drawing on £400,000 in funding support from the Vice Chancellor’s Scholarships award.
This innovative initiative seeks to develop the next generation of digital decarbonisation researchers and explore ecosystem solutions for digital decarbonisation – helping to accelerate the path to net zero.
Paving the way for a paradigm shift in how we approach digital practices and tools, and their impact on the planet.
Taking a transdisciplinary approach to transform the digital ecosystem for future scaling sustainably.
Interconnected projects focused on transforming the digital ecosystem and redefining approaches to digital and the environment.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/schools/business-school/digital-decarbonisation/news/lboro-digital-decarb-wef-tech-2025:
Held over three days, the world-renowned retreat provides a unique platform to align innovation with global priorities.
Professor Jackson was invited to serve as the facilitator of a key strategy session titled: ‘The Intelligence Energy Equation.’
The high-level, boardroom-style discussion related directly to the WEF’s AI Energy Impact Workstream, focused on the ‘ AI Transformation of Industries ’.
This programme is centred on applying artificial intelligence to reshape value chains, unlock new business and operating models, and drive responsible, sector-specific innovation, efficiency, and growth.
The results of the discussion facilitated by Professor Jackson built on the pioneering white paper: ‘ Artificial Intelligence’s Energy Paradox: Challenges and Opportunities ’ launched earlier this year at the WEF Annual Meeting in Davos.
This paper highlighted the cutting-edge work of Professor Jackson and his colleague and co-founder of the Digital Decarbonisation initiative, Professor Ian Hodgkinson.
Learn more about the policy implications of this work.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/schools/business-school/digital-decarbonisation/news/environmental-effects-of-trade:
Adobe Stock
The rapid digitalisation of UK trade, now accounting for over half of UK exports, is reshaping the environmental footprint of economic exchange.
While digital trade can cut emissions by reducing physical transport and enabling remote work, Dr Castro highlighted that these benefits are far from guaranteed.
Rising demand for energy-intensive data centres, the lifecycle impact of digital devices, and behavioural rebound effects—such as increased e-commerce activity—pose growing environmental risks.
Historically, the environmental cost of trade was dominated by shipping and manufacturing; today, the shift to cloud-based services, AI, and platform delivery models is accelerating the demand for energy in less visible, but still highly material ways.
Decarbonising digital trade means addressing emissions from data infrastructure, reducing e-waste, and designing greener digital services.
Without targeted action, global data-driven electricity use could outstrip supply by 2033 .
During his talk, Dr Castro emphasised the urgent need for improved measurement tools and robust policy frameworks to ensure that digital trade supports both economic and environmental goals.
Dr Castro said: “This debate at TaPP with other experts in Computer Sciences and Digital Trade was an excellent opportunity to brainstorm ideas on the environmental and policy implications of digital trade.
These are underexplored issues in the academic and policy worlds that require further discussion and research.
“Through the Digital Decarbonisation initiative, we hope to contribute to essential discussions on sustainability by championing a more efficient use of digital data, and encouraging a shift towards a greener digital infrastructure.”
Find out more about Digital Decarbonisation

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/schools/business-school/digital-decarbonisation/news/data-doomsday-risk:
Digital data is generated by humans in every corner of the world, and the creation and consumption of digital data is growing rapidly.
Data centres alone consume more power than the entire UK and are estimated to contain 65% dark data – digital knowledge assets that are used once and then forgotten about.
Dr Castro presented a recent article on ' Digital Data Demand and Renewable Energy Limits: Forecasting the Impacts on Global Electricity Supply and Sustainability ' at the University of Oxford’s ZERO Institute .
This article stems from research led by the Loughborough Business School Digital Decarb Design Group .
This research shows the world’s current trajectory towards a 'data doomsday'.
Based on current energy projections, it is forecasted that global electricity supply from renewable energy sources will be unable to meet demand from digital data in 2025.
This demand, coupled with competition for limited renewable energy resources, risks increasing reliance on fossil fuels, especially during periods of peak energy demand.
Moreover, if energy consumption by digital data continues unabated, electricity demand driven by data could exceed global electricity production by 2033.
Dr Castro said: “The chance to deliver this talk to the Oxford ZERO Institute was a great opportunity to raise awareness of this critical issue.
It is essential that we highlight the need for economic development to be carefully balanced with environmental responsibility.
“The hope of our team is that these forecasts will help to foster policies that champion energy efficiency, reduce data waste, and encourage a shift towards a greener digital infrastructure.”
Find out more about dark data and digital decarbonisation

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/schools/business-school/digital-decarbonisation/news:
All the latest news on digital decarbonisation.
Professors Jackson and Hodgkinson gave a rousing closing keynote address at the 2024 IRMS conference, highlighting the significant impact of future data creation growth on the planet.
It marked a perfect close to what was a very inspiring and motivating conference – 'Tides of Change: Surviving and Thriving in a Sea of Information'.
We're pleased to announce that Professors Ian Hodgkinson and Tom Jackson are feeding into the National Digital Twin Programme (NDTP).
Professors Ian Hodgkinson and Tom Jackson have had an article published to help digital decarbonisation discussions across the globe.
Professors Ian Hodgkinson and Tom Jackson have joined key meetings feeding into the AI theme at this year’s Paris Peace Forum.
On Thursday 5 October 2023, the Archives and Records Association (ARA) Section on Technology and Environmental Sustainability Groups hosted a joint event on digital sustainability and decarbonisation.
Professor Tom Jackson and Professor Ian Hodgkinson have collaborated with the Open Data Institute on a blog that explores how the risk to environmental sustainability will only increase as data continues to proliferate.
In an article co-Authored by Professors Tom Jackson and Ian Hodgkinson, Tom Tasker (Amazon Web Services), Sarah-Jane Smyth (London Data Company), and members of the Digital Decarbonisation Design Group, the threat of Dark Data, and Redundant, Obsolete or Trivial Data is discussed.
In an article on the OECD.AI website, Professors Tom Jackson and Ian Hodgkinson discuss the environment impact of AI and outline three steps that can reduce the environmental impact of AI computing.
Ian Hodgkinson, Lisa Jackson and Tom Jackson make the case for hidden carbon costs of digital technologies and the need for shining a spotlight on digital decarbonisation in a blog post for the Observatory of Public Sector Innovation.
Professors Tom Jackson and Ian Hodgkinson write in The Conversation about the growing need to address the energy cost of dark data

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/experts:
Loughborough University has a huge array of experts who are specialists in many different academic and professional fields.
The experts contained here have experience of working with the media and are happy to be contacted for comments and interviews.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/podcasts:
The Experts in Health podcast, brought to you by Loughborough University, highlights the latest research and trends in health, as we welcome a variety of guests
Dedicated to discussing and analysing the good – and the not so good – within the world of poetry.
Let's Talk Loughborough is a new podcast for staff and students at Loughborough University, bringing you up to date with the latest on campus.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/facts-figures:
We are a Five Star Plus institution in the International QS Stars Scheme 2023 – one of only 20 worldwide, with individual five-star ratings for areas such as research, teaching, internationalisation, facilities, employability, innovation, and inclusiveness.
We have performed strongly in the major UK league tables for many years, regularly ranking as a top ten institution.
Loughborough University is well known for offering a life-changing experience, both academically and socially .
We deliver innovative programmes that span a broad range of disciplines, from sport and exercise science to engineering, business and the arts.
We also equip our students for every aspect of their life and career, by supporting them to gain vital experience and skills.
Our strong connections to industry provide students with access to placements, expertise and industry-connected projects.
Our outstanding research is generating globally important work that is driven by society’s need for solutions to real-life issues, making it not only cutting-edge, but relevant too.
Our reputation for sporting excellence , which spans performance, facilities, expertise and working partnerships, confirms our position as the number one university for sport.
Our Loughborough campus is 523 acres – which equates to 8,368 tennis courts or approximately 348 football pitches.
This glorious asset offers great facilities for students, staff and visitors for every aspect of campus life, combined with plenty of open spaces and gardens.
The University is committed to acting in a socially responsible way that maximises its positive impact and minimises its negative impact on society.
This is reflected in the University’s strategy Creating Better Futures.
Together, which makes a commitment to reducing the impact of climate change and achieving net zero through our teaching, research, innovation, partnerships and operations.
More facts and figures about the University can be found in the Financial Statements and the facts and figures section of our main website .

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/downloads:
The photos below can be downloaded freely and used for editorial purposes.
To request University logos and brand guidelines, please email the Design team .

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/filming-on-campus:
Are you looking to set up filming or photography on one of the Loughborough University campuses?
Full details can be found below...
If you are a member of staff or a student and you have been contacted by the media about filming at the Loughborough University or Loughborough University London campuses please get in touch with the PR team , who can provide advice and guidance.
If you are a member of the media looking to film or take photographs at either of the Loughborough campuses, permission must be sought in advance from the PR team.
You can do this via email , outlining your request, and a member of the team will be in touch to provide further information.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/contact:
Please contact the public relations office for all media related enquiries and to get in touch with one of our experts.
Judy Wing PR and External Communications Lead
Tom Bushell PR Manager
Megan Cox PR Manager
Dan Trussell PR Manager (Sport)
Dane Vincent Multimedia PR Manager
Peter Warzynski PR Manager
Lynsey Heap External Communications Manager
If you require University logos or brand guidelines, please email the Design team .

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/press-releases/2025/august/uk-homes-cannot-handle-heatwaves-hot-temperatures:
With heatwaves becoming more frequent and intense, researchers at Loughborough University are warning that many UK homes are no longer fit for rising temperatures – and overheating is putting health and wellbeing at risk.
The team said that around 20% of homes in the UK are already overheating and the problem is only going to get worse as climate change continues.
At Loughborough’s matched-pair test house facility, researchers are trialling practical solutions to keep homes cooler, such as an external shading system (pictured below) that blocks out the sun’s heat before it gets inside.
The facility includes two identical, full-size houses built side-by-side.
One is left unshaded, while the other is fitted with different systems or materials, such as shading on the outside of windows.
Because the houses are the same, any difference in temperature or comfort can be directly linked to what’s being tested.
“We’re looking at how we can adapt our homes to stay cooler in hot weather, without relying on air conditioning,” said Dr Ben Roberts, an expert in indoor environments and building performance.
“UK homes are designed to keep heat in during winter – this also helps block heat from coming into the house through roofs and walls during summer too.
However, it’s a problem when the sun’s heat enters through unshaded windows.
Once the heat gets in, it gets trapped.”
The team uses sensors placed throughout both houses to monitor temperature, humidity and airflow.
They’ve also installed ‘heat boxes’ (pictured below) – devices that replicate the warmth given off by a human body or household appliances – to better understand how real people would feel in these spaces.
“We place them around the house, and it just replicates the same energy of a human body,” said PhD researcher Niloo Todeh Kharman.
“It measures temperature, humidity, and velocity and any parameters that we need for assessment of thermal comfort inside the house.”
But this research is about more than comfort, said Niloo.
Overheating in homes is a real risk to health, particularly for older adults, young children, and those with existing medical conditions.
“Anyone who’s had a sleepless night in a hot bedroom knows how draining it is,” she said.
“Now imagine that every night for a week.
“Sleep deprivation increases your risk of illness, affects your ability to work, and can have longer-term consequences for things like heart health and even dementia.”
Dr Roberts added that many people are unknowingly making their homes hotter by opening windows during the day.
He said: “It might feel instinctive to let fresh air in – but if the air outside is hotter than inside, you’re just heating your house up.
“You’re better off keeping windows closed during the day, drawing light-coloured curtains or blinds on the sunny side, and only opening windows when it’s cooler in the evening.”
Dr Roberts added that night-time ventilation is one of the most effective ways to cool homes – but people are often reluctant to leave windows open due to noise, air pollution, or security concerns.
“It’s something we need to look at more seriously,” said Dr Roberts.
“We might need better window designs – things like secure grilles or automated systems – so people can cool their homes safely overnight.”
The project has support from several industry partners – British Blind and Shutter Association (BBSA), Caribbean Blinds, Guthrie Douglas, Hunter Douglas, James Robertshaw, Serge Ferrari and Weinor – who are providing different materials and products for testing.
The aim is to find affordable, low-energy ways to keep homes cool, something that will be increasingly important as summers get hotter.
Dr Roberts’ top tips for keeping homes cool:
“Ultimately, this is about future-proofing our homes,” Dr Roberts says.
“We need to start designing and managing our houses for a hotter climate.
Not just for comfort, but for our health.”
The project is supported by The Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers (CIBSE).
Video (downloads and embed codes): HEATWAVE: One-in-five homes not equipped to handle hot weather
Download video/audio (inc.
raw files): https://www.lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/videos/2025/test-house-heatwaves/
YouTube video link: https://youtu.be/Uepw_UC5kTI
YouTube embed link: <iframe width="560" height="315" src=" https://www.youtube.com/embed/Uepw_UC5kTI?si=JRjEadZRfb7Ok0fB " title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
Please credit 'Loughborough University', where possible.
For further video/audio support, please contact h.evans@lboro.ac.uk
Press release reference number: 25/124

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/press-releases/2025/july/colin-mcfarlane-honorary-degree:
Actor and Loughborough alumnus Colin McFarlane has been awarded an honorary degree by the University.
Colin, who graduated with a BA in Drama in 1983, returned to campus to be formally recognised for his outstanding contributions to the arts and his role in championing men’s health issues.
Colin is an actor, narrator, voice actor and director, who is known around the world for his roles on stage, television, radio and film.
He played Gotham City police Commissioner Gillian B Loeb in Christopher Nolan’s Batman Begins and The Dark Knight , and is the commanding voice behind the gameshow, The Cube .
He has had roles in the Doctor Who universe, playing Moran and voicing the Heavenly Host, and will soon star as General Pierce in the upcoming spin-off series The War Between the Land and the Sea , set for release later this year.
His other screen credits include playing Ulysses in Outlander , starring as Chief Superintendent Cunningham in ITV’s hit sitcom Piglets , and appearances in The Fast Show , Death Valley , and the Liam Neeson thriller The Commuter .
In animation, Colin has voiced characters in popular children’s shows including Little Princess , Milo , Mike the Knight , Chuggington , Dennis the Menace , Supertato, and Hey Duggee .
He is also JJ in Bob the Builder , Mr Lion in Peppa Pig , PC Malcolm Williams in Fireman Sam and is currently recording a new animated series, Zog .
He played Nelson and Chief in The Queen's Corgi and will appear as Nachtkraab in the animated film The Grand Prix of Europe, which will be in cinemas this summer.
Colin has also lent his voice to popular video games, including Batman: Arkham Knight , Final Fantasy XVI , and Dead Island 2, and has starred in widely praised radio productions including the Sony Award-winning drama Lavender Song with Bill Nighy and the BBC Radio 4 comedy The Many Wrongs of Lord Christian Brighty .
On stage, he’s earned acclaim for performances in Fences alongside Lenny Henry, The Collection with Harold Pinter, and Coriolanus opposite Corin Redgrave then Steven Berkoff.
He received the Time Out Best Actor award for his role in Two Horsemen .
Outside of acting, Colin has used his platform to promote men’s health awareness.
He publicly shared his prostate cancer diagnosis in 2023, and his advocacy has inspired others to get checked, potentially saving their lives.
Colin is also the co-founder of Justice4Windrush , a charity campaigning for full and swift compensation for the victims of the Windrush scandal and legal recognition of their – and their descendants – right to live in the UK.
The organisation is using the power of film and television to amplify the voices of the Windrush generation to raise awareness, educate the public, and ignite a collective call for action.
Numerous projects are in the works – including a television drama, a university ambassador programme, and a school lesson plan – with updates being shared through the charity’s Instagram page: @j4windrush .
Reflecting on what it means to receive an honorary doctorate from the university where he studied Drama, Colin said: “I feel very lucky to be able to come back and be recognised for the work I’ve done.
It’s a wonderful full circle moment.
“This is where it all began, where the dreams began.
My younger self wouldn’t believe that one day I’d be in a Batman movie, work with Liam Neeson, become the voice of an iconic game show, produce, direct and write, be offered lovely roles in Hollywood, and make my parents proud.
“And the bonus is that this has given me a platform to help other people.
That wasn’t something that was in my dream, but dreams evolve.
So, yes, it’s very special to come back to where it all began.”
Pictured, from the left to right, is the University's Chancellor, Lord Sebastian Coe, Colin McFarlane, and Loughborough's Vice-Chancellor, Professor Nick Jennings.
During the ceremony, Colin addressed the graduating class with an inspiring message: “You’re at the beginning of your journeys, and we need your generation to step up and make a difference.
“Nelson Mandela said ‘education is the most powerful tool we have to change the world’.
That’s your superpower.
Use it, and you can change the world.”
Professor Nick Jennings, Vice-Chancellor and President of Loughborough University, said: “Colin is an exceptional talent and a powerful advocate, who brings passion, purpose, and a deep sense of humanity to everything he does.
"At Loughborough, we take great pride in our commitment to the Arts, and alumni like Colin embody the creativity and excellence we strive for.
We are honoured to recognise his achievements with an honorary degree and thrilled to welcome him back to campus.”
Colin was made a Doctor of the University at Loughborough’s summer graduation service on Tuesday 15 July 2025.
Press release reference number: 25/116

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/press-releases/2025/july/paralympic-stars-honoured-by-lboro-uni:
(L-R) Emma Wiggs MBE and Jessica-Jane Applegate MBE.
Loughborough University has awarded honorary degrees to two Paralympic champions, Emma Wiggs MBE and Jessica-Jane Applegate MBE, in recognition of their outstanding sporting achievement and significant contributions to disability sport.
Emma Wiggs MBE is a three-time Paralympic gold medallist, having secured titles in Beijing (2016), Tokyo (2020), and Paris (2024) in Paracanoe.
She also won silver medals at both Tokyo and Paris.
During a glittering career, she claimed 12 World Championship gold medals, five silver World Championship medals, and eight European Championships crowns – six gold, and two silver.
She was awarded an MBE for services to canoeing in the 2017 New Year Honours.
Beyond sport, Wiggs is a passionate advocate for inclusion and equality, relentlessly campaigning to improve sport for disabled athletes.
She has previously supported Loughborough University’s Para sport research and innovation activities and will become a member of the advisory board for the Para Sport cluster later this year.
Emma Wiggs said: “It is an incredible privilege to receive this honorary doctorate.
Loughborough University is an outstanding institution with an unbelievable history of sporting excellence.
“I've been so lucky to work with Professor Vicky Tolfrey and the team on their vital research for Paralympic sport and have seen firsthand the positive global impact that the University is having."
Seven-time Paralympic medallist Jessica-Jane Applegate was also recognised by the University for her swimming prowess.
Jessica-Jane made history by winning gold at the London 2012 Paralympics in a Games record time.
She went on to win further medals at Rio 2016 (two silver, one bronze) and Tokyo 2020 (one gold, two bronze).
Her career medal haul also includes 10 World Championships (three gold, five silver, two bronze), five European Championship medals (three silver, two bronze), and silver at the 2022 Commonwealth Games.
She was awarded an MBE in the 2013 New Year Honours for services to swimming.
Throughout her career, Jessica-Jane has emerged as a powerful voice for neurodiversity, using her profile to foster understanding and champion inclusion in and out of the pool.
“I’m incredibly proud to receive this honour from Loughborough University,” she said.
“Sport has changed my life, and I’ve always tried to use my journey to advocate for others with neurodiversity and unseen disabilities.
“I hope this inspires the next generation to know that there is no limit to what they can achieve.”
Professor Jo Maher, Loughborough University’s Pro Vice-Chancellor for Sport, said:
“Emma and Jessica-Jane’s careers have defined sporting excellence that is built on resilience, talent, and an unwavering dedication to achieving incredible results.
“Beyond the medals and milestones their commitment to inclusivity and creating pathways for others truly sets them apart.
We are thrilled to award them both honorary degrees from Loughborough University.”
Emma Wiggs’ and Jessica-Jane Applegate’s honorary degrees were awarded during the July 2025 summer graduation ceremonies.
Press release reference number: 25/118

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/press-releases/2025/july/lboro-wins-44th-bucs-title:
Image provided by Pete Simmons / 5or6.
Loughborough University has continued its unrivalled dominance of British Universities and Colleges Sport (BUCS) after it was awarded the overall title for an incredible 44th consecutive year.
Officially revealed on Thursday evening at the annual BUCS Annual Awards Dinner, Loughborough’s table-topping performance underpinned its status as the most enviable sporting institution in the UK’s higher education sector.
In what proved to be another year of sporting excellence, Loughborough titles were won in women’s tennis, men’s water polo, women’s netball, men’s basketball, men’s rugby union, women’s hockey, and more.
Louise Gear, Director of Sport, Loughborough University, said: “We are incredibly proud to have won another BUCS title.
This title is down to the hard work of our athletes, coaches, support staff, and volunteers.
“Throughout the year, our teams from across a whole host of sports have defied expectations, produced incredible performances, and made memories to last a lifetime.
We hope they take a moment to enjoy this fantastic achievement.”
Professor Jo Maher, Loughborough University’s Pro Vice-Chancellor for Sport, said: “Loughborough’s sporting excellence is globally recognised, but to maintain the consistency of results across so many of our teams, for so long, is an incredible achievement.
“We’re so proud of the way our teams and coaches have handled the challenge of staying ahead, and they have delivered impeccably on the field of play.
This title is for all the Loughborough people who have worked so hard to make this happen.”
In a huge night of celebration for Loughborough, student Eliz Maloney was named Sportswoman of the Year.
Eliz had a fantastic year on the tennis court, leading Great Britain to silver at the BNP Paribas University World Cup, alongside winning titles in BUCS and the International Tennis Federation (ITF) respectively.
There was also an award for current student Joel Moore, who picked up the Chris Potter Student Volunteer top prize.
Joel was recognised for showing incredible dedication across a number of roles as he recorded a verified 3,425 volunteer hours in multiple sports.
The University also hosted the showpiece BUCS Big Wednesday for the second consecutive year which saw almost 2,500 spectators attend Loughborough’s East Midlands campus to witness the very best of student sport.
The event also saw over 100 student volunteers from Loughborough’s Coach and Volunteer Academy (CVA) helping deliver a first-class competition.
BUCS oversees higher education sport in the UK and supports and promotes the lifestyle and educational benefits of participating in sport.
Each year it delivers more than 50 sports to 170 universities across a varied programme of over 6,000 teams and individual competitors.
Press release reference number: 25/117

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/press-releases/categories/expert-comment:
Professor Claire Warden, a Professor of Performance and Physical Culture at Loughborough University, reflects on Hulk Hogan's legacy following the news of his death.
Rachel Reeves unveiled billions for social and affordable housing in today's Spending Review (11 June 2025), in what some are calling 'the biggest cash injection for affordable housing in half a century'.
HMRC revealed yesterday that more than 100,000 taxpayer accounts had been compromised, as cyber criminals stole more than £47 million through fraudulent tax rebates.
While the tax authority managed to secure the accounts, meaning no taxpayer’s money was lost, the incident highlights how susceptible to organised fraud large organisations can be.
Professor in Cyber Security, Oli Buckley comments on the importance of digital housekeeping in a world so intrinsically tied to digital services.
As incidents of cybercrime and security breaches dominate the news – particularly in connection to our groceries, Professor in Cyber Security, Oli Buckley comments on how online attacks, such as the recent incidents involving M&S, the Co-op, and now major distributor, Peter Green Chilled, pose serious risks to the complex supply chains that sit behind the shelves we shop from.
It’s been over two weeks since news broke that retailers Marks & Spencer and the Co-op, were dealing with serious cyber incidents.
Both are still experiencing painful repercussions following the attack, with the latter still struggling to get shelves fully stocked in certain areas, and the former unable to process online orders and, more worryingly, announcing that customer data has been stolen.
Many are now asking, ‘why hasn’t the situation been fixed yet?’.
The government announced last week that they are consulting on proposals to extend the sugar tax that is currently applied to fizzy drinks, to include pre-packaged milk-based drinks, as well as non-dairy substitutes such as oat or rice milks.
A new BBC Panorama investigation that aired early this week revealed that baby food pouches from six major UK brands – including four leading manufacturers and two supermarkets – are failing to meet key nutritional needs for babies and toddlers and are often high in sugar.
After the Liberal party’s stunning political turnaround in the 2025 Canadian Election earlier this week, politics and international relations expert, Dr Chris Zebrowski, comments on what swayed the Canadian public towards government newcomer, Mark Carney.
More than a week has passed since Marks & Spencer (M&S), one of the UK’s most recognisable retailers, was hit by a major cyber attack.
The government has now confirmed their plans, unveiled last week (18 March), to deliver £4.8 billion in savings by making changes to the welfare system.
These changes are presented as the largest reform to the country’s welfare system for a generation.
The security leak involving some of America’s most senior officials and their military plans, shocked the world earlier this week.
A Loughborough University academic has criticised BP’s decision to increase investment into oil and gas whilst cutting funding for renewable energy.
Yet another increase to the energy price cap was announced yesterday, adding further pressure to household incomes, amidst an array of rising bills and costs.
Apple has removed its highest level data security tool - 'Advanced Data Protection (ADP)' -  from customers in the UK, after the government demanded access to user data.
A Loughborough University expert says he’s “not surprised” Arsenal manager, Mikel Arteta, has suggested there are differences in the footballs used in the Carabao Cup and the Premier League.
A Loughborough University lecturer is calling for a renewed consideration of the relationship between how our buildings are built and the ethereal.
A Loughborough University lecturer believes the construction industry can learn from the downfall of a music-sharing platform more than 20 years ago.
Loughborough University academics have reacted to Rachel Reeves’ 2024 Budget welcoming her plans for green growth.
A Loughborough University academic has called for significant change after fresh findings into the Grenfell Tower fire were released.
Andrew Peck, a cyber resilience PhD researcher at Loughborough University who, prior to joining the institute, had a career delivering IT solutions to big industry, healthcare and government, shares his thoughts on the ongoing IT outage issues.
The world of sport is buzzing with excitement and debate as breaking – a competitive form of breakdancing – prepares to make its Olympic debut at the Paris 2024 Games.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/press-releases/2025/july/hulk-hogan-legacy-expert-comment:
Image: Getty.
Professor Warden's research looks at the intersection of sport and arts practice - including wrestling, bodybuilding, and gym culture - and she co-founded Wrestling Resurgence, an Arts Council-funded project that aims to create theatre-style wrestling shows and promote wellbeing and inclusion.
She also co-hosted the first parliamentary event on professional wrestling in the UK working with the All Party Parliamentary Group for Professional Wrestling.
"Hulk Hogan was the most recognisable wrestler in history, a quintessential American hero who encouraged his followers, his Hulkamaniacs, to 'say your prayers and eat your vitamins'", said Professor Warden.
"His trademark moustache and red and yellow outfit defined the emergence of the global megalith that is now WWE.
He was also a controversial figure, in terms of his politics and behaviours.
But, despite this, his legacy is undoubted.
At a time when WWE (then WWF) was emerging as a power of global capitalism, Hulk Hogan was its figurehead, a classic larger-than-life figure akin to a cartoon superhero.
"In my own work, my interests in Hulk Hogan lies in his theatricality.
The energy of his promos, speaking directing through the camera to the Hulkamaniacs, was visceral.
He was able to energise a crowd singlehandedly, connecting with the audience in ways that are now customary in professional wrestling.
"He was one of the first truly crossover wrestling stars: even your mum knew who Hulk Hogan was.
His legacy in braking out of the relatively niche sport-art of wrestling and on to the global stage in films, reality television and advertising undoubtedly pave the way for familiar stars today.
"By no metric was he the best fighter as such: his moveset was limited.
But there are few who were able to connect with fans and create such a theatrical spectacle.
When people think of professional wrestling, they tend to think of Hulk Hogan."
To request an interview or further comments from Professor Claire Warden, please call 01509 222224 or email the PR team .
Press release reference number: 25/123

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/press-releases/2025/june/housing-investment-spending-review-25:
Here, Professor Matt Padley, Co-Director of the Centre for Research in Social Policy (CRSP) , comments on how critical housing is for a dignified standard of living, the long decline in the amount of social housing available and accessible to those who need it, and the need for details about delivery, to stop the investment delivering more ‘affordable’ housing, which is anything but for many households.
“It would be hard to find anyone who would disagree that housing is a fundamental component when we’re thinking about what people need, not just to survive, but to thrive.
Having a roof over your head is an essential need, but housing is about so much more than simply bricks and mortar.
It provides stability and security.
It roots households in places and communities.
It plays a key role in people’s health and wellbeing.
It is the very bedrock of living with dignity.
“In all of our research looking at what is needed for a dignified standard of living in the UK , it is clear that housing – and particularly the cost of housing – is critical when we’re talking about living standards.
The long decline in the amount of social housing available and accessible to those who need it, has pushed so many low-income households into unstable, overcrowded, unsuitable homes in the private sector.
This means higher rents and greater pressure on incomes that have already been stretched by big increases in the cost of living over recent years.
“Against this backdrop, the increased investment in social and affordable housing announced by Rachel Reeves today is welcome.
Important here, is the recognition that any plan to tackle our housing crisis ‘must include social housing’, and that the ‘security of a proper home’ for all is absolutely critical to improving living standards.
But this needs to be backed up by concrete detail about how to deliver new social housing on scale, rather than this investment simply delivering more ‘affordable’ housing, which is anything but for many households.
And there are some big questions here over our capacity to build this many homes over such a short period of time.
“Investment in social housing is an investment in living standards.
It provides stability and security for households who would otherwise struggle to afford appropriate housing.
It provides a solid foundation for individuals and households.
If Labour are serious about delivering improvements in living standards within this parliament, this announced investment needs to build housing in the right places, with social rents, supported by accessible, affordable transport links.”
To request an interview or further comments from Professor Matt Padley, please call 01509 222224 or email the PR team .
Press release reference number: 25/95
In recognition of its contribution to the sector, Loughborough has been awarded seven Queen Elizabeth Prizes for Higher and Further Education.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/press-releases/2025/june/hmrc-cyber-attack:
Here, Professor in Cyber Security, Oli Buckley , discusses how powerful techniques such as phishing emails can be, before they are identified and dealt with, and the steps organisations need to take to build digital resilience through their people not just their technical set up.
“The recent news from HMRC has revealed how a phishing campaign enabled cyber criminals to access around 100,000 taxpayer self-assessment accounts.
They got access with stolen credentials and managed to claim more than £47 million in fraudulent tax rebates.
While members of the public have not had any actual money picked from their digital pockets, affected accounts have been locked and reset as a precaution.
“Once again, we are seeing that large organisations, whether it be a retail giant like Marks & Spencer or a vital government machine, are susceptible to simple social engineering tactics, either over the phone or as a phishing email.
This latest incident underscores how powerful and widespread these techniques can be, especially when criminals combine stolen personal data with the trust people have in institutions like HMRC.
“It is reassuring to know that no taxpayer money was lost, and that HMRC were able to detect and secure the affected accounts, but the amounts being thrown around highlight how organised fraud can operate at scale before it is identified.
The fact that around 100,000 accounts needed to be reset really reinforces how far reaching these incidents can be.
“Ultimately, the lesson isn’t only for HMRC to tighten defences - though that’s crucial - it’s also a reminder to the public to treat unexpected communications cautiously, verify sources, and make use of official notices.
As we move more public services online, helping people recognise and resist phishing is becoming a key part of digital resilience.
“What we’re seeing in cases like HMRC, M&S, and Co-op is that even the most well-resourced organisations can be caught off guard if the underlying culture doesn’t support secure behaviours.
These weren’t purely technical failures, they started with people, processes, and misplaced trust.
The National Cyber Security Centre’s newly published Cyber Security Culture Principles couldn’t have arrived at a more relevant moment, as they are calling for leaders, cyber security professionals, and culture specialists to work together.
Building a resilient organisation is not just a technical problem, and having people who are engaged, feel supported and able to ask questions is one of the most powerful defences we can have.
It’s not just about telling people what to do; it’s about creating an environment where doing the right thing feels natural and doesn’t make everyone’s life more difficult.”
To arrange an interview with Professor Oli Buckley , email the Public Relations team or call 01509 222224.
Press release reference number: 25/90

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/press-releases/2025/may/digital-apocalypse:
“It seems to be an endless onslaught of data breaches in the last few weeks, with the Legal Aid Agency the latest victim of a cyber incident.
The big question seems to be are we dangling on the edge of a digital apocalypse given all the high-profile attacks recently?
I would push back and say that in a world so intrinsically tied to digital services it is not unusual to see missteps and issues, and it will become less about the issues occurring and more about how we deal with them.
“The Ministry of Justice (MoJ) has confirmed that a ‘significant amount’ of personal information was compromised, dating back as far as 2010.
This is obviously concerning, as it targets information from people in their time of need, but there is reassurance in the response from the National Crime Agency (NCA) and the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC), with the relevant regulators being involved as well.
This goes to highlight that when breaches do occur, they are taken seriously and is met with the appropriate expertise and urgency.
“For anyone who has applied for legal aid, the usual good-sense advice would apply, so that means keeping an eye out for unexpected contact, double check before clicking any unusual links, and possibly update your passwords for the service.
“Some reports of the incident have tied it in with mentions of other high-profile breaches, but the similarity ends at a cyber-related incident and a loss of data.
It’s a little like seeing there are three umbrellas in the hallway and deciding it means a storm is on the way.
It’s very human (and very tempting) to see patterns to make sense of the wider world but as far as we know, the similarities between the MoJ incident and the retail incidents of recent weeks are limited.
They might be sharing a news cycle and a spot in the public consciousness but, for now, there’s nothing to link the events.
“This isn’t evidence of a growing cyber Armageddon.
It’s a reminder, albeit an unwelcome one, that digital housekeeping is as vital as ever.
”
Press release reference number: 25/82

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/experts/andrew-peck:
Cyber security, cyber resilience, cyber innovation, cyber warfare
Andrew is a PhD researcher in resilience and innovation, with a specific focus on cyber resilience.
Prior to joining Loughborough University, Andrew had a career delivering IT solutions to big industry, healthcare and government.
Andrew is currently completing a comparative study of international perspectives on cyber resilience and cyber warfare.
He is able to comment on critical incidents and step-changes in technology, and has a passion for improving public understanding of serious incidents.
Andrew worked with CNN and Globelynx to respond to the 2024 CrowdStrike incident and featured in stories by LBC, The Times, and Business Insider, to name but a few media outlets.
Please call the press office on +44 (0)1509 222224 to arrange an interview with Andrew Peck .

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/experts/anna-fitzpatrick:
Elite sport performance, performance analysis, skills acquisition and sports coaching.
Following an 8-year career as a professional tennis player, Anna now specialises in elite sport performance analysis.
Her research focuses on performance analysis and its effective application within elite sport environments.
She is also interested in skill acquisition and sports coaching.
Her research has included a detailed investigation of ‘what it takes to win’ at Wimbledon, and a successful proof-of-concept study with Southampton Football Club, assessing the impact of an ecological dynamics approach to coaching on the training and match-play behaviours of U15 Academy footballers.
Anna was previously a Senior Athlete Mentor for children’s charity, the Youth Sport Trust.
As part of a team of former professional athletes, she supported young people to develop their life and employability skills, such as resilience, confidence, teamwork and communication skills.
Please call the press office on +44 (0)1509 222224 to arrange an interview with Dr Anna Fitzpatrick .

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/experts/meilan-yan:
Banking, behaviour finance, financial risk and regulation, sustainable economics and finance
Dr Meilan Yan is an expert in sustainable economics and finance, focused on helping financial institutions stay strong and continue supporting communities, even during uncertain times.
Her work covers banking regulation, behavioural finance, and managing financial risks linked to climate change, bringing fresh ideas and cross-disciplinary knowledge to solve real-world problems.
In banking regulation, she has improved how banks measure and manage their cash-flow risks, developed models to help UK banks set the right liquidity levels, and studied how rules and policies shape sustainable lending.
In behavioural finance, she explores how the mood and confidence of big investors affect their decisions, how they react to new market risks, and how they view companies’ sustainability strategies.
In sustainable risk management, she has created new ways to track how climate-related threats can cause financial risks, aiming to protect the economy and society from potential disruptions by bridging climate science with financial oversight.
Please call the press office on +44 (0)1509 222224 to arrange an interview with Dr Meilan Yan .

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/experts/shirin-dora:
Neuromorphic computing, cyber security in satellite communications, spiking neural networks, and the impact of AI on environment
Dr Shirin Dora's key area of research is developing AI techniques that have low computational needs, thus making them more suitable for scenarios where AI is used on devices which have access to limited computational resources.
His work currently focuses on applying research to AI-related computations onboard satellites.
Dr Dora has previously worked with media outlets such as The conversation, The Innovator and Orbital today.
Below are some examples of media coverage he has contributed to:
Please call the press office on +44 (0)1509 222224 to arrange an interview with Dr Shirin Dora .

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/press-releases/categories/conversation:
In rowing, “catching a crab” is when an oar gets stuck in the water, stopping the boat’s momentum.
Progress toward gender equality in the Oxford v Cambridge Boat Race has followed a similar rhythm, with periods of forward motion interrupted by moments of tension or pushback.
As I’ve grown older and experienced the vagaries of my ageing memory, I’ve often reflected on the possibility of a miracle cure that would rejuvenate it.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/podcasts/besieged:
Besieged is a podcast hosted by Peter Warzynski which invites experts from Loughborough University to examine the latest developments in Ukraine and look to the future to see how the conflict will impact on all our lives.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/podcasts/experts-in-health:
The Experts in Health podcast, brought to you by Loughborough University, highlights the latest research and trends in health, as we welcome a variety of guests across a host of different disciplines.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/focus-on:
View the featured stories from the Loughborough University Children and Young People campaign
View the featured stories from the Loughborough University COP campaigns
The latest expert comments and news content surrounding Russia and Ukraine

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/focus-on/sport:
Please contact Dan Trussell, Sport PR Officer for all sport media enquiries.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/press-releases/2025/july/lboro-to-host-ahead-of-womens-t20-world-cup:
Image provided by Getty.
Loughborough University has been selected as one of three elite cricket venues added to the list of grounds that will play their part in the ICC Women’s T20 World Cup 2026 when it comes to England and Wales next year.
Alongside Cardiff’s Sophia Gardens and Derby County Ground, Loughborough – home of the ECB’s National Cricket Performance Centre – will play host to a range of warm-up matches before the tournament gets underway on 12 th June 2026.
All three venues share a rich cricketing pedigree and have played a part in propelling women’s cricket on to the global stage.
The warm-up matches will see the best in the world go head-to-head as they prepare for next summer’s groundbreaking tournament.
The three venues will play a prominent role in showcasing elite women’s cricket to local fans before the first ball of the ICC Women’s T20 World Cup 2026 is bowled at Edgbaston on 12 th June next year.
Professor Jo Maher, Loughborough University’s Pro Vice-Chancellor for Sport, said: “We are incredibly proud to have been chosen as an elite venue ahead of the ICC Women’s T20 World Cup 2026.
“Loughborough has a rich heritage in cricket with many of our student athletes representing international sides over the years in all formats of the game.
We have an on-going commitment to providing opportunities across the whole of women’s sport, including research, and we’re looking forward to welcoming players, coaches, support staff and volunteers to campus ahead of the tournament.”
Tournament Director Beth Barrett-Wild said: “We’re thrilled to welcome Sophia Gardens, Derby County Ground, and Loughborough University to the roster of incredible venues that will host the tournament next summer.
The ICC Women’s T20 World Cup 2026 provides an unparalleled opportunity to really shine a spotlight on the excellence in our sport and to launch women’s cricket firmly into the mainstream.
We’re delighted to extend that opportunity to even more English and Welsh fans through the warm-up games, and to inspire hundreds and thousands of people across the country to fall in love with women’s cricket.”
Full details of the warm-up schedule will be revealed in due course.
The expanded ICC Women’s T20 World Cup 2026 will see 12 teams descend on England and Wales to compete for the prestigious trophy that is currently held by New Zealand.
33 matches will be played across the 24-day competition, at seven iconic venues, before the final takes place at Lord’s on 5 th July.
Eight countries are already sure of their place, with the final four participants to be decided through a Women’s T20 World Cup Qualifier next year.
England and Wales were awarded hosting rights for the ICC Women’s T20 World Cup 2026 in 2022, with the seven host venues selected subsequently following evaluation of various criteria.
Fans can gain priority access to tickets for the tournament by signing up to receive exclusive information on how to buy or by visiting womens.t20worldcup.com.
Press release reference number: 25/113
--
About the ICC Women’s T20 World Cup 2026
The ICC Women’s T20 World Cup 2026 will take place in England and Wales from the 12 th June to the 5 th July next summer.
Over the course of 24 days, a total of 33 matches will be played across seven top-tier venues, including Old Trafford Cricket Ground (Manchester), Headingley (Leeds), The Hampshire Bowl (Southampton), and Bristol County Ground.
The newly expanded competition will see 12 teams competing for the prestigious trophy currently held by New Zealand.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/press-releases/2025/may/lboro-host-england-mens-test-team:
Loughborough University has welcomed the England Men’s Test team to campus ahead of a busy summer of international cricket.
Under the leadership of captain Ben Stokes, the team took part in an intensive training camp using the University’s world-class facilities in preparation for the one-off Test match against Zimbabwe at Trent Bridge on 22 May.
This will be followed by the highly anticipated five-match Test series against India, beginning at Headingley on 20 June.
During their stay, the squad were based at the ECB’S National Cricket Performance Centre and trained at the University’s Haslegrave Cricket Ground.
Playing staff also made full use of Loughborough’s elite strength and conditioning gym, Powerbase.
Joe Root, the current leading run-scorer among all active batsmen, said: “We’re here as part of the England Test team preparing for the start of the summer.
We’ve got a very important six Test matches, one against Zimbabwe, five against India, and we’re in camp here to get ourselves ready and prepared.
“It’s a way of getting the team together from all different parts of the country, spending a week together in each other’s pockets like you are when the games are on, building team spirit, getting into training so you’re ready for the challenges of Test cricket.
“To have that in one space in the lead up to an important summer for us has been really great.
We couldn’t be happier with the surfaces provided for us and the facilities on offer.”
Professor Jo Maher, Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Sport at Loughborough University, added: “Talking earlier today with Rob Key (Managing Director) at the ECB, he said the wickets that our ground staff have prepared are some of the best in the world.
“The facilities and Loughborough’s ecosystem are the jewel in our crown.
We’re world number one for sport-related subjects and our research and innovation aligns with what the ECB are trying to achieve to develop world-class athletes in a world-class ecosystem in cricket.
There’s so much synergy there, it’s a fabulous partnership.”
A familiar face to campus is bowler and Loughborough alumnus Sam Cook, who is in line to make his Test debut.
He said: “It’s rolling back the years, I spent three great years here at university and played a lot of cricket, so I know the place well.
“It was an extremely proud moment to get that call that you’re in the Test squad.
It’s one you dream of as a kid growing up, and I want to take that forward now and represent England for a long time.
“Loughborough’s played a huge role in my life and has shaped me into the person that I am.
I couldn’t recommend it higher to anyone.
It’s been incredible.”
Marcus Trescothick, England Men’s Assistant Coach, also spoke of the importance of such training camps: “[It’s] the time you spend together really focussing on each other’s game.
When you have everyone together you can work with the players, but they can work individually to get that preparation done.”
Press release reference number: 25/84

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/press-releases/2025/may/impressive-palmer-wins-womens-long-jump:
Molly Palmer won the Women's Long Jump at LIA.
Image provided by Neil Duggan.
Sport scholar Molly Palmer topped the Women’s Long Jump rankings at Loughborough International Athletics (LIA) in an event that saw Great Britain’s Jazmin Sawyers make a long-awaited comeback from injury.
Jazmin Sawyers made a welcome return to action following injury.
Palmer, 21, jumped superbly to register 6.67m (wind assisted +2.4m) as Sawyers recorded 6.53m in her first competition since rupturing an achilles last year.
Wales international Abigail Pawlett finished third in a personal best 6.17m (wind assisted 1.7m).
“Getting back out competing feels so fun, it’s so great,” Sawyers told Loughborough Sport.
“It’s nice to feel like me still.
The aim of today was to get back competing but also to hit the 6.5m marker.
I felt like I had 6.6m in the tank but it wasn’t to be.
“If I were to ignore the fact I’ve been out for eighteen months, that was a solid performance.
Hat’s off to Molly…that was unbelievable.”
Elsewhere, on another day of first-class athletics on campus, the capacity crowd were treated to yet more sporting drama that is now synonymous with LIA.
In the Women’s 100m Hurdles, Dani Hales pipped world champion Katarina Johnson-Thompson to win in 13.51 seconds.
Johnson-Thompson clocked 13.57 in her first outdoor competition since winning heptathlon silver in Paris last summer.
Later in the day, Loughborough alumna Bekah Walton dominated the Women’s Javelin to win with a distance of 59.38m.
Jamaica international and three-time World Indoor medallist Kimberly Williams also claimed top spot in the Women’s Triple Jump with a score of 13.32m.
Representing Wales, Olivia Breen showed fine form to win the Women’s Para Long Jump by recording 4.84m.
The double Paralympic Games medallist surpassed GB Junior Maddie Down’s 4.62m and England’s Molly Kingsbury 3.98m.
Olivia Breen wins the Women's Para Long Jump.
New Zealander Imogen Ayris, who won Commonwealth bronze in Birmingham, topped the Women’s Pole Vault with a height of 4.45m.
Back on the track, Thomas Young – another Loughborough sport scholar – romped home in the Men’s Para 100m in 11.19 seconds.
Tom Young storms to victory.
Image provided by Still Sport Photography.
For the full breakdown of the day’s results, visit Roster:
https://meets.rosterathletics.com/public/competitions/details/about?id=26459
Press release reference number: 25/80

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/focus-on/cayp:
Please contact the Loughborough University PR department for all media enquiries.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/press-releases/2025/june/lego-imrpove-math-and-spatial-ability:
Incorporating LEGO building blocks into the daily teaching curriculum can improve children’s maths and spatial ability, a study has found.
Researchers from Loughborough University and the University of Surrey have examined how a six-week, teacher-led LEGO programme affected the spatial reasoning and maths skills of 409 primary school children.
The team found that the programme - known as 'SPACE' (SPAtial Cognition to Enhance mathematical learning) - resulted in improvements in children's mental rotation skills (the ability to visualise and manipulate objects in their minds) and mathematics performance.
The findings have been published in the journal Mind, Brain, and Education .
Professor Camilla Gilmore , Professor of Mathematical Cognition at Loughborough University and co-author of the study, said: "The results of this study were clear - children who participated in the SPACE programme showed significant improvements in their spatial and maths abilities compared to those who received standard instruction.
"This suggests that simple, hands-on spatial activities can have a powerful impact on learning and are an important avenue to improve children’s achievement and enjoyment of mathematics."
The SPACE programme involved training teachers on the importance of spatial reasoning and, via a booklet with visual instructions, how to guide their students (aged six to seven) through structured LEGO building exercises.
Teachers were encouraged to prompt students to think spatially, for example, to visualise and mentally manipulate the blocks, fostering their spatial skills.
Spatial interventions such as SPACE have also been shown to support inclusion, particularly for children from disadvantaged backgrounds and children with Special Educational Needs and Disabilities (SEND).
In fact, children from disadvantaged backgrounds often show larger gains in mathematics competence compared with their peers, say the researchers, suggesting that opportunities to think and work spatially could contribute to closing attainment gaps.
Professor Emily Farran, Professor in Cognitive Development at the University of Surrey and lead author of the study, said: "We've known for some time that spatial reasoning and maths are closely linked, however, most spatial training has been conducted in laboratory settings.
"Our study shows that spatial training delivered by teachers in the classroom is effective, with positive outcomes for their students.
"This research highlights the importance of spatial reasoning in mathematics education.
By incorporating spatial activities into the curriculum, we will equip the next generation to meet the heightened demands for critical thinking, problem solving and data-use brought about by technological and AI-enabled change."
To read the paper, titled 'Teacher Delivered Block Construction Training Improves Children's Mathematics Performance', in full, visit the journal website.
Press release reference number: 25/100

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/focus-on/environment:
Please contact the PR department for enquiries surrounding environment-related stories and experts...

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/press-releases/2025/july/sea-inside-art-exhibition-ocean-crisis-perspective:
Contoured Thoughts by Evan Ifekoya (2019).
Courtesy of Evan Ifekoya and LUX, London.
An opinion piece written by Dr Pandora Syperek, a Teaching Fellow at Loughborough University London and Visiting Fellow at the V&A Research Institute, and Dr Sarah Wade, Associate Professor in Museum Studies at the University of East Anglia, for The Conversation platform:
There has been a conspicuous turn to the sea as inspiration for art and exhibitions since the mid-2010s .
This is a trend we have charted in our ongoing collaborative research project, Curating the Sea .
So prolific has this become, that there are even gallery spaces dedicated entirely to the sea in contemporary art.
The sea has, of course, been the subject of art throughout history.
However, our investigation into contemporary art and exhibitions has revealed a shift from celebrations of oceanic abundance and wonder towards more political projects.
In our research, we have argued for the importance of curation as a way to confront the issues facing the oceans today.
So it was only natural that we turn our hands to curating our own exhibition about the sea, based on our extensive collaborative research.
Sea Inside is part of the current season at the Sainsbury Centre in Norwich, which asks, “can the seas survive us?”
Western art has tended to frame the ocean as an unfathomable and formidable force in the tradition of the sublime : art that produces or is inspired by the strongest emotions the mind is capable of feeling, often arising from the encounter with the natural world.
Sea Inside counters this perspective.
Collectively, artworks in the exhibition portray the sea not as a surreal or alien space , but as an entity that is intimately connected to humans.
Many Indigenous and diasporic communities have long been aware of the profound human connection to the sea.
In our exhibition, Shuvinai Ashoona’s coloured pencil drawings illustrate the intermingling of Inuit mythology with everyday life in the Canadian Arctic.
In one scene, mythical marine creatures populate a dentist’s office.
Composition At the Dentist by Shuvinai Ashoona.
Shuvinai Ashoona, courtesy of the collection of Alexander V.
Petalas
Meanwhile, Tyler Eash’s sculpture features a shell of the critically endangered abalone mollusc.
They are known as “grandmother shells” among North American west coast Indigenous cultures as they are commonly passed down through families by female elders.
The work speaks to ties of kinship (human and animal), their fragility and resilience.
A new sculpture we commissioned by the artist Gabriella Hirst explores tales of men being swallowed by whales alongside the industrial exploitation of whales in the 19th century.
This inside-out journey from the whale’s belly to lighting up European cities (as whale blubber was used in oil lamps) aligns the perceived threat of these animals with capitalistic justifications for their slaughter.
The sculpture is made from agricultural plastic, itself a product of the petrochemical industry that largely replaced whaling as a source of energy, lighting and everyday objects.
Beyond eco-realism
The perspective Sea Inside offers is found not only in the artworks’ subject matter but also their approach.
There has been a tendency towards a documentary approach within ecologically oriented exhibitions.
This risks relegating art to a tool of climate communication and even replicating the sort of technological interventions into the landscape – and seascape – that the respective artworks and exhibitions call into question...
Article continues on The Conversation website.
Press release reference number: 25/122

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/media-centre/email-updates:
Sign up for press releases from the Loughborough University PR department.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/news/2025:
The average UK person spends just 7% of their time (or 86 minutes) outdoors during the work week.
This is shocking to hear – but with our busy schedules, it’s no wonder many of us can only find a few minutes each day to get outside.
Seeing the same GP each time has its advantages, and it is more important than it may seem.
Scientists have uncovered how cyanobacteria — Earth's first photosynthetic organisms — self-organise into intricate living mats, offering insights into aquatic ecosystems and potential inspiration for material design.
Scientists have uncovered how sundews, Charles Darwin’s favourite plant, become more carnivorous in certain habitats.
Children's Physical activity levels in England and around the world remain stubbornly low.
Millions of pounds of government cash to help carry out wide-ranging research to identify the health needs for people in Leicestershire has been confirmed.
The rapid technological advancements of our world have been enabled by our capacity to design and fabricate ever smaller electronic chips.
These underpin computers, mobile phones and every smart device deployed to date.
Input from Loughborough University could lead to an increasing number of heat-pumps being installed in homes across the country – reducing our reliance on boilers.
A final-year undergraduate student at Loughborough University has secured a £200k investment for his start-up company, BidScript, a business co-founded with his childhood friend.
The Wolfson Foundation has awarded a grant of £1.1 million to the University to set up the Wolfson X-Lab Extreme.
Loughborough University is delighted to be working in partnership with local charity Equality Action to welcome Baroness Ruth Lister as its keynote speaker for an upcoming public lecture.
New research findings reveal that parents’ anxiety about mathematics can have a negative impact on their children’s early numeracy skills, influencing their performance in the subject as they progress through school.
Loughborough University is providing an opportunity for community groups and organisations local to the East Midlands and London campuses to receive support for their projects.
Three Loughborough University graduates graduates have been named as winners of Innovate UK’s Women in Innovation Awards for 2025.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/news-events/news/2025/august:
This year, Loughborough University proudly hosted the University Caterers Organisation (TUCO) Summer Conference.
Daisy Newton, a recent Industrial Design graduate from Loughborough University, is a shining example of someone who has made the most out of her time at university, with her experiences not only shaping her own personal development but leaving a lasting impact on the University and its wider community.
Loughborough University will be well represented at the upcoming Women's Rugby World Cup 2025 as players, coaches, and practitioners have all been confirmed in squads for the tournament.
Researchers from Loughborough University have identified a new way to map Britain’s inequality – not by geography, but by identity – opening up new opportunities for detecting their consequences across multiple outcomes.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/subjects/politics-international-studies/staff/poppy-cullen:
PhD (Durham University)
Poppy joined Loughborough in 2020.
Prior to that, she was a Postdoctoral Research Fellow at the University of Exeter on the AHRC-funded project ‘Afterlives of Empire: Thinking Forward through an Imperial Past’, led by Professor Andrew Thompson.
Before that she taught at the University of Cambridge.
She completed her PhD at Durham University in 2015.
Poppy is a historian of decolonisation and post-colonial relationships between Britain and Africa.
She is interested in the transition from colonial to independent states in the 1960s and how organisations and individuals in a variety of fields – military, political, economic, humanitarian – adapted to this transition.
Her book focused on the political relationship between Britain and Kenya in the decades after independence, the 1960s to 1980s.
She examined how political elites in both countries re-thought their relationships after Kenyan independence, and how the different forms of diplomacy practiced by the two states shaped the foreign policies they followed.
She argued that British diplomats encouraged personalised rather than bureaucratic policy-making in Kenya.
At the same time, they naturalised this kind of personalised politics, often termed neo-patrimonialism, as something inherently ‘African’.
Poppy has published on various aspects of Anglo-Kenyan relations in a number of journals.
Her current research is focused on two areas.
Firstly, military decolonisation and Africanisation in East Africa.
Here, Poppy explores the precarious transformation of colonial armies intended to secure imperial rule to independent African militaries.
Secondly, the history of humanitarianism and NGOs in Africa during the period of decolonisation.
This includes work on ‘The Big Survey’ of NGOs carried out in the 1960s, and research into the Mau Mau Emergency.
Poppy teaches African and international history on a variety of modules.
Poppy’s Part B module introduces students to African history from the mid-nineteenth century, spanning the pre-colonial, colonial and post-colonial eras.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/ias/events/2025/september/coffee-morning-1st-september:
On Monday 1st September we will be hosting an IAS Friends and Fellows Coffee Morning, where we will welcome current IAS Fellows, here for the IAS Spotlight "Women in Sport" - Dr Dana Ellis (Laurentian University), Dr Becca Leopkey (University of Georgia), Professor Deirdre McGhee (University of Wollongong), Dr Lucy Piggott (Norwegian University of Science and Technology) .
Please feel free to book using the button below, to come along and join us for an informal in-person gathering at International House with coffee and cakes to meet our Fellows, all are welcome.
Dr Dana Ellis - Laurentian University
Dr Dana Ellis is an Associate Professor in Sports Administration at Laurentian University in Sudbury, Ontario, Canada.
She completed her BA in Kinesiology at Western University and her MA and Ph.D.
in Human Kinetics at the University of Ottawa, Canada.
Dr Becca Leopkey - University of Georgia
Dr Becca Leopkey is an Associate Professor in Sports Management at the University of Georgia in Athens, Georgia, USA.
Dr.
Leopkey completed her BLRS in Recreation and Leisure Studies at the University of New Brunswick and her MA and Ph.D.
Professor Deirdre McGhee - University of Wollongong
Professor McGhee is an Associate Professor at the University of Wollongong and is also the Co-founder and Director of Breast Research Australia (BRA), an internationally renowned and innovative centre exploring breast-related issues that limit females’ physical activity and performance.
Dr Lucy Piggott - Norwegian University of Science and Technology
Dr Lucy Piggott is Associate Professor in sociology of sport at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology.
Her research is broadly focused on equity, diversity, and inclusion in and through sport, with a particular focus on the organisational context.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/inaugural-lectures:
Inaugural Lectures have been an essential feature of university life for centuries.
Loughborough University continues to value the tradition, encouraging new Professors to deliver them, and all
        staff and students to attend.
Inaugural Lectures are a public event and open to everyone - you do not have to be an expert in the field to
        attend.
The University extends the invitation to these lectures to all members of staff, students and their guests as well as our campus partners, based on LUSEP, and the local community.
Professor Mike Fray
School of Design & Creative Arts
Professor Robert Dorrell
School of Architecture, Building and Civil Engineering
Professor Zeynep Aycan
Business School
Professor Ashley Casey
Professor Alessia Pasquazi
Department of Physics
Professor Sheryl Williams
School of Mechanical, Electrical and Manufacturing Engineering
Professor Marco Peccianti
Professor Joanna Szmelter
Professor Kelly Morrison
Professor Valerie Pinfield
Department of Chemical Engineering
Professor Anna Grosman
Institute for International Management and Entrepreneurship
Professor Gerhard Schnyder
Professor Adrian Spencer

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/ias/events/2025/september/spotlight-roundtable-1:
A roundtable discussion as part of the IAS Spotlight 'Women in Sport' , fully titled "The Collaborative Ecosystem of Women’s Sport: A Roundtable Discussion on the Conceptualization, Research and Innovation Agenda" -
Key Speakers: IAS Visiting Fellows - Dr Becca Leopkey , Dr Dana Lee Ellis , Dr Lucy Piggott
Discussants: Dr Verity Postlethwaite
As women’s sport continues to grow in scale, visibility, and influence, there is a timely opportunity to explore how governance, leadership, and major events can shape its future.
This academic roundtable brings together scholars, practitioners, and policy leaders to examine the evolving ecosystem of women’s sport and to co-develop a forward-looking research and innovation agenda.
Building on the work of scholars such as Dr.
Rebecca Leopkey (sport event governance and legacy), Dr.
Dana Lee Ellis (strategic alliances and sport development), and Dr.
Lucy Piggott (gender equity in sport leadership), this session will critically engage with the systems, structures, and power relations that underpin the development of women’s sport across disciplines and contexts.
Discussion Areas Will Include:
This roundtable aims to spark dialogue, identify shared priorities, and lay the groundwork for a collaborative research ecosystem that supports the continued evolution of women’s sport in the UK and beyond.
Arrivals from 1:45 pm for a 2:00 pm start.
This event is hybrid format, please use the required booking button at the bottom of the page to choose either in-person or online attendance .
(Please note that in-person spaces are limited and booking is required, so we can manage numbers for catering and also the space in the seminar room)
By booking a place at this event, attendees agree to behave in a respectful manner such that everyone feels comfortable contributing as they wish.
The IAS reserves the right to eject anyone who does not abide by this policy.
IAS seminars are typically recorded, minus any Q&A sessions at the end, again to encourage contributions.
The recordings are then uploaded to our website on a Fellows bio page and/or Programme page , along with our IAS YouTube Channel .
If you are not able to attend a seminar live, please do still register for the Zoom Webinar, as we will email everyone who registered to let them know once the recordings are made available.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/ias/events/2025/september/spotlight-roundtable-2:
A roundtable discussion as part of the IAS Spotlight 'Women in Sport' -
Key Speaker: IAS Visiting Fellow Professor Deidre McGhee
Discussants: Dr Rebecca Grant , Dr Aimee Mears , Dr Kelsie Johnson
This session will highlight the importance of centring female physiology in sport science and design, and will explore how thoughtful, adaptive solutions can empower women to move with confidence, comfort, and safety—at every stage of life.
Arrivals from 9:45 am for a 10:00 am start.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/research/ias/events/2025/september/afternoon-tea-2nd-september:
On Tuesday 2nd September we will be hosting an IAS Friends and Fellows Afternoon Tea, where we will welcome current IAS Fellows, here for the IAS Spotlight "Women in Sport" - Dr Dana Ellis (Laurentian University), Dr Becca Leopkey (University of Georgia), Professor Deirdre McGhee (University of Wollongong), Dr Lucy Piggott (Norwegian University of Science and Technology) .

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/apply/research-applications:
Looking for information on how to apply for a research degree?
You’re in the right place!
Discover the steps you need to take at each stage of the process.
We understand that choosing to undertake a research degree is a huge decision.
Now that you’ve made it, we want to make the process as straight forward as possible which is why you’ll find lots of information on the application process right here.
If you do have any questions we are more than happy to answer them, so please get in touch .
Discover our top tips of things to do before you apply.
Discover how to do so and the documents you'll need, here.
Need support to develop your research proposal?
Read on for advice and information on what you should include.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research-degrees/phd-alerts:
Complete the form below and we'll keep you updated about new projects as they're released over the coming months.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/doctoral-research/types-research-degrees:
We’ve clarified some of the terms you’re likely to come across when applying for a research degree.
Remember, there are a huge variety of projects available throughout the year, with new opportunities posted nearly every week.
A PhD is a globally recognised doctoral degree whereby you will need to carry out research that makes a significant original contribution to, and shows a critical appreciation of, existing knowledge in the subject.
Although ‘PhD’ means ‘Doctor of Philosophy’, study areas range from management theory to scientific issues.
A PhD is suitable for students who want to explore theory, push back the frontiers of knowledge, and pursue a career in academia or in industry.
Read our PhD student’s stories to get a better insight into life as a postgraduate research student.
A typical PhD might involve developing a research question, reviewing existing research, conducting research, and finally, writing up a thesis (around 80,000 words).
Subject to approval, you can also produce your PhD thesis in the alternative format of journal articles and/or other scholarly work in preparation, under submission, or published during the course of your research degree programme.
A studentship is another term for a funded PhD.
It provides funding for postgraduate research students who are working on specific projects.
The funding is usually provided by an organisation, the University or a combination of both.
Funded PhD projects will normally receive funding for tuition fees, a tax-free living allowance, and in some cases additional funding for costs of running the project and/or additional training.
Please check individual PhD adverts for specific details on what the funding covers.
Our PhD degrees normally take three years full-time or six years part-time to complete.
You will hold the title of ‘Doctor’.
If you are an international student considering studying part-time for a PhD, please contact our Admissions Team for details of eligibility.
An Engineering Doctorate is an alternative to the traditional PhD for students who want a career in industry.
It is available in some areas of engineering and applied science.
EngDs involve collaboration with industry and combine formally assessed taught modules with innovative research related to real industrial problems.
Our EngD degrees normally take three years to complete although some funders may provide support beyond this, up to a period of four years.
At Loughborough, a PhD by Practice is available in Architecture, Design and Creative Arts, and Social Sciences and Humanities.
It is a PhD that accommodates the communication of knowledge that may not be best represented and communicated in written form and allows for innovative practices of research.
Our PhD by Practice degrees normally take three years full-time or six years part-time to complete.
The PhD in Creative Writing addresses an overarching research question through academic research and a creative component.
This could be a cycle of poems, a novel, a section of a novel, a novella, a play script, or a collection of short stories.
Our PhD in Creative Writing degrees normally take three years full-time or six years part-time to complete.
Centres for Doctoral Training are established to support doctoral researchers at a university or group of universities under a specific research theme to address a specific skills gap in the current market.
They bring together diverse areas of expertise to train researchers with the skills, knowledge and confidence to tackle today’s evolving issues and future challenges.
They also provide a supportive and exciting environment for students, create new working cultures, provide developmental and skills training opportunities, build relationships between teams in universities and forge lasting links with industry where possible.
We are proud to be involved in several CDTs which are funded by Research Councils.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/doctoral-research/research-journey:
Interested in studying for a PhD but not sure where to start?
To help you navigate the journey, we’ve outlined the different routes open to you.
The aim of a PhD is to make a novel contribution to knowledge and discover something that no-one else has done before.
If you have already identified the research area that interests you, check to see if this is something we specialise in.
Take a look at our list of advertised research opportunities - these are projects which have been developed by our academics.
Some projects come with funding already attached and for those that don't, there are a number of funding options.
If you can't find what you're looking for in our list of advertised projects, you can develop your own research proposal and approach one of our academics with an outline of your ideas to see if they could potentially supervise your research.
Take a look to see what you need to include when proposing your own idea.
Once you’ve found your project or developed your research proposal, you’ll need to think about how you intend to fund your studies if your project doesn't have funding attached.
We've listed a range of options available to you, including scholarships, bursaries and loans.
Whether you’re thinking of applying for an existing research opportunity or you want to develop your own research project, we're happy to help.
Ask us any questions you may have to get a better understanding of the research you're interested in and what you need to include in your application.
Once you’ve decided on the right route for you, the final step is to apply via our online portal.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research-degrees/create-research-proposal:
Whether you’re applying for an existing PhD opportunity or creating your own project, you will need to provide a research proposal.
Follow our guidance on how to structure your proposal and what to include.
A research proposal is a short document that summarises the research you want to undertake.
It will outline the question you intend to address, the subject background, your proposed research methods, and importantly will demonstrate how your research is original, and what it will contribute to the current understanding in the subject.
You may also be required to include a bibliography and your CV.
The desired length of the proposal can vary from as little as 500 words to over 5,000, so you should check the application details for your school or department before you start.
Although your proposal will be assessed by academics who are experts in their field, please keep in mind that they may not be the only academics involved in the selection process, so your proposal should be comprehensible to a broad academic audience.
The information on this page is intended as a guide only.
Some schools/departments require you to complete a more detailed proposal before they make a final decision on your application.
Check to see if this applies to the department/project you are applying to by contacting the school or department directly.
If you do not have a firm research proposal you should still provide as much information as possible including potential topic areas and intended source(s) of funding.
If you have a question about your research proposal, please contact the academic supervisors who will be overseeing the project.
If you are unsure who to contact, you can find a list of contact details here.
The aims should outline the purposes of the research you wish to undertake with reference to the general field and/or discipline you wish to examine.
You should outline how your research will contribute to existing knowledge of your research are, discipline or field.
Include the rationale for your research and demonstrate why your contribution is interesting or valuable – if similar research has been done before, include references in your proposal and explain why a new approach is necessary.
Alternatively, if your research fills a gap in the literature, outline the sources that currently exist and why this gap in knowledge should be filled.
Outline which sources of data you will use to complete your analysis, relevant to your research.
Be explicit if you can and confirm whether you will make use of published/unpublished data, academic and scientific literature, archival or policy documents.
If you intend to conduct field work, you should give details.
In all cases, you should assess how feasible it will be to gain access to these sources including university or additional external resources.
You should include a discussion of the research methods you will use to analyse your sources, for example, sampling, theory, surveys or interviews, data collection and generation, laboratory work, modelling, discourse analysis or other methods.
It is useful to provide an outline of your study skills, including research and analysis techniques, language ability, familiarity coordinating interviews, experience processing data and/or any other skills that may be of value when undertaking research.
Find out how to develop your own research proposal and approach one of our academics to see if they provide a good fit to your interests.
Make sure you discuss your proposed research area with a potential supervisor before submitting your application.
If you know the subject area you wish to work in, but do not have a particular supervisor in mind, you can c ontact the department’s administrator who will be able to help.
Find a supervisor
Browse our research areas
To make sure you have all the support and information you need to write a successful research proposal, we’ve provided some advice and information you might find useful in the ‘what to include in your research proposal’ tab.
Some schools/departments require you to complete a more detailed proposal before they can make a final decision on your application.
Check to see if this applies to the department/project you are applying to.
If you do not have a firm research proposal you should still provide as much information as possible with your application, including possible topic areas and intended source(s) of funding.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research-degrees/why-study-for-research-degree:
There's plenty of reasons why you should choose Loughborough to do your PhD.
We're University of the Year (Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2020) and one of England’s top 10 research-led universities (REF 2014), so by undertaking your PhD at Loughborough, we’ll support you to become a world-class researcher whilst offering an award-winning student experience.
We strive to create well-rounded, resilient and employable researchers.
There are a range of opportunities available to help you develop both personally and professionally, which are mapped directly onto the Researcher Development Framework (RDF) developed by Vitae (the UK’s national organisation for researcher development).
There are also less formal opportunities to meet and network with other researchers, such as Café Academique, which gives you a chance to share and discuss your research in a relaxed setting.
Our award-winning Careers Network is here to help you capitalise on your PhD and boost your employability by providing the best advice and guidance about your future career opportunities.
Consultants can help you to explore opportunities in academia, industry and beyond, and they will support you with mock interviews and assessment centres, and placement opportunities.
We are also home to one of the UK’s largest annual careers fairs to help connect you with potential employers.
It is important to us that you are fully supported throughout your research and so you will have access to a wide range of academic and pastoral services.
Our Doctoral College also holds regular events and workshops across the year to bring you together with our researchers, including a Doctoral Wellbeing Week .
Our student support services include:

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/research-degrees/create-research-proposal/find-supervisor:
You may already know the name of the supervisor you are interested in working with, in which case you can search for their contact details on our website.
If you need any help in finding individual contact details, please email us with the name and department of your preferred supervisor.
If you want to find out more about a particular research opportunity , please see the advertisement details for a contact name, number and email address for enquiries.
If you aren't sure which department your proposed project would belong, you can email our admissions team for guidance.
If you know the school/department you wish to work in but do not have a particular supervisor in mind, you can contact the research administrator who will be able to help:
Aeronautical and Automotive Engineering (Loughborough campus)
Autonomous and Intelligent Systems
Mathematical Modelling and Simulation
Mechanics and Dynamics
Net Zero Transport
Sustainable Aviation
Systems Reliability and Health Management
Daniella Sorrentino
aacme.pgr.admissions@lboro.ac.uk
Architecture, Building and Civil Engineering (Loughborough campus)
Architecture
Building Energy
Geotechnics and Geomatics
Transport and Urban Planning
Water Engineering
Construction Management ( Digital Transformation ; Projects, Performance and Productivity ; Social Value and Wellbeing)
Structures and Materials
Berkeley Young
civ.eng.pgr@lboro.ac.uk
Busine ss and Economics (Loughborough campus)
Accounting and Finance
Economics
Information Management
International Business, Strategy and Innovation
Management Science and Organisation
Marketing
Work and Organisation
Helen Hartley
sbe.research@lboro.ac.uk
Chemical Engineering (Loughborough campus)
Biotechnology and Healthcare
Digital Engineering
Net Zero
Sustainable Manufacturing and Circular Economy
Chemistry (Loughborough campus)
Energy
Health
Security
Sustainability
Cosmina Ciuperca and Angela Smith
sci-pgr@lboro.ac.uk
Communication and Media Studies (Loughborough campus)
Language and Social Interaction
Media, Memory and History
Political Communication
Emma Nadin
socsciresearch@lboro.ac.uk
Computer Science (Loughborough campus)
Interdisciplinary research
Networks and Systems
Theoretical Computer Science
Vision, AI, Autonomous and Human Centred Systems
Yang Lu
Creative Arts (Loughborough campus)
Animation and Drawing
Fine Art
Storytelling
Textiles
Theatre
Jane Pagett
sdca-pgr@lboro.ac.uk
Creative Futures
Design Innovation
Communication and Media
Creative Industries
Bryony Stewart-Seume
londonresearch@lboro.ac.uk
Criminology, Sociology and Social Policy (Loughborough campus)
Applied Criminal Justice
Children, Young People and Families
Intersectionalities and Citizenship
Digital and Health Technologies
Consumption, Culture and Inequalities
Design (Loughborough campus)
Complex Systems
Design Ergonomics
Design for Future Living
Design Practice
Digital Design and Fabrication
Environmental Ergonomics
Graphic Design
Responsible Design
Transport Safety
Digital Technologies (London campus)
AI Systems
Autonomous Systems
Blockchain
Cyber Security
Wireless Communications and Sensing
Internet of Things
Digital Twins
Sports, Healthcare and Financial Technologies
Diplomacy and International Affairs (London campus)
Digital Technology on Diplomacy
Geopolitics and Sport
International Negotiations
Visual Communication
Russia-West Relations
Contemporary and Security
Politics in Times of Crisis and Marginalised Communities
English (Loughborough campus)
Contemporary
Cultural Currents: Nineteenth to Twentieth Century
Editing and Textual Scholarship
Health Humanities
Geography and Environment (Loughborough campus)
Children, Youth and Families
Cities
Climate-Water-Energy
Hydroclimate, Risks and Resilience
Migration and Nation
Understanding and Managing Environmental Change
International Management and Entrepreneurship (London campus)
Corporate Governance
Human Resource Management Systems
Business Sustainability
Business-Government Relations
Entrepreneurship
Innovation
Dynamics of Emerging Market Economies
International Relations, Politics and History (Loughborough campus)
Democracy and its Challenges
Security Studies
Diplomacy and Global Politics
Materials Science and Engineering (Loughborough campus)
Advanced Materials
Processing
Soft Matter
Technique Development
Mathematical Sciences (Loughborough campus)
Analysis and PDEs
Dynamical Systems
Geometry and Mathematical Physics
Linear and Nonlinear Waves
Mathematical Modelling
Statistics
Mathematics Education Centre (Loughborough campus)
Mathematical Cognition
Educational Design and Evaluation
Higher Education Pedagogy
Mechanical, Electrical and Manufacturing Engineering (Loughborough campus)
Communications ( Electronic and Embedded Systems ; Signal Processing and Networks ; Wireless Communication )
Dynamics and Thermofluids
Advanced VR ; Control Systems and Intelligent Automation
Energy, Power and Renewables
High Value Manufacturing ( Additive ; Electronics ; Sustainable )
Materials and Measurement ( Mechanics of Advanced Materials ; Optical Engineering ; Photonics Engineering and Health Technology )
Systems Engineering and Sports Technology
Rebecca Bass
ws.phdadmin@lboro.ac.uk
Physics (Loughborough campus)
Condensed Matter and Materials Physics
Emergent Photonics
Medical and Biological Physics
Quantum and Complexity Physics
Sport Business (London campus)
Sport Consumer Engagement
Sport Enterprise Performance
Sport Social Innovation
Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences (Loughborough campus)
Sports Performance
Lifestyle for Health and Wellbeing
Sport, Business and Society
Lucia Thomas
pgr-ssehs@lboro.ac.uk

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/fees-funding/research-degree-funding:
Undertaking a research degree is a long-term commitment.
In order to focus on your studies, it is important to ensure your funding is in place for the full duration of your degree.
You may fund yourself or obtain funding to support your research.
Below is a list of internal and external funding sources available.
We are proud to offer a number of different funding options to research students, including studentships, scholarships and bursaries.
There are also external funding options that you can explore, such as loans, scholarships and grants.
If you're an international student, you may also be eligible for funding from grant-awarding bodies in your own country.
A web resource for prospective and current postgraduate students looking to fund their studies in the UK through grants from charities, trusts and foundations.
Campus: Both campuses
Eligibility: UK and international students
Discount: Variable
20% off tuition fees for self-funding postgraduate research students who are not in receipt of any other award and who obtained their previous degree from Loughborough University.
Discount: 20% off tuition fees
Scholarships will be available for Chinese students starting PhD studies from October 2025.
Eligibility: International students
Discount: 100% of tuition fees
Loughborough University is delighted to take part in the Commonwealth Scholarship scheme.
Discount: Full tuition fee waiver, a stipend for 3 years and travel to the UK
Awards are available to PhD candidates from low and middle-income Commonwealth countries to spend 12 months at a UK university as part of their doctoral studies in their home country.
Discount: 100% off tuition fees
You can borrow up to £29,390 (2024-25) to cover the cost of your PhD.
Eligibility: UK students
Discount: Up to £29,390
International students may be able to get sponsorship from the government in their home country to study at undergraduate, postgraduate and research level.
Available to all postgraduate students who experience unanticipated and serious financial difficulties.
Bursaries of up to £5,000 a year for UK students who are in financial need and have a parent or spouse, or are employed themselves, as a commercial traveller, pharmacist or grocer.
Discount: Up to £5,000
Five bursaries worth £2,000 each towards your postgraduate studies for the 2025/26 academic year.
Discount: £2,000
The Schlumberger Foundation is accepting new applications for the Faculty for the Future Fellowships, awarded to women from developing and emerging countries to pursue PhD research in STEM subjects.
Discount: Up to $50,000 per year
Eligible candidates from Leicestershire and Rutland can apply to borrow up to £10,000 interest-free for nine years to assist with the cost of a postgraduate course.
Discount: Up to £10,000
Loughborough University is delighted to offer the Turkish Embassy Education Counsellor’s Office Scholarships.
Discount: Reduction in tuition fees

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/visit-us/open-days/faqs:
​Naturally you’ll have lots of questions regarding our open day; whether you’re worried about parking, booking or the presentations, we’re confident you’ll find the answer to your question below.​
Yes, if you want to attend one of the open days at Loughborough University you will need to book.
Alternatively, if you are a teacher wishing to bring a group of students you can email us directly at opendays@lboro.ac.uk
If you want to amend your booking to come on a different date, cancel your booking or amend any other details such as the number of guests you want to bring or your subject interest just email us at opendays@lboro.ac.uk or call 01509 222804.​
Yes, when you come to book you can bring up to 3 additional visitors with you.
We encourage prospective students to bring at least one visitor with them.
This is a big decision, so having someone else’s opinion on the matter might prove helpful.
​
Presentations and tours at the open days are filled on a first-come first- served basis so you do not need to book before the event.
For a small number of subject areas the departments ask you to collect tickets (particularly for tours when group sized is restricted) from their exhibition stand on the day of the open day itself.
Information on which subject areas this applies to can be found in the open day guide closer to the event.
Yes!
You should have had a booking confirmation and an email about getting here as well as your fast track registration pass.
If you haven’t heard anything from us, check your junk or spam folder as sometimes emails can end up in there due to email filters.
If you still can’t find anything from us you can email us at opendays@lboro.ac.uk or call on 01509 222804 and we can look into it for you.​
Yes, of course!
If you receive an offer to study with us, we may invite you to attend a visit day so that you can get to know the academics and current students within your school or department as well as meet other applicants who are thinking of joining Loughborough University too.
You can also take a self-guided tour at a time that works for you.
​Before the event you will receive a fast-track registration pass to help you register quickly and easily when you arrive on campus.
You can either print out your registration email or download it onto you smartphone or tablet (make sure you download the pictures so the QR code shows!).
There will be registration gazebos across campus and you can also register at any of the information desks in the main Open Day buildings.
If you have a disability or access need and need additional support during your open day, please do use the space on the booking form to let us know.
Alternatively, you can contact us on opendays@lboro.ac.uk .
Yes, however you will need to make sure that you have enough time on the day to attend more than one departmental talk.
We recommend visitors to take a look at the open day guide closer to the day and plan out their day of activities before they arrive.
This will ensure you get to attend the talks and tours which interest you the most.
Each department presentation will vary, to find out exactly how long the talk is expected to last for your particular department take a look at the open day guide closer to the event.​
Yes, we make sure there are lots of current students to help on the day, so you can ask lots of questions about their experience so far.
After all, there really is no one better to ask about the university than our current students.​
Colleagues from our Sports Development Centre will be available on all of the dates to talk to you about all the sporting opportunities available at Loughborough including our Performance teams.​ Take a look at what time our sport presentations are taking place.
Yes, all of the subject areas available at Loughborough University are represented at the open day.
Information about everything that is happening at the open days can be found in the open day guide‌.
It includes all the information you need about when and where presentations, talks and tours are happening across the day – and there is a planner on the back page to help you structure your visit!​
You can arrive and leave whenever you like – presentations, talks and tours tend to run at multiple times throughout the day so if you miss the first session for some reason there are other opportunities to attend them later in the day.
Likewise if you get to see everything and speak to everyone you want to before 4pm you can leave whenever you like.​
Loughborough University is easily accessible for cars, rail and air.
Information on how to get here can be found on our travel information page .
If you’re using a SatNav you can use the postcode LE11 3GR ('Holywell Car Park') to reach the campus.
This will take you to our West Entrance where you will be met by members of our Security and Parking Team who will direct you to available parking on campus.
Note that we have a number of car parks on campus and so you may not end up parking in Holywell Car Park itself.
The what3words reference for the West Entrance is #oils.corn.lasts.
Parking is available on campus but is limited, particularly on the Friday.
Please use the West entrance (LE11 3GR - Holywell Car Park) – this is the first University entrance you reach when travelling from the M1 and is the closest to the car parks used by open day visitors.
Usually, there is a small fee to park on campus.
However, for the University Open Days, parking is free and vehicle owners don’t need to do anything – just park up and enjoy your day!
If our car parks reach capacity our Security and Parking team will direct you to park in Loughborough town centre where there are a number of car parks available.
For more information on the car parks available in town you can visit the council’s website .
Loughborough train station is approximately 20 minutes away by bus and 10 minutes away by taxi.
The Kinch Sprint bus service runs from the station through town to the campus and is free during the open days so you don’t have to pay to get here.
There will also be a coach service shuttling between the train station and the campus which is also free.
Our student helpers in purple t-shirts will be at the train station and will show you where to go.
The Kinch Bus is free between 07.30am and 6.00pm each day.​
Yes, there are lots of places to eat and drink on campus.
Take a look at our campus open day map to view the best places.
Alternatively, you could take a walk into town and have a spot of lunch there.
The Link and Burleigh Court hotels are either on site or very close by.
Call the hotel’s reservation hotline on 01509 633033 to book where they are offering a special discount to open day guests.
More details can be found here .
Our onsite hotels do get booked up quite quickly, so if you can’t get a room in one of our hotels there are a number in Loughborough town centre including a Travelodge and Premier Inn.
From town it’s about a 20 minute walk to campus or you can catch the Kinch Sprint Bus Service (the buses are blue and yellow) free of charge from the centre of town.
Unfortunately the University is unable to look after visitors luggage at the open days for security and insurance reasons.
We recommend that you either bring luggage with you that you are able to carry throughout the day or if you are staying overnight at a hotel that you make arrangements with the hotel reception to store your luggage whilst you attend the event
If you have any questions prior to attending the open day please contact opendays@lboro.ac.uk or call 01509 222804.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/visit-us/self-guided-tours:
A self-guided tour gives you an opportunity to familiarise yourself with our beautiful campus and get an insight in to what we have to offer here.
A self-guided tour differs from both our open days and campus tours.
There won’t be anyone available on the day for you to ask questions, but you'll be able to explore our campus and get a good feel for life at Loughborough.
Please Note: Unaccompanied guests are not permitted to enter any building not open to the public.
If you want to attend a self-guided tour, let us know you are coming, and we will send you some information so you can maximise your experience during your visit.
We have a number of shops, cafes and bars where you can grab a drink and bite to eat on your tour.
Our campus is big so make sure you wear shoes you feel comfortable in.
We also recommend that you bring a notebook or have your notes app open on your phone so you can jot down anything important that you want to remember after your visit.
If you think of any questions whilst on campus that you’d like to ask, make a note of these too and then email us when you get home.
Please note that visitors are required to pay for parking on our campus.
Our campus is large and does take some time to get around and explore properly so we would recommend allowing for at least an hour and half to two hours for your visit.
Please visit our parking website for further information.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/apply/ucas-application:
​Applicants who wish to study at Loughborough University will need to apply through UCAS .
Loughborough’s institution name is LBRO, and our institution code is L79.
The course code will depend on the degree to which you are applying.​ You can find the course code on our course pages .
Before you can do anything, you will need to register with UCAS (the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service).
This is the official application route for the majority of full-time undergraduate courses.
If you are applying for our Art and Design Foundation, you will need to apply to us directly and not through UCAS.
Take a look at our website for more information about how to apply for this course.
If you are at school or college, you will be given a buzzword which will associate your account with your institution.
It will also allow your teacher to input their reference.
The application consists of six sections:
These sections can be completed in any order, but it’s important that you check each section of your application thoroughly before you submit it, to ensure there are no mistakes.
This section is relatively straight-forward but take care to ensure that your name and nationality match your official documents, and your contact details are correct.
You have the option to add a nominated contact who may speak to universities on your behalf.
This is usually a parent, guardian or teacher, and if you want, you can add more than one name.
If someone contacts us about your application on your behalf, but they are not listed as your nominated contact, we will not be able to speak to them.
In this section, you can choose up to five courses which you want to study.
At this point in the application process you do not need to sort them in order of preference but do double check that you have entered the correct institution and course codes.
You can apply for more than one course at a particular university if you want to.
Loughborough’s institution name is LBRO, and our institution code is L79.
The course code will depend on the degree to which you are applying.
As well as the course codes, our course pages include details of our typical offers.
It is important to research the typical offers for the courses you’re interested in and that you feel they are achievable.
At this stage don’t be afraid to make a mixture of aspirational choices and ones with more comfortable typical offers.
Also check that you meet any GCSE requirements that are stated, or contact the Department to see if they accept retakes.
You need to enter all formal academic qualifications that you have already completed as well as those you are currently working towards.
We like to find out as much as we can about our applicants, so if you have any graded music, drama, dance, Duke of Edinburgh or sport leadership awards you should include these – they will help to demonstrate the breadth of your learning and that you have sought to develop skills that will be useful for higher education study.
All our courses have minimum GCSE English language requirements and some have GCSE maths and science requirements so make sure you have included these, especially if you are re-taking.
If you are an international student or have alternative qualifications check the English language requirements for the courses you are interested in applying for.
If you have any previous or current employment history, this is where you would list this information.
This includes any work experience, volunteering, internships and part-time work.
Not everyone will have employment history, which is why you have the option to leave this section blank.
If you are applying as a mature student , remember that we will want to see everything that you have been up to since leaving education.
We normally suggest that you complete this section once you have selected your university course choices, as this will allow you to tailor your personal statement.
Your personal statement is a crucial part of your application, within which you should explain your motivation for applying to University.
It is important to showcase your drive and passion for the subject area in question, and any skills or experience you may have which will help you be a successful student.
It can be hard to write a statement which encompasses a diverse range of courses, so if you are applying for four courses in one subject area and one course in another, you should focus your statement towards the majority.
Loughborough University will always accept an emailed additional statement which you can tailor appropriately, giving you a chance to explain why you have applied to study in a different subject area.
Interested in applying for 2026 entry?
The way you write your personal statement will be changing.
You can find out more on the UCAS website.
If you are at school or college, a teacher or tutor will normally write your reference for you so you don’t need to worry about this section.
If you are applying having already finished your studies, you will need to add the name and contact details of a suitable person (normally, a former teacher) who can be contacted by UCAS to provide a written reference.
If you have previously attended a different university, your reference should be from your course tutor.
Please note that, Loughborough University requires a reference from all applicants.
For further guidance on your application, head over to the UCAS website.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/apply/entry-requirements:
Loughborough accepts a wide range of qualifications for entry.
The following information details the typical requirements; it should be read in conjunction with the information given for each course.
We normally expect applicants to have a minimum of grade 4/C in GCSE English Language and, for most courses, GCSE grade 4/C in Mathematics.
A higher level of achievement in specific GCSEs is required for some courses and details of these are included in the relevant course entry.
An applicant’s overall GCSE grade profile is also considered alongside the specific GCSE requirements listed.
Applicants are normally expected to have at least three A levels.
In many cases, specific subjects are required, and these will be indicated in the typical offers listed for the course.
A level Science Practical Endorsement (for those studying in England)
We believe that practical skills in science are important to aid understanding of the relevant subjects.
While we do not widely include the passing of the practical skills element in the conditions of an offer, it is our expectation that this element will be successfully completed.
Where the practical skills element is required as part of an offer, this is stated in the typical offers listed for the course.
We recognise the benefit of the Extended Project Qualification in developing independent research and critical thinking skills.
We would consider these as evidence of motivation to study a specific subject in more depth, and while we do not generally include them as part of our offer conditions, they may be used to further consider an application upon receipt of final examination results.
We consider applicants offering Pre-U Principal Subjects or a combination of the Pre-U and A levels, provided a minimum of three subjects overall are taken.
We recognise the benefit of the Global Perspectives and Research (GPR) course in developing independent study and research skills.
While we would consider this as evidence of motivation to study a specific subject in more depth, we do not generally include it as part of our offer conditions.
However, it may be used to further consider an application upon receipt of final examination results.
Applicants are required to have the full International Baccalaureate Diploma with at least three subjects studied at Higher Level.
As well as an overall points score, specific subjects and points will be required at Higher Level.
Applicants taking IB Certificates at Higher Level outside of the full diploma may be considered on a case-by-case basis depending on overall profile, breadth and depth of study.
We are happy to consider Mathematics: Analysis and Approaches (AA) and Mathematics: Applications and Interpretation (AI) as being suitable to meet our GCSE (SL equivalent) and A level (HL equivalent) Maths requirements.
If you are studying Scottish Highers and Advanced Highers, you will usually need at least two subjects at Advanced Higher, sometimes in specified subjects, alongside Highers in three other subjects.
The Welsh Baccalaureate Advanced Skills Challenge Diploma to 2024/ WJEC Advanced Skills Baccalaureate Wales (Level 3) from 2025, is accepted as equivalent to one A Level subject at the same grade, alongside two A levels, providing individual course entry and specific subject requirements are met.
If you are studying the Irish Leaving Certificate, you will need at least five Higher Level passes.
A combination of the National Extended Certificate/Subsidiary Diploma alongside two A levels and the National Diploma/Diploma alongside one A level are acceptable for entry to the vast majority of our degree courses.
National Extended Diplomas/Extended Diplomas in relevant subjects are also suitable entry qualifications for many of our courses.
However, in some cases, A levels will also be required to ensure suitable academic preparation.
A certain level of achievement in specific units may also be required, particularly if these are relevant to the proposed degree.
Due to the specific nature of some of the grade and unit requirements, please refer to individual course pages for more detailed information.
We advise applicants to avoid combinations of similar subjects in their BTECs and A levels.
BTEC HND and HNC are also considered and in some cases may allow applicants to progress directly to Year 2 of the course.
A combination of the Cambridge Technical Introductory Diploma/Cambridge Technical Extended Certificate alongside two A levels, and the Cambridge Technical Diploma alongside one A level are acceptable for entry to the vast majority of our degree courses.
The Cambridge Level 3 Technical Extended Diploma in relevant subjects is also a suitable entry qualification for many of our courses.
Some courses may specify levels of achievement in specific units or ask for additional qualifications to satisfy subject requirements.
We advise applicants to avoid combinations of similar subjects in their Cambridge Technicals and A levels.
For 2024 entry, the following T Levels are currently being considered on a case by case basis.
Typical offers will ask for an overall grade and a specific grade from the Core Component.
T Level courses in:
Have been reviewed to determine their suitability for entry onto relevant degree programmes for 2024 entry.
We are in the process of updating individual course entries with entry requirements from acceptable T Levels.
Whilst these updates are made, our Admissions Office will be happy to advise you on consideration of T Levels for entry on to your chosen course.
An Access to HE Diploma in a relevant subject area will be considered on a case-by-case basis for entry to most of our courses.
We require 60 credits overall, 45 of which should be at Level 3.
In most cases, Distinction or Merit may be required in certain units.
Core Maths may be useful for a range of degree subjects where enhanced numerical or statistical skills are beneficial.
However, Core Maths is not equivalent in size to an A level and therefore is not a suitable replacement for A level Maths where this is a required subject.
We consider the Diploma in Financial Studies (DipFS) for many of our courses when taken in conjunction with two academic A levels.
We would expect to see the Certificate in Financial Studies (CeFS) already achieved, and will accept the combination of older ifs University Colleges certificates with the newly named LIBF Diploma.
Achievement in Open University courses are recognised as appropriate qualifications for entry.
We would normally expect 120 Level 1 credits for first year entry and there may be requirements for specific subjects to have been studied.
We accept a wide range of international qualifications such as the European Baccalaureate, French Baccalaureate, German Abitur, Hong Kong DSE, and Indian Standard XII among many others worldwide, alongside well-established International Foundation Programmes.
For further information about acceptable qualifications visit our international webpages for more information.
We also accept a wide range of qualifications from applicants that have followed a 12-year education system for entry onto our International Foundation Programme through ON CAMPUS Loughborough .
All applicants are required to demonstrate that they have an appropriate level of English language.
We normally ask for a minimum of a grade 4/C in GCSE English Language but we also accept a range of alternative school-based qualifications from the UK and internationally, as well as tests of English for speakers of a foreign language, such as IELTS, TOEFL and Pearson.
Please be aware that because of the nature of certain subject areas, some courses require higher levels of achievement in English language.
Details of any additional GCSE English language requirements are included in our course specific entry requirements.
Full details of the acceptable English language requirements can be found on our website.
The NCFE Level 3 Extended Diploma in Sport and Physical Activity is not accepted alone for entry to any of our degree programmes.
We accept a range of additional qualifications to those listed in this section.
Please contact our Admissions Office who will be happy to advise you on your specific portfolio of qualifications and whether this is acceptable for entry on to your chosen course.

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/apply/key-dates:
The UCAS application process has several key dates within its calendar that are vital to meet.
Being aware of these in advance and noting them in your calendars will help you to ensure that forms are submitted on time and that no step is overlooked.
The first national UCAS fairs take place (full calendar of events and registration can be found on the UCAS website)
Many universities host Open Days during these months so be sure to check dates in advance so you can book your place
UCAS applications open
1st UCAS deadline for applicants to Oxbridge, medicine, vet science and dentistry
2nd UCAS deadline for remaining applications - this is the last point at which a university gives equal consideration to applications
Applications for Student Finance open
By the end of March, most offers will have been made by universities and returned to the student via their UCAS application
1st UCAS deadline for applicants to reply to any offers
Last date to submit a late application
Clearing begins
A Level results day
Begin university!

New sentences found on https://lboro.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/apply/after-you-apply:
When your application has been received it will be individually assessed, taking into account your academic ability and potential, as well as your interest in the subject.
You should have achieved or be expected to achieve the typical offer requirements for the course.
Meeting this standard, however, does not guarantee an offer.
Many of our courses receive numerous applications for each available place and as such we cannot offer places to all those who attain the minimum entry requirements.
The University’s admissions process uses contextual information to provide insights into the context in which your academic qualifications have been achieved, to identify students with the greatest potential to succeed in higher education.
If you are offered a place, you will receive a communication setting out any conditions attached to the offer.
Your offer will also be available to view on your UCAS application.
For entry in 2025, all offer conditions, both academic and non-academic, must be met by 3 September 2025.
Conditions met after this deadline will only be considered if places are available.
If you already hold the qualifications required when you apply, we may ask you to send copies of these to the University so we can verify them before making a decision.
UK-based applicants receiving an offer will usually be invited to attend a post offer visit day.
These visits enable you to see our campus, the academic school/department and our facilities, as well as providing you with an opportunity to speak to students and staff.
Offer holders can also experience the Loughborough campus via our virtual tours .
Once you have received a decision from your universities, you will have until June (and in some cases July) to select your first choice of university (firm choice) and your second choice of university (insurance choice).
When it comes to deciding between your offers you should think about where you want to be for the next 3, 4 or 5 years, the content of the courses you have applied to, as well as the student experience and employability prospects of your universities.
It is tempting to put your highest offer as your firm choice and a lower offer as your insurance.
However, we would always advise selecting the course or university you really want as your firm choice.
A list of the key dates and deadlines to be aware of are listed here .
If you do have any questions or you are unsure about anything, please get in touch .